
    
      Background: Over the last 50 years, telling truth in adult with cancer was direct. However,
      studies of truth telling in newly diagnosed children with cancer were seldom. Explore the
      factors and experiences related to truth telling in primary caregivers of children newly
      diagnosis with cancer were seldom too. Therefore, we could not estimate the current status of
      truth telling in primary caregivers of newly diagnosed children with cancer.

      Purpose: The purpose in this study was to investigate the current status, changes,
      correlation, and predictive factors of the truth telling, hope, care burden, and quality of
      life during treatment in primary caregivers of newly diagnosed children with cancer.

      Method: Purposive sampling structured questionnaire, used longitudinal resistance, repeated
      measurements, correlational design. SAS 9.3 for Windows was used for data entry and analyze.
      By using the frequency, percentage, mean, and standard deviation to describe demographic
      information and current status of truth telling. By using the mean, standard deviation,
      maximum and minimum to analyze hope, care burden, and quality of life. Demographic
      information, medical information data, truth telling, Herth Hope Index, caregiver burden
      scale, and quality of life index were tested by Pearson correlation coefficients; the change
      and predictors about truth telling, Herth Hope Index, caregiver burden scale, and quality of
      life index were tested by Generalized estimating equation.

      Limitation: Studying in one medical center in Taipei, it could not estimate the country's
      primary caregivers of newly diagnosed children with cancer in conclusions. Because of the
      limitation of the manpower, time and case numbers, study tracked only six month, could not be
      assessed the long-term change of the Herth Hope Index, caregiver burden scale, truth telling
      and quality of life in primary caregivers of newly diagnosed children with cancer.
    
  