
    
      ACEs encapsulate a broad spectrum of traumatic and distressing events occurring before the
      age of 18 that span the domains of abuse, household dysfunction, neglect, amongst others, and
      that threaten a child's physical, familial or social safety. The landmark ACE Study,
      published by Felitti and colleagues, was the first study to propose the association between
      ACEs and the development of chronic physical conditions in adulthood, including
      cardiovascular disease (CVD). Due to a variety of mechanisms, exposure to an ACE increases
      predisposition to the development of CVD and its conventional risk factors. ACEs nonetheless
      remain underrecognized and undermanaged in routine cardiovascular clinical encounters.

      Integration of ACE screening into the standardized clinical assessment of CVD may enable
      cardiologists to better identify patients who might benefit from further post-ACE resiliency
      interventions and serve as an impactful secondary and tertiary prevention strategy. The ACE
      screening process itself may be therapeutic as it gives patients the opportunity to discuss
      their early experiences, reflect on the role of early adversity in their current health
      problems, and have some sympathetic acknowledgement about this history from a health care
      professional. This has been termed "ACE insight". Screening for ACEs has been found to be
      acceptable by patients. Patients may have never had any opportunity to discuss ACEs they have
      undergone throughout their entire life, enabling their effects to propagate into adulthood.
      Inquiring about ACE exposure during clinical encounters with all patients may garner insights
      that can have a beneficial effect in improving cardiovascular health. Additionally, engaging
      patients in stress-coping therapies, such as mindfulness, and referral for psychological
      consultation as needed, may also be helpful. Although logical, these strategies still lack
      adequate evidence and a randomized trial is needed to evaluate their potential in reducing
      the occurrence of cardiovascular events.

      This study aims to assess whether deleterious childhood exposures are associated with an
      increased prevalence of risk factors for CAD and represent an independent risk factor for
      CAD. Furthermore, screening for ACEs in patients with CAD may serve as a therapeutic
      intervention in itself by providing both ACE insight and a platform to unload internal
      psychological burdens. Screening may result in an enhanced quality of life, as well as
      improved health behaviours that may benefit their cardiovascular outcomes.
    
  