
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Estimate the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of lapatinib and everolimus in patients with
           advanced solid tumors or non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. (Part I)

        -  Investigate the pharmacokinetics of everolimus and lapatinib (when given alone and in
           combination) at the MTD determined in Part I. (Part II)

        -  Investigate the effects of everolimus and lapatinib (when given alone and in
           combination) on serum levels of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), basic
           fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-2 and MMP-9,
           interleukin-6 (IL-6), and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α). (Part II)

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study followed by a randomized study. Initial
      patients enrolled on the study are treated in part I. After the maximum tolerated dose (MTD)
      is determined in part I, subsequent patients are enrolled and treated in part II.

        -  Part I: Patients receive oral everolimus and oral lapatinib once daily on days 1-28.
           Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
           toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of everolimus and lapatinib until the MTD is
      determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 6 patients experience
      dose-limiting toxicity.

        -  Part II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms. Everolimus and lapatinib are
           administered at the MTD determined in part I.

             -  Arm I: Patients receive oral everolimus once daily on days 1-28. Patients also
                receive oral lapatinib once daily on days 8-28 during the first course and on days
                1-28 during all subsequent courses. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of
                disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

             -  Arm II: Patients receive oral lapatinib once daily on days 1-28. Patients also
                receive oral everolimus once daily on days 8-28 during the first course and on days
                1-28 during all subsequent courses. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of
                disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients in part II undergo blood collection periodically for correlative biomarker and
      pharmacokinetic studies.

      After finishing treatment, patients are followed periodically for 28 days.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 48 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  