
    
      There are many physiological situations in which the organism is exposed to hypoxia, such as
      exercise and altitude. In addition some pathological situations also involve hypoxia, such as
      obesity, heart failure, respiratory failure and sleep apnea syndrome.

      Hypoxia associated with altitude is frequently marked by the presence of sleep during
      periodic breathing induces a particular pattern of hypoxia called intermittent hypoxia. Also
      some subjects are "intolerant altitude" and develop specific pathologies at high altitude
      (acute mountain evil, pulmonary edema ...).

      We recently demonstrated that subjects tolerate the altitude had just intermittent hypoxia
      while they were sleeping during the simulated altitude. The protective role of intermittent
      hypoxia in the mechanisms of occurrence of intolerance to altitude remains to be understood
      more precisely. In fact those who were intolerant to altitude has no periodic breathing and
      therefore intermittent hypoxia during the oxygen-deficient atmosphere.

      Conversely, the sleep apnea syndrome (SAS) also characterized by a HI. It is produced by
      repeated episodes of airway obstruction during sleep, producing a sequence: respiratory
      effort, hypoxia / re-oxygenation and sleep interruption.

      The HI is associated with both a well established cardiovascular morbidity but also to
      cardioprotection. This relates to cardiovascular morbidity rise in blood pressure can
      certainly promote the development after many years of hypertension. On the other hand the
      presence of sleep apnea syndrome is advanced as a factor favoring the coronary collateral
      circulation and therefore will bring a cardioprotective effect for patients.

      Understanding the mechanisms of physiological adaptations to intermittent hypoxia by passing
      a deleterious evolution of a protective HI is therefore critical.

      Exposure to altitude or OSAS induces the activation of intermediary mechanisms such as
      sympathetic activation, altered vascular reactivity, systemic inflammation and low-grade
      oxidative stress. The direct involvement of these mechanisms is dependent mainly intermediate
      of intermittent hypoxia. The shift in equilibrium between activator and inhibitor factors
      will evolve either to a protective mode (adaptation to altitude) or pathologic
      (cardiovascular complication of OSA).

      Sympathetic activation has been demonstrated in patients with OSAS, reversible with effective
      treatment. The importance of cardiovascular sympathetic activation in elevating blood
      pressure by intermittent hypoxia is shown in animal models of HI. We also found an increase
      in sympathetic activation in our reversible model of HI in healthy subjects.

      The elevation of that sympathetic activity is assumed to be multifactorial. An increase in
      tone but also a central potentiation thereof by an increase in peripheral chemoreflex
      sensitivity (sensitive to hypoxia) and against a lack of regulation by the arterial
      baroreflex.

      Moreover angiotensin system modulates the central sympathetic tone and peripheral chemoreflex
      sensitivity. These actions are complementary in a signaling pathway of particular interest in
      exposure to intermittent hypoxia.
    
  