
    
      1. INTRODUCTION

           Erector spinae plane block (ESP block) was first described by Forero et al for the
           treatment of neuropathic chest pain, in which anesthetic is injected between the spinal
           erector muscle and the transverse vertebral process in the thoracic region, and in
           theory, it tends to spread to the anterior paravertebral space, to some vertebral spaces
           above and below the injection site. However, its mechanism of action and exact local
           anesthetic dispersion have not yet been fully explained clearly.

           Such blockade, first described for neuropathic chest pain and later expanded for
           thoracic and abdominal surgery, has shown other applicability, such as cardiac and
           breast surgeries.

           Forero et al published in July 2018 a study to anatomically demonstrate, from cadaver
           dissection, the dispersion of dye injected into the same ESP block target at different
           thoracic levels. They showed the dispersion of methylene blue to the anterior
           paravertebral space at the injection level in all cadavers, with variable cerebrospinal
           flow dispersion. In addition there was lateral and medial dispersion to the puncture
           site, for intercostal spaces, paravertebral sympathetic chain and parietal pleura.
           However, there are no studies regarding lumbar erector spinae plane block (LESP block)
           block.

           Since 1960 total hip arthroplasty has become one of the most frequent surgeries in the
           world, due to its technical revolution with improved quality of life of patients with
           osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis and proximal femur fractures, for example. However,
           it is a surgery with high postoperative pain potential, and more attention should be
           paid to postoperative analgesia, since patients undergoing this type of surgery are
           usually older patients with multiple comorbidities, more sensitive to adverse effects of
           systemic analgesic drugs (anti-inflammatory drugs, opioids). In addition, pain may lead
           to hypomobility, which increases the risk of thromboembolic complications.

           There are multiple forms of postoperative analgesia for total hip arthroplasty, such as
           subarachnoid morphine, femoral, obturator and lateral femoral cutaneous nerve block,
           lumbar plexus block, continuous epidural block, and "3 in 1" block, for example. still
           considered as the gold standard analgesia for such surgery, intrathecal morphine has
           some adverse effects as burden: pruritus, urinary retention, nausea and vomiting.The "3
           in 1" block has a considerable incidence of partial failure, despite being an unique
           injection block. Blockade of the lateral femoral obturator, obturator, and nerve nerves
           requires 3 injections and a larger volume of local anesthetic.The epidural technique has
           the advantage of allowing the use of a long-term epidural catheter, with or without an
           analgesia-controlled device. (PCA), but in these more fragile patients with multiple
           comorbidities it may lead to hypotension or limited ambulation due to concomitant use of
           anticoagulant medications. Lumbar plexus block is a deep block, with greater risk of
           complications (retroperitoneal hematoma, deep bleeding), of greater technical
           difficulty, and erratic local anesthetic dispersion.

           The LESP block emerged, based on the same principle as the ESP block in the thoracic
           region. So far, to the best of our knowledge, there are only a few case reports that
           evidence its use for hip surgery analgesia. It has potential advantages: ease of
           execution, low risk of nerve damage and safety in patients with coagulopathies or on
           anticoagulants. In our service, the investigators have 01 case report presented as a
           free theme in congress that also describes a good individual effectiveness .

           Recent reports have demonstrated lumbar-level ESP block (LESP) for hip and proximal
           femur surgery, showing good results in postoperative pain control. One of the first
           works on lumbar ESP block was a letter to the editor in Tulgar et al's Journal of
           Clinical Anesthesia, which then began a trial comparing LESP with lumbar square, a work
           still in progress.

           With the growing interest of anesthesiologists in ESP block, several studies and case
           reports have been written in different blockade applications, but the literature lacks
           cadaveric studies to demonstrate more clearly the local anesthetic dispersion and
           anatomically justify its clinical effectiveness. .

        2. BACKGROUND Hip and proximal femur surgeries usually present with significant
           postoperative pain, which may hinder patient movement and physiotherapy in the
           postoperative period, besides immobility predisposing to the development of deep vein
           thrombosis.

           There are several ways of postoperative analgesia for this type of surgery, each having
           its benefits and harms in relation to the other. This project aims to study the local
           anesthetic dispersion in the blockade of the lumbar spine erector plane, in order to
           apply it more safely and effectively as a new modality of analgesia for the hip and
           proximal femur.

        3. OBJECTIVES 3.1. Primary objective The aim of this cadaveric study is to demonstrate the
           dispersion of methylene blue dye solution when injected into the same anatomical space
           targeted by the LESP block by anatomical dissection of the lumbar region of cadavers.

        4. HYPOTHESIS Lumbar erector spinae plane block (LESP) may provide effective postoperative
           analgesia for hip and proximal femur surgery, comparable to other existing analgesic
           modalities. A possible explanation for this is the local anesthetic dispersion injected
           by this technique, which possibly reaches the posterior lumbar plexus branches.

        5. METHODS 5.1 Type of study and scenario An experimental, analytical and prospective study
           will be conducted at the Capital Death Verification Service (SVOC) and at the Human
           Anatomy Discipline Laboratory of the University of São Paulo School of Medicine. After
           approval by the Research Ethics Committee of the School of Medicine of the University of
           São Paulo, the inclusion of subjects for the study will be initiated.

      5.2 Inclusion and exclusion criteria Fresh cadavers, age> 18 years, height between 150cm and
      190cm, any gender will be included.

      Corpses with severe spinal deformity, known history of lumbar spine surgery, scars suggestive
      of large anatomical manipulations of the lumbar region, and corpses with BMI> 35 kg / m² will
      be excluded.

      5.3 Sample Calculation Eight cadavers will be used, with injections of solutions simulating
      the LESP block, bilaterally, totaling 16 injections and dissections.

      5.4 Experimental Design 20ml of 0.01% methylene blue solution (50mg of methylene blue diluted
      in 0.9% saline 500ml) will be injected, simulating the LESP block technique: injection
      between the transverse process of the fourth lumbar vertebra (L4) and the erector muscle of
      the underlying spine.

      The injection will be performed with a Quincke 20G 100-150mm ultrasound-guided needle with a
      low-frequency curvilinear transducer (4-8 MHz - SonoSite) in the plane between the transverse
      process of L4 and the spinal erector muscle, bilaterally in each cadaver. by the same
      operator.

      After injection of the solution the cadavers will be submitted to posterior lumbar region
      dissection by an anatomist and analyzed the dispersion and impregnation of the blue solution.
      The anatomical structures with the dye dispersion will be photographed and stored.
    
  