
    
      Testosterone deficiency (hypogonadism) is increasingly recognized as a significant health
      problem in aging men. Testosterone deficiency can adversely affect sexual function, physical
      health and psychological health. Consequently, the quality of life of men with low
      testosterone is negatively affected.

      A certain proportion of middle-aged and elderly men have total testosterone concentrations
      below the reference range for young adult males. Possible consequences of reduced androgen
      levels include fat mass gain, loss of muscle and bone mass, fatigue, depression, anaemia,
      poor libido and erectile dysfunction. The clinical features of androgen deficiency in the
      aging male (ADAM) resemble those of hypogonadism of younger subjects, with a single relevant
      difference: each of these features can also occur in elderly men with normal androgen levels.

      The world Health Organization estimates that by 2025, worldwide, the number of people aged
      over 65 years will rise from the current figure of 390 million to 800 million. In the
      Hypogonadism in Males (HIM) study of men treated in the primary care setting, 38.7% of men
      aged ≥45 years tested positive for hypogonadism (TT <300 ng/dL). Applied to U. S. census
      data, these findings suggest that 13.8 million American men aged ≥45 years may be
      testosterone- deficient. Furthermore, the prevalence of testosterone deficiency increases
      with age, reaching 50% for men aged ≥85 years. As the population ages, the burden of
      testosterone deficiency is expected to grow. The prevalence of low testosterone also
      increases in men with common co- morbidities, such as obesity, diabetes, and metabolic
      syndrome.

      The nutritional status with an age is a major determinant of health and fitness. Nutrition
      plays a central role in adaptation, rehydration, refueling, and repair as well as recovery
      from injury and other problems. The testosterone supplementation in older men with low
      testosterone levels may improve the testosterone level which further improve the physical,
      sexual, and cognitive functions, and improve mood and quality of life FUROSAP® is an
      innovative product made through a novel patented process, involving physical separations of
      active ingredients from the seeds of Fenugreek herb (Trigonella foenum-graecum) without
      affecting chemical properties of the active fractions. It is a natural and promising dietary
      supplement. It"s dietary supplement comprising Protodioscin as the major fraction which
      isolated from fenugreek seeds.

      Protodioscin is the active ingredient found in the extract of the plant. Protodioscin
      increases levels of the hormones testosterone, dihydrotestosterone and
      dehydroepiandrosterone. It boosts testosterone level via stimulating pituitary gland.
      Protodioscin acts by stimulating the enzyme 5- alpha-reductase, which plays a role in the
      conversion of testosterone into dihydrotestosterone. Dihydrotestosterone, in turn enhances
      erythropoiesis and muscle development. More erythropoiesis or production of red blood cell
      increases the haemoglobin level, which results in better oxygen transport throughout the
      body, resulting in a more optimal health. Both increased production of testosterone
      contribute to the increase in sexual functions, and it increases unbound free testosterone
      levels, which improves muscle mass, fat loss, strength and endurance. In addition,
      protodioscin also stimulates the hypothalamus secretion of luteinizing hormone (LH) which
      also helps to increase the level of testosterone.
    
  