
    
      Background Open gingival embrasures, also called "black triangles", may occur after surgical
      intervention or tooth replacement by an implant. They are perceived as anaesthetic by most
      patients and causing functional and phonetic problems. Although micro-surgical approaches in
      oral surgery have considerably improved, reconstruction of a missing papilla to close an open
      gingival embrasure is still amongst the most challenging surgical scenarios. None of the so
      far reported surgical interventions are predictable. Recently, injection of hyaluronic acid,
      an important component of the extracellular matrix, was introduced as a minimally invasive,
      simple, non-surgical method to augment missing papilla tissue. Yet, controlled clinical
      studies on the effect of hyaluronic acid to reconstruct a missing papilla are not available
      so far.

      Aim The aim of the present study is to assess the effect of injection of hyaluronic acid for
      papilla augmentation next to an implant restoration in a clinical controlled double-blinded
      randomized trial with 6 months follow-up.

      Materials and methods Forty patients seeking treatment for open gingival embrasures next to
      an implant restoration will be included. Patients will be randomly assigned to test group
      (n=20; injection of hyaluronic acid, Hyadent Barrier Gel, BioScience, Germany; CE
      certificated for Europe) or control group (n=20; injection of saline solution as a placebo
      control medium). The following clinical parameters will be assessed at baseline and after 1,
      3, and 6 months: Modified papilla index score, distance between papilla tip and contact
      point, area and volume of black triangle, tissue texture and colour, probing depth, clinical
      attachment level, presence of plaque and/or bleeding on probing, aesthetic satisfaction of
      the patient and the examiner and sensation during injection. At baseline and after 6 months
      the distance between contact point and most cervical region of the alveolar bone crest will
      be assessed on periapical radiographs.
    
  