
    
      Chest CT imaging will be obtained in the radiology department at UTMB. After the initial
      screening visit, subjects will visit the pulmonary function laboratory where they will
      undergo spirometry and measurement of lung volumes by whole body plethysmography. Within two
      hours of pulmonary function testing, subjects will undergo an initial HRCT scan. After the
      initial HRCT, subjects will inhale a standard dose of ipratropium bromide (0.5 mg) using a
      hand held nebulizer. Thirty minutes after ipratropium bromide administration, spirometry will
      be measured followed by a second HRCT scan.

      Spirometry measurements will be performed in triplicate with the subjects in a seated
      position using a portable Koko spirometer (PDS, Louisville, CO). After the spirometry
      measurements, lung volumes will be measured in a body plethysmograph (MedGraphics, St. Paul,
      MN) with the subjects in a seated position with a nose clip. Subjects will be instructed to
      pant against the closed shutter at a frequency of 1-3 Hz. Lung volume measurements will be
      obtained prior to inital chest CT. Subjects will undergo high resolution computed tomography
      (HRCT) scanning within 30 minutes of initial lung volume measurements.

      After the initial HRCT of the chest, subjects will inhale a dose of nebulized ipratropium
      bromide (0.5 mg) by standard nebulizer after which spirometry and lung volume measurements
      will be repeated in the pulmonary function laboratory. Spirometry and lung volume
      measurements will be performed in the same manner. Lung volume measurements will be obtained
      to account for changes in lung volumes after bronchodilator administration. Changes in lung
      volumes will be used to account for any changes noted on HRCT scans.

      HRCT scanning will begin 6 cm above the top of the dome of the diaphragm, at TLC and moved
      caudally. Images will be reconstructed with the use of a high-spatial frequency (resolution)
      algorithm that enhanced edge detection, at a window level of -450 Hounsfield units and a
      window width of 1,350 Hounsfield units. We will consider the airway diameters after maximum
      bronchodilation with ipratropium to be a function principally of the structural
      characteristics of airways. The TLC measurements after ipratropium will be the best
      reflection of intrinsic structure. CT airway measurement analysis will be performed by VIDA
      Diagnostics. We have entered into a collaboration with VIDA Diagnostics that will allow
      accurate and reliable CT airway measurements. Subject's CT images obtained at UTMB will be
      deidentified and electronically transmitted to a research collaborator at VIDA Diagnostics
      located in Coralville, IA. The CT images will have a code assigned, known only to the PI.
      Using a proprietary software platform, airway measurements will be performed and the data
      electronically transmitted to the PI at UTMB.
    
  