
    
      Rehabilitation in-hospital program

      The rehabilitation program (RP) will start the day after the in-hospital admission and will
      be continuously supervised by a physiotherapist. The patients will use the drugs and the
      oxygen therapy prescribed. RP will include a training session on cycloergometer at constant
      load once a day (Group F1) or twice-a day (Group F2) interrupted by at least three hours of
      rest. The workout will start with a workload of 50% of the theoretical maximum Watts
      indirectly assessed by the 6-Minutes Walking Test (6MWT) with equation of Luxton et al.

      Measures

      At baseline (T0) we will gather in both groups the following evaluations:

        1. Anthropometric parameters (age, BMI)

        2. Scale of comorbidity CIRS

      At the baseline (T0) and end of the program (T1) we will collect, in all patients, the
      following evaluations:

        1. 6-minute walking test walk (6MWT) will be performed according to international
           guidelines. In patients using oxygen during walking, the oxygen flow will be adjusted to
           increase the oxygen saturation over 96%.The 6MWT at T1 will be performed with the same
           amount of oxygen used in the initial test (T0).

        2. Endurance cycloergometer test will be performed at 80% of Watts max predicted by the
           6MWT. At the beginning, the test will be performed at charge "zero watts" for 2 minutes,
           then the workload will be increased to 80% of the theoretical max Watts until muscle
           exhaustion (Borg score > 8), presence of high dyspnea (Borg score > 8) or the
           achievement of 90% of theoretical maximal heart rate. The final endurance test will be
           repeated at the same load (speed 50-60 rpm). The time spent for performing the exercise
           will be registered. In a subset of patients (belonging to the Institute of Lumezzane)
           the endurance cycloergometer test on the quadriceps muscle will be executed by the Near
           Infrared Spectroscopy (NIRS ).

        3. Scale of the MRC dyspnea

        4. Arterial blood gas analysis

        5. Respiratory muscle strength (Maximal lnspiratory Pressure [MIP] and Maximal Espiratory
           Pressure [MEP])

        6. Biceps and quadriceps muscle strength evaluated with dynamometer manual

        7. CAT scale

      Only at the end of the program (T1) we will collect:

        1. patient satisfaction by a Likert scale taking into consideration the quantity, quality,
           and impact of rehabilitation on hospitalization

        2. The time consuming for the two programs

        3. The side effect

        4. The drop out (waste, flare)
    
  