
    
      As a result of advances in cancer treatment, the number of breast cancer (BC) survivors is
      increasing in Canada. Unfortunately, the drugs used to treat BC can have a negative impact on
      the long term health and welfare of the BC survivors (BCS). For example, commonly used cancer
      therapies, such as anthracyclines (AC) are known to cause declines in heart health. While the
      impact can vary, some individuals treated with these medications will experience substantial
      heart damage that may lead to heart failure and death. As a result, risk of cardiovascular
      morbidity/mortality has become a major concern for BCS that received AC treatment. As a
      result, there is an immediate need to find therapies that can be used to prevent damage to
      the heart without limiting the anticancer potential of AC.

      A growing body of evidence suggests that aerobic exercise training may help protect the heart
      against the damaging effects of AC therapy. These studies, which were conducted using animal
      models, have shown that performing aerobic exercise before or while undergoing AC therapy
      helps to maintain heart function and prevent structural changes in the heart. However, to the
      author's knowledge similar studies have not been conducted in BCS undergoing treatment, thus
      it remains unclear whether exercise has the same cardioprotective effect in BCS. As a first
      step in answering this question, our research group conducted a pilot study that showed a
      12-week aerobic exercise program is safe and feasible for BCS undergoing chemotherapy. The
      next step in our research is to determine whether aerobic exercise decreases or prevents
      cardiotoxicity in BCS receiving AC treatment. Therefore, the purpose of this study is to
      determine whether a 12-week home based aerobic exercise program mitigates AC-mediated
      cardiotoxicity in BCS on active treatment. The specific objectives of the study are to
      determine whether the aerobic exercise program: 1) prevents structural and functional changes
      in the heart; 2) maintains peak aerobic capacity throughout the treatment process; and 3)
      decreases biological markers associated with heart damage.

      This is a randomized control trial with repeated measures. BCSs will be randomly assigned to
      either the wait-list control (CTL) group (standard of care (SOC) or the aerobic exercise
      (AEX; SOC + 12-week home-based aerobic exercise program). One hundred BCS (18-65 years of
      age) on AC treatment will be recruited from two sites, Halifax, NS (n=50) and Winnipeg, MB
      (n=50). Patients in the AEX group will perform two exercise sessions per week that will range
      from low intensity (~45 min) to vigorous intensity (~20 min). BCS will monitor their exercise
      intensity with Polar A370 HR monitors, which they will be given for the duration of the
      study.The primary outcome measure for the study is cardiac function as determined by
      echocardiography and a cardiac stress test. Secondary outcome measures include serum
      biomarkers associated with cardiotoxicity (e.g. c-reactive protein, hsTNT, NT-proBNP).
      Patient-reported outcomes including levels of fatigue and quality of life will also be
      assessed. The study outcome measures will be assessed prior to the participants starting AC
      therapy (week-0), post-exercise intervention (week-12) and 6 months after the completion of
      the AEX. Of note, upon completion of the 6 month follow-up testing participants in the CTL
      group, if interested, will be given the home-based AEX as well the necessary support to
      complete the program.

      This research will provide the first direct evidence that aerobic exercise protects the heart
      from AC-mediated damage in BCS undergoing cancer treatment. Both the medical and research
      communities will benefit from this research as it could lead to the improvement of long term
      health of cancer survivorship as well as improve the understanding of how the heart health
      can be maintained during cancer therapy. Given the significant impact of AC therapy on
      improving BC prognosis, and the potential protective effects of exercise training, this study
      will be important in improving BC care via the improvement of the quality of life and
      increased survivorship.
    
  