
    
      A. Inclusion:

      Patients are eligible for this study if they are part of the SIBDCS and are followed in
      Switzerland in Geneva, Vaud, Neuchatel or Bern. Gastroenterologist will present the study to
      the patient during a routine follow-up visit. Inclusion will be cumulative, into 2 groups of
      150 patients without (Group 1) or with (Group 2) immunosuppressive treatments.

      B. Intervention

        1. Vaccine history evaluation: A questionnaire will be filled at baseline including
           questions to establish patients' history of vaccine-preventable diseases and/or
           immunizations.

        2. Serologic evaluation: Blood will be taken at inclusion for a baseline serological
           evaluation against pneumococcus. Antibody analyses will be performed using enzyme linked
           immunosorbent assays (ELISA) to quantify antigen-specific immunoglobulin G (IgG)
           antibodies. Serological evaluation against tetanus, measles and VZV could be performed
           through a study extension, depending on funds available.

        3. Pneumococcal immunization: PCV13 (1 dose=0.5ml, intra-muscular) will be administrated
           during the same inclusion visit.

           Optional intervention (depending on available funds):

        4. Additional missing immunizations could be identified by the study team on an
           individualized level, based on the patient's immunological record, and presence or
           absence of immunosuppression.

      C. Assessment of effectiveness:

      A second blood sampling will be scheduled 2 months (minimum 1, maximum 4) after PCV13
      administration and will to assess vaccine response to PCV13.

      D. Assessment of safety:

      Vaccine safety will be monitored using standardized diary cards recording local and systemic
      side effects at week 1, 2, 4, 6, 8 after immunization. Patient will also be contacted by
      phone at week 6 by the investigator who will ask standardized questions regarding vaccine
      safety. Potential changes in disease activity (vaccine-induced flares) will be monitored
      during the following 6 months, through data collected in the SIBDCS database.
    
  