
    
      Weakness of the ankle plantarflexors after a stroke results in impaired forward propulsion
      during walking, which consequently impacts walking efficiency and speed - parameters that are
      necessary for community participation. Next-generation soft, wearable robots, known as soft
      robotic exosuits, were developed to assist paretic ankle dorsiflexion during its swing phase
      and paretic ankle plantarflexion during push off. Prior observational studies of the exosuit
      technology have culminated in strong evidence of immediate gait-restorative effects for
      patients post-stroke through improved forward propulsion, and faster and farther walking. The
      investigators posit that gait training using exosuits will leverage these immediate
      gait-restorative effects to facilitate gait training at higher intensities without
      compromising gait quality. This type of training will facilitate lasting rehabilitative
      effects that persist beyond the use of exosuit. Leveraging a systematic approach in the
      staging of pilot studies toward larger clinical trials, this clinical validation was
      initiated with a single-subject study design followed by a case series, which both provided
      early evidence for the potential of gait training with exosuits in restoring propulsion and
      speed. As a next step, the investigators seek to examine the efficacy of these interventions
      under more robust terms by implementing a randomized clinical trial (RCT).

      The current study seeks to understand the rehabilitative effects of a Robotic Exosuit
      Augmented Locomotion (REAL) gait training program relative to matched gait training without
      exosuits (Control) on walking and propulsion function after stroke. It is hypothesized that
      REAL training will result in clinically meaningful improvements in walking speed that are
      greater than the speed gains following Control training. Further, this study seeks to examine
      whether training-related changes in propulsion function following both interventions (REAL,
      Control) influence the training-induced effects on walking function. The investigators
      hypothesize that REAL training will result in substantial gains in walking function that are
      achieved through improved propulsion function, while Control training will have modest gains
      in walking function that are not related to changes in propulsion. For this protocol,
      exosuits developed in collaboration with an industry partner (ReWalk™ Robotics) will be used.
      To examine the effects of REAL gait training, the investigators will use clinical measures of
      motor and gait function, locomotor mechanics, and physiologic measures that may infer on
      motor learning. The spectrum of behavioral and physiologic data that will be collected will
      enable a more comprehensive understanding of the gait-restorative effects of REAL.

      This study will be implemented by carrying out the following study visits: (1) Primary screen
      over the phone, (2) Clinical screen & fit, (3) Exposure, (4) Pre-training evaluation, (5)
      Training (6 sessions), (6) Mid-evaluation, (7) Training (6 sessions), (8) Post-training
      evaluation, and (9) Retention evaluation. Randomization to either REAL or Control will occur
      after Pre-training evaluation. A washout period up to 4 weeks will precede Retention
      evaluation.
    
  