
    
      Malignant obstructions of the bile duct are generally caused by: adenocarcinoma of the Vater
      ampulla, pancreas head cancer, cholangiocarcinoma and external compression secondary to lymph
      node (LN) metastasis. The management of jaundice and cholangitis, as a result of bile
      stenosis, is crucial in this group of patients. The most common and accepted method for
      biliary drainage is endoscopic stent placement with plastic stents or self-expandable metal
      stents (SEMS). In recent times, the use of SEMS has become more common as it provides longer
      times of patency and a reduced risk of adverse events such as cholangitic episodes. There are
      three types of metal stents: fully covered (FC), partially covered (PC) and uncovered (U).
      PC-SEMS have been recently introduced and compared to FC-SEMS they seem to have a lower risk
      of migration, however different randomized and non-randomized studies have compared the
      outcome of U-SEMS vs FC-SEMS with between uncovered and covered stents have produced
      different results regarding the cumulative patency of stents and endoscopic re-intervention
      rates. To date, there are few and discordant prospective data on the outcomes of PC-SEMS use
      in malignant biliary obstructions.

      Therefore, the investigators will randomize the participants with biliary obstruction in 2
      groups according to the type of stent used: PC-SEMS or U-SEMS (T0 timing).

      Then the participants will be followed for total period of 12 months. 2 different timings of
      follow-up will be considered:

      - T1: it will start after stent insertion. The biliary drainage will be considered effective,
      according to the European guidelines, when the bilirubin values will be < or = 2 mg/dl for a
      period of at least 6 weeks if the initial bilirubin values were higher than 10 mg/dl or 3
      weeks if at the beginning were lower than 10 mg/dl; After this first phase, all the enrolled
      patients will be divided in 2 groups according to their "fitness" for chemiotherapy: FIT and
      UNFIT Group.

      FIT group: blood test (including total bilirubin, gamma-GT) will be done for follow-up study
      once every three months.

      UNFIT Group: blood test (including total bilirubin, gamma-GT) will be done for follow-up
      study after 3, 9 and 12 months.
    
  