
    
      A decade ago, minimally invasive surgery (MIS) was considered a promising development in
      spine surgery, yet the value of the pioneering technologies was questionable. With the
      growing number of experienced MIS surgeons, the influx of evidence in favour of MIS is
      rapidly increasing. This makes a compelling argument towards MIS offering distinct clinical
      benefits over open approaches in terms of blood loss, length of stay, rehabilitation,
      cost-effectiveness and perioperative patient comfort. Due to the limited or inexistent
      line-of-sight in MIS procedures, surgeons need to rely on imaging, navigation, and guidance
      technologies to operate in a safe and efficient manner. Therefore, a plethora of new and ever
      improving navigational systems have been developed. These systems allow a consistent level of
      safety and accuracy, on par with results achieved by very experienced free hand surgeons,
      with a reasonably short learning curve.

      Computer-based navigation systems were first introduced to spine surgery in 1995 and while
      they have been long established as standards in certain cranial procedures, they have not
      been similarly adopted in spine surgery. Designed to overcome some of the limitations of
      navigation-based technologies, robot-guided surgery has become commercially available to
      surgeons worldwide, like SpineAssist® (Mazor Robotics Ltd. Caesarea, Israel) and the recently
      launched ROSA™ Spine (Zimmer-Biomet, Warsaw, Indiana, USA). These systems are rapidly
      challenging the gold standards.

      SpineAssist®, and its upgraded version, the Renaissance®, provides a stable drilling platform
      and restricts the surgeon's natural full range of motion to 2 degrees of freedom (up/down
      motion and yaw in the cannula). The system's guidance unit moves into the trajectory based on
      exact preoperative planning of pedicle screws, while accounting for changes in intervertebral
      relationships such as due to distraction, cage insertion or changes between the supine
      patient position in the preoperative CT and the prone patient on the operating table.
      Published evidence on robot-guided screw placement has demonstrated high levels of accuracy
      with most reports ranging around 98% of screws placed within the pedicle or with a cortical
      encroachment of less than 2 mm.

      Although the reliability and accuracy of robot-guided spine surgery have been established,
      the actual benefits for the patient in terms of clinical outcomes and revision surgeries
      remain unknown.

      The investigators recently conducted a cohort study that showed some evidence that robotic
      guidance lowers the rate of intraoperative screw revisions and implant related reoperations
      compared to free hand procedures, while achieving comparable clinical outcomes. Now, these
      factors, among others, have to be assessed on a higher level of evidence. This would be, to
      date, the first randomized controlled trial comparing clinical patient reported outcomes of
      robotic guided (RG) pedicle screw placement vs. navigated (NV) vs. free hand (FH) pedicle
      screw placement.

      The investigator's aim is to conduct a prospective randomized controlled trial. The
      randomized variable will be the screw placement technique used. One arm will be treated with
      lumbar fusion using robotic guidance (RG), one arm will receive the same procedure but with a
      free hand technique (FH) and the third arm will use navigation (NV) (CT or
      Fluoroscopy-assisted).
    
  