
    
      This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety
      and effectiveness of an investigational drug to learn whether the drug works in treating a
      specific disease. "Investigational" means that the drug is being studied.

      This research study involves an experimental study treatment. The names of the study drugs
      involved in this study is:

        -  Sacituzumab govitecan (SG)

        -  Pembrolizumab (combination therapy with SG)

      The study is a umbrella study multi-arm phase II study of neoadjuvant SG-based therapy in
      patients with localized BC. The first cohort involves SG monotherapy. After the monotherapy
      cohort completes enrollment, the combination therapy cohort (SG with pembrolizumab) for
      patients with localized BC will open.

      Future planned arms include SG with/without pembrolizumab for patients with Hormone Receptor
      positive (HR+) breast cancer and inflammatory breast cancer (IBC).

      The research study procedures include screening for eligibility and study treatment including
      evaluations and follow up visits.

        -  Eligible participants will receive Sacituzumab govitecan for up to 12 weeks.

        -  This can be followed by standard chemotherapy at the discretion of the treating
           physician.

        -  It is expected that about 50 people will take part in this research study.

      The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved Sacituzumab govitecan as a
      treatment for patients with metastatic TNBC.

      Sacituzumab govitecan (SG) is an antibody-drug conjugate which means it's made up of an
      antibody attached to an anticancer drug. An antibody is a protein normally made the immune
      system. Sacituzumab govitecan is believed to work by binding the antibody portion of the drug
      in the tumor(s) while the anticancer drug portion works to prevent cancer cells from
      growing/spreading.

      After the SG monotherapy cohort completes enrollment, the combination therapy cohort (SG with
      immunotherapy) will open.
    
  