
    
      Stroke in general is one of the leading causes for death and disability in the industrialized
      world. Cardiac thromboembolisms are a major contributor to ischemic infarction and the most
      frequent reason is atrial fibrillation [afib]. The prevalence of afib is constantly
      increasing within the ageing population and its established therapy (oral anticoagulation)
      increases alongside. Therefore, rates of OAC-ICH are expected to increase simultaneously. As
      compared to spontaneous ICH, OAC-ICH is associated with larger ICH-volumes, an increased
      mortality and poorer functional outcome. Nevertheless, only limited evidence is available for
      the treatment of such severely injured patients. The only sound benefit is reported for the
      strategy of "INR-reversal as soon as possible". More detailed therapeutic approaches and
      guidelines are not well established. Many questions regarding the acute treatment strategy
      remain to be investigated (modus of INR reversal, prevention of hematoma growth, operative
      procedures, aso).

      Moreover, the most pressing questions that need to be answered relate to coagulation
      management after OAC-ICH. Would patients benefit from resumption of OAC? Which patients would
      benefit and when? What are the complication rates (thromboembolic versus bleedings) according
      to which treatment? How is outcome influenced by the different therapeutic strategies?

      This observational cohort study will try to strengthen the therapeutic evidence for OAC-ICH
      treatment by retrospective data-pooling of 20 nation-wide tertiary hospitals in Germany.
      Patients will be identified from medical records by the diagnosis of ICH and concomitantly
      present intake OAC (INR>1.4) during a time period from 2006-2010. Only patients with ICH
      associated to OAC will be included, other secondary cause i.e. tumors, trauma, vascular
      malformations etc. will be excluded.

      Following parameters will be evaluated: + prior medical history (CHADS-VASC-Score, HAS-Bled
      Score, risk factors) functional status prior admission; + Timing of symptoms until -
      admission, - imaging, - therapy initiation; + acute therapy (INR reversal, blood pressure,
      hematoma growth); + complications and treatment (thrombosis-prophylaxis, infections,
      transfusions, etc.); + Mortality rates (discharge, 3 months and 1 year, overall long-term); +
      functional outcome mRS (discharge, 3 months and 1 year, overall long-term); + secondary
      prophylaxis (OAC vs. platelet inhibitors); + bleedings versus thromboembolic-events.
    
  