
    
      Participants will be recruited through multiple medical clinics and will visit the exercise,
      nutrition and muscle metabolism lab twice over the course of 8-12 weeks to complete objective
      and subjective measures of physical function. Each testing session will be conducted by the
      study investigator and physical function testing will be video recorded to reduce measurer
      bias. Based on participants' status they will be allocated to either a body contouring
      intervention group (BCI) or a post massive weight loss matched control (PMWMC). The first
      testing session would happen preoperatively and second one would happen between 8-12 weeks
      postoperatively depending on recovery required. Pain levels will be measured both pre and
      postoperatively using a numerical rating scale (0-10) to ensure adequate recovery.

      Outcomes will include a variety of objective measures of physical function including 9-item
      modified physical performance test (mPPT), 30 second chair stand, timed up and go, stair
      climbing power, modified agility t-test, star excursion balance test, and 6 minute walk test.
      A body composition measure consisting of fat mass and fat free mass will also be obtained via
      dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry. Subjective measures would include 6 components of health
      related quality of life measure using BODY-Q questionnaire that would include sub scales such
      as body image, physical function, psychological, sexual, social, and obesity symptoms. Other
      subjective measure would include rate of perceived exertion which would be measured during
      each of the objective tests.

      Additionally, grade of excess skin would be measured by images provided to the participants
      and weight of the resected excess skin will be obtained from the operating surgeon at the end
      of the study.

      To obtain demographic history, physical activity level post surgery and to gain feedback for
      future clinical trial, the participants will also complete a socioeconomic status
      questionnaire, physical activity questionnaire, and participant experience with research
      questionnaire.
    
  