
    
      Patients with depression or anxiety in the context of multimorbidity (2 or more chronic
      conditions such as Diabetes, Heart Disease, Arthritis, COPD, Asthma) are often preoccupied
      with day-to-day concerns related to issues such as finances, safety and functional ability.
      Determining which issues to discuss, and when to discuss it, is always difficult in the
      15-minute primary care visit, but it is especially challenging when patients have multiple
      diagnoses, symptoms and concerns.

      In this application the investigators will develop and test the feasibility of Customized
      Care, an intervention that capitalizes on decision technology and will be deployed in primary
      care waiting rooms. The investigators will assess whether customized care will improve
      outcomes among patients with depression and/or anxiety in the context of multimorbidity.
      Customized Care consists of two different components designed to improve health outcomes by
      improving patient-provider communication. The first component is a computer-based discussion
      prioritization tool (DPT). The DPT forces patients to make trade-offs between competing
      concerns to help them determine which are the most important to discuss. The second component
      is a customized question prompt list (QPL) to help patients communicate their priorities to
      the PCP. The QPL will be generated after patients use the DPT, and consists of question
      prompts tailored to the patients' priorities.

      When patients express their day-to-day concerns, and PCPs become aware of these concerns, the
      patient-provider alliance can deepen. In addition, patient motivation (perceived autonomy,
      competence) to manage those everyday concerns and engage in care for chronic disease and
      associated mental health conditions will increase. This project will lay the ground work for
      a larger randomized trial to assess whether customized care can improve mental health
      outcomes among patients with multimorbidity.

      The specific aims are:

        1. To assess usability of the Customized Care components (the DPT and QPL)

        2. To assess feasibility of Customized Care in primary care settings

        3. To conduct a pilot study of the effects of Customized Care on patient-PCP communication
    
  