
    
      Histoplasmosis is a serious opportunistic infection in persons with AIDS that demonstrates an
      excellent response to antifungal therapy. However, until the advent of highly active
      antiretroviral therapy (HAART), patients with histoplasmosis required lifelong suppressive
      antifungal therapy. It is thought that immune reconstitution as a result of HAART may
      diminish the need for chronic therapy. Histoplasmosis offers an opportunity to examine the
      concept of discontinuation of maintenance therapy as it is rapidly diagnosed and effectively
      treated with itraconazole [AS PER AMENDMENT 9/27/00: or other appropriate therapy for
      disseminated histoplasmosis] should relapse occur.

      Patients discontinue antifungal maintenance therapy. Patients are seen for routine visits
      every 8 weeks and urine and serum specimens are collected for real time Histoplasma antigen
      testing and immunologic parameters. Patients with suspected recurrence, as determined by
      clinical or routine laboratory findings consistent with recurrent histoplasmosis, are
      reevaluated within 1 week of onset of these findings. Patients with suspected recurrence
      based on a serum or urine Histoplasma antigen rise of 2 units or more, in the absence of
      clinical or routine laboratory findings consistent with histoplasmosis, are reevaluated
      within 2 weeks. All patients with suspected recurrence have more frequent evaluations and
      additional laboratory tests. Those with negative studies resume bimonthly follow-up. All
      patients who develop proven (positive culture or positive fungal stain of tissues or body
      fluids) or probable relapse (clinical findings of relapse with an increase in antigen of 4.1
      units or more, or no clinical findings but increases in antigen levels on repeated testing
      with the most recent antigen test demonstrating an increase in antigen of 4.1 units or more)
      or who experience persistent reduction of CD4 cell count to below 100/mm3 have antifungal
      induction therapy reinstituted. Patients remain on study for at least 12 months with regular
      follow-up/evaluations.
    
  