
    
      Background: South Asians (SA) have a high prevalence of type 2 diabetes (T2D). SA i Norway
      develop T2D approximately 10 years earlier than Nordic subjects (NO).T2D in SA is often
      poorly regulated with increased risk of complications.

      Research hypothesis: South Asian subjects with Impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) or impaired
      fasting glucose (IFG) have a high degree of hepatic insulin resistance. Treatment with
      certain oral antidiabetic drugs will improve hepatic insulin sensitivity more than others.

      Primary objective: To assess which of four oral antidiabetic medications is most effective in
      improving hepatic insulin sensitivity in women of South Asian origin with IFG/IGT.

      Study design: Single-center, randomized, double-blind intervention trial with 4 parallel
      treatment arms: 1) Metformin 2) Pioglitazone 3) Empagliflozin 4) Linagliptin.

      Endogenous glucose production (EGP) and hepatic and whole body insulin sensitivity will be
      assessed by a 2-step euglycemic, hyperinsulinemic clamp with deuterated glucose tracer. In
      addition, glucose and lipid metabolism will be assessed by indirect calorimetry (IC), insulin
      secretion by an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT), and fatty infiltration in liver by
      computer tomography (CT).

      Recruitment: From South Asian women with IFG/IGT who participated in DIASA 1.

      Duration of study: 14 weeks, with a total of four study visits, every 4 weeks, plus two CT
      scans, at baseline and 12 weeks, and one end of study follow-up telephone visit at 14 weeks.
      The project is expected to last a maximum of 3 years.

      Study population: Women ≥ 18 years of age of South Asian ethnicity with IGT/IFG.

      Criteria for evaluation: Efficacy outcome will include evaluation of change in EGP from
      baseline to 12 weeks. Laboratory parameters of glucose and lipid metabolism. Questionnaires
      with physical activity and food frequency. Safety and tolerability will be assessed by
      clinical adverse events and laboratory measurements from randomization to 14 weeks.

      Primary outcome: Difference between treatment arms in change in EGP from baseline to 12
      weeks.

      Explorative outcomes: Difference between treatment arms in change from randomisation to 12
      weeks in:

        -  whole body insulin sensitivity

        -  HbA1c

        -  glucose and lipid metabolism measured by IC

        -  fatty infiltration in liver and visceral adipose tissue.

      Statistical Methods: One-way ANOVA, Multiple regression analyses, Paired samples t-tests,
      longitudinal analyses.
    
  