
    
      The Sentinel™ PCC4 Assay is a new molecular classification technology that provides an
      assessment of prostate cancer risk of advanced disease based on the expression of a cohort of
      442 small non-coding RNAs.

      At the start of the study, miR Scientific will schedule a teleconference call with all of the
      participating physicians in Puerto Rico (San Juan Bautista Hospital) to outline the study,
      the basis for the test and to explain the differences between this Sentinel™ PCC4 Assay and
      the calculators commonly used in risk assessment for prostate cancer (the CAPRA and/or
      D'Amico risk calculators and any other risk assessment methodology the uro-oncologists
      utilize on a routine basis).

      After the clinical data (see CRF form) and Sentinel™ result have been compiled for each of
      the first 50 patients who meet the inclusion/exclusion criteria, the CSO and/or Medical
      Director of miR Scientific will chair one or more teleconference call with the participating
      physicians to compare the results of the Sentinel™ Assay and the CAPRA and other risk
      assessment calculators, discuss the relative strengths and weaknesses of the tests and answer
      any questions regarding the performance of the Sentinel™ Assay and discordances (if any)
      between the test results. It is important to note that while the clinical data and the
      Sentinel Score are affiliated with specific barcodes, these data are fully anonymized and
      cannot be associated with specific patients. In addition to preserving the PHI
      confidentiality, this also ensures that the information related to the Sentinel™ Score will
      not influence the current standard of care for these patients.

      At the end of each session, the participating physicians will complete a questionnaire
      designed to evaluate the quality of the training and information related to the test result.
      This process will be repeated for every 50 new patients enrolled for the first 200 patients
      and then again after the data for 350 patients becomes available. The analysis of the
      complete data set for the 500 patient cohort will also be presented at the completion of the
      study, and a final questionnaire will be administered.

      To validate the performance of the miR Sentinel™ PCC4 Assay for identifying patients with
      prostate cancer in men of age 45-75 years with suspicion of prostate cancer for whom a
      core-needle biopsy is performed, the miR Sentinel™ PCC4 results with low-, intermediate- and
      high-risk prostate cancer (Grade Group 1, 2 or 3-5) will be compared to the results of the
      CAPRA score. The sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive values (PPV, NPV)
      will be established.

      This clinical utility study is a prospective, observational, validation study. Patients
      between the age of 45-75-year who will have a prostate core needle biopsy and meet the
      inclusion/exclusion criteria listed below will be enrolled provided that they have provided a
      urine sample prior to biopsy. Using the Pathological Grade Group system, the results of each
      biopsy will be grouped as either no cancer, CAPRA low-, intermediate- or high-risk by the
      pathologists at the participating centers.

      The miR Sentinel™ PCC4 Assay uses a proprietary Classification Algorithm to produce a
      Sentinel™ PCC4 classification into one of four groups: NMEPC, low-, intermediate-, high-risk
      prostate cancer. The PCC4 Assay controls sensitivity of the diagnosis and prognosis of a
      future patient with unknown disease status at a desired level, usually at least 95%. The
      proprietary Algorithm has been trained on a dataset consisting of: (1) control subjects who
      presented in urology for conditions unrelated to prostate cancer; (2) subjects with suspicion
      of prostate cancer assumed to not have prostate cancer based on the negative biopsy results;
      and (3) patients diagnosed with prostate cancer and whose core needle biopsy histopathology
      was reported as Grade Groups 1 through 5.

      The performance of the miR Sentinel™ PCC4 Assay to classify the disease status of a future
      patient as either prostate cancer or no prostate cancer and for patients with prostate cancer
      as having low-risk (nominally Grade Group 1), intermediate-risk prostate cancer (nominally
      Grade Group 2) or high-risk prostate cancer (nominally Grade Group 3-5) will be established.
      The test reports will be provided to the consulting urologists who will also have the core
      needle biopsy reports. The discordances between core needle biopsies and the Sentinel™ PCC4
      Assay are well documented in Wang et al. (2020). At the start of the study the urologists
      will be briefed on the interpretation of the Sentinel™ PCC4 Assay, and will subsequently be
      asked to compare and contrast the information provided by the Sentinel™ PCC4 and the SOC (PSA
      +/- DRE and pathology report), using a validated questionnaire. To ensure that urologists
      associated with the project understand the Sentinel™ PCC4 platform, a review of the
      comparative results will be held when the first 50 patients have been accrued, and again for
      every additional 50 patients until 200 patients are accrued, and when 350 and 500 patients
      have been accrued, at which time the trial will have completed its enrollment. The survey
      instrument will be administered after each review to determine whether familiarity with the
      Sentinel™ PCC4 Assay imbues confidence in the risk assessment.

      Statistical Analysis:

      Definitions. The general notation P (A | B) = P(A , B)/P(B) is the probability of the event A
      given that the event B occurred; it is the probability (prevalence) of the event A among the
      subgroup of patients in a population encompassing all who have the event B.

        1. Sensitivity = P (screening test + | truly disease).

        2. Specificity = P (screening test - | truly no disease).

        3. PPV = P (truly disease | screening test +).

        4. NPV = P (truly no disease | screening test -).

      Estimate of Sample Size. The proposed prospective study will serve to establish the
      performance of the miR Sentinel™ PCC4 Assay on a representative sample of patients with any
      suspicion of prostate cancer for whom a core needle biopsy is ordered. The miR Sentinel™ PCC4
      Assay is trained on retrospective data as described above.

      The current proposed study is targeted to enroll at most 500 subjects between the age of
      45-75 years who receive a core-needle biopsy and who provided a urine sample prior to biopsy.

      For any subgroup with a minimum of 100 enrolled participants, if the observed (empirical)
      sensitivity of the PCC4 Assay for that subgroup is 95%, then the one-sided upper 95%
      confidence interval for the true population sensitivity will be 90% or greater.

      This prospective study will continue to enroll participants until the first of either 500
      total participants are enrolled, or at least 100 participants have enrolled in each of the
      four groups: NEPC; Grade Group 1; Grade Group 2; Grade Group 3 and above.

      Statistical Methodology. As outlined below, this clinical study will enroll patients between
      the ages of 45 and 75 years that are scheduled for a core needle biopsy based on any
      suspicion of prostate cancer. The study will evaluate the properties of the Sentinel™ PCC4
      Assay that is based on use of a proprietary Classification Algorithm to identify future
      patients with prostate cancer and to classify the risk of prostate cancer patients.

      The proprietary Classification Algorithm employed controls sensitivity for both identifying
      patients with prostate cancer and identifying high-risk prostate cancer at, or above, a
      pre-specified level, denoted 1-α; for example, the value that has been assumed in this design
      is α=0.05 so that sensitivity is at least 95% in the population. Note that the value of α
      represents the false-negative rate of the assay.

      To describe how the cut-offs for the Sentinel™ PCC4 Assay are calculated to control
      sensitivity, for each participant in the training dataset, the Sentinel™ PCC4 Assay result
      will be calculated using the remaining members of the training dataset and only the current
      participant's sncRNA sequence; that is, the true disease status of each participant in the
      training dataset will be blinded, thereby mimicking the setting for classification of a
      future patient. The tuning parameters used in the miR Sentinel™ PCC4 Assay are then
      calculated so that the empirical sensitivity over participants in the training dataset with
      prostate cancer and with high-grade prostate cancer correspond to the value that provides an
      upper one-sided 95% confidence interval for the corresponding population sensitivity for a
      future patient of at least 1-α.

      With these cut-offs for the Sentinel™ PCC4 Assay determined a priori from the training
      dataset, the corresponding values of sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative
      predictive values will be calculated, along with a corresponding upper 95% confidence
      intervals, on the prospective patient data accrued in this proposed study, with each biopsy
      result blinded, that is using only the participant's sncRNA sequence. Note that these error
      rates refer to the classification of a future patient with unknown disease status.

      The statistical analysis of the prospective data accrued that blinds the group label from
      biopsy will provide an estimate of the proportion of patients that are mis-labeled by biopsy
      in the prospective dataset. For example, patients labeled as having no prostate cancer by
      biopsy and whose blinded miR Sentinel™ PCC4 Assay result indicates prostate cancer may be a
      patient that was potentially a false negative by core-needle biopsy (biopsy label negative).
      The validation of this discordance and others are addressed below in the follow-up data
      analysis section.

      Follow-up Data Analysis. If a follow-up biopsy is scheduled for participants with negative
      biopsies as part of their standard clinical care, the follow-up Sentinel Assay and biopsy
      results will be deemed as the clinical truth for the outcome analysis.
    
  