
    
      Objective: The study has two objectives. The primary objective is to explore what dynamics
      exist within IRB committees, how members in each role interact with each other, and how these
      interactions affect participation in the deliberation/decision-making process.

      The secondary objective of this research is to explore what each member/staff perceives
      his/her role and the roles of other committee members to be and whether these perceptions are
      congruent with how roles are actualized during meetings.

      Study Population: Our target population consists of all members/staff of NIH IRBs and IRB
      panels that fall under the NIH Intramural Federal Wide Assurance (FWA).

      Design: The project will involve two phases: direct observation and semi-structured
      interviews. Phase I (direct-observations) will involve an associate investigator, Hina
      Walajahi, sitting in on regularly scheduled IRB meetings at the NIH and taking observational
      notes on committee dialogue, individual and group behavior, and factors that contribute to
      the decision-making process. Meetings will be audio-recorded in order to validate the
      observation notes. The observational data will be used to select appropriate committee
      members/staff and guide questions for the semi-structured interviews.

      For Phase II (semi-structured interviews), the same associate investigator will conduct
      in-person, semi-structured interviews with contacted IRB members/staff regarding role
      perception respective to other members and the committee as a whole. Interviews will last
      approximately 60 minutes. They will be audio-recorded and transcribed.

      Outcome Measures: A qualitative codebook will be created from observational and interview
      data, focusing on themes including, but not limited to: member interactions, member
      participation in discussion, committee deliberation processes and voting behavior.
    
  