
    
      HPV associated genital dysplasia is a complication following hematopoietic allogeneic stem
      cell transplantation (HSCT). In a recent study from this institution, one third of female
      transplant recipients had HPV related genital tract dysplasia. The quadrivalent human
      papillomavirus virus (HPV) (types 6, 11, 16, 18) vaccine (Gardasil ) is now approved for use
      in females aged 9-26 for the prevention of cervical cancer and, more recently, vulvar and
      vaginal cancer. In this study, Gardasil will be used in females age 18 years to 50 at least
      90 days post stem cell transplant in two study cohorts to determine its safety and
      immunogenicity in this population, as a first step to reduce post-transplant HPV-related
      co-morbidity, genital dysplasia and malignancy. The two study cohorts will both be post
      transplant; one off of immunosuppression (n=24), and one on immunosuppression (n=24).
      Gardasil will be administered using the FDA approved regimen of 3 separate 0.5ml
      intramuscular injections at 0, 2, and 6 months. The primary objectives of this study are to
      determine the safety and immunogenicity of Gardasil in female allogeneic HSCT recipients. A
      cohort of healthy subjects will also be vaccinated (n=24) and will serve as a control.
      Immunogenicity studies characterizing the CD4 and CD8 T- cell response, change in antibody
      titer and cytokine response from baseline to months seven and twelve will be compared in the
      three cohorts. Additionally, genital exams will be performed to monitor for HPV. Secondary
      endpoints will characterize sexual function post-transplant and vulvar/vaginal
      graft-versus-host disease (GVHD). When available, healthy female stem cell donors
      corresponding to enrolled vaccine recipients will be enrolled (n=10) as part of the healthy
      cohort and vaccinated to determine whether there are differences in HPV vaccine
      immunogenicity in a subset of donors and their respective allogeneic, HSCT female recipients.

      As stem cell transplant becomes more applicable to the general population with newer
      transplant techniques allowing for a larger donor pool and as survival improves, problems
      associated with long term survivorship such as genital dysplasia, will become more prevalent.
      Vaccine therapy to prevent or eradicate this disease is needed.
    
  