
    
      Varicose veins are an extremely common disorder and negatively impact on patient quality of
      life. In recent years minimally invasive venous treatments for varicose veins (MIVT) have
      emerged as an effective alternative to open surgery. It is associated with a reduction in
      peri-operative morbidity, recovery time and increased quality of life scores when compared
      with open surgical stripping4. Furthermore, MIVT is now widely carried out under local
      anaesthesia.

      Typically, MIVT requires cannulation, under ultrasound guidance, of either the great or small
      saphenous vein in the lower extremity to allow subsequent passage of a venous catheter. This
      cannulation technique is widely used for venous and arterial cannulation throughout the body.
      It entails utilising an ultrasound probe in either a longitudinal or transverse orientation
      (to the target vein) to guide an entry needle into a target vessel. The longitudinal
      orientation, while unstable, offers better visualisation of the vein when performed
      accurately. Conversely, the transverse approach is very stable with poorer visualisation of
      the target vessel. As such, no definitve guidance is available to guide treating physicians
      as to the optimal orientation with a wide variation among practitioners.

      The cannulation process for MIVT is often further challenged by both the small calibre and
      tendency toward vasospasm of target veins. Failure of cannulation may result in greater rates
      of conversion to open surgery exposing the patient to the the higher rate of morbidity
      associated with open surgery. More importantly, repeated cannulation results in significant
      discomfort and hence a reduction in patient satisfaction.

      Longitudinal ultrasound orientation during venous cannulation has been suggested by a number
      of radomised studies to offer superior cannulation rates of cannulation. This technique may
      offer a simple, safe and cost-neutral step to improve cannulation rates in the widely
      performed MIVT.

      The authors propose a blinded randomized controlled study to investigate the effects of
      ultrasound orietation on cannulation rates in MIVT. To test this hypothesis we plan to
      randomise 100 patients undergoing MIVT to either venous cannulation with transverse or
      longitudinal orientation of the ultrasound probe.
    
  