
    
      It was determined that schizophrenia was seen in 19.78 million people in 2017 and constituted
      0.51% of "disability adjusted life years" due to all causes. It has been determined that
      patients with schizophrenia have care needs in many areas related to daily care such as
      self-care, relationships and coping even in the early period after discharge. This situation
      shows that they need support to continue their daily life independently. In this context,
      families are the closest accessible support elements to the patients. Living with
      schizophrenia is a difficult situation to deal with for the family as well as for the
      patient. Caregivers in schizophrenia are dealing with an uncertain future accompanied by
      hope, fear, or both during the illness process.

      Theorist Merle H. Mishel's Uncertainty in Illness Theory (UIT) emerged within the framework
      of the concept of "uncertainty in illness". The Reconceptualized Uncertainty in Illness
      Theory (RUIT) was developed to explain chronic conditions that cause individuals to
      experience uncertainty. "Uncertainty in illness" arises when disease-related processes have
      characteristics such as complexity, inconsistency, unpredictability, and lack of knowledge.
      RUIT provides a framework for nurses to develop interventions to improve psychological and
      behavioral outcomes that occur under uncertainty.Interventions for managing uncertainty help
      individuals gain knowledge, solve problems, see their health conditions manageable, and
      improve communication and coping skills. When RUIT based interventions are applied to cancer
      patients, many positive results have been reported in psychosocial aspects, especially in
      managing uncertainty.

      This study that randomized controlled single blinded experimental nature, was conducted
      between April 2019 and August 2020 at psychiatry clinic with hospitalized schizophrenia
      patients caregivers, total of 54 including 27 interventions and 27 control groups. The data
      were collected by "Caregiver Information Form, Visual Analogue Scale, Intolerance to
      Uncertainty Scale, Psychological Well-being Scale, Stress Coping Styles Scale". The
      Uncertainty Management Psychoeducation Program, consisting of a total of five sessions was
      applied to the intervention group. No intervention was applied to the caregivers in the
      control group. The psychoeducational intervention, which was individually designed consisting
      of one session per day for each caregiver and five sessions with a gap of at least two days
      between sessions, was completed within two weeks. Pre-test and post-test measurements were
      also carried out during this period, and scales were applied for the pre-test at the
      beginning of the first session and for the post-test at the end of the last session.
      Mann-Whitney U and Wilcoxon tests were used for hypotheses.
    
  