
    
      Late-Life Depression [LLD]), is prevalent, disabling, and associated with high rates of
      completed suicide. Among the LLD patients at the highest risk of these adverse outcomes are
      those who manifest decreased processing speed and/or decreased gait speed. To develop
      urgently needed novel therapeutics for LLD, a reasonable approach is to target systems
      underlying the development and persistence of psychomotor slowing. One such approach has been
      to augment dopaminergic signaling since post-mortem experiments and in vivo neuroimaging
      studies have implicated age-related dopaminergic decline in the development of slowing.
      L-DOPA is the immediate precursor of dopamine, is converted to dopamine in presynaptic
      dopaminergic nerve terminals, and enhances dopaminergic transmission in multiple brain
      regions. As opposed to other dopaminergic interventions (i.e., dopamine receptor agonists and
      stimulants), a large literature shows beneficial effects of L-DOPA on cognitive performance
      and gait in patients with Parkinson's disease, all while being a safe and well-tolerated
      medication that is difficult to differentiate from placebo in terms of side effects.

      A second therapeutic strategy that has been tested for LLD and is relevant to psychomotor
      slowing is aerobic exercise training. A number of reports and meta-analytic reviews suggest
      that exercise is an effective non-pharmacologic treatment for depression, including
      depression in older adults. The largest recent study found that progressive aerobic exercise
      conducted three times weekly for 30min over 24 weeks was effective for depression and was
      tolerated extremely well (14.3% drop-out rate, 70% intervention adherence). Exercise training
      may be effective for LLD by counteracting deleterious age-related changes related to its
      development and maintenance, such as by reducing pro-inflammatory cytokines, normalizing
      hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis hyperactivity, and decreasing physical disability and
      social isolation. Exercise also appears to facilitate adaptive neuroplastic changes in the
      hippocampus, prefrontal cortex (PFC), and anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) as well as
      increased white matter connectivity.

      While both dopaminergic augmentation and exercise are promising interventions, neither
      treatment alone may be sufficient to address the serious adverse medical and psychiatric
      outcomes associated with LLD and psychomotor slowing. In our preliminary study (NYSPI IRB#
      7270), L-DOPA was associated with significant improvements in gait speed, but the effect size
      of this improvement was only moderate (d=0.4). L-DOPA failed to increase average gait speed
      in this study above the 1m/s threshold associated with functional disability and increased
      mortality risk in epidemiologic samples. While exercise has not been studied specifically in
      this patient population, meta-analyses of exercise interventions in older adults suggest
      overall effects on gait speed are modest (d=0.3) and perhaps not clinically significant.
      Thus, one goal of this study is to combine these interventions having complementary
      mechanisms of action to realize a greater therapeutic benefit.

      This study includes task-based functional MRI that will allow us to probe the differential
      therapeutic mechanisms of L-DOPA and exercise and further elucidate the nature of
      effort-based decision making and reward deficits in LLD. Decision making about voluntary
      behavior requires weighing the benefit of potential rewards against the effort cost required
      to achieve them. This calculation is performed by separable populations of dopaminergic
      midbrain neurons whose signals for value and effort are integrated with the ventral striatum
      (VS). Anterior VS (AVS) consistently has been shown to encode subjective value, increasing
      with the probability of reward and decreasing with effort discounting, while recent work
      suggests dorsomedial VS (dmVS) activates during the initiation of effortful action. We
      hypothesize that older adults are biased toward inactivity (and thereby at risk for
      depression) on the basis of dopaminergic decline that diminishes subjective value estimates
      and increases the effort cost of action (i.e., by the development of slowing). Among PD
      patients, L-DOPA increases willingness to work independently of facilitating movement by
      increasing subjective value estimates. By increasing fitness and helping individuals learn
      about their increasing capacities, exercise may facilitate effort initiation. Below, we
      evaluate whether complementary effects on effortful behavior may be achievable via L-DOPA
      increasing subjective value and Exercise reducing effort cost.
    
  