
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and preliminary safety of hydroxychloroquine
      (HCQ) when administered with gemcitabine and docetaxel (G+D) in patients with
      recurrent/metastatic osteosarcoma. (Phase I) II. To determine whether gemcitabine and
      docetaxel (G+D) in combination with hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) increases the disease control
      rate in patients with recurrent/metastatic osteosarcoma at 4 months as compared to historic
      controls. (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the objective response rate by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors
      (RECIST) of the combination of G + D + HCQ in patients with recurrent/metastatic
      osteosarcoma.

      II. To estimate the event-free survival (EFS), progression-free survival (PFS), and overall
      survival (OS) for patients with recurrent/metastatic osteosarcoma treated with G+D+HCQ.

      III. To estimate the toxicity rates of oral HCQ when administered in conjunction with G+D.

      IV. To investigate the pharmacokinetics (PK) of the combination in patients with
      recurrent/metastatic osteosarcoma.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To describe the metabolic response rates of G + D + HCQ in patients recurrent/metastatic
      measurable osteosarcoma by positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) at 6
      weeks.

      II. To assess pre-/post-treatment changes in autophagy biomarkers (autophagic vesicles, LC3B
      puncta, p62, and HMGB1), HSP27, and pHSP27 expression in tumor samples at baseline and during
      cycle #2 of treatment with G + D + HCQ.

      III. To assess the relationship between probability of response and/or disease control and
      tumor HSP27, pHSP27, ALDH1A1, and HLTF expression.

      IV. To complete functional proteomic profiling of autophagic and apoptotic pathways on tumor
      samples by RPPA and correlate findings with the probability response and disease control.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of hydroxychloroquine followed by a phase
      II study.

      Participants receive hydroxychloroquine orally (PO) once daily (QD) or twice daily (BID) on
      days 1-21, gemcitabine intravenously (IV) over 90 minutes on days 1 and 8, and docetaxel IV
      over 1 hours on day 8. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up at 1 year.
    
  