
    
      Early Intervention (EI) services are provided to infants and toddlers with documented
      developmental delays in all 50 states and US territories. EI improves long-term
      infant-toddler adaptation and lowers the cost of care if parents use the services. However,
      depressive symptoms can reduce mothers' ability to provide the daily child
      development-promoting activities recommended by EI, increasing the child's risk for
      communication and behavioral problems. Indeed, repeated studies have shown that depressive
      symptoms reduce mothers' consistent use of developmentally sensitive, child-centered speech
      which, in turn, lead to negative child cognitive and behavioral outcomes. Previous research
      showed that over one-third of mothers of children with disabilities have significant levels
      of depressive symptoms, a rate higher than the population at large. Infants and toddlers of
      depressed mothers have been shown to receive fewer intensive services and have been shown to
      interfere with uptake of EI services through impaired mother-child interactions. A
      preliminary study by the investigators found that over a third of mothers of infants and
      toddlers enrolled in EI in a large North Carolina county had severe depressive symptoms and
      depression histories. Fortunately, the investigators also found that when depressed mothers
      were provided with concrete, attainable skills for improving interactions with their child,
      the impact of depression on both mother and child was substantially reduced. Focusing on a
      depressed mother's child-centered speech and reciprocal communication also improves child
      outcomes, even when the child is cognitively compromised. However, none of these specialized
      services are part of EI best practices. Thus, EI is an ideal setting in which to integrate
      screening, referral and targeted skills for depressed mothers in order to improve
      parent-child interactions and ultimately, child outcomes.

      This project will develop an intervention focused on communication between infants and
      toddlers with diagnosed or suspected developmental disabilities and their mothers who have
      depressive symptoms. The primary aim of the study is to test the initial efficacy of
      embedding a language pedometer, the Language ENhancement Assessment/intervention system
      (LENA), into EI to teach mothers to increase child-centered speech and reciprocal
      communication, which have been linked to positive child outcomes, and to increase parenting
      efficacy in depressed mothers of children in EI. While maternal depressive symptoms can
      disrupt developmentally stimulating, child-centered speech, simple tools to assess and
      provide feedback to mothers can improve the child-centered speech and reciprocal language
      interactions that positively impact child outcomes. Although the LENA has been used in other
      studies and shown improvements in mothers' child-centered speech, the system has not been
      used with mothers showing depressive symptoms or in the EI context.

      Using a randomized wait-list controlled design, the investigators will examine whether use of
      the LENA with feedback from a supportive EI provider has an impact on the child's language
      environment, parenting efficacy and maternal depressive symptoms. The investigators will
      stratify mothers by group based on depressive symptoms (mild, moderate, moderately severe)
      and randomly assign them to intervention (LENA with feedback) or wait-list control (LENA no
      feedback). The investigators will examine the use of the LENA system and the impact on short
      term child outcomes including receptive/expressive language, functional and social
      communication, and social-emotional behavior, and on maternal depressive symptoms. Positive
      intervention outcomes may ultimately lead to a sustainable addition to EI programs in all 50
      US states and territories.
    
  