
    
      Gingival recession (GR) is defined as exposure of the root surface due to displacement of the
      gingival margin apical to the cemento-enamel junction (CEJ). Problems related to gingival
      recessions are dentin hypersensitivity, bacterial plaque accumulation, difficulty of
      maintaining oral health care and aesthetics, root caries and abrasions and fear of losing
      teeth6. Coronally advanced flap (CAF) is an effective periodontal plastic surgical procedure
      for the treatment of gingival recessions. The CAF with a subepithelial connective tissue
      graft (CAF+ SCTG) technique is reported as the gold standard and does enhance the probability
      of achieving complete root coverage.

      Various dental materials and surgical approaches have been used to manage gingival recessions
      associated with cervical lesions for the most predictable combined surgical/restorative
      treatment.Restorative materials must be biocompatible to minimize their adverse effects on
      periodontal tissues induced by direct contact.Resin composites or resin modified glass
      ionomer cements have been commonly used to restore cervical lesions.Resin-ionomer materials
      have many properties such as biocompatibility with soft and hard tissues and displaying high
      marginal adaptation and minimal surface roughness as well as allowing them to be used
      successfully in the subgingival region. Composite resin materials have many advantages
      including aesthetics and surface characteristics in terms of finishing and polishing.

      It has been reported that well-adapted and finished composite resins seem have no adverse
      effects on the periodontal margin. It has also been reported that the ageing of the composite
      resin restorations may produce gingival inflammation in subgingival areas. Fluoride-releasing
      resin materials with pre-reacted glass (PRG), called giomer, has been suggested to have good
      color matching, biocompatibility, smooth surface finish, fluoride release and fluoride
      recharge potential. It was reported in a randomized-controlled clinical trial that the use of
      CTG for treatment of root surfaces restored with giomer was effective over the 6-month period
      without any noxious effect on periodontal tissues.

      Therefore, the aim of this study was to evaluate clinically the treatment of gingival
      recession associated with NCCL in resin modified glass ionomer cement (RMGI) or nano-filled
      resin composite (NRC) or giomer plus SCTG in the first year following surgery.
    
  