
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the dose of daunorubicin hydrochloride that is equivalent to 30 mg/m² of
           doxorubicin hydrochloride in pediatric patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL).

        -  Determine whether it is possible to reduce therapy in pediatric patients with low-risk
           ALL and a PVA (prednisolone-vincristine-asparaginase) score of 3+4 without loss of
           efficacy.

        -  Investigate the role of single nucleotide polymorphisms of infection defense gene for
           infectious complications during therapy in these patients.

        -  Reduce neurological complications by reducing doses of intrathecal methotrexate.

        -  Reduce allergic reactions against asparaginase (ASP) by using pegaspargase after E. coli
           ASP.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study.

        -  Prephase: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

             -  Arm I: Patients receive doxorubicin hydrochloride IV once.

             -  Arm II: Patients receive daunorubicin hydrochloride IV once.

             -  Arm III: Patients receive daunorubicin hydrochloride IV once at a higher dose than
                in arm II.

        -  Induction phase: All patients receive vincristine IV 4 times weekly, daunorubicin
           hydrochloride IV 3 times weekly, and oral prednisolone daily for 4 weeks.

        -  Intensive phase: Patients are stratified according to risk (low vs high).

             -  Low-risk disease*: Patients receive 4 courses of methotrexate IV and asparaginase
                intramuscularly (IM).

             -  High-risk disease*: Patients receive 6 courses of cyclophosphamide IV, methotrexate
                IV, and asparaginase IM.

      All patients also receive methotrexate IV, teniposide IV, cytarabine IV, high-dose cytarabine
      IV, and asparaginase IM after completion of the above regimen.

        -  CNS phase: All patients receive intrathecal (IT) methotrexate for 3 doses and oral
           mercaptopurine for 4 weeks. Patients with T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia or
           patients who have blasts in cerebrospinal fluid at diagnosis or whose WBC > 200/nL at
           diagnosis OR whose WBC between 100-200/nL at diagnosis and blasts > 1/nL after prephase
           chemotherapy undergo cranial irradiation.

        -  Reinduction phase: Patients are stratified according to risk (low vs high)

             -  Low-risk disease*: Patients receive 2 courses of doxorubicin hydrochloride IV,
                vincristine IV, and oral dexamethasone; pegaspargase IM once; and 1 course of
                cyclophosphamide IV, cytarabine IV, and oral thioguanine.

             -  High-risk disease*: Patients receive 4 courses of doxorubicin hydrochloride IV,
                vincristine IV, and oral dexamethasone; pegaspargase IM twice; and 2 courses of
                cyclophosphamide IV, cytarabine IV, and oral thioguanine.

        -  Maintenance phase: All patients receive oral mercaptopurine daily and methotrexate IV
           once weekly for up to 2 years after diagnosis.

      NOTE: *In addition to those defined in Disease Characteristics, patients who do not achieve
      remission after induction phase are treated as high-risk disease, patients who achieve
      remission after induction phase are treated as low-risk disease

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 550 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  