
    
      Parental substance use is the second leading cause of foster care placement, with nearly 50%
      of cases involving children under age five years. Fifty percent of all Ohio children taken
      into child protective services experienced parental drug use, with rates higher than 75% in
      some Ohio counties. Approximately 100,000 Ohio grandparents and relatives are providing
      kinship care for children affected by parental drug use.

      STAR is an evidence-based home-based shared book reading intervention designed to improve the
      foundational reading skills of preschoolers who are at risk for reading disabilities. The
      potential for STAR to positively impact the kinship family is multi-faceted. STAR was
      developed to accelerate the early reading development of vulnerable children, including those
      in kinship care. The investigators expect STAR to promote positive caregiver-child
      interactions and improve kinship caregivers' sense of self-efficacy with respect to
      supporting the child's reading development. The implementation of the STAR intervention is
      innovative because it will provide tangible and important financial and material resources
      that have been effective in improving short- and long-term academic outcomes for children
      living in low SES environments that may not otherwise be available to kinship families.

      The overarching goal is to examine the feasibility and effectiveness of an evidence-based
      reading intervention in a group of kinship caregivers and children affected by parental
      opioid use. In this pilot implementation, investigators will enroll up to 50 kinship
      caregivers and the 4 to 5 year old children in their care to determine the feasibility of the
      STAR intervention in this population (Aim 1). The investigators will determine the extent to
      which STAR imparts positive and significant effects on children's foundational reading skills
      (Aim 2). The investigators will examine the extent to which participation in STAR, and the
      associated training and supports provided, are associated with positive changes in kinship
      caregivers' self-efficacy with respect to supporting the reading development of the children
      in their care (Aim 3). Investigators will meet the objectives of this work by using a
      randomized (1:1) waitlist controlled trial design. The randomization scheme will be prepared
      prior to any participant enrollment by a statistician not affiliated with the project.
      Successful implementation of this work will provide financial and material resources to
      families in need, while simultaneously engaging kinship families in an evidenced-based
      intervention that is proven effective at improving young children's reading trajectories.
    
  