
    
      Introduction

      Several studies have shown that cardiac output optimization improve postoperative outcome and
      to decrease the cost of surgery [Boyd et al., 1993; Gan et al., 2002; Kern & Shoemaker, 2002
      ; Pearse et al., 2005 ; Poeze et al., 2005 ; Sinclair et al., 1997; Wakeling et al., 2005].

      Respiratory variations in the arterial pulse pressure and in the pulse oximetry
      plethysmographic waveform amplitude have been extensively studied in mechanically ventilated
      patients, and have been demonstrated to be sensitive to changes in ventricular preload as
      well as reliable predictors of fluid responsiveness in adults [Cannesson et al 2007;
      Cannesson et al., 2008; Natalini et al., 2006; Solus-Biguenet et al., 2006; Zimmermann et
      al., 2010].

      A few studies have evaluated the impact of a pulse-pressure-variations-guided fluid
      management on perioperative outcome [Buettner et al., 2008; Fukui et al., 2007; Fukui et al.,
      2009; Kobayashi et al., 2008; Lopes et al., 2007; Mayer et al, 2009; Oubaha & Poelaert, 2009;
      Sakamoto et al., 2009]. However, results from these studies are not conclusive and further
      studies are required to better explore this topic [Cannesson, 2010].

      Pulse oximeters are part of the routine monitoring during anesthesia and in the intensive
      care unit [Dorlas & Nijboer, 1985]. The main interest of the pulse oxymeter is to display
      arterial oxygenation continuously. Pleth variability index (PVI) is an automatic measure of
      the dynamic change in perfusion index (PI) that occurs during a complete respiratory cycle.
      PVI is provided currently by one pulse oximeter manufacturer (Masimo Radical 7 ™, Masimo
      Corporation, Irvine, CA, USA). The PVI calculation measures changes in PI over a time
      interval sufficient to include one or more complete respiratory cycles as and is displayed
      continuously [Cannesson et al., 2008; Zimmermann et al., 2010]. PVI quantifies the
      variability in plethysmograph waveform due to respiration and is thought to be a surrogate
      measure of intravascular volume [Cannesson et al., 2008; Zimmermann et al., 2010]. Cannesson
      et al. reported that a PVI value above 14% predicted fluid responsiveness [Cannesson et al.,
      2008]. Therefore, the clinical and intra-operative goal of "maximizing stroke volume by
      volume loading" can be achieved by reducing PVI below 14 % [Cannesson et al., 2008;
      Zimmermann et al., 2010]. Forget et al [2010] demonstrated that PVI based goal-directed fluid
      management reduced the volume of intraoperative fluid infused and reduced intraoperative and
      postoperative lactate levels. However, to our knowledge there is no study that evaluate the
      impact of PVI guided fluid management on perioperative outcome.

      Materials and Methods

      Patients This procol has been approved by the local Ethics Committee (Hospital Regional de
      Presidente Prudente Presidente Prudente, São Paulo, Brazil). The written informed consent
      will be obtained from each patient. Adults patients underwent high-risk surgery will be
      selected and randomized to either a control group (group C) or an intervention group (group
      I).

      Patients will be selected according to a pre-operative decision (by the surgeon and the
      intensivist) that post-operative care would be undertaken in the ICU because of
      co-morbidities or/and the surgical procedure. Patients < 18 years, with cardiac arrhythmias,
      with a body mass index > 40, and those undergoing surgery with an open thorax, neurosurgery
      or emergency surgery, will be excluded.

      Intraoperative monitoring

      On the day of surgery, they will receive their respective medication in association with
      anesthetic premedication. Immediately after the arrival in the operating room heart rate,
      pulse oximetry, blood pressure and capnography will be monitored with a multiparameter
      bedside monitor (DX 2023, Dixtal™, São Paulo, Brazil). A 20-G catheter line (Smith Medical
      International™, Lancashire, Uk) will be inserted in the radial artery for continuous arterial
      pressure measurement and recording. The radial catheter will be connected to a Dixtal® DX
      2023 monitor (São Paulo, Brazil).

      The patients will be anesthetized with loading doses of propofol (2 mg/kg), sufentanil (0,2 -
      0,3 µg/kg) and atracurium (0.6 mg/kg). Anesthesia will be maintained by infusion of the same
      products. After induction of anesthesia, patients underwent tracheal intubation. Artificial
      ventilation will be provided by a Fabius plus ™ ventilator (Dräger™, Lübeck, Germany)
      (respiration rate = 12 strokes/min, tidal volume = 8 to 10 ml/kg).

      Each respiratory cycle will be identified from the capnogram, systolic and diastolic arterial
      pressures will be measured on a beat-to-beat basis. In patients of intervention group PVI
      values will be determined over each respiratory cycle (Masimo Radical 7 ™, Masimo
      Corporation, Irvine, CA, USA).

      Protocol Randomization will be done pre-operatively using sealed envelopes. During the
      surgical procedure, patients will be managed according to our institution's standard of care.
      Group C will receive per-operative fluid at the discretion of the anesthetist, whereas group
      I will receive additional hydroxyethylstarch 6% (HES) bolus in order to minimize and maintain
      PVI below 14 %. This PVI cut-off value was chosen according to previous reports [Cannesson et
      al., 2008; Zimmermann et al., 2010].

      During the postoperative period, both groups were managed by intensivists (in the ICU) and
      clinicians (in the wards) not involved in the intraoperative management or in data
      collection. These individuals were not informed of patient allocation.

      Data collection

      Over the study period all data will be collected prospectively and patients will be followed
      up until hospital discharge. Pre and intraoperative data collection will be undertaken by one
      of the investigators, whereas post-operative data collection will be undertaken by another,
      who was not aware of the allocation group. Before surgery, sex, age, weight, height, history
      of renal failure requiring dialysis or not, cirrhosis, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease,
      hypertension, peripheral vascular disease, coronary artery disease, other cardiac disease,
      diabetes mellitus, and cerebrovascular disease will be recorded. The body mass index will be
      calculated according to the standard formula (BMI = weight/height2). Serum creatinine,
      prothrombin time, hemoglobin, and platelets will be obtained from routine pre-operative
      biological tests. During the surgical procedure, tidal volume, ventilatory frequency, infused
      volume of crystalloid solutions, HES, and blood products will be recorded. Heart rate, mean
      arterial pressure, percutaneous arterial oxygen saturation, and hemoglobin will be collected
      both at the beginning and the end of the surgical procedure. The duration of surgery will be
      also recorded. After the surgical procedure, the following parameters will be collected both
      at ICU admission and 24h later: mean arterial pressure, heart rate, percutaneous arterial
      oxygen saturation. During the 24h following ICU admission, venous lactate will be measured
      every 6h and the mean lactate value will be calculated over the first 24h ICU period. The
      need for continuous vasoactive (dobutamine or/and norepinephrine) support will be recorded.

      Postoperative ICU infections (pneumonia, abdominal, urinary tract, line related sepsis and
      wound infections), respiratory complications (pulmonary embolism, acute lung injury, and
      respiratory support > 24h exclusive of acute lung injury), cardiovascular complications
      (arrhythmia, hypotension, acute pulmonary edema, acute myocardial infarction, stroke, and
      cardiac arrest exclusive of fatal outcome), abdominal complications (clostridium difficile
      diarrhoea, acute bowel obstruction, upper gastro-intestinal bleed, and anastomotic leak),
      hematologic complications (platelet count < 100000/µl or prothrombin time > 1.5 times
      control), and renal complications (urine output < 500 ml/day or serum creatinine > 170 µmol/L
      or dialysis for acute renal failure) were collected according to criteria previously used by
      other investigators [Bennett-Guerrero et al., 1999; Gan et al., 2002; Lopes et al., 2007;
      Pearse et al., 2005].

      Statistical analysis

      Data will be analyzed comparing patients in group C with those in group I on an intention-to
      treat basis. The primary outcome measure will be the duration of postoperative hospital stay.
      On the basis of our own hospital registry, the mean duration of postoperative hospital stay
      in group C is a priori estimated at 15 ± 7 days (median ± median absolute deviation).
      According to previous publications we postulated that the mean duration of postoperative
      hospital stay in group I could be 35% lower [Lopes et al., 2007; Mythen & Webb, 1995;
      Sinclair et al., 1997]. A sample size of 35 patients in each group was calculated for a 0.05
      difference (two sided) with a power of 80% [Schulz & Grimes, 2005]. An intermediate analysis
      after the enrolment of the first 35 patients was planed, in order to readjust the population
      sample size if necessary. Secondary outcome measures were the number of post-operative
      complications per patient, as well as the duration of mechanical ventilation and ICU stay.
      Results are expressed as median ± median absolute deviation. The median absolute deviation is
      a variation of the average absolute deviation that is even less affected by outlying values
      because these values have less influence on the calculation of the median than they do on the
      mean. In general, for data with extreme values, the median absolute deviation or
      interquartile range can provide a more stable estimate or variability than the standard
      deviation.

      The Mann-Whitney U test was used to compare between groups patient characteristics as well as
      the duration of mechanical ventilation, ICU stay and hospital stay. In group I, the effects
      of volume expansion with HES administration in PVI will be assessed using a nonparametric
      Wilcoxon rank sum test within each group of patients. A Fisher exact test was performed to
      compare nominal data. Linear correlations were tested using the Spearman rank method. A
      p-value lower than a 0.05 chosen level is regarded as statistically significant. All
      statistical analyses are performed using the StatView TM software for Windows (version 4.57,
      Abacus Concepts Inc., Berkeley, CA, USA).
    
  