
    
      Suburban walks will be mapped out in clean, safe streets with sidewalks within 3 miles of the
      Arboretum, in Chaska, Minnesota. A loop covering approximately 1.25 miles will be mapped. At
      a usual walking speed of 20 minutes per mile, a subject will complete ~ 2 loops. Each walk
      will be timed so that walking speed can be included in the statistical analysis as an
      important covariate.

      Nature Walks will take place at the University of Minnesota Landscape Arboretum, which is
      part of the College of Food, Agricultural and Natural Resource Sciences at the University of
      Minnesota. The Arboretum features more than 1,215 acres of natural landscapes with over 12
      miles of trails. Subjects in this study will take their nature walks on the Green Heron Pond
      Trail and adjacent trails that can be connected to create a walking loop of ~1.25 miles, or
      an out-and-back course, matching the distance of the suburban walk. Heron Pond and its
      adjacent marsh and bog represent three naturally occurring ecosystems in Minnesota that are
      part of the state's geologic and landscape heritage. The bog trail passes through the most
      diverse ecotypes of any Arboretum hike. Oak woods, maple woods and the mosaic of intermingled
      wetlands along the boardwalk offer rich rewards for birders, school groups and families.

      The primary approach to the statistical analysis will be a repeated measures multivariable
      linear regression model. The outcomes will be the psychological and physiological measures of
      stress. The primary independent variable of interest is condition (suburban v. nature). The
      interaction of condition and time (week of the study) provides a formal test of intervention
      effects (differences between the urban and nature walks). That is, over the time course of
      the interventions, are there significant differences in the outcomes between the urban and
      nature walks? Covariates to be evaluated in the models as possible confounders include the
      order of the conditions (urban first v. nature first), age, gender, body mass index, and
      overall habitual physical activity. On an exploratory basis, the investigators will test
      whether these covariates also serve as modifiers of the intervention effect.
    
  