
    
      This is a single-center, prospective, unblinded, randomized, controlled, clinical trial of
      200 subjects randomized to either a Supervised Training Program (STP), Incentivized Weight
      Loss (IWL) or Standard of Care (SoC).

      Subjects randomized to the SoC group will be asked to return for regular 3-monthly clinic
      visits and for diet and exercise recommendations.The STP group will be offered once-weekly
      one hour supervised training sessions at no charge for a period of six months in the
      bcdiabetes.ca fitness center (located in the Vancouver General Hospital Employee Centre gym).

      The IWL group will receive a financial reward for achieving monthly weight loss targets.
      Those who fail to meet their monthly goals will receive no financial reward. Such financial
      incentives have been considered in previous research. Due to the nature of the intervention,
      none of the investigative staff, trainers or subjects will be blinded to randomized
      assignment.

      The primary objective of this study is to investigate whether a behavioral modification
      intervention in the form of either a 6-month supervised training program or a 6-month
      financial incentive program, results in overall superior clinical outcomes in comparison to
      standard of care. Specifically, improvement in glucose control, measured by A1c, will be
      considered. Given the objective nature of the Primary Outcome, there is little possibility of
      assessment bias of the primary or clinical outcomes.The secondary objective is to investigate
      the impact of a supervised training program and an incentivized weight loss program on
      weight-loss, LDL (apoB), blood pressure, waist-hip circumference, and diabetes-specific
      quality of life measures including behavioral and emotional impact (refer to Secondary
      Outcomes section).

      Patients attending BCDiabetes ( Diabetes Clinic at Diamond Center )will be approached by one
      of their diabetes caregivers who will describe the study and determine whether they have
      interest in participating. If the patient expresses an interest, they will be provided
      additional information and a study consent form and be free to ask questions about the study.
      They may choose to provide consent at the time or to leave with the consent form and return
      at a later time to ask further questions. A research nurse, coordinator and/or co/principal
      investigator will be available to answer any questions the patient may have. When consent is
      provided, confirmation of the eligibility criteria will be completed and the subject will
      receive their randomized group assignment.

      Eligible subjects will be randomized in a 2:1:1 fashion to the SoC, STP and IWL and groups
      respectively. Randomization will be stratified by age (≤ 50 vs > 50 years of age) to ensure
      balance in age groups in all three treatment arms; enrollment will not be stratified and the
      number of participants in the two age groups will not be restricted. Randomization within
      strata will be done in a permuted complete block design with random block sizes (blocks no
      smaller than 6 and no larger than 15). Randomization will be completed in advance and
      assignments will be kept in individual, separate sealed, sequentially labeled envelopes
      opened at the time of randomization of each individual.

      Withdrawal from Study or Intervention:

      Although they should be encouraged to continue participation in their randomized group,
      subjects can choose to withdraw from the study, or to withdraw from the intervention at any
      time. Subjects who choose to withdraw from the STP and IWL arms should continue to receive
      standard of care and will be considered cross-overs to SoC arm; these subjects are not
      necessarily withdrawing from the study and should be encouraged to continue to return for
      their scheduled 3 and 6 month study visits so study outcomes can be measured. If a subject
      chooses to withdraw from the study entirely, all attempts should be made to have them
      complete an exit visit where all study outcomes can be captured.

      Subjects who experience any adverse event related to the STP arm (eg: physical injury while
      training) or experience the onset or worsening of an signs or symptoms related to a medical
      condition (eg: shortness of breath, dizziness, vomiting nausea, etc) persisting the day
      following a supervised training session, or who experience a worsening of a physical
      condition (eg: degenerative disc disorder, knee or hip pain, plantar fasciitis, etc) will be
      withdrawn from the STP intervention. As above, these subjects will be asked to return for
      their scheduled 3 and 6 month clinic visits.

      If at any point more than 15% of subjects in the STP arm are withdrawn from the intervention
      arm due to an adverse event, worsening medical or physical condition, the study will be
      stopped.

      Study data will be collected as part of the subject's electronic medical record at
      bcdiabetes.ca. Identifiable study data will be housed exclusively on bcdiabetes.ca; if
      removed from bcdiabetes.ca servers, subjects will be identified only with a study
      registration number different from their BC CareID number. Remote monitoring by EMMES using
      confidential authenticated automatically scheduled direct database queries. EMMES Canada will
      also provide oversight of quality assurance & monitoring.

      The primary outcome measure is the percent of subjects who achieve target for A1c. The null
      and research hypothesis supporting the primary objective of investigating the impact of
      whether a behavioral modification intervention in the form of either a 6-month supervised
      training program or a 6-month incentivized weight loss program, results in overall superior
      clinical outcomes in comparison to standard of care is then:

      H0: pSoC ≥ pIWL and pSoC ≥ pSTP vs. H1: pSoC < pIWL or pSoC < pSTP

      where pSoC , pSTP and pIWL are the proportion of subjects achieving the target for all three
      disease measures. Here, rejecting the null hypothesis implies that the percent of patients
      achieving targets is higher in either of the STP arm or the IWL arm than in the SoC arm. A
      one-sided, 0.05 alpha-level simultaneous test for multiple contrasts of binomial proportions
      with an "Add-2" adjustment will be used.

      The primary analysis cohort will be an ITT cohort including all randomized subjects and
      considering the arm to which they were originally randomized regardless of adherence to the
      regimen or the study protocol. Subjects who cross-over to the other intervention prior to
      Month 3 (ie: complete less than 3 of the required 6 months) will be considered failures in
      the arm to which they were originally randomized. Clinical data from the last, or exit visit
      will be used to construct the primary outcome for subjects who withdraw from the study, or
      from the intervention, subsequent to Month 3.

      To corroborate the primary, unadjusted analysis, a logistic regression model will be fit with
      baseline clinical and demographic data as well as measures of compliance to intervention to
      adjust for possible imbalance of important variables. Also, the primary analysis will be
      repeated on a per-protocol cohort of subjects who completed the study according to the
      protocol and did not cross-over or withdraw from therapy. Graphical techniques and summary
      statistics for the two randomized groups at baseline and months 3 and 6 will also be
      presented.

      Summary statistics and graphical presentations will be used to summarize data for all
      secondary outcomes. All hypothesis tests will be 2-sided and with a 5% Type I error
      probability. There will be no adjustment for multiple comparisons among the secondary
      outcomes with the exception that multiple domains within a single psychosocial instrument
      (eg: emotional burden, physician-related distress, regimen-related distress, and
      diabetes-related interpersonal distress domains within the DDS) will be subject to a
      Benjamini-Hochberg multiple comparison adjustment. Analyses will be conducted on the ITT
      cohort and corroborated by analysis on the per-protocol cohort.

      Each clinical outcome measure is captured as a continuous and dichotomized variable (eg: A1c
      absolute level and those < 7.0%). Dichotomized variables will be analyzed as described in the
      Primary Analysis.

      Continuous variables will be analyzed in three ways. First, summary statistics and graphical
      presentation of results will be performed for each of baseline and months 3 and 6. Second,
      change from baseline to month 6 will be compared using a paired t-test, or a Mann-Whitney
      test if distributional assumptions do not hold. A subject's last available, or exit visit,
      will be used if their month 6 visit is not available. Third, longitudinal random-effects
      models will be used to model the trajectory of each outcome over time and to determine the
      influence of randomized intervention group on that trajectory. Variables may be transformed
      to satisfy the assumptions of normally distributed random effects, but results will be
      presented on the original scale.

      Sample Size Justification:

      The primary null hypothesis compares the probability of a patient being in control in either
      experimental group to the Standard of Care group:

      H0: pSoC ≥ pIWL and pSoC ≥ pSTP vs. H1: pSoC < pIWL or pSoC < pSTP

      Based on data observed within the clinic from which cases are to be recruited, the success
      rate for Standard of Care patients is estimated to about 75%. A sample size of 200 subjects
      in a 2:1:1 randomization to the SoC, STP and IWL and groups respectively will provide a power
      of over 95% to reject the null hypothesis if the true difference between SoC and either
      experimental arm is 25% or greater (eg: 37.5% compared to 62.5%).

      In addition, this sample size provides a power of more than 74% to reject the null hypothesis
      in favor of the alternative hypothesis that the percent of patients achieving control is
      greater among both the STP and IWL than among the SoC, if the true difference between arms is
      25% or greater.
    
  