
    
      In recent years, several in vitro and in vivo studies have provided been the beneficial
      effects of stem cells for tissue regeneration. Moreover, several randomized trials are
      ongoing and the interim results seem to give promising results and indicate their safety.
      Alternative approaches have recently been proposed, such as the injection of platelet
      preparation or the use of acellular amniotic membranes or extracellular vesicles (EV). EV act
      as cell-to-cell paracrine or endocrine-like communication mechanisms. The therapeutic
      potential of EV depends on the transfer of their cargo(proteins, RNAs, DNA, lipids, etc) to
      target cells (1). In the last decades, several pre-clinical studies have demonstrated safety.
      A pilot study was recently published on the use of EV as an effective treatment for retinal
      damage. At the University of Turin using a mouse model of ischemia/ reperfusion of the lower
      limb it was demonstrated that the intramuscular administration of EV obtained from the serum
      of healthy donors was associated with a higher density of local capillaries and an increase
      in laser Doppler signal compared to controls (2). A simple in vitro functional potency assay
      was developed, which allowed predicting EV therapeutic efficacy in vivo. The best response
      was obtained by intravenous administration immediately after surgical ligation and
      intramuscular in the next two days (T1 and T2). Through the Laser Doppler study, distal
      perfusion was evaluated after 7 days, which showed a clear improvement and protection of
      muscle damage. A more recent study has shown that even subjects with high cardiovascular risk
      (diabetic, obese, diabetic/obese and with arterial disease of the lower limbs) can benefit
      from the use of autologous EV (3).

      The pilot study will involve the enrollment of 10 patients with bilateral venous ulcer
      refractory to conventional treatment for more than 6 months, recruited at the Vascular Ulcer
      Clinic of University Vascular Surgery. At the time of recruitment, venous Eco Doppler will be
      performed to evaluate the superficial and deep venous and arterial system to exclude possible
      "mixed" etiologies. A blood sample will then recovered for EV isolation in collaboration with
      the Blood Bank of the City of Health and Science of Turin. The characteristics of the ulcer
      will be entered in the database: dimensions (photo), margins, bottom and a swab for
      microbiology will be performed. Patients whose swab will be positive will be excluded.

      EV will be analysed for their biological activity using the potency assay and will be used
      only if found to be effective (potency test). Subsequently, peri-wound injection of EV will
      be performed in a sterile environment. Sterile gauze and an elastic-compression bandage will
      be applied. As an internal control, the contralateral ulcer will be treated with a standard
      dressing and an elastic compression bandage. The patients will be evaluated on an outpatient
      basis on day 3 and then weekly. The results of treated patients will be collected in a
      dedicated database.
    
  