
    
      Introduction:

      Normoglycemia is important for the outcome of acute surgical and medical conditions.
      Different insulin infusions have been studied to achieve normoglycemia and have proved to be
      useful. Insulin given by subcutaneous injections has duration between 3- 36 hours depending
      on the insulin brand and injection site compared to 10 minutes for intravenous given insulin.
      Different insulin infusions have been studied to achieve normoglycemia but the biological and
      chemical effects of insulin infusions have not been studied during foot ulcer infection and
      surgical wound infection in patients with diabetes. Therefore, we aim to investigate the
      importance of normoglycemia for the optimal treatment during foot ulcer infection and
      surgical wound infection among diabetics.

      Hypothesis:

      Target controlled insulin infusion is more effective in reducing hyperglycemia, improve
      healing of inflammation and infection in diabetics compared to conventional antidiabetic
      therapy.

      Study Design:

      This is a randomized prospective, open controlled trial of target controlled insulin infusion
      vs conventional antidiabetic therapy in diabetic patients. Diabetics treated for foot ulcer
      infection or surgical wound infection, who met eligibility criteria and choose to participate
      will be included and randomized.

      Duration of study:

      The infusion starts when patients who met the eligibility criteria has signed the informed
      consent. The intervention group continues for tree full days with insulin infusion. After the
      transition day (the fourth day) multiple doses of mixinsulin continues until the study ends 4
      weeks after the randomization.

      Selection of patients:

      Patients with diabetic foot ulcer infection or surgical wound infection will be enrolled. At
      least 90 patients will be included during a 24 month-enrollment period.

      Treatment:

      Eligible patients will be randomized to insulin infusion (group 1) for 3 days or therapy
      according to clinical practise (group 2).

      Group 1 (intervention group):

      The insulin infusion starts when the patient full fill the eligibility criteria and has
      signed the informed consent. It controls by regular capillary plasma glucose tests and
      continues for tree days. The infusion stop on the fourth day, the insulin demand is estimated
      from the last 24 infusion hours by a specific algorithm and divided to 2-4 equal mealtime
      doses of mixinsulin. The first mealtime dose is given to the breakfast on the fourth day and
      the infusion continues for another 2 hours where after it is stopped. After the transition
      day (the fourth day) multiple doses of mixinsulin continues until the study ends 4 weeks
      after the randomization.

      All patients will have a stop visit at the study end.

      Patient assignment to treatment group:

      Patients recruited in the clinic and hospital wards and meeting the eligibility criteria and
      has signed the informed consent will be randomized.
    
  