
    
      Asthma, a reversible obstructive disease of the airways, is defined as a chronic inflammatory
      disorder of the airways in which many of the cells and cellular mediators play a role. The
      chronic inflammation is associated with airway hyper-responsiveness that leads to recurrent
      episodes of wheezing, breathlessness, chest tightness, and coughing, particularly at night or
      early in the morning. These episodes are usually associated with widespread, but variable
      airflow obstruction within the lung that is often reversible either spontaneously or with
      treatment (NIH 2007, GINA, 2010,). Guidelines recommend a stepwise approach to the management
      of asthma. For many patients with mild disease, asthma symptoms can be adequately relieved by
      'on demand' use of a short acting beta-2 -agonist (SABA) alone. A long-acting, inhaled,
      muscarinic receptor antagonist (LAMA) exerts its effects via distinct and complementary
      bronchodilator mechanisms on large and small airways through antagonism of the endogenous
      agonist acetylcholine at the muscarinic receptors leading to smooth muscle relaxation and
      bronchodilation. However, most experience with older anti-cholinergics has been with acute
      use and little is known about their effect in chronic use or as maintenance in asthma.

      Newer more selective muscarinic receptor antagonists are being developed for chronic use
      which appear to have a better adverse event profile compared with older anti-cholinergics in
      the treatment of asthma [Moulton 2011]. A once daily long-acting, inhaled, muscarinic
      receptor antagonist (LAMA) bronchodilator, GSK573719, may offer an alternative treatment
      option to patients with asthma.

      The proposed study is a multi-national, randomized, double-blind, 3-period crossover,
      incomplete block study in outpatient subjects with mild asthma and who are not using inhaled
      corticosteroids (ICS) for symptom control. The primary objective of this study is to evaluate
      the dose response, efficacy and safety of five once-daily doses of GSK573719 compared with
      placebo, over a 14-day treatment period, in patients with asthma. A placebo arm will be
      included to determine an absolute treatment effect over placebo for each GSK573719 dose
      regimen.

      Each eligible subject will be randomized to receive 3 out of 8 potential treatments in
      sequence over a total of three 14-day treatment periods. There will be 12 clinic visits
      including a safety follow-up visit at the end of the study. All subjects will be provided
      with albuterol (salbutamol) for use on an 'as-needed' basis throughout the run-in, treatment
      and washout periods. A sub-group (approximately 30%) of the study population will comprise
      subjects from selected sites. These subjects will have additional assessments at the start
      and end of each treatment period, including serial spirometry, serial ECGs, 24 hour Holter
      monitoring, and samples of blood and urine for pharmacokinetic analysis. Other safety
      parameters include the incidence of adverse events, vital signs, clinical laboratory
      parameters, ECGs and spirometry, including twice daily peak expiratory flow, asthma
      exacerbation assessment. and use of salbutamol.
    
  