
    
      The overall goal of this study is to evaluate the influences of oncologists and patients'
      loved ones on cancer treatment decision-making. The specific aims are:

      AIM 1: Test the feasibility of identifying and interviewing health care triads (patients,
      loved ones, and oncologists) in a research study about treatment decisions.

      AIM 2: Assess perceptions of the decision-making experience from the perspective of three
      parties within the health care triad (patients, loved ones, and oncologists) and examine the
      relationships among the triadic perspectives.

      AIM 3: Explore concordance or discordance within the triad about cancer treatment decisions
      and assess decisional conflict, decisional regret, and distress.

      This is an exploratory pilot study of 25 health care triads. Triads will include: (1) a
      patient diagnosed with advanced cancer, (2) a loved one, and (3) an oncology provider. In a
      few instances, the study team may interview more than one oncologist or loved one per
      patient.

      In phase one of recruitment, oncologists will be recruited and enrolled. In phase two, the
      study team will recruit patients who receive care from at least one enrolled oncologist and
      at least one of the patient's friends or family members. While oncology providers may
      participate in the study with multiple patients and their loved ones, the patients will be
      unique to each triad.

      Investigators anticipate enrolling two triads per week for a total of three months. They will
      utilize mainly qualitative methods, and specifically, content analysis, in this exploratory
      pilot study to (1) further hone and develop research questions and aims for a larger study
      with appropriate statistical power, (2) test the feasibility of recruiting health care triads
      in the oncology context, and (3) strengthen our study design, protocols and surveys. The
      investigators plan to use an iterative process of coding to allow for protocol and survey
      revisions, and in particular the inclusion of new probes, during the study. The codebook will
      include inductive and deductive codes related to the general decision making process,
      expectations and decisional outcomes, conflict and concordance between members of the triad,
      and other relevant topics. Two coders will review each interview and the team will review for
      themes and exemplars. The investigators plan to pilot three scales in this study that might
      be used in a larger future study.
    
  