
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the confirmed overall response rate (complete remission, remission, and
           partial remission) in patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma treated with
           bortezomib, thalidomide, and dexamethasone.

        -  Determine overall and progression-free survival of patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the qualitative and quantitative toxic effects of this regimen in these
           patients.

        -  Correlate, preliminarily, treatment with bortezomib with the activation of osteoblasts
           in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

        -  Induction therapy: Patients receive bortezomib IV on days 1, 4, 8, and 11, oral
           thalidomide once daily on days 1-21, and oral dexamethasone once daily on days 1, 2, 4,
           5, 8, 9, 11, and 12. Treatment repeats every 21 days until achievement of confirmed
           complete remission (CR), remission (R), or partial remission (PR) OR for up to 8 courses
           in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients achieving confirmed CR, R, or PR who reach a plateau prior to receiving the maximum
      8 courses of induction therapy OR who achieve confirmed CR, R, or PR after receiving the
      maximum 8 courses of induction therapy proceed to maintenance therapy. Patients achieving
      stable disease after receiving the maximum 8 courses of induction therapy either proceed to
      maintenance therapy or receive further treatment with bortezomib, thalidomide, and
      dexamethasone off-study.

        -  Maintenance therapy: Patients receive oral dexamethasone on days 1-4. Courses repeat
           every 28 days for up to 3 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
           toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed within 30 days and then every 6
      months for up to 5 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 90 patients will be accrued for this study within 18 months.
    
  