
    
      INTRODUCTION Handling of patients with severe eye surface injuries has always been
      challenging in the field of ophthalmology. One of the most significant pathologies causing
      severe injuries is Bullous Keratopathy (BK). This disorder is caused by a failure in corneal
      endothelial pump (Na+/K+/ATPase) characterized by chronic stromal edema, and it tends to
      evolve to the production of corneal vesicles and bullae due to the drainage of fluid to the
      anterior corneal layers as a consequence of intraocular pressure(1). Most common causes of BK
      are intraocular surgical procedures including those related to cataract surgery(2). This
      entity conforms the first cause for corneal transplant in the USA (from 26 to 50%) and the
      second in Europe(3,4,5).

      Clinically, BK is characterized by chronic ocular pain, which is secondary to recurrent
      epithelial defects, ocular surface inflammation and visual sharpness decrease(1). Definitive
      treatment for patients with BK with remaining visual potential is corneal transplant.
      However, donor grafts are not always available and they often require long waiting times. For
      those reasons, medical and surgical palliative measures should be temporarily used to relief
      ocular pain. Among others, the use of therapeutic contact lenses stands out as one of the
      best alternatives due to its contribution to the prevention of epithelial falling and
      ulceration, acting as a mechanical bandage(6,7,8). These contact lenses do not improve visual
      sharpness neither contribute to the resolution of the problem that originated corneal edema.
      Besides, prolonged use of contact lenses may be associated to potential complications such as
      ocular disturbance, superficial neovascularization, inflammation and corneal infections,
      together with the economical expenses that patients have to deal with(6).

      In 1940, De Roth described for the first time the use of human amniotic membrane (AM) in
      ophthalmology, and since that date, multiple studies guaranteed its application as an
      efficient treatment for ocular surface diseases(9,10, 11), including
      BK(12,13,14,15,16,17,18). AM is a thin membrane covering the foetal side of the placenta, and
      it consists of the external chorion (maternal origin) and the internal amnion (foetal
      origin). Histologically, it is composed of three layers: epithelium, basal membrane and
      stroma(19).

      The therapeutic effect of the AM involves three basic synergistic actions on the ocular
      surface: 1) induction of growth and proliferation of new epithelia on the tissues (cornea
      and/or conjunctiva), 2) control of the inflammation of the tissues under the implant and 3)
      inhibition of fibrosis and neovascularization of the corneal stroma(19). For all these
      reasons AM might be an effective treatment to ameliorate disturbances generated by BK. In
      addition, human amniotic epithelial cells do not express HLA surface antigens, which
      justifies the absence of graft rejection in this type of transplants(20,21) and makes it a
      highly safe procedure.

      In the present work, we describe the results of a randomized clinical trial in which the AM
      grafting technique was compared with the use of therapeutic contact lenses for the management
      of symptomatic bullous keratopathy in patients waiting for a corneal transplant at Carlos Van
      Buren Hospital from Valparaiso, Chile.

      PATIENTS AND METHODS Study design Randomized clinical trial. Patients The universe of this
      clinical trial are all patients with clinical diagnosis of symptomatic bullous keratopathy
      (corneal bullae, recurrent eye pain, foreign body sensation and photophobia), diagnosed at
      the Department of Ophthalmology Hospital Carlos Van Buren, Valparaiso, Chile, who were on the
      waiting list for corneal transplant from January 2008 to October 2011. Excluded patients were
      those with medical contraindication to undergo surgery with topical anesthesia, patients with
      severe systemic conditions and patients with corneal infections.

      Twenty patients, corresponding to universe of patients during this period, accepted to
      participate in this study and were included in this clinical trial. All patients provided
      written consent to participate in this study, and the trial was approved by the Ethics
      Committee of the Faculty of Medicine, Universidad de Valparaiso (Nº 10/2011). Patients were
      randomized on a simple random basis from a prefabricated list and divided into two groups:
      study group (N=10), with the implant of the AM, and control group (N=10), in which contact
      lenses were used.

      Clinical data and variables considered for the study were: demography, etiology of BK, ocular
      pain (evaluated by using a visual analogue scale ranging from 0 to 10) and visual acuity
      (Snellen scale). By using a bio-microscope we evaluated the presence of bullae and epithelial
      defects per quadrant (with fluorescein test) and neovascularization. After treatment, the
      same equipment was used to check for presence of traces of AM and complications (infection,
      wound dehiscence, etc) through serial controls performed over a period of 6 months.

      Interventions Human AM was prepared and preserved in the Biomedical Research Centre using a
      method previously described by Lee and Tseng (1995). In the study group, amniotic membrane
      (AM) grafts were implanted in the affected eyes using topical anesthesia. Each graft was
      sutured to the bulbar conjunctive tissue using 10-0 nylon sutures and a reinforcement stitch
      was applied at the cornea (Figure 1).

      Therapeutic contact lenses were applied in all patients included in the control group and the
      lenses were replaced every two months according to the pre-established gold standard for this
      procedure.

      Clinical follow-up examination was performed on days 1, 7, 30, and then monthly until 6
      months for both groups. Both groups were managed with topical gentamicin each 4 hours during
      the first week after surgery.

      Statistical analysis. Data were analysed with Stata SE 12.0 software. Results corresponding
      to continuous variables were described by medians and interquartile range (IQR) and
      categorical medians were described by percentages and frequencies. Mann-Whitney statistical
      test was used to detect statistical differences between two continuous variables, and Fisher
      exact test was used for categorical variables. Association between quantitative variables was
      established by Kendal's tau correlation test. For all analysis, a value of p<0.05 was
      considered statistically significant and all analyses were carried out double tailed.
    
  