
    
      Patients with non-healing leg ulcers who are over 18 years old will be eligible to enter the
      CLUE study. All eligible patients will be evaluated in both the Georgetown University
      Rheumatology Clinic and the Georgetown University Comprehensive Wound Healing Center. Since
      these evaluations are part of our routine care of patients, you need to have health insurance
      to be evaluated in our clinics.

      WHAT DOES THE STUDY INVOLVE?

      Enrollment in the CLUE study is voluntary, and will not affect your medical care at
      Georgetown University Hospital.

      The standard evaluation of patients with non-healing leg ulcers evaluated in the Georgetown
      Division of Rheumatology includes an initial history and physical examination, along with
      hypercoagulable and autoimmune profiles. If this is your first visit to the rheumatology
      clinic the initial laboratory testing will require 3.5 tablespoons of blood. We will ask for
      your permission to review your medical record for previous blood test results so that you do
      not undergo unnecessary testing.

      If you agree to participate in the CLUE study we will ask you to sign a consent form, allow
      us to photograph and measure your ulcers, and complete three brief pain and quality-of-life
      questionnaires.

      If you continue to follow-up with the Georgetown Division of Rheumatology we will ask you to
      repeat these questionnaires at each clinic visit. If you prefer to follow-up elsewhere, we
      will ask for your permission to telephone you once per year to find out how your leg ulcers
      are doing.

      WHAT TREATMENTS ARE AVAILABLE?

      The CLUE Study is not a treatment trial. Treatment of your underlying connective tissue
      disease and leg ulcers will continue according to standard clinical care, as directed by
      doctors in the Division of Rheumatology and the Comprehensive Wound Healing Center.

      In the future, studies testing new medications in patients with lower extremity ulcers may
      become available, and you may indicate on the consent form whether you would wish to be
      contacted regarding these studies.

      WILL MY INFORMATION BE SECURE?

      Information on CLUE study subjects will be stored on a password protected computer which will
      be kept in a locked room in the Division of Rheumatology. Your personal data will not be
      stored in this database and information will be identifiable only by a CLUE patient number.

      WHAT ARE THE COSTS?

      The CLUE Study is not a treatment trial. Just like any other doctors visit, you or your
      insurance will be charged for your initial evaluation and follow-up visits.

      For more information on arranging an initial consultation in the Georgetown Division of
      Rheumatology, please call (202) 687-8233 and ask for an investigator to call you about the
      CLUE study.

      Before your clinic visit can be scheduled, our staff will request that you have your primary
      care physician, rheumatologist or wound care specialist fax your previous medical records to
      our office at (202) 687-8579. If you have had previous scans, arteriograms or X-rays
      performed, please arrange to collect a copy of the scan and bring it to your appointment.
    
  