
    
      Diabetes is a major and independent risk factor of coronary disease. Coronary artery bypass
      graft (CABG) significantly improves the patients' prognostic. However postoperative
      hyperglycemia is a morbidity and mortality factor.

      Tight glycemic control with intensive insulin therapy dramatically reduces in-hospital
      mortality and adverse outcome but with a significant risk of hypoglycaemia. Intensive
      discontinuous blood glucose control may be insufficient to adapt insulin doses to reach
      ambitious glycemia targets in safety. Therefore new tools are needed for glucose monitoring
      in diabetic patients admitted in surgery intensive care units (ICU). The mini-invasive
      continuous interstitial glucose monitoring device Glucoday® (Menarini Diagnostics) has been
      recently developed and allows to access continuous interstitial glucose monitoring with real
      time record display.

      The primary outcome measure: is the Comparison of post CABG glycemia in diabetic patients
      treated by intensive insulin therapy either by conventional monitoring (discontinuous
      capillary glucose monitoring), or by conventional monitoring and CGM using GlucoDay®. The
      principal criterion of glycemic control is the percent of time spent in normoglycemia (0.8 -
      1.10 g/L).

      The secondary outcome measures: are 1: Comparison of percent of post CABG time in
      hyperglycemia (>1.8 g/l) and hypoglycemia (<0.5 g/l) in the two randomization groups. 2:
      Comparison of clinical outcomes incidence during 30 days after CABG: death rate,
      cardiovascular events (acute coronary syndromes, heart failure, arrhythmia) stream
      infections, neurologic events. 3: Comparison of performance and accuracy between CGM with
      Glucoday® and conventional capillary blood glucose monitoring in the setting of CABG and
      surgical ICU. 4: Comparison of duration of stay in ICU and in the surgical care unit. 5:
      Description of device and care tolerance by collection of all adverse events due to the
      device during the hospitalization

      Study design: It's an efficacy multi-center randomized clinical trial with parallel
      assignment. The principal analysis will be performed on all patients and if the difference is
      clinically significant, it will be performed on sub-groups.

      Inclusion criteria are Patients aged from 20 to 80 years, patients admitted for CABG
      ,patients with Known type 1 and type 2 diabetes, patients with Type 2 diabetes discovered
      during surgical or anaesthetic pre-operative consultation (plasmatic glycemia > 1.26 g/l)
      needing only dietary guidelines, Patients affiliated to the French Social Security and
      informed consent signed

      Exclusion criteria are patients with other types of cardiac surgery than CABG, Patients
      admitted in emergency, Pregnancy or breastfeeding for woman, Patients included in an other
      clinical trial with an exclusion period still running, Patients under safeguard of justice

      Study procedures:

        -  Arm 1. conventional glucose monitoring (discontinuous glucose monitoring)

        -  Arm 2. conventional glucose monitoring + GlucoDay® (continuous glycemic monitoring)

      Primary efficacy end-points: percent of time spent in normoglycemia (0.80-1.10 g/l) between
      the end of the surgical intervention and 48 hours after the first device calibration
      (performed after the intervention)

      Principal secondary efficacy end-points: 1: percent of time in hyperglycemia (> 1.8 g/l) and
      in hypoglycaemia (<0.5g/l) between time of intervention and 48 hours after the first device
      calibration. 2: composite criterion evaluated one month after inclusion: death or
      cardiovascular event events (acute coronary syndromes, heart failure, arrhythmia) stream
      infections, neurologic events. 3: agreement between CGM with Glucoday® and conventional
      capillary blood glucose monitoring using coupled data recorded at the same time except
      couples of data corresponding to calibration time (T0, T24H). 4: duration of stay in hospital
      for the two randomization groups. 5: device and care tolerance by collection of all adverse
      events due to the device during the hospitalization.

      The enrollment: is 154 patients, 77 in each group

      Flow chart:

      At the screening visit, patients are informed about the study, eligibility criteria are
      verified and standard laboratory analyses are performed. At the inclusion visit (one day
      before surgical intervention), eligibility criteria are verified, the informed consent is
      signed, standard laboratory analyses, clinical exam and randomization are performed. At day
      0, The CABG is performed and the patients are transferred to ICU where Glucoday® is
      installed. At day 2 (48 hours) Glucoday® is removed. At day 7, a clinical exam is performed.
      Between CABG and day 30 all events are collected.
    
  