
    
      Chest pain is one of the leading reasons for hospital emergency department (ED) visits
      worldwide. In the United States (US), over 6 million people annually undergo evaluation in
      the ED for acute chest pain. Despite the wealth of knowledge available about acute coronary
      syndrome (ACS), this condition continues to be among the most difficult to predict or
      diagnose. Nearly half of patients hospitalized for unstable angina eventually receive a
      non-cardiac-related diagnosis. Nonetheless, 2-8% of patients with myocardial infarction (MI)
      are inappropriately discharged from the ED and mortality rates among patients with an MI who
      were mistakenly sent home are disproportionately higher (25-33%) than those among patients
      who were admitted.

      Although the ECG is a mainstay in the management of suspected ACS, it has major limitations
      in both sensitivity and specificity for diagnosis of ACS. The initial 12-lead ECG in the ED
      is often non-diagnostic in ACS patients, especially in non-ST elevation MI (NSTEMI) and
      unstable angina (UA), and therefore cannot rule-out ischemia or infarction. Elevation in
      serum biomarkers is usually not detectable for 4-6 hours after an MI, and some patients do
      not show a biomarker elevation for as long as 12 hours. Consequently, new clinical tools for
      early risk stratification of patients with acute chest pain are being sought.

      Conventional analysis of ST segment deviations aims to detect repolarization abnormalities.
      However, ischemia may also bring about changes in the depolarization phase of the electrical
      cardiac cycle. These depolarization changes can be detected and quantified using analysis of
      the high-frequency components of the QRS complex (HFQRS). HFQRS analysis has been previously
      reported to be a sensitive method for detection of demand ischemia during exercise testing.
      Preliminary studies have shown that HFQRS-derived indices can also identify supply ischemia
      caused by prolonged balloon occlusion, and transient ischemic episodes in patients with chest
      pain.
    
  