
    
      At first,the investigators evaluated the sample size will be 108 at least through software
      PASS11, which actually was 144 finally.Then the CSP patients visited or transferred to
      Maternal and Child Health Hospital of Hubei Province(China) from June 2010 to June 2014 were
      recruited.Every patient was numbered in chronological sequence.Then participants were
      randomly assigned into three arms using a randomization table :Group A(Group hysteroscopic
      monitoring), Group B(Group ultrasonography monitoring),and Group C(Group no monitoring).
      Randomization was conducted via a system of sealed and numbered envelopes.

      Everybody received UACE(uterine artery chemo-embolization) first. Superselective embolization
      of both uterine arteries was performed using gelatin sponge particles by two experienced
      radiologists. After the puncture of the right femoral artery, a 5-F Roberts uterine artery
      catheter was correctly placed in the bilateral uterine artery with the guidance of a 0.889-mm
      guidewire.A 50mg dose of MTX was infused bilaterally prior to the gelatin sponge particles
      selective embolism procedure. Postembolization angiography was performed to confirm that the
      occlusion of the vessels was complete. Within 24-48 h after UACE, women underwent suction
      curettage.The subatmospheric pressure was 200～500mmHg during suction curettage.

      Women assigned to the Group A(Group hysteroscopic monitoring) received UACE followed by
      suction curettage under hysteroscopic monitoring.Before and after suction curettage,
      hysteroscopy was performed.If some residual tissues were found, suction curettage would be
      performed again to remove them.

      Women assigned to the Group B(Group ultrasonography monitoring) received UACE followed by
      suction curettage under ultrasonography monitoring.The suction curettage procedure was
      performed under abdominal ultrasonography real- time monitoring.When there were nothing
      residual under ultrasonography,the procedure was completed.

      Women assigned to the Group C(Group no monitoring) received UACE followed by suction
      curettage without monitoring.

      All patients were observed during the hospitalization. Ages, weight,gravidity,parity,weeks of
      gestation, clinical manifestation of CSP,estimated blood loss, operation time,length of
      uterine cavity and PCSD(previous cesarean scar defect), and side effects(such as fever,
      nausea,and low abdominal pain) were recorded. The serum β-hCG level and renal, hepatic
      function, and complete blood count were measured before intervention. The size of the
      gestation sac or a heterogeneous mass was measured by transvaginal ultrasound at the same
      time.

      The patients were followed up by measuring serum β-hCG level every week until the β-hCG level
      reverted to normal.All women were followed up 2 weeks and 2 months after operation, which
      included ultrasound examination, and clinical assessment (bleeding pattern and resumption of
      menses).

      Theχ2 test were used for the analysis of enumeration data. The measurement data comparisons
      between groups were tested by ANOVA analysis. A probability value of<.05 was considered
      statistically significant.All data analyses were conducted with SPSS software
      (version17.0;SPSS,Inc,IBM,American).
    
  