
    
      Background: Current needle-catheter assemblies are designed so that a flexible catheter is
      threaded through a larger diameter needle towards a target nerve. These
      catheter-through-needle (CTN) assemblies suffer from several fundamental problems, including
      leakage at the insertion site and dislodgement of the catheter. The underlying problem of
      this design is that the needle puncture hole is wider in diameter than the catheter diameter.
      An alternative catheter-over-needle (CON) design, in which the catheter diameter is larger
      than that of the needle puncture hole, may be a potential solution to the problems of leakage
      and dislodgement. We wish to evaluate the ease of use and effectiveness of the CON method in
      the clinical setting by having anesthesiologists perform and rate the two techniques during
      and after administration of local anesthesia at various block sites on the body.

      Study objective: To compare the ease of use and effectiveness of the CON technique to the CTN
      method in delivering continuous local anesthesia during regional nerve blockade.

      Hypothesis: Insertion of a CON assembly catheter will result in more secure and accurate
      catheter placement and more efficient delivery of local anesthetic compared to a catheter
      placed using the CTN method.

      Primary outcomes:

        1. Time taken to place catheter near target nerve after initial skin puncture.

        2. Confidence in accurate catheter placement.

        3. Assessment of catheter stability at insertion site.

        4. Incidence of anesthetic/fluid leakage at catheter insertion site.

      Study procedures: This study will involve recruiting patients who are scheduled to undergo
      surgery that requires a regional nerve block via local anesthetic delivery through a
      perineural catheter. We wish to compare the CON and CTN catheterization methods for
      delivering local anesthetic during common regional blocks. One hundred patients will be
      recruited to assess the usefulness of the CON method in delivering local anesthetic. Patients
      in the study group will receive a continuous infusion of local anesthetic through a CON
      catheter. Patients in the control group will receive continuous local anesthetic through a
      CTN catheter. To make data collection easier, we will perform assessments at several
      locations in the Edmonton zone; anesthesiologists at each location will be asked to
      participate in performing the blocks and record their assessment of the two catheterization
      methods.

      On the day of surgery, patients will be taken to the regional block area, where they will be
      positioned appropriately for the block they are to receive. Under ultrasound guidance, the
      attending anesthesiologist will install either the CON or CTN catheter. Each CTN catheter
      will be inserted as per standard procedures; CON catheters will be inserted in a similar
      fashion to that used for intravenous catheters. The anesthesiologist will be given Part 1 of
      a survey to evaluate the catheterization technique. On this survey, they will record the
      duration of time from initial skin puncture to placement of the end of the catheter near the
      target nerve and provide a subjective evaluation of how confident they are in the accuracy of
      the catheter's placement. Following connection of a continuous infusion of local anesthetic,
      the anesthesiologist will record an assessment of catheter stability and incidence of
      anesthetic leakage around the catheter insertion site.

      During the postoperative period, the anesthesiologist will complete Part 2 of the assessment
      survey, which will record their personal opinion on the CON method's ease of use and its
      value in the clinical setting.

      Inclusion criteria: Adult; scheduled for surgery that requires peripheral nerve blockade

      Exclusion criteria: Failure to provide informed consent; allergy to local anesthetic;
      neurological pathology and/or deficit in the block region.
    
  