
    
      Introduction: Total hip arthroplasty (THA) represents a successful treatment for several hip
      joint pathologies. In case of bilateral hip joint involvement, the advancements in surgical
      techniques have made the development of bilateral THA surgery possible through one-stage
      procedure. This approach seems to be as safe as unilateral THA and safer than two-stage
      bilateral THA, but few studies considering functional outcomes in these patients without
      exploring outcomes linked to their motor and functional performance.

      Objective: the aim of the study is to assess the lower limbs motor and functional recovery in
      patients who underwent to unilateral THA respect to simultaneous bilateral THA, in early
      postoperative phase.

      Methods: 20 patients underwent to unilateral THA and 20 patients underwent to simultaneous
      bilateral THA will be recruited in the study. The partecipants will be aged from 40 to 65
      years old, they will be undergone to primary THA for arthritis and the will be able to walk
      for 50 m without aids. Patients with severe dysplasia (Crowe III and IV), anchylosis,
      sub-anchylosis or surgical fusion of the coxophemoral joint, with traumatic event, or
      previous femoral and / or pelvic osteotomy, will be excluded from the study. Weight
      distribution and postural stability will be evaluated asking to participants to stay on two
      stabilometric platform with open eyes and closed eyes for 45 seconds. Gait analysis will be
      used to evaluate the spatio-temporal gait parametres and the ankle, knee, hip and pelvic
      kinematic. Pain during walking and patients' walking ability will be also evaluated throught
      Numeric Rating Scale (NRS) and Timed Up and Go test (TUG). Outcome measures will be collected
      the day before surgery, after three, seven and about forty days after surgery, except for
      gait analysis and Time Up and Go tests, which will not be recorded after three days.

      Statistical analysis: normality and homogeneity of demographic variables and outcome measures
      at the baseline will be verified. Intergroup and intra-group post-intervention differences
      related to outcome measures will be investigated through ANOVA for repeated measurements
      including post hoc analysis.
    
  