
    
      Patients are served best when multiple organizations work together to meet healthcare needs.
      In the Chronic Care Model, community resources supplement productive interactions between
      patients and care teams. However, healthcare delivery systems and health research have given
      relatively little attention to the model's community features. This project engages patients
      in designing a primary care community liaison role (Community Resource Specialist, CRS)
      connecting patients to clinic and community resources that support chronic disease prevention
      and management. The CRS role will enhance primary care by better integrating community
      resources into patient care.

      The proposed design effort will:

        -  develop tools and work processes that promote meaningful patient engagement in creating
           a CRS concept and role

        -  integrate the CRS role into primary care teams

        -  assess effects of this role on patient-centered outcomes.

      The patient engagement process will use principles from Lean, a quality improvement method,
      to engage all primary care stakeholders, particularly patients and clinical staff. The
      project will integrate community resources into the patient-centered medical home model of
      Group Health, a nonprofit healthcare system that provides coverage and care.

      The project will enhance patient resources and options for managing and preventing chronic
      illness and improve patient-centered outcomes.

      The project's specific aims are:

        -  Aim 1: Develop, implement, and evaluate new methods to involve patients intensively in
           care design. The investigators will create processes and tools to select and train
           participants and facilitate their productive contributions to care design. The
           investigators will document the approach's benefits and challenges using qualitative and
           quantitative data.

        -  Aim 2: Design and pilot a new CRS role for primary care teams. Robust engagement of
           patients in designing this new primary care team role will result in innovative,
           patient-centered solutions. The investigators will pilot this service at three clinics.
           The aim of the new service is to help patients more readily access the healthcare and
           community resources they need for preventing and treating chronic disease. The CRS also
           may help educate clinic staff about available community resources and increase the
           primary care team's use of holistic approaches to health.

        -  Aim 3: Evaluate the design and efficacy of the CRS. The investigators will conduct both
           formative and outcome evaluations of the CRS role.
    
  