
    
      Supplementation of essential polyunsaturated fatty acids (EFAs) in patients is recommended by
      cardiological, diabetic, hypertensive and gynecological societies. The project aims to
      demonstrate the benefits of following these recommendations in the prevention of
      cardiovascular diseases in the adult group. Most of the research focuses only on EPA and DHA
      fractions, while in view of the publications on the health-promoting properties of the ALA
      fraction, which is the only one that is only exogenous and has clear anti-inflammatory
      properties, in the project we also want to compare the benefits of supplementation of esters
      of individual EFA fractions. We intend to conduct a clinical trial with a control sample and
      3 study groups randomly assigned to each group. The groups will consist of 50 people, which
      means that the research project will involve 200 people in total. The control group will be a
      group without EFA supplementation, the first experimental group will receive supplementation
      with pure ALA fraction of EFAs esters, the second experimental group will receive
      supplementation of the EPA and DHA fraction of EFAs esters, and the third experimental group
      will receive supplementation of the ALA, EPA and DHA fraction of EFAs esters. All
      participants will have laboratory tests marking: CRP, fasting glucose, lipid profile, total
      blood count, and additional tests, which will include blood pressure measurements and
      measurements of body mass and composition on a specialized body composition analyzer (InBody
      270). All the above-mentioned tests will be performed at the time of joining the research
      program, after 3 months (in the middle of the research program) and after 6 months (at the
      end of the research program).

      The aim of the study is to determine whether the supplementation of the ALA fraction esters
      of essential polyunsaturated fatty acids is as important as the supplementation of their EPA
      and DHA fraction esters, and whether it brings additional unique benefits related to its
      pronounced anti-inflammatory properties. This comparison is particularly important in the
      group of adults, as early and effective intervention may contribute to improving health,
      quality of life, increasing life expectancy and reducing treatment costs, and cardiovascular
      diseases as lifestyle diseases are one of the most common in the world and concern younger
      and younger people. The project's feasibility is assessed positively as the project has
      significant scientific potential. The discussed topic is up-to-date and the size of the
      studied group guarantees reliable results and gathering such a group remains possible. The
      importance of using EFAs in medicine is constantly increasing, and research using them gives
      promising results.
    
  