
    
      As the population ages, there is a growing need to find ways for people to live longer with
      satisfactory quality of life (QoL), even in the midst of increasing health problems. For the
      ageing man, Health related quality of life ( HRQoL) is challenged by two common issues: the
      onset of bothersome LUTS attributable to benign prostatic hypertrophy (BPH) and diminishing
      ability to maintain normal sexual activity and function; both issues are important to men,
      yet often the treatment of the former has adverse effects on the latter.

      Current medical and surgical treatments like TURP for BPH offer symptomatic improvement of
      LUTS but may adversely affect a patient's QOL and satisfaction. Peri-operative complications
      and long recovery times, degradation of sexual function and iatrogenic incontinence may
      negatively affect a patient's QoL overall, resulting in patient viewing this as a treatment
      failure. Therefore when evaluating treatment options for BPH, treatment options with
      important QOL measures of satisfaction have to be considered.

      Prostatic urethral lift (PUL) and prostate artery embolization (PAE) represent two evolving
      techniques with contrasting mechanisms of action (mechanical decompression vs angiographic
      embolization). Multiple prospective and retrospective studies have shown that both PUL and
      PAE yield relief of lower urinary tract symptoms over a period of several weeks. They display
      similar safety profiles with self-limiting pelvic discomfort characterizing the commonest
      minor adverse event. Both procedures are minimally invasive and have the potential to be
      carried out under local anesthesia and in the outpatient setting with suitability for
      patients with cardiovascular comorbidities. Another important finding is that neither has
      been found to cause degradation of sexual function.

      Although there are an increasing number of data series being reported on PUL and PAE alike,
      currently there are no prospective clinical trials comparing these two technologies. We aim
      to prospectively evaluate and compare HRQol outcomes of PUL and PAE. All the endpoints will
      be evaluated using validated questionnaires and laboratory values. Results of this study will
      be transferable to clinical practice and could have a great impact on patient outcomes in men
      opting for minimally invasive, sexual function sparing treatment options for symptom relief
      from LUTS due to BPH in all practice settings.
    
  