
    
      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effect of oral contraceptive on the serum free
      prostatic specific antigen (PSA)in women with polycystic ovary syndrome(PCOD)compared with
      cyproterone compound.

      This randomized clinical trial included 60 polycystic ovary syndrome patients with hirsutism
      who were referred to infertility and reproductive health research center and governmental
      public educational hospital from Feb2007 till Dec 2007. Polycystic ovary syndrome was defined
      as the diagnostic criteria of 2003 census Rotterdam. Hirsutism was defined as the presence of
      excessive hair in body and Ferriman -Gallway scores more than 7. Women who received hormone
      therapy during the last 3 months, on a diet or herbal treatment were excluded from the study.
      The other exclusion criterion's consisted of Hyperprolactinemia, thyroid disorders, ovarian
      tumors and Cushing disease. Hirsutism was determined by the Ferriman-Gallway score and
      recorded for every patient. Blood samples for serum PSA, and the hormonal profile including
      free testosterone, dehydroepiandrostenedione sulfate(DHEAS) and
      17-hydroxyprogesterone(17-OHP) were taken at baseline and at the end of the treatment at the
      early follicular phase between 3th to 5th days of menstrual cycle at 8 AM. Patients were
      divided randomly in two treatment groups according to the computer based table. one group
      received oral contraceptive pills and the other one received cyproterone acetate combined
      ethinyl-estradiol(Diane) for 3 months. Hirsutism score was evaluated after treatment again.
      The blood samples were taken during the early follicular phase after 3 months of treatment to
      avoid pharmacological effect of treatment and serum PSA, free testosterone, DHEAS,17-OHP were
      measured again. The university ethics committee approved the study and the informed consent
      was obtained from patients.
    
  