
    
      The objective of the Corrona Inflammatory Bowel Diseases (IBD) Registry is to create a
      national cohort of patients with IBD. The diseases under study include Crohn's Disease (CD)
      and Ulcerative Colitis (UC). Data collected will be used to better characterize the natural
      history of the disease and to extensively evaluate the effectiveness and safety of
      medications approved for the treatment of IBD. This will be done through the standardized
      collection of validated patient-reported outcomes (PRO) and clinician-reported outcomes
      (ClinRO), the prevalence and incidence of comorbidities and adverse events, medication
      utilization patterns, and patient productivity measures.

      The design is a prospective, non-interventional registry for patients with IBD under the care
      of a certified gastroenterologist. Longitudinal follow-up data is collected from both
      patients and their treating gastroenterologist during routine clinical encounters using
      Corrona registry questionnaires. These questionnaires collect data on patient demographics,
      disease duration, medical history (including all prior and current treatments for IBD),
      smoking status, alcohol use, disease activity and severity, pain, as well as other clinician-
      and patient-reported outcomes, comorbidities and adverse events, infections,
      hospitalizations, and other targeted safety outcomes.

      After the enrollment visit, IBD patients and physicians will complete the follow-up
      questionnaires during regularly scheduled clinical encounters. The goal is to collect data
      from patients and providers at six month intervals, not to exceed 2 visits in any 12 month
      period.

      Adverse events may be volunteered spontaneously by the subject, or be discovered as a result
      of general questioning by the Investigator. During all Corrona related visits with the
      Investigator, subjects will be questioned regarding the occurrence of adverse events.
    
  