
    
      Food allergy is the adverse reaction of the body's immune system to the ingestion of food
      protein. When a food allergen is ingested, the immune system detects the food protein as a
      threat and releases a number of chemicals which cause the symptoms of an allergic reaction.
      These symptoms can include watery eyes, a running nose, itching, rashes, swelling and
      gastrointestinal problems, and may vary in their severity. Reactions can progress to
      anaphylaxis, which is a serious allergic reaction that is rapid in onset; symptoms can
      include a range of frightening respiratory, gastrointestinal and cardiovascular symptoms
      which may result in death if not treated promptly and effectively with adrenaline.

      In the UK, food allergy is a prevalent problem, with an estimated 2 million people living
      with a diagnosed food allergy in the UK. Prevalence rates are higher in children than in
      adults, with an estimated 6-7% of children affected compared to 1-2% of adults, with this
      prevalence thought to be increasing. Currently, treatment involves avoidance of food
      allergens and the administration of treatment for accidently ingested foods.

      The current management of food allergy involves the burden of constant vigilance, planning
      and preparation, with this responsibility often falling on parents (particularly the mothers)
      of young children. Furthermore, those with food allergy and their caregivers have to manage
      the unpredictable nature of food allergy and live continually with the risk and fear of
      accidental food ingestion which can negatively impact the Quality of Life (QoL) of allergy
      sufferers and their immediate family.

      Research in this field has started to examine the psychological impact food allergy can not
      only have on the allergic child but also their parents. Previous studies have suggested that
      allergic children and their mothers experience higher stress and anxiety levels compared to
      the general population. Reasons why food allergy can cause such distress in parents include:
      the constant vigilance needed to check safety of foods; anxiety caused by severe and
      potentially fatal consequences of accidental ingestion of the food allergen; anxiety caused
      by handing over control of allergy management to the child (for example reading their own
      food labels); risk from the environment including people not understanding the impact of food
      allergy; worry about the future of their child, and dietary restrictions leading to social
      restrictions and potentially isolation. Given the impact looking after a child with food
      allergy can have on mental health and QoL in parents, the need for interventions to improve
      psychological outcomes is of high importance.

      To date, there has been a paucity of research on interventions to improve psychological
      outcomes for parents of children with a food allergy. However, there is emerging evidence to
      suggest that Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT) may be a promising intervention for parents
      experiencing poor psychological outcomes and QoL. CBT is a short-term therapy based on the
      rationale that what individuals think and do affects the way individuals feel. It has a
      strong evidence base for a range of mental health issues including anxiety and depression,
      and therefore may be appropriate for parents experiencing high levels of stress, anxiety and
      depression in relation to a child's food allergy. In the first study which reported on the
      effectiveness of CBT for mothers of children with a food allergy, five mothers received 12
      weeks of individual face-to-face CBT, with six mothers acting as controls. All participants
      completed measures of anxiety, depression, worry, stress, general mental health, generic and
      food allergy specific QoL at baseline and at 12 weeks. Results showed that anxiety,
      depression and worry in the CBT group significantly reduced and overall mental health and QoL
      significantly improved from baseline to 12 weeks for mothers in the CBT group. A larger
      randomised control trial supported these promising initial findings. Two hundred mothers of
      children with food allergy were randomised to receive either a single-session CBT
      intervention or standard care, with anxiety and risk perception assessed at 6 weeks and 1
      year. Results found significantly reduced state anxiety at six weeks in the intervention
      group, in the subgroup of mothers with moderate to high anxiety at enrolment and reduced risk
      perception. The study also found evidence of a reduction in physiological stress response in
      the intervention group, as measured by a salivary cortisol response to a simulated
      anaphylaxis scenario at one year. The results of both of these studies indicate that a CBT
      intervention may be an appropriate intervention for parents of children with food allergy.

      This study seeks to add to this emerging evidence base by reporting on the feasibility of a
      brief group CBT intervention for improving psychological outcomes and food allergy specific
      QoL in parents of children with food allergy. There is already evidence that non-CBT-specific
      group interventions for parents with food allergic children can both be acceptable to parents
      and decrease parental burden, however, this study is the first to the researchers' knowledge
      to report on the feasibility of a brief group CBT intervention for parents of children with
      food allergy. Although a brief (one-day) intervention may seem optimistic in being able to
      bring about change, previous research in the field of child anxiety has shown promising
      evidence for the use of one-day interventions. A recent study has shown that children whose
      parents attended a one-day group intervention were 16.5% less likely to have an anxiety
      disorder than children whose parents received treatment as usual, highlighting than an
      inexpensive, one-day psycho-educational intervention may be useful in bringing about change.
      Group CBT interventions have the potential to offer a non-time consuming and cost-effective
      treatment option for parents of children with food allergy, an important factor for high in
      demand allergy services.

      Qualitative research has provided insights into why food allergy can cause distress, however,
      reasons why parents access psychological support and their experiences of this, is still
      relatively unexplored. Differences in parental coping styles and levels of distress have been
      noted, indicating that only a sub-set of parents of food-allergic children may require
      psychological intervention. This study aims to speak to parents about their experiences of
      accessing psychological support (e.g. reasons for accessing psychological support, how other
      forms of support have helped/hindered and how they think a psychological intervention may
      help) in order to shed light on who CBT interventions may be most helpful for, and what CBT
      should comprise of for this group.

      This study therefore is a contribution to the wider effort of providing evidence-based
      treatments for parents of children with food allergy impacted by the distressing psychosocial
      implications of caring for a food allergic child.
    
  