
    
      Background and rationale Peripheral nerve blocks provide effective surgical anesthesia
      targeted to specific body regions while avoiding the unpleasant side-effects of general
      anesthesia. Additionally, infusion of local anesthetic (LA) solution through a perineural
      catheter can provide superior analgesia compared to opioid painkillers and reduces the
      incidence of opioid-associated side effects.

      Most studies to date have focused on the efficacy of agents to extend block duration, thereby
      maximizing pain relief for patients receiving a nerve block. However, there are occasions
      when rapid and effective block reversal is needed. For example, interscalene brachial plexus
      block for upper extremity surgery frequently causes paralysis of the diaphragm due to
      inadvertent anesthesia of the phrenic nerve. A method to 'wash out' the local anesthetic
      around the phrenic nerve in these cases would be beneficial, especially for patients who have
      pre-existing pulmonary or respiratory diseases. Saline washout of LA may have an additional
      safety benefit since LAs are myotoxic; reducing the exposure of muscle to LA solutions while
      maintaining anesthesia would increase the safety of peripheral nerve blocks.

      Several studies have demonstrated that epidural washout using normal saline (NS) or Ringer's
      lactate following epidural block facilitates more rapid recovery of motor function and
      sensation than letting the block resolve on its own. However, no studies to date have
      addressed whether washout is effective for reversal of peripheral nerve blocks. Our limited
      clinical experience suggests that a bolus of NS through a perineural catheter can rapidly and
      effectively restore phrenic nerve function following interscalene block, and preliminary
      laboratory experiments indicate that a continuous washout of 0.9% NS reduces by half the time
      required for normal diaphragm function following injection of lidocaine around the phrenic
      nerve. Unclear, however, is the mechanism by which NS is able to resolve the block. Thus, the
      investigators wish to investigate the optimal approach to block reversal and resolution.

      Study objective To demonstrate that an infusion of NS can be used in a clinical setting to
      modify the properties of a nerve block in patients who have received a nerve block for
      surgery and post-operative analgesia.

      Hypothesis The investigators hypothesize that NS can be delivered through a perineural
      catheter to 'wash out' a nerve block to the point that motor function is restored while
      maintaining anesthesia of sensory nerve fibers.

      Procedure Using a sealed envelope system (see below), patients recruited to the study will be
      randomized to Control or Study groups. Baseline motor and sensory function will be assessed
      and recorded (see below for methods). Control group patients will undergo ultrasound-guided
      popliteal sciatic nerve block as described previously. A bolus of 20 mL 0.5% ropivacaine/0.5%
      bupivacaine will be delivered through a catheter-over-needle unit (e.g., B.Braun Contiplex C
      or equivalent) to provide surgical anesthesia to the lower extremity. After withdrawing the
      needle, the catheter will be left in place throughout the operation to provide a conduit to
      deliver rescue analgesia if required (see criteria below). Patients in the Study group will
      undergo the same procedures before and during surgery. After surgery, all patients will be
      brought to the recovery room for assessment of motor function and sensation in the
      anesthetized region. Study group patients will then receive a washout infusion regimen (e.g.,
      continuous infusion of 3 mL per hour with a 3 mL bolus of 0.9% NS). Control group patients
      will receive an infusion of the same solution, but it will only be run at 1 mL/hr to maintain
      catheter patency.

      After the patient is transferred to the ward, motor and sensory assessment (see below) will
      be performed hourly until full motor function has returned. Once motor function has returned
      completely, the washout infusion will be stopped. The patient will be monitored for sensory
      function hourly for a maximum of 8 hours or until the first dose of oral pain medication or
      rescue analgesia is required. If the patient's pain score (determined by Numeric Rating Scale
      (NRS) score between 0-10, where 0 = no pain and 10 = worst pain ever) is >5, or if the
      patient is complaining of severe pain, the nerve block will be reinitiated by delivering a
      bolus of local anesthetic mixture through the catheter. A member of the clinical research
      team will follow up with the patient every 24 hours post-surgery (up to a maximum of 72 hours
      or discharge from hospital, whichever happens first) to record motor and sensory data and
      pain score.

      Sensory and motor assessment Sensory assessment will be performed by measuring current
      perception threshold (CPT) using the Neurometer (Neurotron, Inc., Baltimore, MD, USA), a
      validated device for sensory assessment. The investigators have experience using the
      Neurometer for CPT measurement and will be able to perform sensory assessment with the device
      easily and efficiently. Briefly, paired adhesive electrodes (Neotrode II, ConMed Corp.,
      Utica, NY, USA) connected to the Neurometer will be attached to the big toe and the ankle of
      the leg that was blocked. The Neurometer can be set to three different frequencies - 2000 Hz,
      250 Hz, and 5 Hz - that stimulate Aβ (large fiber/motor), Aδ (large fiber/pain), and C (small
      fiber/pain) fibers, respectively. A member of the research team will increase the current
      manually until the patient reports feeling an "electrical" sensation in the area where the
      electrodes are attached. The reading at this time will be recorded as the CPT. The data
      collector will also note if the current reached its maximum level, which will be defined as
      complete sensory blockade.

      Motor function will be assessed by recording voluntary motor responses in the lower
      extremity. The investigators will grade plantar flexion and dorsiflexion of the foot based on
      the following scale: 0 = normal movement, 1 = decreased movement, and 2 = no movement. Motor
      block will be deemed complete when a score of 2 is recorded for both plantar flexion and
      dorsiflexion. This grading scale has been described before for assessment of motor function
      following popliteal sciatic nerve block.

      Data recording and analysis The clinical research team member will record patient demographic
      information (age, height, weight, gender), NRS scores before and after surgery, and
      information about the nerve block and infusion regimen. This individual will also assess
      motor function and will assess sensory response (see above).

      Data will be recorded on a data sheet and transferred to an Excel spreadsheet for statistical
      analysis. Comparisons between groups will be performed with Student's t-test. Qualitative
      data will be reported as either absolute numbers or percentage and will be analyzed by
      Chi-square analysis or Fisher's exact test, whichever is appropriate. A p value of < 0.05
      will be considered statistically significant.

      Sample size calculation The primary endpoint for this study will be time to return of full
      motor activity. Several reports have demonstrated that popliteal sciatic nerve block has an
      average duration of 14-16 hours. Our preliminary results of phrenic nerve block suggest that,
      following a bolus of washout solution, the time to recovery is reduced to approximately 50%
      versus time to spontaneous recovery. The investigators assume conservatively that 70% of
      Study group (washout) patients and 25% of Control group patients will have full motor
      activity with no pain by 8 hours. Using these parameters with an α value of 0.05 and β value
      of 0.2, it was determined that 19 patients per group (38 total) will be required to
      demonstrate a statistically significant difference. To compensate for study protocol
      violations and/or loss to follow-up, 20 patients will be recruited to each group (40 total).

      Randomization Prior to subject recruitment, a member of the study team not involved in data
      collection will create a series of 40 slips of paper indicating the allocation group (Study
      or Control) and the intervention (washout regimen or control (1 mL/hr infusion) regimen). The
      slips will be put into a random order and each placed in an opaque envelope. The envelopes
      will be sealed and numbered sequentially. During the study, once the patient returns to the
      post-anesthesia recovery room, the attending regional anesthesiologist will open the envelope
      to determine the intervention the patient is to receive. If this anesthesiologist is the PI,
      he will remove himself from the area while a colleague initiates the infusion.

      Blinding Both the investigators and participants will be blinded in this study. Investigators
      will be blinded by having one member of the study team collect the data and another study
      team member analyze the data. All study participants will have a nerve block catheter and be
      connected to an infusion pump; however, only Study group patients will receive the washout
      regimen. Control group patients will have the same solution running but at 1 mL/hr to
      maintain catheter patency. The pump display showing the infusion rate will be masked with
      tape or an opaque covering to prevent patients and data collectors from knowing the patient's
      allocation group.
    
  