
    
      This is an open label randomized controlled trial of symptomatic individuals with confirmed
      COVID-19 in a community setting.

      Justification: There is currently no standard of care treatment for Covid-19.

      Upon enrolment into the study, patients will be randomised to receive either enoxaparin (40
      mg once per day if < 100 kg, 40 mg twice per day if ≥ 100 kg) or the current standard of care
      (no enoxaparin) for three weeks (21 days). Randomisation must occur within 5 days of the
      SARS-CoV-2 test. Data will be collected at baseline and 21 days, with further assessments at
      50 and 90 days.

      Participants randomised to enoxaparin will receive pre-loaded syringes as part of the study,
      and information regarding self-administration will be provided by the sponsor. Participants
      in the control arm of this study will receive no treatment (current standard of care).

      Screening Phase:

      Investigator sites will be selected to represent community care in each country (from general
      practice/office based care settings, testing centres and hospitals) and invited to
      participate. All individuals satisfying the inclusion/exclusion criteria will be considered
      for enrolment and their medical history checked to exclude any patients not suitable.

      Participants will be provided with a patient information sheet and consent form (PISCF),
      either paper or an electronic version. All participants must provide informed consent by
      reviewing and discussing the PISCF and by completing and signing the consent form (paper
      version or the electronic version). Once informed consent has been obtained, data related to
      baseline will be collected from a review of the participants' medical records and entered
      into the electronic data capture system.

      Treatment Phase:

      Data related to clinical outcomes for both the primary outcome (composite of hospitalisation
      and/or death) and secondary safety outcome (major bleeding) will be measured at 21 days. This
      time point will be used as a marker for collection of all data from the preceding period.

      Safety and Monitoring Phase:

      Data related to all outcomes will be again measured at 50 days. This time point will be used
      as a marker for collection of all data from the preceding period to evaluate the incidence of
      bleeding in all participants.

      End of Study and Follow-up Phase:

      The outcomes of death and hospitalisation will be further recorded 90 days after
      randomisation. This time point will be used as a marker for collection of all information
      from the interim period. The end of the trial will occur immediately following the last
      visit/data item of the last patient undergoing the trial. The aim of data collection will be
      to accurately capture all planned and unplanned visits, interruptions to treatment and
      events.

      In case no patient data have been recorded in the participant's medical records at the site
      during the months following the last data entry, a follow-up phone contact will be made by
      the site and documented to verify that all events are being captured and participants are not
      lost to follow up.

      The schedule of assessments is as follows: Reference: Section 6.5 of the protocol. Pages 27
      to 29.
    
  