
    
      Explorative open label study. Patients and investigators are non-blinded and patients not
      randomized to interventions.

      Three intervention groups:

        1. AFL monotherapy (8-10 patients)

        2. AFL+intratumoral nivolumab (8-10 patients)

        3. Intratumoral nivolumab monotherapy (8-10 patients)

      Patients will attend 4 visits Immunological response is determined by immunohistochemistry
      (IHC) analysis from biopsies taken prior to AFL, AFL+Nivolumab or Nivolumab treatment
      (baseline) and compared with biopsies 1 week after treatment. Further, comparison of the
      immunological response of AFL monotherapy with immunological response AFL+Nivolumab and
      Nivolumab as monotherapy will be performed.

      Patients included for AFL as monotherapy will after tumor demarcation receive AFL of the BCC
      including a 5 mm margin. An occlusive bandage will be applied to the treated area and is to
      be removed by the patient 24 hours after treatment or after end of secretion/oozing from the
      treated area.

      Patients included for AFL+Nivolumab will after tumor demarcation receive AFL of the BCC
      including a 5 mm margin, immediately followed by intratumoral injection of Nivolumab. An
      occlusive bandage will be applied to the treated area and is to be removed by the patient 24
      hours after treatment or after end of secretion/oozing form the treated area.

      Patients included for monotherapy with Nivolumab will after tumor demarcation get an
      intratumoral injection of Nivolumab. An occlusive bandage will be applied to the treated area
      and is to be removed by the patient 24 hours after treatment or after end of secretion from
      the treated area.

      All patients will have a final visit at week 15, around 12 weeks after first treatment, where
      the clinical response will be evaluated, and treated tumor will be treated following national
      guidelines for treatment of BCCs.

      For subgroups of clinical responders and non-responders tumor will at week 15 be used for
      multiplex gene expression analysis via nanostring (Pan cancer immune profiling panel).

      For all groups, clinical photographs are taken at every study visit. For patients that
      present with more than one tumor, patients will be invited to participate with all tumors
      relevant to the study.
    
  