
    
      The human toll of hypertension is staggering, and effective preventive measures are needed.
      Studies suggest that inadequate vitamin D and omega-3 fatty acid levels may be involved in
      the development of hypertension through multiple pathways. Results from several small
      clinical trials suggest that these agents may have blood pressure lowering effects, however,
      larger trials using higher doses of both vitamin D and omega-3 fatty acids for the prevention
      of hypertension among people with normal blood pressure levels are lacking. The VITamin D and
      OmegA-3 TriaL (VITAL) provides a cost-effective setting to examine the effects of both study
      agents on changes in blood pressure and new diagnoses of hypertension.

      VITAL Hypertension will test the following hypotheses: (1) whether vitamin D and fish oil
      supplementation lowers 24-hour blood ambulatory blood pressure (ABP) compared to placebo in a
      subcohort of 1,000 participants; (2) whether vitamin D and fish oil supplementation reduces
      the risk of incident hypertension compared to placebo among all randomized VITAL participants
      without baseline hypertension; and (3) whether vitamin D and fish oil supplementation
      favorably change hypertension-related biomarkers that are potential mechanisms linking
      vitamin D and omega-3 fatty acids with hypertension compared to placebo.

      A representative subcohort of 1,000 VITAL participants without hypertension from selected
      major metropolitan areas throughout the US will be invited to participate in home-based study
      visits at baseline and 2 years follow-up. During these visits, participants will be asked to
      wear monitors to record 24-hour ABP measurements, provide fasting bloods, spot urine samples,
      and other clinical measurements. The visits will be conducted by Examination Management
      Services, Inc. (EMSI), a nationally based, clinical services provider. We will compare 2-year
      changes in ABP among those randomized to vitamin D and omega-3 fatty acid supplements versus
      those randomized to placebo. In addition, we will assess the 2-year changes in levels of
      clinically and mechanistically relevant biomarkers of hypertension compared the 2 treatment
      groups.

      New diagnoses of hypertension among all VITAL participants will be ascertained on annual
      follow-up questionnaires. To strengthen our classification of hypertension status, we will
      supplement our questionnaire data with annual updates of hypertension information based upon
      outpatient diagnostic codes and medication prescription usage from the Centers for Medicare &
      Medicaid Services (CMS) database. Incidence of hypertension among those assigned to each
      active agent versus placebo will be compared.

      In addition, baseline blood samples from 1,000 participants with new diagnoses of
      hypertension will be compared with those from 2,000 participants without hypertension to
      determine whether the effect of vitamin D and/or omega-3 fatty acid supplements on the
      incidence of hypertension is modified by baseline plasma levels of vitamin D or omega-3 fatty
      acids.

      Results from VITAL Hypertension will provide important evidence to support or refute the
      potential preventive roles of vitamin D and omega-3 fatty acids on blood pressure and the
      development of hypertension.
    
  