
    
      Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is an increasingly common imaging modality used for the
      diagnosis and treatment of disease. Given the closed bore nature of the MRI machine itself,
      the need to hold still within the imaging bore, the high noise level, vibrations and other
      uncomfortable sensations that can be experienced during MRI, anxiety and other
      claustrophobia-related symptoms are relatively frequently reported . These symptoms may
      result in premature termination/failure of the MRI examination, or excessive patient movement
      which can degrade image quality and lengthen the time needed to perform the examination.
      Additionally, patient satisfaction scores suffer due to these negative experiences during
      MRI. This is especially important, as radiology departments are major influencers in overall
      hospital patient satisfaction scores .

      Due to the substantial impact that anxiety and claustrophobia-related symptoms have on all
      aspects of MRI, the most common intervention provided to patients who report such symptoms
      are anxiolytic medications or sedation/anesthesia. These interventions can come at
      significant cost to patients and radiology departments and carry medical risks to the patient
      as well. Anxiolytic medications or sedation/anesthesia can lead to potential negative side
      effects, such as cardiopulmonary depression, hypotension, tachycardia, dystonic reactions,
      involuntary muscle movements . These adverse effects can even contribute to unsuccessful
      imaging themselves.

      Non-medical interventions, such as clinical hypnosis and enhanced communication strategies
      are not well studied in MR and have the potential to provide similar benefits of anxiolytic
      medications or sedation in terms of reducing movement artifacts and anxiety, but with far
      fewer side effects and safety concerns. For example, hypnosis can reduce anxiety and
      operating room time during radiological procedures , reduce amounts of analgesic used , and
      decrease behavioral issues related to claustrophobia during MRI . Additionally, enhanced
      communication strategies can reduce MRI no-show and study failure rates and improve ratings
      in national Hospital Consumer Assessment of Healthcare Providers and Systems (HCAHPS) .

      Thus, there is evidence to support the use of hypnosis and communication training during MRI
      in order to improve MR exam outcomes and patient outcomes.

      The investigators hypothesis is that patients who participate in hypnosis prior to MRI will
      experience less anxiety and demonstrate less movement during the exam. This will lead to
      improved overall patient satisfaction, reduction in image repeat rates and the overall time
      needed to perform the MRI.

      The investigators also hypothesize that patients who undergo MRI with a radiology technician
      who has received training in enhanced communication skills will experience less anxiety and
      demonstrate less movement during the exam. This will lead to improved overall patient
      satisfaction and reduction in image repeat rates and the overall time needed to perform the
      MRI.
    
  