
    
      In this study, we aim to develop and test an automated deep learning detection and
      segmentation software for non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) that can automatically detect
      and segment tumors on CT scans and thus reduce the human variation. We will assess the level
      of agreement between a group of radiologists, performing manual versus semi-automatic tumour
      segmentation. To do so, we will provide radiologists with two sets of CT scans. The first set
      will be segmented manually; the second one will be segmented using the automated software
      program.

      Subsequently, we will use the inter- and intra-observer variance from the clinical study in a
      simulation or modeling study. We also compare the time needed and the consistency in
      segmentations by the software to medical doctors performance.

      Reliability and Agreement study:

      Primary tumours of 25 lung cancer patients will be delineated by 6 segmentation experts.

        1. Assess agreement between automatic segmentation and radiologists' segmentation The
           primary tumours of 25 patients will be manually segmented by the radiologists and
           automatically by the the tool. The time needed to perform this task and the
           reproducibility of the segmentation will be recorded. The degree of overlap between the
           ROs and the automatic contour will be assessed pairwise using the Dice coefficient.

        2. Delination of tumours by the experts, assisted by the software tool For another 25
           patients, the experts will be provided with an automatic delineation, performed by the
           tool. They have the possibility to adjust and validate it. The time needed will be
           recorded. The difference between the mean overlap fraction in the first situation
           (manual delineation of experts) and the second situation (delineation of experts+
           software tool) will be assessed, using a multi-observer Dice coefficient.

        3. Assessment of intra-observer variance The experts will repeat the segmentation of the
           lung tumours after 2 weeks. They will repeat the manual segmentation (n=25) and the
           semi-automatic segmentation (n=25). This will make it possible to assess the
           intra-observer variance in both situations.

        4. Qualitative assessment of the experts' preferences using an in-house developed
           visualization toolbox.
    
  