
    
      Background

      Leptin is an adipocyte-derived hormone that can be thought of as a signal from adipose tissue
      to the rest of the body conveying information about long-term nutritional status. Patients
      with lipodystrophy have leptin deficiency secondary to lack of adipose tissue, and thus
      represent a natural model for studying the effects of leptin deficiency and replacement in
      humans. Leptin replacement in lipodystrophy ameliorates metabolic and endocrine
      abnormalities, including reducing food intake, improving insulin resistance and diabetes,
      reducing ectopic lipid, and normalizing reproduction. The reduction in energy intake induced
      by leptin replacement is likely responsible for part of the improvements observed in glucose
      and lipid metabolism. The clinical effects of leptin that are independent of changes in
      energy intake, and the mechanisms underlying these effects, have been poorly explored in
      humans.

      Aim

      The primary aim of this study is to determine the energy intake-independent effects of leptin
      on energy metabolism in lipodystrophic subjects. The major aspects of energy metabolism to be
      studied are:

        1. Lipid metabolism, including fasting lipids, lipolysis and fatty acid turnover, and
           ectopic lipid storage.

        2. Glucose metabolism, including fasting glucose, endogenous glucose production, and
           insulin sensitivity

        3. Energy expenditure, including total and resting energy expenditure, skeletal muscle work
           efficiency, and spontaneous physical activity

      In addition, the effects of leptin on endocrine and autonomic function will be examined,
      including effects on the thyroid, gonadal, and adrenal axes, as well as blood pressure, body
      temperature, and heart rate variability.

      Methods

      This is a non-randomized, parallel group study. Two groups of patients aged 14 to 70 years
      with lipodystrophy will be studied: leptin naive and leptin treated. Minors will only be
      included in the leptin naive arm. All subjects will be stabilized on a weight maintenance
      diet for 5 days (Period 1). After this, leptin will be withdrawn from leptin treated
      subjects, and leptin will be initiated in leptin naive subjects for a period of 14 days
      (Period 2). The same isocaloric diet will be continued throughout both Periods, permitting
      study of leptin s effects independent of energy intake.

      All subjects will undergo metabolic testing on admission, at the end of Period 1, and
      throughout Period 2, to generate a detailed short-term time course of the effects of leptin
      initiation or withdrawal. At the end of Period 2, leptin will be continued in the leptin
      naive subjects, and restarted in the leptin treated subjects. Repeat metabolic testing will
      be performed 6-12 months after leptin initiation in the leptin-naive cohort to generate
      information on leptin s long-term effects.
    
  