
    
      Topical Lidocaine For Urodynamic Testing: A Double Blinded Randomized Control Trial

      Hypothesis / aims of study

        1. Determine whether the use of topical lidocaine during urodynamic testing decreases
           patient discomfort during the procedure.

        2. Evaluate whether the use of topical lidocaine affects the urodynamic results.

      Study design, materials and methods The hospital IRB approved the study. Women with symptoms
      of stress urinary incontinence (SUI) scheduled for a urodynamic study (UDS) were eligible to
      participate. Women presenting with predominant overactive bladder symptoms were excluded.
      Participants were randomized on the day of the procedure using Random Allocation Software
      Version 1.0. All were blinded to the study arms until completion of final data analysis.
      Participant randomization assignment was known only to an independent research nurse and the
      dispensing pharmacist. The study consisted of transurethral administration of 5 ml lidocaine
      2% gel or surgilube gel, in the study and control arms, respectively, 10 minutes before
      catheter insertion. Prior to testing, a 24 hour bladder diary and the Pelvic Floor Distress
      Inventory - Short Form 20 were completed. During the UDS participants were asked for sensory
      information including desire to void and maximal cystometric capacity (MCC). Urethral
      pressure profiles were obtained at an infused volume of 200 ml. Provocative measures were
      performed to assess SUI. Using a Likert scale, pain was assessed prior to and after catheter
      insertion, after performing the urethral pressure profile, and at the completion of the
      study. The primary outcome; pain after urethral pressure profile (UPP), was compared between
      the two groups. Comparisons of the bladder diary and UDS results were made between study and
      control arms individually and in-between groups.

      Statistical methods The effect of lidocaine on patient pain as reported during multiple
      time-points during the UDS was evaluated using repeated measures analysis via mixed effects
      regression with a random patient-specific intercept. This approach allows the evaluation of
      the overall pain experience, as well as baseline-adjusted comparison at individual
      time-points. Comparisons were done using t-tests for continuous variables, Chi-squared test
      for categorical variables, Wilcoxon rank-sum test, Lin's Concordance Correlation Coefficient
      (CCC), and a z-test. The CCC provides a generalization of Pearson's correlation coefficient
      that measures how well the data align with the diagonal representing equal values for the two
      measurements (as opposed to any straight line). Agreement is stronger than correlation.
      Specifically, the agreement between mean void volume and volume at strong desire, as well as
      between maximum void volume and volume at MCC were computed separately for each study group.
      The CCC values were compared between the study groups using a z-test. Power calculations
      determined a total sample size of 110 participants was needed to detect significant
      differences between the groups with at least 94% statistical power.
    
  