
    
      Thyroid surgery is one of the most frequently performed surgical procedures worldwide .
      Nowadays, total thyroidectomy is the recommended procedure for thyroid disease . As total
      thyroidectomy is the procedure of choice, the most common complication resulting after this
      surgery is transient hypocalcemia - the incidence being 24% - which increases the morbidity
      rate and increases the length of hospitalization . Other complications of thyroidectomy
      include recurrent laryngeal nerve injury which leads to hoarseness of voice, postoperative
      hemorrhage, dysphagia due to inflammation of the tissues surrounding the esophagus, seroma
      formation, Horner's syndrome due to injury to the cervical sympathetic chain, and poor
      healing of the wound with hypertrophy of the scar or wound infection .

      Advances in surgical techniques have evolved to preserve the parathyroid gland function,
      which helps to prevent permanent hypocalcemia and its incidence now has reduced to 1-2% .
      However, transient hypoparathyroidism still occurs resulting in transient hypocalcemia. It
      occurs due to the age, parathyroid gland handling, devascularization, venous congestion,
      post-surgical local site edema and neck dissection . Prescribing preoperative vitamin D and
      calcium decreases the incidence of transient hypocalcemia after total thyroidectomy from
      25.9% to 6.8% as compared to the control group .

      Total thyroidectomy is the procedure of choice in our population with the preservation of the
      parathyroid gland. As transient hypocalcemia is common in post-thyroidectomy patients and
      increases the morbidity rate, giving vitamin D and calcium preoperatively can reduce the
      burden of postoperative transient hypocalcemia and it will be helpful in decreasing the
      morbidity rate due to post-thyroidectomy transient hypocalcemia. The objective of our study
      is to compare the frequency of transient hypocalcemia after vitamin D with the control group
      for patients undergoing total thyroidectomy.

      The study is based on patients with thyroid diseases who are indicated for total
      thyroidectomy . Patients are divided into two groups : group A who will recieve Vit D before
      operation and group B who won't . Group A will be divided into :

      A1 : no hypocacemia occurs with vit D A2 : hypocalcemia occurs with vit D .

      Group B will be divided into:

      B1 no hypocacemia without vit D B2 hypocalcemia without vit D . Comparison between the above
      mentioned four groups will determine the effectiveness of vit D in normalization of serum
      calcium levels after total thyroidectomy .
    
  