
    
      ProBio is an outcome-adaptive, multi-arm, open-label, multiple assignment randomized
      biomarker driven platform trial in patients with metastatic castrate resistant prostate
      cancer.

      Patients will be randomized to control or experimental treatment arms. Patients in the
      control arm will receive standard of care following national guidelines. Patients in the
      experimental arm will be randomized to treatments based on a biomarker signature. The
      biomarker signatures are defined as tumor properties or mutations in certain genes/pathways
      identified in the scientific literature as important in prostate cancer treatment response.
      The biomarker signatures are identified using a circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) panel
      specifically designed for mCRPC.

      Alterations in the following genes/pathways or combinations thereof constitute the biomarker
      signatures:

        -  Androgen receptor

        -  DNA-repair deficiency

        -  TP53

        -  TMPRSS2-ERG gene fusion

      Patients in the experimental arm can be randomized to the following treatments:

        -  Enzalutamide

        -  Abiraterone

        -  Cabazitaxel

        -  Docetaxel

        -  Carboplatin

      ProBio will use outcome-adaptive randomization, adapting the randomization based on the
      observed progression free survival (PFS) within biomarker signatures. Treatments will
      initially be assigned to patients based on the biomarker signatures for which that treatment
      is most likely to be effective. The trial will be analyzed within a Bayesian framework, which
      allows for calculations of the probability for each treatment that it is superior to standard
      of care within a given signature. Each experimental arm will be evaluated for efficacy
      relative to the control arm with the same biomarker signatures.

      Participants and treating physicians will be blinded to ctDNA profile of each patient. The
      biomarker signatures will thus not influence treatment choice among controls (reflecting
      today's standard of care).

      Further, ProBio will use the sequential multiple assignments trial (SMART) concept, where
      each patient who progresses within the trial will re-enter the trial and be re-assigned to
      another treatment based on the patient's current ctDNA profile. Patients will be withdrawn
      after in total two randomized consecutive treatments after inclusion into the study.

      The randomization probabilities within the experimental arm are defined in proportion to the
      probability that each treatment is superior to standard of care within a given biomarker
      signature, and therefore change as data accumulates in the trial and knowledge accumulates
      for what biomarker signatures and specific treatments that are more probable to be effective.

      Trial results will be evaluated regularly by an independent data and safety monitoring board
      (DSMB). The DSMB will evaluate treatment-signature combinations with respect to:

      Graduation for superiority: A treatment-biomarker signature combination will be graduated
      from the trial if it has a Bayesian predictive probability of success in a future
      confirmatory phase III trial exceeding a pre-specified threshold (85%).

      Termination for futility: Treatment-biomarker signature combinations will be dropped from the
      trial for futility when success probabilities drop sufficiently low (less than 10% using a
      minimum of 20 patients assigned to the specific treatment-biomarker signature combination).
      Alternatively, if the maximum sample size of 150 patients assigned to a treatment biomarker
      signature is reached without graduation for superiority, assignments to that combination will
      end.

      ProBio is a platform study. This means that new treatments and biomarker signatures can be
      added to the experimental arm in the future. This will be done after protocol amendments.
    
  