
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the response rate (complete and partial), progression-free survival, and overall
           survival of patients with previously untreated metastatic or locally recurrent
           colorectal adenocarcinoma with high vs low thymidylate synthase (TS) expression treated
           with fluorouracil, leucovorin calcium, oxaliplatin, and bevacizumab or irinotecan,
           oxaliplatin, and bevacizumab.

        -  Compare the toxicity of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Correlate gene expression with response rates in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Correlate gene expression with toxicity of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Correlate dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase, thymidine phosphorylase, and mammalian
           excision repair cross complementary protein expression with antitumor response in
           patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      thymidylate synthase (TS) expression levels (high vs low or indeterminate). Patients with
      high TS expression are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms (Arms A or B). Patients with low
      or indeterminate TS expression are assigned to Arm C.

        -  Arm A: Patients receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes followed by oxaliplatin IV
           over 2 hours and irinotecan IV over 90 minutes on days 1 and 15.

        -  Arm B: Patients receive bevacizumab and oxaliplatin as in arm A, leucovorin calcium IV
           over 2 hours, and fluorouracil IV over 5 minutes and then continuously over 46 hours on
           days 1 and 15.

        -  Arm C: Patients receive bevacizumab, oxaliplatin, leucovorin calcium, and fluorouracil
           as in arm B.

      In all arms, courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of unacceptable toxicity or disease
      progression.

      Patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 2 years from
      the date of study registration.
    
  