
    
      Schizophrenia is a severe and chronic mental illness that places significant burden on the
      individuals who suffer from it, their families, and society. One of the most vexing problems
      in the treatment of schizophrenia is the high rate of substance use comorbidity. The majority
      of schizophrenia patients experience substantial cognitive and affective impairments.
      Consistent deficits have been observed in the broad domains of neurocognition(e.g.,
      attention, memory, and problem-solving), social cognition (e.g., perspective-taking,
      foresight, social cue recognition), and affect regulation, which are major contributors to
      functional impairment in the disorder. These cognitive and affective deficits may be
      exacerbated among schizophrenia patients that misuse substances and because these deficits
      are untreated by current pharmacotherapeutic strategies many turn to cannabis and other drugs
      to cope.

      Cognitive Enhancement Therapy (CET) is a treatment that has proved effective in improving
      cognition in individuals with schizophrenia. Personal Therapy (PT) is a treatment designed to
      help individuals with the affective deficits that may lead to substance misuse for
      individuals with schizophrenia. This study will adapt and integrate CET and PT to test
      whether this intervention is better or more effective for treating substance misusing
      schizophrenia patients than the usual treatment received (Treatment as Usual or TAU).

      Participation in this study will last 18 months. Eligible participants will be randomly
      assigned to receive either CET/PT or TAU. Participants that receive the CET/PT condition must
      be able to attend weekly treatment sessions in Pittsburgh, PA. All participants will complete
      cognitive, functional, and affective outcome measures at the beginning of the study,
      6-months, 12-months, and at 18-months regardless of treatment assignment. Results from all
      outcome measures will be used to estimate the effectiveness of CET/PT for individuals that
      have schizophrenia and misuse substances.
    
  