
    
      Introduction: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness of adding voluntary
      pelvic floor muscle contraction (PFMC) contraction to a Pilates exercise program on sedentary
      nulliparous women.

      Methods: Fifty-seven healthy nulliparous and physically inactive women were randomized to
      Pilates exercise program (PEP) with or without PFMC. Forty-eight women concluded this study
      (24 participants for each group). Every women evaluated before and after the PEP, by a one
      physiotherapist and an urogynecologist (UG). Both professionals were not revealed to them.
      This physiotherapist measured their pelvic floor muscle strength by using both, a
      perineometer (Peritron) and vaginal palpation (Oxford Scale) . The UG, who performed 3D
      perineal ultrasound exams, collected their data and evaluated the results for pubovisceral
      muscle thickness and the levator hiatus (LA) area. Both professional were masked to the group
      allocation. The protocol for both groups consisted of 24 bi-weekly 1-h individual sessions of
      Pilates exercises, developed by another physiotherapist who is specialized in PFM
      rehabilitation and Pilates technique.

      Group I: Pilates exercise program (PEP), involving only the Pilates exercises protocol
      without any instruction of a voluntary pelvic floor muscle contraction. I other words, the
      researcher had, under no circumstance, never explained anything about a voluntary pelvic
      floor muscle contraction during the Pilates exercise performance.

      Group II: Pilates exercises program with voluntary pelvic floor muscle contraction (PEP+PFMC)
      composed of a Pilates exercises program with voluntary pelvic floor contractions. This
      included maximum contraction of the pelvic floor muscles during expiratory period with 5
      repetitions alternately, thus avoiding any muscle exhaustion pelvic floor that could happen.
    
  