
    
      Frontal lobe dysfunction has been implicated as a factor contributing to gait deficits in
      some individuals with Alzheimer's disease, frontotemporal dementia and vascular dementia.
      There is a critical gap in knowledge about what therapeutic strategies are effective for
      maintaining or reinstating function in this critical brain region in order to preserve
      physical and cognitive health in older adults. The goal of our research is to develop a novel
      therapeutic intervention to enhance both mobility and cognition via neuroplasticity of
      frontal/executive control circuits. The Investigator will engage neuroplasticity of frontal
      circuits in two ways. The first is through neurorehabilitation with "complex walking tasks"
      (CWTs), such as obstacle crossing, obstacle avoidance and walking on non-uniform surfaces.
      CWTs are a potent behavioral approach for engaging prefrontal circuits. Furthermore, CWTs are
      crucial to successful ambulation in the home and community settings and therefore provide an
      ecologically valid therapeutic approach. The second approach that the Investigator will use
      to engage neuroplasticity of frontal circuits is anodal transcranial direct current
      stimulation (tDCS). Anodal tDCS is a safe, non-invasive neuromodulation technique. It has
      previously been shown to induce excitatory effects on brain tissue and, in single-session
      assessments, to improve performance during complex walking tasks. tDCS has also been shown to
      be an effective adjuvant for enhancing the effects of cognitive training. The objective of
      this study is to calculate effect size, establish variance of response and demonstrate
      feasibility of the experimental interventions in order to plan for a full scale clinical
      trial. Participants will include thirty older adults who demonstrate evidence of
      frontal/executive impairment. Participants will be randomized to one of three groups: 1)
      standard walking neurorehabilitation with sham tDCS ('standard/sham' group), 2) complex
      walking neurorehabilitation with sham tDCS ('complex/sham' group), or 3) complex walking
      neurorehabilitation with active anodal tDCS ('complex/active' group). Functional near
      infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS) will be used to explore intervention-induced changes in
      prefrontal cortical activity. Assessments will be conducted at baseline, post-treatment and
      3-month follow up. The Investigator propose the following specific aims:

      Specific Aim 1: Determine preliminary efficacy for recovery of mobility and cognitive
      function.

      Specific Aim 2: Demonstrate feasibility/safety of tDCS as an adjuvant to rehabilitation.

      Specific Aim 3: Explore the relationship between prefrontal activity and behavioral outcomes
      The data collected here will provide the information needed to justify and plan a future full
      scale clinical trial to assess the relative efficacy and underlying mechanisms of each
      intervention approach.
    
  