
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the effectiveness of radiofrequency ablation (RFA), in terms of amount of
           tumor coagulated and viable cell count, in patients with early invasive breast cancer or
           low- or intermediate-grade ductal carcinoma in situ.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the size, configuration, and pathological features of human breast tumors
           after treatment with RFA.

        -  Determine whether RFA energy applied to breast cancer will result in cancer cell death.

        -  Determine whether tumor-free margins are achieved by RFA in these patients.

        -  Determine the rate of acute toxicities to skin after surgery in patients treated with
           this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a pilot study.

        -  Pre-radiofrequency ablation (RFA) procedures: Patients undergo staging by MRI assessment
           to determine the size of their tumor. Patients with nonpalpable lesions must undergo
           placement of a metallic clip in the center of their tumor and a hook wire to guide
           surgical excision by intraoperative ultrasound imaging. Patients with invasive breast
           cancer undergo axillary lymph node dissection or sentinel lymph node biopsy (SLNB) for
           axillary lymph node staging. Patients with ductal carcinoma in situ proceed directly to
           RFA/resection since they do not require axillary staging.

        -  RFA: Patients undergo RFA comprising insertion of a multiple-needle electrode into the
           breast tumor under direct guidance of ultrasonography and the metallic clip placed
           preoperatively in the lesion.

        -  Surgical resection of RFA area: After RFA is completed, the electrode is removed and
           patients undergo wide local excision of the residual tumor or mastectomy.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed periodically for up to 4 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 30 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  