
    
      Retinoids are analogues of vitamin A that regulate cellular differentiation, leading to
      therapeutic use in skin diseases and malignancy. In animal models of kidney diseases,
      retinoids restore podocyte phenotype toward normal and reduce proteinuria. The objective of
      this phase II trial is to evaluate safety and develop preliminary evidence of efficacy of
      retinoid treatment in patients with podocyte disease. The study design is an open-label trial
      of isotretinoin (13-cis retinoic acid). The study will be performed under the auspices of an
      investigational new drug (IND) from the FDA. We will enroll 10 adult patients with
      biopsy-proven minimal change disease (MCD), focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS), or
      collapsing glomerulopathy (CG). Inclusion criteria will include a prior trial of
      immunosuppressive therapy and proteinuria greater than or equal to 3.5 g/d while on
      angiotensin antagonist therapy.

      The duration of the trial will be 6 months with possible additional 6-month extension for
      patients who only develop partial response (PR) or limited response (LR). Those who have
      complete response (CR) will continue the treatment for one additional month, for no more than
      7 months total. Non-responders will stop at the end of 6 months. The primary clinical
      endpoint will be reduction in proteinuria as compared to the baseline value assessed by
      paired t test. The secondary clinical endpoints will be the fraction of patients who achieve
      CR or PR at 6 months and at one year, confirmed on urine collections four weeks apart.
      Retinoid therapy will be discontinued at the time a CR is confirmed, one month after the
      first detection of CR. Follow-up will last one year after cessation of drug therapy. Patients
      who have had a CR or PR but experience a relapse with >2.0g/g proteinuria during follow-up
      will be eligible for further retinoid therapy. Patients will undergo a renal biopsy prior to
      initiating therapy, in order to evaluate the extent of glomerular injury and interstitial
      fibrosis, unless they have had a kidney biopsy within the preceding 24 months that is
      available for review. Laboratory endpoints will include serum and urine cytokine levels and
      urine levels of podocyte proteins, including nephrin. Toxicity screening will include serum
      and urine chemistries, psychological profiles, radiographic films of cervical, thoracic
      spines and calcanei, and bone mass assessment with dual photon excitation absorptiometry
      (DEXA) at spine and hip.
    
  