
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if the proposed treatment for children >= 8.0 months and < 3 years of age at
      registration with non-metastatic (M0) medulloblastoma is more effective than the combined
      treatments given to children of the same age and extent of disease on POG 9233, as measured
      by event-free survival (EFS) rates.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the feasibility and safety of the planned use of second look surgery and focal
      conformal radiation therapy following chemotherapy. II. To determine the acute and chronic
      toxicities associated with the above treatment regimens.

      III. To describe the neuropsychological and neuroendocrine effects of this systemic
      chemotherapy, surgery, and local, conformal radiation. IV. To determine the feasibility and
      validity of a centralized telephone interview based data collection method for
      neuropsychological evaluations. V. To determine the incidence of atypical teratoid/rhabdoid
      tumor (AT/RT) in children enrolled on this study.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive induction chemotherapy consisting of vincristine IV on days 1, 8, and 15;
      cisplatin IV over 6 hours on day 1; cyclophosphamide IV over 30 minutes on day 2; and oral
      etoposide daily on days 2-22. Treatment repeats every 28 days for a total of 4 courses. After
      completion of induction chemotherapy, patients with residual disease undergo a second
      resection. Within 4 weeks after completion of induction chemotherapy or second resection,
      patients receive focal conformal radiotherapy daily, 5 days a week, for 6 weeks. Four weeks
      after completion of radiotherapy, patients receive alternating treatments of maintenance
      chemotherapy. Patients receive vincristine IV on days 1, 8, and 15 and cyclophosphamide IV
      over 30 minutes on day 1 of courses 1, 3, 5, and 7 and oral etoposide daily on days 1-21 of
      courses 2, 4, 6, and 8. Treatment continues every 28 days for 8 courses. Patients are
      followed every 3 months for 1 year, every 4 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 1 year, and
      then annually thereafter.
    
  