
    
      Embryo selection based on morphological and morphokinetic characteristics seems to be
      insufficient to guarantee implantation. For this reason, in recent years, it has appeared new
      embryo selection strategies to increase the success of assisted reproduction treatments.

      Human chorionic gonadotrophin (hCG) is a glycoprotein hormone composed of two subunits, alpha
      and beta, non-covalently attached. It is secreted by the blastocyst trophoblastic cells and
      because it is detectable in maternal blood shortly after embryo implantation and it can be
      used as a pregnancy marker (Cole et al., 1987).

      Historically, it has been believed that the only function of hCG was to stimulate the
      secretion of progesterone by the corpus luteum. Nowadays, we know that it also plays a key
      role in the invasion, fusion of the endometrium by the blastocyst and the angiogenesis. In
      addition, it has a paracrine role to induce trophoblast differentiation (Cole, 2009).

      Recently, it has been proposed that its concentration would be linked to the time after
      implantation and to the number of trophoblastic cells (Tanbo and Eskild, 2015). However, the
      concentration of hCG shows considerable variations among embryos, and it has been postulated
      that this could be due to differences in the implantation potential at the second week of
      embryo development (Lopata and Oliva, 1993). Then, hCG could be a good marker in embryo
      selection. In fact, it is already known that there is a higher secretion of hCG by those
      blastocysts that present more adherence to the culture plate compare with those that do not
      present it (Dokras et al., 1991).

      In addition, this hormone presents variants that change as the blastocyst grows. The early
      embryos secreted more acidic variants than the more advanced ones (Lopata, 1997), and it has
      recently been shown that the different isoforms correspond to different degrees of
      glycosylation and metabolic degradation. The measurement of the concentration of these
      isoforms can be indicate to predict embryo implantation (Butler et al., 2013).

      Despite all this, there are few studies published that measure the concentration of hCG in
      the culture medium and most of them are published more than 15 years ago (Hay and Lopata,
      1988; Lopata and Hay, 1989; Dokras et al., 1991; Lopata and Oliva 1993). This fact, together
      with the need to optimize the embryo classification, makes us consider whether it could be a
      good candidate as an embryo/aneuploidy selection marker.
    
  