
    
      To this day, the impact and influence of physical activity in this population has been
      reported in very few studies, and all have been led in a population with abdominal aorta
      aneurysm (AAA). These studies conclude that patients should avoid lifting heavy loads as well
      as performing isometric muscular exercises since these maneuvers increase significantly
      intra-thoracic pressure as well as blood pressure. As for aerobic exercise, it is recommended
      that all patient wanting to participate in high intensity activities must perform a
      cardiopulmonary exercise test (VO2max) to ensure that the systolic blood pressure does no
      exceed 180 mmHg.

      This study will enable us to know the effects of a moderate to high intensity exercise
      program (80% of anaerobic threshold) on blood pressure response in this population. This will
      also allow the quantification and qualification of the blood pressure changes following an
      exercise program as well as the safeness of such an intervention.

      Anthropometric measures will be taken for both groups before, at 3 months and 6 months
      intervention. Firstly, the subjects will be measured using a stadiometer scaled in cm. Then,
      they will be weighed using a bio-impedance scale of the type InBody (InBody 520, Body
      Composition Analyzer) in order to measure body composition. The mass values and height will
      be used to calculate the body mass index (BMI). Finally, waist circumference will be measured
      directly on the abdomen on the level of the iliac crest using a measuring tape scaled in cm.
      Waist circumference will be used to assess indirectly abdominal obesity.

      In order to measure blood pressure variations and the hypotensive effect of exercise, a
      24-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM) in both groups will be performed at
      baseline, at 3 months and at 6 months intervention. In the exercise group, the ABPM will also
      be performed on a consecutive first training session. The measure will be performed over a
      period of 24 hours. The measures will be taken every 30 minutes during the day and every hour
      during the night.

      A cardiopulmonary exercise test will be performed before, at 3 months and at 6 months
      intervention, in order to asses the maximum aerobic capacity (VO2max) of the subjects in both
      groups. This test will take place on an ergometer cycle with electromagnetic brakes (Lode
      Recumbent, Groningen, Nederland) which allows to determine the work (watts) independently of
      the rpm. Subjects will breathe in a mouthpiece related to a gas analyser (MedGraphics,
      St-Paul, MN). Furthermore, a 12 derivation electrocardiogram (Cardioperfect Welch-Allyn,
      Skaneateles Falls, NY) measuring cardiac activity and an oximeter (N-395 Nellcor, Boulder,
      CO) measuring the blood oxygen saturation will be installed on the subject for the entire
      duration of the test. Finally, every two minutes during the test, blood pressure measure will
      be taken followed by the effort perception based on the modified Borg scale. This test is
      administered by a certified Clinical Exercise Specialist from the American College of Sport
      Medicine (ACSM) and supervised by a physician.

      A strength evaluation will be performed for both groups before, 3 months and at 6 months
      intervention. In order to obtain a specific and reliable exercise prescription for each
      subject, the 1 maximal repetition (MR) will be estimated using linear equations <10 MR since
      it is not recommended to asses 1 MR in this population due to the high blood pressure that
      this type of evaluation generates.

      Handgrip strength will be measured. In a standing position, the patient will perform a
      maximum muscle contraction of the hand (hand dynamometer). This test will be performed with
      the right and left hand alternately. Strength evaluation, including the preparation and
      explanations, will last approximately 45 minutes.

      In order to note the energy expense of each participant in both groups, a wireless portable
      monitor SenseWearPro2 (SWA; Body Media, Pittsburgh, USA) will be used. This monitor is an
      armband that subjects will use at baseline, at 3 months and 6 months. It will be worn during
      3 consecutive days, 2 weekdays and 1 day during the weekend. The subjects will wear the
      armband as soon as they wake up in the morning and will remove it at bedtime.

      A CT scan will be performed prior to the study (inclusion criteria; recent CT scan < 6
      months), and at the end of the intervention, at 6 months. These CT scans are clinically
      required for follow up of the aneurysm dilation measure post intervention.

      Subjects randomized in the exercise group will follow a 24-week structured supervised
      exercise program at the "Pavillon de Prévention des Maladies Cardiaques (PPMC) ". Each
      subject will have a personalized program. The goal is to perform this program 3x/week, and
      each session will last approximately 60 minutes: 40 minutes high intensity intervals training
      on cycle ergometer and 20 minutes strength training (2-3 sets, 10-15 repetitions). If needed,
      every week, the kinesiologist will adjust each participant's exercise program accordingly.
      The kinesiologist will be certified clinical exercise specialist from the ACSM.

      During every session, blood pressure will be monitored at rest, following 5 minutes seated,
      before and after the session. Blood pressure will be taken during the high intensity interval
      and one during the low intensity interval. Heart rate will also be monitored during the
      intervals in order to calculate the double product (HR x SBP).

      Subjects in the control group will have a consultation at 3 and 6 months time of the
      intervention with the kinesiologist. The consultation will last 1 hour. They will be given
      general advice regarding physical activity as well as healthy lifestyle.
    
  