
    
      1. Objectives of the study

             1. Main aim of the study:

                Early urinary catheter removal is safe and does not increase urinary complications
                rate. Zero hypothesis is that early and delayed Foley catheter removal have similar
                urinary complications rate (urinary fistula, urinary tract infections). Alternative
                hypothesis is that early catheter removal decreases urinary tract infections.

             2. Primary endpoints:

                  -  Urinary fistula or stenosis requiring intervention,

                  -  30 day graft function measured as serum creatinine,

                  -  1 year graft survival and function.

             3. Secondary endpoints:

                  -  Urinary tract infections,

                  -  BK virus infection,

                  -  length of hospital stay.

        2. Patients and Methods

      2.1 Study organisation

      The study has been designed as a randomized, controlled, open label, multicenter trial to
      compare urinary complications rate between early and delayed Foley catheter removal groups in
      kidney transplant recipients. Computer list of random numbers will be generated, even numbers
      will be assigned to early and odd numbers to late catheter removal, 1:1 randomisation ratio
      is expected. At least 3 large-volume renal transplant centers will participate in the study.
      Randomisation will be supervised centrally by the leader center. Generated numbers will be
      closed in non-transparent envelopes numbered sequentially and shipped to each participating
      center. A center is supposed to use the envelopes for group assignment consecutively with
      increasing numbers. A record of computer-generated number and envelope number will be stored
      at the leader center. An institutional review board of the Medical University of Warsaw
      accepted the study design and patient information leaflet. MS Access-based electronic case
      report file will be used. CRFs will be checked for completeness and concordance with source
      documents and adherence to the study protocol by the study leader.

      2.2 Study design

      Donor and pre-transplant recipient data will be noted in a database. Donor blood, urine and
      preservation solution will be cultured, 10^5 colonies in the former is considered
      significant. Important transplant anatomical features, like multiple renal arteries will be
      noted. After screening and informed consent of the patient for participation in the study,
      kidney transplantation will be performed. Single dose of cefazolin adjusted for patient
      weight will be administered 30 minutes prior to skin incision. Other options of antibiotic
      prophylaxis or preemptive treatment are acceptable, however agent and duration must be noted
      in an electronic Case Report File (CRF). At the beginning of surgical procedure in the
      operating room, sterile catheterization of the urinary bladder and microbiology sampling will
      be performed. After uneventful vascular anastomosis, neoureterocystostomy will be done with
      Lich-Gregoire or a variation of U-stitch technique (McKinnon, other typical). Ureteral stent
      will be placed at surgeon's discretion. Suction drainage will be positioned in graft
      proximity. After wound closure and completion of the surgery, inclusion and exclusion
      criteria will be evaluated. Intraoperative data (blood loss, surgery duration, cold ischemia
      time, details of the anastomosis, utilization of magnifying loupes, pigtail placement) will
      be noted.

      2.3 Eligibility and exclusion criteria.

      2.3.1 Inclusion criteria

        -  Age>18

        -  Kidney transplant recipient

        -  Informed consent signed

      2.3.2 Exclusion criteria BMI<18 or >40 kg/m2 Significant anatomical abnormalities of lower
      urinary tract Previous surgery on bladder or urinary tract Unusual urinary anastomosis
      (Leadbetter-Politano, Boari, conduit, psoas hitch, pyelo-ureteral or uretero-ureteral, double
      ureter) Severe vascular complications during surgery with blood loss >1000 ml Haemodynamic
      shock or profund instability after surgery

      Participants will be randomised to a group early urinary catheter removal (EG) or delayed
      removal group (DG). Early catheter removal will be done 24±6 hours after surgery. In a
      delayed group catheter will be removed 72±6 hours after completion of surgery. Shorter or
      longer catheterization will be considered protocol violation and reasons for ought to be
      explained in source documents and CRF.

      Suction drain will be removed when discharge volume falls below 50 ml/day. If clear discharge
      (>100 ml/day) continues for 2 consecutive days, discharge fluid and serum creatinine ought to
      be measured. If fluid creatinine exceeds its serum concentration by at least 30%, urine
      leakage will be diagnosed and appropriate intervention applied according to surgeon's
      clinical judgement. Only fistulas requiring medical intervention: reintroduction of the
      catheter, endoscopic stenting, nephrostomy or surgery will be considered significant and
      fulfill criteria for primary endpoint of the study.

      The course of study will consist of screen visit, hospitalization (with the transplantation
      procedure, catheter removal, follow up after 48h after catheter removal), follow up visit at
      15 days after procedure and follow up visit at 30 days after procedure (see table 2).
      Patients with urinary complications (fistula, stenosis, infection) will have additional
      visits every 30 days until complete resolution of complication. Patients with stented
      anastomosis who will not have a pigtail removed until day 30 will be followed till 7 days
      after stent removal or resolution of complications would any occur. A final visit 1 year
      after transplantation will assess patient and graft survival, kidney function, late urinary
      complications beyond one month from transplantation.

      2.4 Sample size and statistics

      The investigators assumed early catheter removal reduces the risk of UTI by 10% (RR=0.9) and
      risk of urinary anastomosis complications is comparable. To achieve a power of 80% at p=0,05
      an expected sample size is 450 patients divided fairly into 2 groups. An intent-to-treat
      analysis will be performed. Graft survival analysis and length of hospital stay will be
      calculated with log-rank test. Renal function will be analysed with Student t test, provided
      normal distribution of serum creatinine is observed. Chi2 will be used for analysis of
      urinary complications. Post hoc analysis of donor and recipient entry data will confirm
      groups being comparable fo UTI and urinary fistula risk factors.

      Subgroup analysis in groups with and without urinary stent will be performed.
    
  