
    
      Statins (HMG-Coenzyme A reductase inhibitors) are widely used clinically as lipid lowering
      drugs; however they have also been shown to exhibit anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidant
      properties(1). Recently published large retrospective cohort studies, in patients with
      chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), suggest that statins reduce mortality and COPD
      related admissions(2). Possible mechanisms of action include effects on cell adhesion
      molecules, changes in inflammatory mediator release, antioxidant effect and increased
      clearance of apoptoic cells. Simvastatin has been shown to reduce the development of smoking
      induced emphysema in rats with reductions in MMP-9 activity and simvastatin withdrawal leads
      to increased MMP levels in hypercholesterolaemic patients. Serum concentrations of TNFa and
      high sensitive C Reactive protein(3) (hs-CRP) are reduced with simvastatin therapy in
      patients with hypercholesterolaemia and risk of cardiovascular disease respectively. No
      clinical trial has directly evaluated the clinical effects of statins in patients with COPD
      in terms of induced sputum MMP profile, alveolar nitric oxide or pulmonary physiology.

      We have modified our published method of RNA purification, developed to purify RNA from
      cartilage, tendon or synovium(4), to yield good quality RNA from sputum with relative
      simplicity and low cost. We have identified MMP-2, -9 and -14 in the sputum of healthy
      volunteers (unpublished pilot data) and will utilise this technique in the current study.
      Exhaled breath condensate (EBC) is completely non-invasive, requires no co-operation from
      individuals and provides information about a number of inflammatory and oxidation pathways.
      Markers of oxidative stress (8-isoprostane and hydrogen peroxide) and nitric oxide products
      can be measured in exhale breath condensate(5) and are related to disease activity in
      patients with COPD. Markers of oxidative stress increase in concentration in EBC during
      exacerbations of COPD are reduced after treatment with the antioxidant N-acetyl cysteine(6).
      Hydrogen peroxide is not stable and therefore 8-isoprostane is a preferable marker of
      oxidative stress unless the sample is measured on line.
    
  