
    
      The study will be conducted in the Obstetrics Departments at the Sheba Medical Center. After
      approval by the Helsinki Committee at the Medical Center all subjects who meet the inclusion
      criteria will be asked to sign an informed consent form for participation in the study.

      The first data collection point will be in the early days after birth, when the subjects are
      still hospitalized. All the subjects will fill out a demographic questionnaire and two more
      questionnaires regarding the prevalence and intensity of MSD. The REBA, a standardized
      observation will be conducted to identify the level of ergonomic risk during the performance
      of two tasks of baby care .

      The REBA will be analyzed by a therapist who is blinded to the participants group belonging.

      The participants will be assigned into two groups, intervention group and control group.
      Number of birth and participant age will be adjusted between the groups. The intervention
      group will participate in a workshop regarding ergonomic principles in baby care. A brochure
      will be distributed summarizing the main contents of the workshop. One month and two months
      after the intervention, participants in the intervention group will receive a videotaped
      reminder of the principles presented at the workshop via an email or WhatsApp message, along
      with a request to report the intensity of pain. The control group will not receive the
      intervention at this time but will also be asked to fill in the scale at the same time
      points.

      Three months after delivery, all subjects will complete the questionnaires regarding the
      prevalence and intensity of MSD. The REBA will be performed in order to identify the
      ergonomic risk level during the performance of the same two tasks of baby care. At this
      point, the control group will receive the intervention in the format of the brochure and
      videos sent via email or WhatsApp.

      The final data collection will be six to twelve months after delivery when all subjects will
      complete the same questionnaires and a recurrent REBA standardized observation in order to
      identify the ergonomic risk level during the performance of the same two baby-care tasks will
      be performed for the last time.
    
  