
    
      Breast milk is recommended for most infants by the American Academy of Pediatrics as there
      are multiple benefits. However, some infants, such as extremely premature infants, are unable
      to receive enteral nutrition for a variety of clinical reasons. In order provide these
      infants with some of the benefits of mother's milk, a novel adjunctive therapy called oral
      care has been developed. Oral care consists of applying mother's breast milk to the buccal
      mucosa. Oral care has been studied in the premature infant population and been shown to
      improve both feeding tolerance and to provide immune protection. Although only studied in the
      premature population, many institutions including Texas Children's Hospital have adopted oral
      care as a standard of care for all infants as oral care poses minimal risk to the patient and
      has many potential benefits. Gastroschisis is a rare abdominal wall defect. Although the
      survival rate for infants with gastroschisis is high, there are significant morbidities
      related to feeding intolerance and infection. The investigators believe that this population
      of patients will also benefit from oral care.

      The mechanism by which oral care works is not completely understood. It is theorized that
      oral care stimulates the oropharyngeal-lymphoid tissue in the buccal mucosa. Additional
      mechanisms include alteration of the intestinal microbiome. The intestinal microbiome is the
      millions of microorganisms that line the intestine. Normally, there is a mutually beneficial
      relationship. The intestinal microbiome is altered by many factors, including gestational
      age, antibiotic use, type of delivery, etc. Alterations in the microbiome can be detrimental
      and cause severe diseases such as necrotizing enterocolitis. Thus, far studies have shown
      that oral care alters the oral microbiome to include more healthy bacteria. The investigators
      believe that oral care with breast milk will be associated with a more diverse fecal
      microbiota. Finally, the investigators will evaluate a novel mechanism by which the
      investigators believe oral care is protective; via increased salivary gland secretion of
      certain proteins important for healing. In particular, saliva contains vascular endothelial
      growth factor, which is important for palatal wound healing and alimentary tract healing.
    
  