
    
      Our team has conducted a series of studies to define the optimal anesthesia plan that
      minimizes the risk of postoperative respiratory complications. Opioids are almost always used
      in the perioperative management of patients undergoing surgery during anesthesia.
      Intraoperatively they are administered to achieve adequate surgical conditions. Opioids are
      respiratory depressants. They decrease dose-dependently the drive to the respiratory pump
      muscles and upper airway dilator muscles, which leads to respiratory acidemia and
      hypercapnia. Fentanyl is the most commonly used opioid during anesthesia at MGH. Compared to
      other opioids, e.g. sulfentanil and remifentanil, fentanyls pharmacokinetic is more
      problematic as the context sensitive half-life increases with duration of fentanyl
      administration. This may lead to respiratory complications. Considering the common use of
      fentanyl during surgery and its duration of action that is hard to predict during long
      surgical procedures, we will evaluate the association between intraoperative fentanyl dose
      and postoperative respiratory complications within 3 days of surgery.

      To account for other factors that may affect the incidence of postoperative respiratory
      complications, we included the following confounder model in all of our analyses:

        -  Gender

        -  Age

        -  BMI (body mass index)

        -  ASA status classification

        -  CCI (Charlson Comorbidity Index)

        -  Inhalational anesthetics as MAC

        -  Long lasting opioids as IV-morphine milligram equivalent including morphine,
           hydromorphone, methadone and sufentanil.

        -  Use of neuraxial anesthesia

        -  Intraoperative vasopressor dose

        -  Intraoperative NMBA (neuromuscular blocking agent) dose

        -  Intraoperative hypotension as number of minutes of an MAP (mean arterial pressure) <55
           mmHG

        -  Duration of surgery

        -  Emergency status

        -  Intraoperative fluids

        -  PRBC (packed red blood cells) units

        -  Work RVU [relative value unit]

        -  Surgical service

        -  Admission type (ambulatory vs inpatient)

        -  SPORC (Score for Prediction of Postoperative Respiratory Complications)

        -  SPOSA (Score for Prediction of Obstructive Sleep Apnea)

        -  Inspiratory O2 - Fraction

        -  Protective ventilation (defined as PEEP=5 and plateau pressure between 0 and 16)

        -  Perioperative naloxone use

        -  Prescription of any of the following opioids within 90 days prior to surgery: oxycodone,
           codeine, hydrocodone, buprenorphine, butorphanol, opium, hydromorphone, fentanyl,
           meperidine, morphine, levorphanol, methadone, nalbuphine, tapentadol, oxymorphone,
           roxicodone, tramadol

        -  Code status (DNR)
    
  