
    
      Patients meeting the inclusion criteria and giving their informed consent will be enrolled in
      this prospective controlled study. Included patients at Sahlgrenska University Hospital will
      undergo surgical stabilization of chest wall injuries and patients at Karolinska University
      Hospital will be managed conservatively. A total of 60 patients will be included in each
      group. 3D reconstructions of computed tomography images of the Thorax done at admission to
      the hospital will be used in order to evaluate injury according to Lung Injury Scale and
      Chest wall Injury Scale and for calculating radiological lung volumes and plan surgical
      procedure in the intervention group. Surgery will be performed as soon as possible after
      inclusion. MatrixRIB® (DePuy Synthes) Fixation system is used for stabilizing rib fractures
      with plates and angular locked screws. In cases where thoracotomy is done the patients will
      receive an anterior and posterior chest tube and wound drain with active suction. All
      patients, both in the intervention and in the control group will be offered thoracic epidural
      anaesthesia. Broad-spectrum intravenous antibiotic therapy is given as long as the patient
      has chest tubes. Thrombotic prophylaxis with LMWH is given until the patient is mobilized but
      for a minimum of 7 days. Patients will be followed-up 6 weeks, 6 months and 1 year
      post-operatively by surgeon and physiotherapist. A low-dosage computer tomography of the
      thorax will be done after 6 months in order to evaluate healing of the rib cage, possible
      non-union or dysfunction of osteosynthetic material and measure remaining lung volume. This
      examination will be compared to the initial computer tomography image done when the patient
      was admitted. At follow-ups complaints, possible late complications, usage of analgesia and
      return to work will be recorded. Evaluated instruments, EQ-5D-5L, VAS with Pain-O-Meter (POM)
      and Disability Rating Index (DRI) will be used to evaluate quality of life, pain and physical
      function. Range of motion in the thorax, thoracic spine and shoulders will be evaluated for
      every patient. Breathing movements will be measured by using a Respiratory movement measuring
      instrument (RMMI, ReMo Inc) and lung function tests will be performed in a standardized
      manner.

      In order to enrich the material, hospital data from patients fulfilling the inclusion
      criteria but not included, at the two study locations, during the inclusion period (June 2014
      - June 2017) will be analyzed. An additional Ethical approval has been granted.
    
  