
    
      By identifying the patients for whom the model predicts a significant progression the
      investigators could focus their efforts on being more pro-active towards brace wear for those
      at risk of progression. With the advent of new growth modulation techniques, these patients
      could also potentially receive early management of their curves to prevent further
      progression and diminish the need for surgical correction and fusion of their curve.
      Alternatively, by identifying the patients that will not progress immediately at the first
      visit, the investigators could arguably decrease their number needed to treat from 4 to 2 by
      removing those patients that won't progress no matter what their treatment is. So, the
      prediction model will not only have an impact for the patients at risk of progression but
      will also impact those that are braced despite having a low risk of progression.

      Patient enrollment:

      Patients who meet the inclusion criteria will be offered enrollment in the project. If the
      family wishes to enroll in the project, the informed consent process will be undertaken and
      the patient will be enrolled.

      If Patients need to be treated with brace No changes in the usual treatment and monitoring
      will be instituted. Therefore, patients will be allowed to undergo brace treatment. The
      investigators are aware that brace treatment could have an impact on curve progression but
      these patients are still included as progression despite brace treatment may give meaningful
      information regarding these difficult-to-treat curves. Patient under brace treatment will
      have to remove brace at least the night before their appointment and follow-up spine
      radiographs. Also the protocol requires that patients have at least one spine radiograph out
      of brace every 12 months. Bracing compliance will be evaluated as a specific covariable in
      the upcoming study. To better understand the impact of bracing on progression, the
      investigators will be using brace monitors, pressure sensitive transducers that can monitor
      brace wear and brace effectiveness, in their multicenter study and use the data generated by
      these monitors as a co-factor in an improved prediction model.

      If patients need to have surgery Although patients showing sufficient curve progression to
      undergo surgical correction will not be kept in the prospective cohort after surgery, their
      data will still be analyzed to assess the correlation between local 3-D measurements and
      curve progression.

      -Data collection

      Data collected at first visit will include:

        -  Demographic data

        -  past medical history

        -  gender

        -  body-mass index (weight and height)

        -  family history

        -  sexual maturity (start of menses for girls)

        -  rib prominence

        -  initial radiographic evaluation. Data collected at each follow-up visit (ideally every 6
           months)

        -  body-mass index (weight and height)

        -  menarchal status,

        -  skeletal maturity

        -  rib prominence.

        -  Radiographic evaluation (at least every 12 months during the study period, without
           brace).

             -  Image acquisition and transfer to central measurement site. Image acquisition is
                standardized between sites according to standard operating procedures. All images
                are acquired with the EOS™ system in the same fashion based on the position
                proposed by Horton et al. that standardized lateral radiographs by using a
                hand-on-clavicle position. The radiographs are all taken in the same way thus
                minimizing variability. For the centers without an EOS™ system for part or for the
                entire study, utilization of calibration belts will allow radiographs to be taken
                in a calibrated environment. The position used for image acquisition is the same as
                for the EOS™ system.

             -  Three-dimensional reconstructions of the spine The stereo radiographic images are
                used to create an external three-dimensional representation of the vertebral body
                using a specific algorithm. First, a spline is fitted through the centers of the
                vertebral bodies both on the PA and lateral views. The information from both images
                is then used to reconstruct a 3-D spline or curve which will act as a rough
                three-dimensional scaffold onto which the local vertebral and intervertebral
                reconstructions will take place. The vertebral endplates are represented by a crude
                preliminary model of the spine by using a set of cubic templates roughly
                representing each vertebral body stacked on top of one another to form the spinal
                column. A global configuration of the deformable spine model is thus described for
                each cubic template associated with each vertebral level. The final reconstruction
                can then be completed using a priori knowledge from a database of scoliotic and
                normal vertebrae that were measured by the investigator's research group. The a
                priori knowledge model relies on the description of each vertebra by a deformable
                model, which incorporates statistical knowledge about its geometrical structure and
                its pathological variability. The statistically optimized reconstructions will be
                used to determine the intervertebral disk shape at each level.

             -  Three-dimensional stereoradiographic reconstructions of the pelvis

      The pelvis will be reconstructed in 3-D for all normal and AIS subjects using a combination
      of the Non-Stereo Corresponding Points (NSCP) and Non-Stereo Corresponding Contours (NSCC)
      methods, which were successfully by the investigator's team to reconstruct the spine in 3D.
      Preliminary evaluation of the technique gave an overall accuracy of 1,6 mm, which is adequate
      for the calculation of clinical geometric indices of the pelvis. Four steps are required with
      this 3D reconstruction technique:

        1. Identification of seven specific regions of the pelvis;

        2. Display of a preliminary model with 45 control points. The control points can be
           modified in real time by the user (NSCP);

        3. Interactive identification of regional contours (NSCC);

        4. Generation of the personalized 3D pelvic model by deforming a generic 3D pelvic model
           using 3D geometrical kriging.

             -  Local three-dimensional measurements of the vertebrae and disks:

      The calculated parameters were divided into six categories. Each category refers to global
      (whole spine), regional (scoliotic segment) and local (vertebra) descriptors. Vertebra
      centroid is understood as the halfway point between the centers of the two endplates of the
      vertebra. The local vertebra axis system is defined by the Scoliosis Research Society (SRS)
      3D terminology group: the origin is at the centroid of the vertebral body, the local 'z' axis
      passes through the centers of the upper and lower endplates, and 'y' axis is parallel to a
      line joining similar landmarks on the bases of the right and left pedicles.

        1. Cobb Angles: Cobb angles defined as the angle between the upper and lower endplate of
           the respective end vertebrae of a curve. Cobb angle was measured in the frontal plane,
           in the plane of maximal deformation in 3D and in the sagittal plane for thoracic
           kyphosis (T4-T12) and lumbar lordosis (L1-S1).

        2. Plane of maximal deformation: Axial angle of the plane in which the Cobb angle is
           maximal.

        3. Three-dimensional wedging of vertebral body and disk: Wedging of the apical vertebral
           body in the plane of maximal deformation (3D plane) and mean maximal 3D wedging of the
           two apical intervertebral disks. Maximal 3D wedging represents the wedging measured in
           the plane, wherein the wedging value is maximal around the vertical axis. If apex was a
           disk, then the mean of the 3D wedging of both apical vertebral bodies was calculated and
           only the 3D wedging of the apical disk was documented. 3D disk wedging was analyzed for
           all levels of the spine (from T1-T2 to L4-L5).

        4. Axial intervertebral rotation of the apex, upper and lower junctional level and
           thoracolumbar level: Rotation between two adjacent vertebrae at upper, apical, and lower
           curve levels and thoracolumbar junction (T12-L1) in the axial plane according to the
           inferior local vertebrae reference.

        5. Torsion: Mean of the sum of intervertebral axial rotation (measured according to the
           local referential of the inferior vertebrae) of the two hemicurvatures of the curve
           (between upper end vertebra and apex and between lower end vertebra and apex).

        6. Slenderness (local T6, T12 and L4 and regional T1-L5): Ratio between the height
           (distance between the superior and inferior endplates at the center of the vertebrae)
           and the width (measured at the center of the vertebrae using a line perpendicular to the
           height line in medio lateral direction) of the vertebral body for T6, T12 and L4
           vertebrae. Ratio between the length of the spine from T1 to L5 and the mean of the width
           of vertebral bodies of T6-T12 and L4. The same measurement was made by replacing the
           width by the depth (a line perpendicular to the height line at the center of the
           vertebra in an anteroposterior direction).

             -  Geometric pelvic indices:

      Geometric pelvic indices will be calculated automatically with the generation of the 3D
      pelvic model. Indices describing the orientation of the pelvis in 3D (positional indices),
      based on the line joining the center of both femoral heads (hip axis), will be calculated
      first. Pelvic axial rotation is the orientation of the hip axis around the vertical axis
      (gravity line) as viewed in the transverse plane. Pelvic obliquity is the orientation of the
      hip axis around the horizontal line as viewed from the coronal plane. Pelvic tilt is the
      orientation of the pelvis around the medio-lateral axis of the pelvis as viewed from the
      sagittal plane. In this last case, at least another landmark from the pelvis (such as the
      center of the upper sacral plate) needs to be identified in addition to the hip axis. The
      sacral slope (angle between the upper sacral plate and the horizontal line is also calculated
      since it is highly correlated with lumbar lordosis. Sacral obliquity is the angle between the
      upper sacral plate and the horizontal line. Morphological indices of the pelvis (not
      dependent on the patient's position) are computed in a reference coordinate system based on
      the hip axis orientation, in order to eliminate the effect of pelvic axial rotation and
      obliquity. This means that transformation into the reference coordinate system allows
      calculation of morphological indices in the true coronal, axial and sagittal planes of the
      pelvis. The investigators selected the pelvis as their reference system based on the pelvic
      vertebra principle from Dubousset, which states that the pelvis can be viewed as a separate
      vertebra. As described earlier, numerous morphologic parameters of the pelvis have been used
      in the past, as detailed in Tables I to III. Of these, after a thorough review of the
      literature, the investigators selected what they consider the 7 most pertinent specific
      indices. The investigators based their decision on the potential association of the pelvic
      indices with the pathogenesis of AIS. Since they demonstrated the close relationship between
      pelvic incidence and lumbar lordosis in AIS, the investigators selected morphological indices
      of the pelvis that are correlated with the spine geometry.
    
  