
    
      The goal of tobacco regulation is to reduce tobacco-related harm and improve public health.
      Improving public health in this way requires thorough understanding of the processes
      underlying purchasing and consumption of the various products available in the complex
      tobacco marketplace. One product feature eligible for regulation is the nicotine content in
      electronic cigarettes (e-cigarettes). At present, little research has experimentally examined
      the influence of nicotine strength on e-cigarette consumption and the likelihood that current
      cigarette smokers will switch to e-cigarettes (i.e., product substitution). In the absence of
      such evidence, regulation designed to restrict available e-cigarette nicotine strength may
      have unanticipated consequences. This project will utilize an innovative method, the
      Experimental Tobacco Marketplace, to provide estimates of the effects of e-cigarette nicotine
      strength on tobacco consumption and the degree to which e-cigarette products serve as
      functional substitutes for cigarettes. In so doing, this project will provide rigorous tests
      of a novel quantitative model able to account for e-cigarette substitution effects, including
      effects of nicotine strength. This model, which assumes that product substitution is directly
      influenced by the nicotine content of tobacco products relative to their prices (a phenomenon
      called unit price), provides a framework that may be used to generate novel predictions and
      guide regulatory efforts. This project will examine the effects of four e-cigarette nicotine
      strengths (3, 6, 12, and 24 mg/mL) on the degree to which e-liquid substitutes for
      conventional cigarettes in the Experimental Tobacco Marketplace. This project will examine
      these effects in: a) exclusive cigarette smokers with minimal prior e-cigarette experience,
      and b) dual cigarette smokers/e-cigarette users. Together, the findings from this project may
      be used to inform regulatory action and will improve understanding of the role of nicotine
      strength in determining the extent to which e-cigarettes serve as functional substitutes for
      conventional cigarettes.
    
  