
    
      Poor responders constitute a significant and challenging population of women to treat with in
      vitro fertilization (IVF). This population includes women who respond sub-optimally to
      conventional ovarian stimulation with poor follicular recruitment. The estimated incidence of
      poor ovarian response ranges from 9-26%. Patients with PCOS are on the opposite end of the
      spectrum from poor responders. They are often exquisitely sensitive to ovarian stimulation
      and are predisposed to over-respond with the development of ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome
      (OHSS). Understanding the underlying mechanisms that enhance their sensitivity may provide
      insight into the treatment of poor responders. VEGF is a glycoprotein produced by ovarian
      granulosa cells that enhances vascular permeability and angiogenesis, and has been implicated
      in the pathogenesis of OHSS. After ovulation is triggered by LH or hCG, follicular expression
      of VEGF increases, which is crucial for corpus luteum function and steroidogenesis. However,
      excessive VEGF production can lead to third-space shifts of fluids, ascites, and other
      life-threatening features of OHSS. Serum concentrations and granulosa cell expression of VEGF
      have been shown to be higher in women with PCOS than in controls. Interestingly, compared
      with controls, patients with PCOS have also been shown to have lower levels of the
      neurotransmitter dopamine and dopamine D2 receptor levels in the ovary. Administration of
      dopamine D2 agonists has been shown in animal and human studies to decrease ovarian VEGF
      production and reduce the risk of OHSS. In this study, the investigators propose a novel
      approach of administering a dopamine D2 antagonist to poor responders to mimic the low
      dopaminergic tone of PCOS patients, with the goal of increasing VEGF production and
      follicular development during ovarian stimulation. Metoclopramide is a dopamine D2 antagonist
      with antiemetic and prokinetic properties and an established safety profile in pregnancy. The
      investigators hypothesis is that metoclopramide use prior to, and in conjunction with,
      conventional gonadotropin stimulation can improve IVF outcomes in poor responders.
    
  