
    
      The aim of the study is to test a series of developed effective interventions targeting Danes
      going on vacation to sunny destinations to decrease sunburn by increasing use of shade, hats,
      protective clothing, and sunscreen to prevent skin cancer in the Danish population. To
      achieve the aim of this study we will conduct a randomized controlled trial with four arms
      during May-Dec 2018. Participants will be Danish adults traveling on vacation in 2018 for a
      period of 1-3 weeks, recruited from the civil registration system. After enrollment and
      pretesting, participants will be randomly assigned to one of four experimental conditions.
      Three experimental groups will receive innovative intervention strategies for promoting sun
      protection practices during vacation - Protection Routine (1), Protection Routine (2) or both
      Protection Routine (1+2). The fourth experimental condition will be a minimal treatment
      control group. The primary outcomes of the trial will be a reduction in frequency of sunburn
      by adherence to the current sun protection advice from the Danish Cancer Society, i.e., use
      of shade, hats, protective clothing, and sunscreen as secondary outcomes. We hypothesize that
      the following two interventions will be able to reduce significantly the UVR exposure and
      risk of sunburns in Danes going on vacation to destinations with high UVI.

      The participants of the study are recruited from the Danish civil registration based system.
      The study population will represent all groups of the Danish population. Eligibility criteria
      for the project are persons living in Denmark going on vacation in May-December 2018 and
      having a smartphone compatible with either apple iOS (version 7.0 or newer) or Google Android
      (version 4.0 or newer). The period May to December is chosen as it includes all types of
      vacationers. The summer vacation constitutes the majority of the sunny vacations of the
      Danes. The period includes both the summer, where Danes typically travel to the Mediterranean
      area and the winter period where travel patterns change a bit to more exotic areas like
      Thailand, Egypt and the Canarias Islands. Exclusion criteria are persons younger than 18
      years of age.

      Sun protective behavior, exposure to UVR and sunburn will be evaluated by use of a
      questionnaire validated by personal electronic UV-measurements. This newly developed survey
      tool has made it possible in this project to evaluate the skin cancer interventions, without
      tracking of development of skin cancer which can take several years to develop after
      excessive UVR exposure. The short time period from intervention to evaluation minimizes
      recall bias.

      The primary success criteria of the effectiveness of the interventions is a 10 % decrease in
      sunburn fraction in the intervention groups as compared to the control group in the
      post-intervention measurement, as shown possible in the pilot study.

      Furthermore, we aim to reach completion and response rates of 90 % of the total sample

      Secondary success criteria are increased awareness on the risk of skin cancer, increased use
      of protection (shade, clothes, hat and sunscreen) and decreased outdoor exposure when the UVI
      is highest between 12 and 3 pm. For all secondary success criteria, we aim for an improvement
      of 10 % between interventions and control group.
    
  