
    
      Patients from The Ohio State University Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine will
      be sent a letter explaining the registry and asking about their interest in participating in
      this registry. The registry and all procedures related to their inclusion will be explained,
      opportunity to ask questions will be given and a consent document signed prior to any
      registry activity. Information about the registry will be shared with the community by
      newspaper ads, Internet postings, word of mouth, flyers, and other pulmonologists in central
      Ohio. Those potential registrants may choose to make an appointment to complete lung function
      tests at the Asthma Clinical Research Center.

      The registry and all procedures related to their inclusion will be explained, opportunity to
      ask questions will be given and a consent document signed prior to any registry activity.

      Each participant will be asked to provide appropriate (general medical history, asthma
      history, current medications, past asthma medications, demographic information, weight
      height, smoking history, allergies, and prior surgeries. Participants will be asked to
      complete an Asthma Control Questionnaire, which will be scored to determine how well their
      asthma is controlled. All consented registrants will be given the opportunity to visit The
      Ohio State University Asthma Clinical Research Center where an extensive lung function test
      (spirometry) will be provided. At the Asthma Clinical Research Center each registrant will
      perform at least three lung function efforts, then given two puffs of albuterol (a fast
      acting medication that opens airways). After a standard waiting period that meets the
      standards of the American Thoracic Society, a second set of lung function test will be done.
      The results of the second set of tests will reflect any reversibility in lung function
      levels, and will serve as an indicator that treatment may improve lung function. All
      participants will be given copies of all lung function tests, and the results of the test
      will be explained to them. All study procedures are provided without cost to the registrant.
    
  