
    
      Within the province of Ontario, there are a limited number of retinal specialists for a large
      and geographically diverse population of 13.5 million people in 2012. Because the majority of
      these specialists are located in larger urban centers, many rural patients have difficulty
      travelling the significant distance from their communities to the city. Currently in Ontario
      optometrists are responsible for triaging retinal eye diseases; emergency referrals such as
      endophthalmitis are organized by same-day telephone consultations, while more routine
      referrals are scheduled by fax.

      This current method of triage has particular important considerations. Because of the limited
      number of retinal specialists long wait times can lead to permanent vision loss if the
      referral is inaccurate, where the patient should have been seen and treated sooner instead of
      later such as the case of wet age-related macular degeneration (wAMD) and Diabetic Macular
      Edema (DME). In addition, essential vision tests such as fluorescein angiography (FA) are
      often available only in a hospital setting rather within physician or optometrists' office.
      For patients from rural or remote communities, this inconvenience could result in lost wages,
      a long return trip back the next day or even an overnight stay.

      Teleophthalmology is a branch of telemedicine that delivers eye care through digital
      equipment and telecommunications technology. It offers some unique advantages, such as the
      ability to be integrated with electronic health records, the ability to be viewed by multiple
      members of the health care team, and potentially reduce wait times and travel times to the
      ophthalmologist. Within Canada, there have been different teleophthalmology initiatives to
      provide access to specialists to optometrists and primary care practitioners particularly in
      rural and remote areas, improving ophthalmologic care and reducing unnecessary patient travel
      expenditures. These teleophthalmology systems can include fundus and Optical Coherence
      Tomography (OCT) images to aid the ophthalmologist in more accurately diagnosing and triaging
      the referral. Hanson et al. in a retrospective case series noted that tele-referrals to
      retinal specialists from optometrists reduced average travel time, travel distance and the
      number of office visits to retina specialists while improving efficiency of clinical
      examination, testing, and treatment.

      However, there currently is no research known to the study team that actively compares the
      time to treatment for patients based on teleophthalmology referral and assessment versus a
      conventional paper referral system from optometrists to retinal specialists. For conditions
      like wAMD and DME related to Diabetic Retinopathy that are often referred via
      teleophthalmology, the difference in time to treatment could prevent vision loss. The
      inclusion of fundus and OCT images in teleophthalmology could also improve triage accuracy
      and prioritization of referrals and appointments to the retinal specialist. This study
      focuses on comparing the time to treatment for a tele-retinal referral system to a paper
      referral system by focusing on two prevalent retinal conditions: wet AMD and DME. The results
      could demonstrate that tele-ophthalmology can reduce the time to treatment for patients with
      wet AMD and DME in Ontario, improving access to retinal specialists and allowing for more
      efficient triage of patients.
    
  