
    
      Patients undergoing thoracic aortic surgery at Duke University Medical Center (DUMC)
      requiring hypothermic circulatory arrest (HCA) and neurophysiologic monitoring (NIOM) will
      give written informed consent and be enrolled into the study. Exclusion criteria will include
      previously documented allergy to nicardipine and age less than 18 years. Patients will then
      be randomized to one of two study groups: general anesthesia with or without nicardipine.
      Pre-operatively they will undergo clinical evaluation determined by the attending surgeon and
      anesthesiologist. During the pre-induction time period, all usual monitors and intravenous
      devices will be placed at the discretion of the attending anesthesiologist. In addition to
      the standard anesthetic monitors (Bispectral Index [BIS] and cerebral oximetry), transcranial
      Doppler (TCD) will be placed. Furthermore, the neurophysiology technician will place both
      standard EEG and somatosensory evoked potential (SSEP) electrode configurations. During the
      pre-induction time period, midazolam use will be at the discretion of the anesthesiologist
      but will be limited to a maximum dose of 0.1 mg/kg; other benzodiazepines will not be
      allowed. Opioid (fentanyl) administration will be at the discretion of the anesthesiologist.
      Total benzodiazepine and opioid doses will be recorded and converted to midazolam and
      fentanyl equivalents for subsequent analysis.

      When ready, patients will be transported into the operating room and anesthesia will be
      induced. Induction will consist of propofol (1 - 5 mg/kg single intravenous bolus), fentanyl
      and vecuronium for neuromuscular blockade. Other drugs and dosages of opioids and
      neuromuscular blockers are at the discretion of the anesthesiologist. After induction and
      tracheal intubation, patients will receive maintenance anesthesia of 0.5 minimal alveolar
      concentration (MAC) isoflurane in a 50% air/oxygen balanced mixture supplemented with
      fentanyl at the discretion of the anesthesiologist. At the onset of cardiopulmonary bypass
      (CPB), study drug (nicardipine or equivalent volume of placebo - 0.9% saline) infusion at 5
      mg/hr will be initiated, and patients will receive 0.5 MAC isoflurane in the CPB circuit
      sweep gas. Bolus doses of 100mcg phenylephrine will be administered to both groups in order
      to maintain a constant mean arterial pressure of at least 50 mmHg. Cooling will occur
      primarily through the CPB machine. When the patient's brain temperature reaches 28o C,
      isoflurane (via the pump) will be reduced to 0.25 MAC. When ECS on EEG and ablation of
      cortical responses on SSEP have both occurred, CPB and study drug infusion will be halted,
      and thoracic aortic surgery will be commenced. After aortic repair has occurred, CPB and
      study drug infusion at 5 mg/hr will be reinstated, anesthesia administration resumed, and the
      patient actively rewarmed. When the patient's brain temperature reaches 28o C (as recorded by
      nasopharyngeal temperature), patients will receive 0.5 MAC isoflurane. After the patient has
      been fully re-warmed and is ready for separation from CPB, study drug infusion will be
      halted. At this point, but not before, commercially available nicardipine may be infused if
      so desired. 10 ml blood samples will be drawn from the pump at baseline and 15 minute
      intervals thereafter until HCA is achieved. When the pump is restarted, further samples will
      be drawn at 15 minute intervals until the patient separates from CPB after which no further
      samples will be taken. One sample of 10 ml will be drawn from the retrograde cardioplegia
      line immediately after placement (baseline) and one sample will be drawn immediately prior to
      separation from CPB. In total, approximately 100 ml of blood will be drawn from the patient
      for research purposes. This volume represents a tiny percentage of the excess volume
      associated with the pump prime, and is insignificant in terms of its effect on hemodynamics.

      Baseline patient characteristics will be collected in the pre-operative period and will
      include age, sex, weight, height, blood pressure, heart rate, temperature, comorbidities,
      type of aortic disease, and American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) grade. Prior to
      initiation of CPB, several factors will be recorded including arterial blood pressure, heart
      rate, cerebral oximetry, bispectral index score (BIS), latency & amplitude of SSEP, frequency
      of EEG background, cerebral blood flow assessed by middle cerebral artery (MCA) velocity on
      TCD, and nasopharyngeal temperature. During cooling, BIS scores, cerebral oximetry, and MCA
      velocity by TCD will be noted for each 0.5o C decrement in nasopharyngeal temperature; the
      duration from CPB initiation to 3 characteristic EEG changes (1. rhythmic delta, 2.
      Generalized periodic epileptiform discharge (GPED), 3. burst suppression) as defined by the
      neurophysiologist, the duration from CPB initiation to 2 characteristic SSEP changes (1.
      latency increase of >10%, 2. amplitude decrease of 50% from baseline), and hemodynamics at
      each 1o C nasopharyngeal temperature drop will also be recorded. At the time of HCA, several
      factors will be documented including nasopharyngeal temperature, duration from CPB initiation
      (the primary endpoint measure), total opioid doses, cerebral oximetry, BIS score, MCA
      velocity by TCD, hemodynamics. During rewarming, factors will be documented in the same
      fashion and at the same intervals as during cooling. At the first attempt at separation from
      CPB, documented factors will include BIS score, cerebral oximetry, MCA velocity by TCD,
      duration from CPB reinstitution to first attempt at separation, total dose of study drug,
      nasopharyngeal temperature, and hemodynamics. Finally, in addition to any Adverse Events
      (AEs) that may have occurred, data relating to length of ICU stay, length of hospital stay,
      in-hospital mortality, in-hospital acute kidney injury (defined as a 50% rise from baseline
      in serum creatinine, and of at least 0.3 mg/dl or need for dialysis), in-hospital stroke,
      in-hospital myocardial infarction, and discharge disposition from hospital (home, skilled
      nursing facility, other institution) will be recorded postoperatively.

      With the exception of the on-pump blood draws, in this protocol there are no additional
      procedures or safety measures indicated or necessary for the purpose of research only. All
      anesthetic regimens and monitoring techniques are currently standard of care. Nicardipine
      infusion is currently widely used during cardiac anesthesia and post-operative cardiac
      recovery.
    
  