
    
      The population of the United States is aging rapidly, and the populations of Vermont (VT),
      New Hampshire (NH), and Maine (ME) are among the oldest in the nation. There is a need to
      develop and disseminate interventions to prevent functional decline in older adults, defined
      as difficulty completing daily activities independently. Cognitive impairment, depressive
      symptoms, and mobility loss are three common syndromes identified in primary care that
      contribute to functional decline in older adults. Evidence-based interventions can address
      early stages of these three conditions; however older adults in rural communities may have
      particular difficulty accessing interventions due to limited health and social services.
      Community health workers (CHWs) offer a potential strategy to address gaps in care and
      deliver interventions to vulnerable older adults in rural communities.

      The overarching goal of this study is to conduct a pilot investigation of a CHW-delivered
      intervention to slow progression of functional decline among at-risk older adults. Using
      qualitative and quantitative methods, this pilot study will: 1) Evaluate whether a
      multicomponent intervention delivered by CHWs for rural older adults at risk for functional
      decline is feasible to deliver and acceptable to older adults and their primary care teams;
      and 2) Explore the effectiveness of combined Tai Ji Quan: Moving for Better Balance (TJQMBB),
      behavioral activation (BA), and resource navigation in slowing functional decline among older
      adults with co-occurring early impairments in cognition, mood, and mobility.

      Older adults who are at high risk for functional decline will be recruited from partnering
      primary care sites (two intervention sites in VT and ME, and one comparison site in NH) based
      on results from the Medicare Annual Wellness Visit (AWV), which incorporates screening for
      cognitive impairment, depression, and falls risk, as well as provider referral and chart
      review. CHWs will be trained to deliver a 6-month intervention incorporating two
      evidence-based interventions that target cognition, depressive symptoms, and mobility (TJQMBB
      and behavioral activation), and resource navigation to address unmet social needs that may
      create barriers. Feasibility, acceptability, and potential effectiveness will be assessed
      through a combination of qualitative interviews, standardized questionnaires, physical
      measurements, and surveys.
    
  