
    
      Osteoarthritis is a common, slowly developing disease which is enhance with age, it is also
      called as metabolic disease, which includes destruction and repair mechanisms that begin by
      bio chemical and mechanical injury. Knee osteoarthritis is a chronic degenerative disease.
      Because of aging and due to obesity and sedentary lifestyle risk factor in prevalence of knee
      osteoarthritis is increased. Cartilage is the main tissue affected by osteoarthritis and
      causes following symptoms including pain, stiffness, joint swelling and also decrease the
      range of motion. It is the one of main cause of deformity which results in poor quality of
      life. Knee osteoarthritis is most occurring from all types of joint disease. The WHO
      estimated that Osteoarthritis will become the fourth main cause of disability the year 2020.
      Knee pain may affect knee flexibility and cause functional disability. Quadriceps muscle
      weakness is one of the most marked disability impairment that is seen in knee osteoarthritis
      patients. This linked to functional limitations which increase fall risk and slower walking
      speed.

      Muscle strength test showed that knee osteoarthritis patient have 25% to 45% loss of knee
      extension strength and 19% to 25% loss of knee flexion strength. The prevalence and incidence
      of knee osteoarthritis is greater in patient with age 30-65 years then adults population.
      Approximately 80% patients of knee osteoarthritis experience from movement restriction and
      20% are not able to perform daily living activates and 11% experience from personal care. In
      developed countries knee osteoarthritis affects 17% to 30% of elderly population over age of
      65 years and more prevalence in women than men. It is evaluate that by 2020 the approximately
      number of people diagnosed with osteoarthritis will be 57% and those individuals whose is
      affected by movement limitation will be approximately 66% Osteoarthritis is most prevalent
      form of joint arthritis. Knee osteoarthritis accounts for pain and functional disability in
      19.2-27.8% of people age >45, approximately 37%of individual age >60 had knee osteoarthritis
      in plain radiography. Knee osteoarthritis is 4.9%over age 26 years, 16.7% among individual
      over 45 years and 12.1% over age 60 years. Osteoarthritis is rheumatologic disease which
      affects 80% of individual above 55 years. The current world wide prevalence of knee
      osteoarthritis is 3.8% and women are affected more often 4.8% then men. In united state knee
      osteoarthritis prevalence's increases by 66-100% by 2020. The main goal of knee
      osteoarthritis treatment is to decrease pain and maintain loss of physical function.

      Among other conservative techniques use in knee osteoarthritis patients, the use of different
      kind of taping approaches for treatment of knee osteoarthritis patients. Kinseotaping was
      described use in clinics for pain management and motor function enhancement in patients of
      musculoskeletal injuries. Kinseotaping improve muscle flexibility and muscle strength it also
      improve proprioception in patients of musculoskeletal symptoms. It has been shown that
      elastic tape could increase local circulation, decrease edema, and maintain joint stability.
      Kinseotaping method is an alternative elastic taping techniques which is specially designed
      waterproof, hypo allergic elastic tape. This tape should apply directly on skin and left for
      several days. This tape would provide therapeutic effects.Kinseo-taping has high elastic
      adhesive material and also high stretching capacity to give free mobility at applied area.
      This kinseotaping improve knee pain by improving patellofemoral alignment and decrease
      mechanical stress on soft tissue. The kinseotaping is elastic woven cotton strip with heat
      sensitive acrylic adhesive and can stretch 120%-140% of its original length. It has been
      suggested that kinseotaping provide cutaneous stimulation which reduce pain by activating
      mechanoreceptors and improve muscle excitability Kinseotaping reverse the pain signals
      through stimulating sensory nerve endings of skin. It has been evaluated that taping on
      patella can improve patellar proprioception and sense of mechanical stability.

      In 2019 study compares the effect of quadriceps taping with patellar taping to check balance
      and functional performance in patients of knee osteoarthritis. The result showed that both
      quadriceps and patellar taping equally improve balance and functional level of knee
      osteoarthritis patients. Another research was conducted in 2019in which they describe the
      immediate effects of kinseotaping on gait function and pain in older patients of knee
      osteoarthritis. Result showed that kinseotaping significantly improved gait and balance and
      it also decreased the pain during ambulation. In 2018 study evaluate the gait speed after
      applying kinseotaping on quadriceps femoris muscle in knee osteoarthritis patients. Their
      result suggest that time needed to perform 10 meter walk test would decreased after 3 days of
      application of kinseo-taping.In 2017study conducted research on effects of kinseotaping on
      pain and functional outcome in knee osteoarthritis patients ,their result revealed that
      therapeutic kinseotaping is effective in short term management of pain and disability in knee
      osteoarthritis patients.
    
  