
    
      Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is a major concern in public health globally, as well as in
      China, and AMI is one of the leading causes of mortality and morbidity. Remarkable variations
      of resources available and health system performance have been noted, however little
      information is available about how evidence-based therapies are incorporated appropriately
      into routine clinical practice in China. In addition, basic data and evidence about safety,
      efficacy, and effectiveness of treatment for AMI during long-term recovery is limited.
      Practical and applied knowledge from large unselected population is needed to guide practice
      and policy for quality improvement and cost reduction.

      This study will enroll patients with a confirmed diagnosis of AMI consecutively in 20
      tertiary hospitals and 20 secondary hospitals scattered all over China. At study entry,
      participants will be interviewed during their index hospitalization, to collect information
      about symptoms, functioning, quality of life, and medical care. Demographic characteristics,
      medical history, clinical features, diagnostic tests, medications, procedures, and
      in-hospital outcomes of patients will be abstracted from medical records by well trained
      professional abstractors. At 1 month, 6 month, and 12 month after discharge, participants
      will return to the clinic for follow up visits, a face-to-face interview will be conducted to
      get information about clinical events, symptoms, functioning, quality of life, and medical
      care during the recovery period. At 1-Month and 12-Month follow-up visit, blood and urine
      sample will be collected. Participants' blood samples will be stored for future biologic and
      genetic studies. This study will examine various real-life factors that may affect patients
      recovery after a heart attack, including patients' characteristics and treatment measures.
      Practical guidelines, quality evaluative system, and risk model for AMI patients will be
      established based on the findings, to improve patients outcomes in future finally.
    
  