
    
      At present, the diagnosis of most gastric and oesophageal diseases, requires an endoscopic
      examination which is an invasive, time-consuming and expensive procedure. At present, there
      are few non-invasive methods (e.g. tests for Helicobacter pylori) available for the diagnosis
      of the upper gastrointestinal tract diseases. Any of these tests do not, however, give
      possibilities for a comprehensive diagnosis of the different phenotypes of gastritis, i.e.,
      whether superficial or atrophic, and located in the antrum or corpus. Importantly, these
      tests do not give any clues about the severity (grade) of these lesions, as defined by the
      Sydney and OLGA classification .

      To obviate the excessive use of this invasive and expensive procedure (endoscopy), there is
      an urgent need to develop non-invasive diagnostic tools capable of accurately detecting the
      patients at high risk for GC, i.e. the different phenotypes of gastritis as well as their
      related H. pylori infections . After ELISA-testing for P-PG I, p-PG II, P-G-17 and P-Hp-Ab in
      a plasma sample, an endoscopic examination can be preserved only for those patients whose
      GastroPanel test results suggest AG, whereas an endoscopic examination can be avoided in
      subjects with negative GastroPanel result, or in whom the test biomarkers indicate a
      non-atrophic gastritis or a healthy stomach (18). Gastroscopy is also recommended if the
      GastroPanel examination reveals high acid output (P-G-17 below 1,0 pmol/l) or chronic H.
      pylori infection with symptoms.

      This clinical trial is conducted as collaboration between Biohit HealthCare (Helsinki,
      Finland) and Homerton University Hospital (London, UK) (hereafter called "the Partners"). The
      study is performed in Homerton Hospital, supervised by a steering committee consisting of
      members from both research Partners.

      Enrolment of the patients in the study will take place at Homerton Hospital including
      consecutive patients over 45 years of age, referred for gastroscopy at the Outpatient
      Department of Endoscopy. The estimated cohort to be screened is at least 250 subjects (both
      genders), to reach a cohort of 100 patents enriched with equal numbers (n=25) of all
      conditions (see: Section 2, above) classified as study endpoints.

      Patient enrolment is taking place in a single step. In brief, the potentially eligible
      patients are identified among the gastroscopy-referral outpatients by the members of the
      research team. At this stage, every patient will be asked to consent the study and sign a
      written consent to participate. Because all patients are enrolled among the subjects
      attending the 11 Endoscopy clinic due to an appointment to gastroscopy, their preparation
      will be compliant with the preparatory steps needed for the GastroPanel examination (details
      below).

      Eligible patients are all adult females and males, with dyspeptic symptoms (epigastric pain,
      bloating and epigastric discomfort). However, the following patients should be considered
      non-eligible: 1) the patients whose treatment requires surgery, or immediate follow-up
      treatment for major symptoms, as well as 2) those that refuse to participate.

      In this study, all patients examined with the GastroPanel test will be subjected to
      gastroscopy, providing the histological confirmation to be used as the gold standard in
      calculating the performance indicators for the test.

      All patients participating in this study shall undergo a routine gastroscopy examination,
      which will be complemented by biopsy sampling from the antrum and corpus, according to the
      principles of the Sydney and OLGA classification sampling. In endoscopy, all observed
      abnormal mucosal lesions are noted and photographed, and if necessary (e.g. suspicion of
      malignancy) subjected to additional biopsy.

      All statistical analyses will be performed using the SPSS 21.0.0 for Windows (IBM, NY, USA)
      and STATA/SE 13.0 software (STATA Corp., Texas, USA). The descriptive statistics will be done
      according to routine procedures. Performance indicators (sensitivity, specificity, positive
      predictive value, PPV, negative predictive value, NPV and their 95%CI) of individual markers
      and whole GastroPanel test will be calculated separately for each study endpoint, using the
      STATA/SE software and the diagti algorithm introduced by Seed et al. (2001). This algorithm
      also calculates the area under ROC (Receiver Operating Characteristics) called AUC, for each
      biomarker at each endpoint. Because GastroPanel is a quantitative ELISA test, these ROC
      curves can be used to identify the optimal sensitivity/specificity balance that gives each
      biomarker an optimal threshold for detection of each study endpoint. Significance of the
      difference between AUC values can be estimated using STATA's roccomb test with 95%CI.
    
  