
    
      Research relevant to this study In 2008, a new concept was taken from transfusion medicine
      and transferred to ophthalmology: the reduction of pathogen load in platelet concentrates is
      achieved by treatment of concentrates with riboflavin (Vit B2 as a chromophore and UV-A
      light). In analogy, a research group in Zurich, Switzerland, showed that this application
      could be also applied in human corneal infection.

      The proof-of-principle study included 5 corneas that were therapy-resistant to any
      conventional type of treatment. In all five cases, the corneal infection calmed down within
      days to weeks and all eyes could be saved. In the same year, the effect of riboflavin/UV-A
      irradiation was shown on several bacteria and fungi in vitro, with a killing rate of almost
      98% within 30 minutes for the most common strains responsible for bacterial keratitis like
      Methicillin resistant Staph aureus and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. A case series and a clinical
      phase 1 study performed by Makdoumi et al showed the beneficial effect of PACK-CXL
      (photoactivated chromophore for the treatment of infectious keratitis-corneal collagen
      crosslinking) in 15 eyes of 15 patients with early onset corneal ulcers. Here, PACK-CXL was
      even used as the primary therapy, whereas controls received maximal conventional therapy
      (medication). Again, PACKCXL alone was beneficial in the outcome in all eyes investigated.
      Between 2010 and 2013, a randomized prospective clinical trial was performed examining the
      effect of adjuvant PACK-CXL therapy in advanced corneal ulcers with associated melting. Even
      in these far advanced cases with impending perforation, the additional effect of PACK-CXL was
      significant, with a drop in the ulcer-related complication rate from 23% (controls) to 0%. A
      number of smaller reports and case series have shown the effect of PACK-CXL on other
      bacterial, and also fungal infections.

      Study's overall goal The overall goal of this study is to demonstrate that PACK-CXL is not
      just a valuable adjuvant therapy, but rather a primary treatment modality used in the
      beginnings of a corneal ulcer, at the stage of an infiltrate or beginning ulcer. Current
      standard of care would then rather play a secondary, supporting role than a primary one.

      Importance of the study on global eye health. The economic and socioeconomic costs related to
      corneal ulcers and their medical treatment are immense. For example, treatment of a fungal
      ulcer might cost several thousands of US Dollars. PACK-CXL, in contrast, does not require
      (expensive) medication, but rather Vitamin B2 solution and a light source. Also, in vitro and
      in vivo data show that PACK-CXL is highly efficient in antibiotic-resistant infection with
      MRSA. Furthermore, PACK-CXL is based on CXL, a well-established technique used in other
      corneal diseases.

      Rationale A Riboflavin solution is administered to the cornea in the form of eye drops to the
      patient. After an administration of 25 minutes (one drop every 2 minutes), the cornea is then
      irradiated with UV-A light at a wavelength of 365nm and a total energy of 5.4 J/cm2 (use 30
      min @ 3 mW/cm2, 10 min @ 9 mw/cm2, or 5 min @ 18mW/cm2). These settings are identical with
      the standard CXL settings routinely used in clinical practice worldwide. The safety of these
      settings has been verified in multiple experimental and clinical studies over the past 15
      years.

      Our hypothesis PACK-CXL might be highly beneficial in the treatment of corneal infection for
      patients, as an adjuvant therapy in advanced cases, and also a primary mode of treatment in
      early cases. In this study, the patients are to be examined after treatment with closer
      control range than is customary at this condition.

      The treatment is in clinical use and has a strong theoretical support. Patients will not run
      an increased risk of injury compared with conventional treatments, as the checks are more
      frequent than normal and thus, the slightest sign of progress can be detected early. The
      investigators do not expect any increased suffering from the treatment or inferior healing
      compared to the usual treatment for patients. The study offers the possibility of a new tool
      to treat a difficult condition, where the need of culturing decreases and reduces use of
      antibiotics.
    
  