
    
      This proof of concept project develops and pilot tests a viable Internet-based intervention
      to assist veterans with Post-Traumatic Stress symptoms to progress toward changing negative
      health behaviors that are associated with PTSD and are often difficult to change. Most
      commercially available CTIs and software applications have limited impact, because of the
      lack of theory-driven material and empiricism. The proposed CTI is supported by more than 30
      years of scientific evidence, and uses the Transtheoretical Model of Behavior Change (TTM) as
      the theoretical basis for generating personalized interventions (Prochaska & Velicer, 1997;
      Velicer, Prochaska, & Redding, 2006). The TTM is ideally suited to those who are resistant to
      change and unlikely to take action in the near future, as well as those prone to relapse.

      The intervention will be primarily targeted at negative coping strategies that confound or
      exacerbate Post-Traumatic Stress symptoms and hinder progress toward remission. Progress in a
      Transtheoretical Model of Behavior Change (TTM) conceptual framework may be defined as
      movement from one TTM stage of change to the next level of the change process, rather than
      the elimination or significant reduction of smoking, depression, or stress per se. The CTI
      system that will be modified during this project has been empirically tested and validated
      with a general population and has demonstrated significant outcomes for the three proposed
      modules - smoking cessation, depression prevention, and stress management. The CTI system
      provides an intervention that emphasizes advancement through the processes of change at one's
      own pace as the focus of project, rather than the linear progression through a structured
      behavior change program to achieve changes in the undesired behaviors.

      Hypothesis 1: The structure and TTM-based content of the adapted Smoking Cessation,
      Depression Prevention, and Stress Management systems and consequent CTI will be appropriate
      for veterans.

      Primary Aim 1: To modify TTM-based Smoking Cessation, Depression Prevention, and Stress
      Management behavioral intervention modules, originally developed for general adult
      populations, to be appropriate and relevant for veterans with Post-Traumatic Stress symptoms.

      Secondary Aim 1a: To conceptualize the CTI program's approach, content, and design based on
      input from a diverse sample of military veterans and expert consultants.

      Hypothesis 2: A multi-behavioral CTI can be successfully implemented with veterans who have
      Post-Traumatic Stress symptoms

      Primary Aim 2: To demonstrate that a multi-behavioral CTI can be successfully implemented
      with veterans with Post-Traumatic Stress symptoms.

      Secondary Aim 2a: To conduct usability interviews with veterans to ensure that the target
      population can navigate through the computerized intervention and understand the intervention
      content.

      Secondary Aim 2b: To demonstrate the feasibility of CTI by: a) recruiting veterans to the
      project and delivery of the proposed intervention; and b) assessing the acceptability and
      perceived usefulness of the intervention from the perspective of veterans with Post-Traumatic
      Stress symptoms.

      Secondary Aim 2c: To demonstrate feasibility of CTI to increase motivation to change targeted
      behaviors, i.e., smoking cessation, depression prevention, and stress management.

      Secondary Aim 2d: To demonstrate positive change in assessment outcomes for Post-Traumatic
      Stress symptoms, depression, quality of life, and perceived stress.
    
  