
    
      This is a multi-center, observational study that will enroll 1) patients with severe COVID-19
      who have agreed to undergo therapy with Seraph® 100 under the existing EUA; 2) patients
      (medical record data) that have been previously treated with the Seraph® 100 after the date
      of the EUA approval (17 April 2020), but before the date that the study is approved at the
      study site, and 3) a convenience sample of patients (medical record data) in a historical
      control group who were admitted to the ICU at participating sites with severe COVID-19
      infection, meeting the EUA treatment criteria, but not treated with Seraph® 100 up to the
      time the PURIFY-OBS protocol is approved at the site

      At the time of protocol approval, data from all patients who have been treated up until that
      date will be collected retrospectively. Patients who meet the treatment criteria and are
      identified as candidates for Seraph® 100 with plans for treatment initiation will be enrolled
      prospectively after informed consent has been obtained. Biospecimen collection (blood, urine,
      sputum, swabs) will be planned for prospectively enrolled patients at various time-points.
      However, if subjects do not want to contribute samples, they will be given the option of
      contributing only their clinical data for analysis. Specific Seraph® 100 treatment procedures
      will be determined by each individual site. Recommendations for treatment related procedures
      are provided by the company. Additionally, among sites participating in PURIFY-OBS, all
      patients who met EUA treatment criteria but were NOT initiated on therapy will be enrolled
      retrospectively into a historical control group. Procedures for identifying study subjects
      will be as follows:

      Retrospective Seraph® 100 As noted in the inclusion/exclusion criteria, this group will be
      composed of subjects that were treated with Seraph® 100 after the date of the EUA approval
      (17 April 2020), but before the date that the study is approved at the study site. To
      identify patients, the site investigator will query 1) institution's electronic medical
      record for critical ill patients treated with Seraph® 100 and 2) attending intensive care
      physicians and nephrologists who have provided care to critically ill patients with COVID-19.
      A waiver of informed consent will be requested from the Institutional Review Board (IRB) to
      allow the collection of these retrospective data.

      Prospective Seraph® 100 To identify prospective Seraph® 100 patients, the individual site
      investigators will review currently admitted ICU patients for inclusion criteria #1and #2
      (see above). The study team will then ask the physician caring for the patient to contact the
      study team should the patient require therapy with Seraph® 100. Additionally, the study team
      will review the medical records of admitted patients to see if they have recently been
      started on Seraph. Patients found to meet inclusion/exclusion criteria (or their LARs) will
      be offered the opportunity to sign an informed consent and participate in the study. Note
      that patients that were started on Seraph® 100 before the date of approval for a study site,
      but are still admitted, will not be eligible to give biospecimens. However, they will be
      given the option of signing an informed consent so that their data can be used in the study.

      Historical Control Our historical control group will be a sample of convenience, composed of
      patients admitted to the ICU at participating sites with severe COVID-19 infection, meeting
      the EUA treatment criteria, but not treated with Seraph® 100 up to the time the PURIFY-OBS
      protocol is approved at the site. The individual site investigators will be responsible for
      querying their institution's electronic medical records to identify critically ill patients
      with COVID-19 admitted from the date of EUA approval (17 April 2020) until the date the
      protocol was approved at their study site. These records will then be further examined by the
      local study team to ensure that the patients meet the inclusion/exclusion criteria detailed
      above. Note that patients will be excluded if they are still admitted to the hospital on or
      after the date that the protocol was approved at that study site. A waiver of informed
      consent will be requested from the Institutional Review Board (IRB) to allow the collection
      of these retrospective data.

      Study Timeline Each included subject's medical record will be reviewed from the time of
      hospital admission through hospital discharge. Enrollment will be conducted over a 2-year
      period (up to 200 patients total including both retrospective and prospective patients). For
      prospective patients who consent, biospecimen (blood, urine, sputum) will be collected before
      initiation of extracorporeal treatment, 1 hour following treatment, as well as days 1, 2, 3,
      4, 7, 28 and 90-180
    
  