
    
      Irregular astigmatism (irregular corneal shape leading to irregular focus) is a common cause
      of failure to achieve an adequate spectacle correction for many patients with corneal
      disease. For patients affected, rigid gas permeable contact lenses are the only means of
      visual rehabilitation. Not all patients tolerate rigid contact lens wear, and those that do
      are often uncomfortable and have a restricted wearing time.

      Keratoconus, in which the corneal shape becomes progressively steeper and more irregular in
      the 2nd to 4th decades of life, is a common cause of irregular astigmatism. Disease
      progression in keratoconus can be stabilised with corneal collagen cross-linking (CXL),
      effective in 90% of cases. Pre-existing irregular astigmatism often remains after CXL, with
      many patients requiring rigid gas permeable contact lenses to regain good vision.

      The investigators have recently demonstrated improvements in vision following simultaneous
      combined cross-linking with laser refractive surgery (TransPRK/CXL). The excimer laser is
      used to create a smoother, more regular focusing shape on the cornea to improve the quality
      of vision achieved in spectacles. Although effective, the downsides of using this approach
      are both the cost and limited availability of excimer laser equipment in the National Health
      Service (NHS) in the United Kingdom. Also, excimer laser smoothing works by removing corneal
      tissue. It is not yet known whether this tissue removal will have any detrimental effect on
      corneal shape stability post CXL.

      As a cheaper and potentially more widely accessible alternative, refractive CXL aims to
      regularise the corneal surface by applying a bespoke treatment pattern based on pre-operative
      corneal surface shape (topography) scans. At least two-thirds of patients undergoing standard
      CXL already have impaired vision at the time treatment. The investigators are aiming to offer
      these patients both long-term stability of their keratoconus and an improvement in vision in
      a single treatment.
    
  