
    
      Pulse diagnosis is an important method to judge the status of patients in the process of
      diagnosis and treatment of traditional Chinese medicine. At present, the commonly used site
      of pulse diagnosis is the radial artery, which is divided into "cun", "guan" and "chi".
      Whether the diagnosis of lumbar disc herniation can be realized through pulse diagnosis has
      not been solved. Herniation of the lumbar intervertebral disc is a syndrome caused by
      degeneration of intervertebral disc, partial or complete rupture of the annulus fibrosus,
      protrusion of nucleus pulposus, or compression of nerve roots and cauda equina. In the area
      of compression, the blood supply is also limited to a certain extent, and the blood that
      should be in the normal laminar flow state gradually turns into a turbulent state, causing
      abnormal vibration, which is fused with a larger cluster of sound waves transmitted by the
      heart and then transmitted throughout the body. In this situation, the investigators can feel
      the combination of abnormal vibration waves by touching the pulse at different levels of the
      arteries near the surface of the body, including the radial artery. In long-term clinical
      practice, the investigators have found that the ulnar radial pulse of patients with lumbar
      disc herniation, i.e. the fifth layer of the ulnar radial pulse, often presents an unsmooth
      pulse. Therefore, the investigators believe that patients with lumbar disc herniation may
      have abnormal sound waves in the radial artery.

      The investigators have found that there are low-frequency sound waves in the radial artery,
      which carry the physiological and pathological information of the organs in the body, and
      developed the "Pulse Detection System of Sound Waves". Previous projects have achieved
      certain results after exploring the abnormal sound waves of the radial artery in patients
      with sequelae of cerebral infarction, stable coronary heart disease, chronic gastritis and
      other diseases.

      Therefore, this study will use the "Pulse Detection System of Sound Waves" to collect the
      sound waves in the radial artery of both hands from 45 patients with lumbar disc herniation
      and 45 relatively healthy people and carry out spectrum analysis and wavelet analysis to
      extract the pulse characteristics. The sensitivity and specificity of "Pulse Detection System
      of Sound Waves" in the diagnosis of lumbar disc herniation will be calculated. Supposed there
      are characteristic sound waves in the radial artery of patients with lumbar disc herniation,
      and these characteristic sound waves have some specific distributions, planes, and points
      that are different from the sound waves of relatively healthy persons. Then this study will
      explore and gradually confirm such characteristics and differences. It is expected to
      contribute to the pulse diagnosis of lumbar disc herniation.
    
  