
    
      In these redo ablation patients, the ideal re-ablation strategy is unknown and many
      techniques have been proposed but there is no consensus nor strong clinical trial data.

      This treatment gap prompted the development of a combined minimally invasive epicardial and
      endocardial ablation ("Convergent") procedure. During the last decade, this "hybrid" approach
      has garnered increasing acceptance in clinical practice, with several reports of promising
      antiarrhythmic outcomes in challenging disease states, as well as modifications to maximize
      safety and clinical outcomes. One key aspect of this approach is that it targets key drivers
      of AF including the PVs but also the left atrial posterior wall (LAPW), combining endocardial
      and epicardial energy delivery. The LAPW (or "PV myocardium") shares similar embryological
      origins and electrophysiological properties with the PVs, is predisposed to develop fibrosis,
      and thus recognized as an important source of AF. Recently, the CONVERGE randomized clinical
      trial demonstrated superiority of this hybrid approach compared to PVI in patients with
      persistent AF.

      The left atrial appendage (LAA) has also been designated as a potential important trigger
      site of AF, and if isolated, may result in improved post-ablation AF outcomes. Although
      catheter-based isolation is controversial due to the potential to increase the risk of
      stroke, surgical exclusion of the LAA by placement of an occlusive clip has been suggested to
      be both antiarrhythmic and anti-thrombotic. Thus it is proposed in this trial to incorporate
      the LAA clip within the hybrid procedure.

      Given the sheer volume of patients undergoing ablation of AF and the predictable necessity to
      perform repeat ablation procedures on a portion of these patients, the need for a proven redo
      ablation strategy is self-evident. We thus propose a randomized clinical trial to determine
      if there is incremental efficacy by performing LAPW/LAA isolation via a hybrid approach in
      comparison to the conventional redo PVI alone in patients with paroxysmal AF.
    
  