
    
      Mechanical ventilation (MV) is one the most utilised therapeutic techniques within the
      intensive care unit (ICU). It is commonly used to support patients diagnosed with severe
      respiratory failure, but several complications have been documented in the literature that
      can appear during both the acute phase of treatment and in later phases, becoming a chronic
      problem in some cases. Most of these complications are related to the length of treatment,
      and they could affect patients' health-related quality of life (HRQL).

      HRQL conceptualisation is vital for the analysis and evaluation of health-related outcomes.
      Knowing the patient's health perception, his wishes and motivating factors when making
      decisions related to his own health, as well as applying procedures to evaluate healthcare
      providers are essential to the definition of HRQL.

      Diagnosis and treatment of illness exclusively at a biomedical level in addition to
      technologically advanced procedures represent a qualitative improvement in patient survival
      in recent decades, but they have reduced a more holistic approach to health care because they
      only fight against illness without promoting patient welfare.

      From a more holistic perspective and in an attempt to quantify the contribution of nursing to
      health-related outcomes, the term "nursing-sensitive outcome" (NSO) was created. According to
      the National Quality Forum, those indicators that are sensitive to certain nursing
      interventions are measurements of the process' structure (the process itself and its
      outcomes) and are affected or influenced by the intervention of nurses, although the
      responsibility is shared with other professionals. The forum agreed on several NSO standards
      such as pressure ulcer care, infection control, falls prevention, expertise of the nursing
      team, patient satisfaction and HRQL.

      Outcome evaluation and knowledge of HRQL in mechanically ventilated critical care patients is
      vital to understanding how this therapeutic technique affects patients and therefore to
      designing care strategies for both acute and later phases of treatment. The goal is to
      minimize unwanted effects and improve cost-effectiveness, always considering the patient's
      perspective during the decision-making process.

      The analysis of factors that determine the patient's perception on HRQL during the different
      phases of illness as well as the adaptation process to unwanted results will give us in-depth
      knowledge of the mechanisms that affect their HRQL in a negative way and therefore plan
      interventions to promote the optimal patient welfare.

      There is a great deal of published literature on mechanically ventilated patient's HRQL. All
      authors agree that the quality of life perceived by these patients is worse than that
      perceived by the reference population, although the determinants of the HRQL are not well
      defined. Additionally, differences among critical care units (surgical, cardiac, general) and
      the variety of tools utilised to measure HRQL make it hard to compare results.

      Highly specialised ICUs constitute a very stressful environment for the patient, which has
      been related to the onset of delirium or an acute confusional state in the phases of the
      disease , but other mid and long-term repercussions such as memory loss, delusion and other
      neurophysiological disturbances that have an effect on HRQL perception have been described.

      Some authors have studied factors that have a stressful effect on mechanically ventilated
      patients and have found that one of the worst remembered and most stressful experiences,
      aside from thirst and pain, is endotracheal tube discomfort.

      There are several tools to assess stressors within ICU, and all of them allow us to assess
      the degree of stress or nuisance experienced by the patient for each factor. One of the most
      well-known is the Intensive Care Unit Environmental Stressor Scale (ICUESS), which allows us
      to perform a global evaluation of the ICU but does not take into account problems secondary
      to tracheal intubation or MV. Another tool recently described in a HRQL study on mechanically
      ventilated patients is the ICU Stressful Experience Questionnaire (ICU-SEQ), which evaluates
      the general aspects of an ICU setting but also emphasizes those problems that originated as a
      result of orotracheal intubation and MV.

      Knowing what HRQL is, its stressors and which NSO have an influence on it should allow us to
      design and implement strategies and nursing care plans to minimise negative effects and
      address chronic problems, thereby improving the patient's welfare, security and quality of
      life.

      Setting The study will be carried out at the Intensive Care Unit of the Hospital Universitari
      Vall d'Hebron, located in Barcelona, Spain, which is a high-complexity hospital and a
      referral centre for many disease processes at a national level.

      Sample size According to data previously collected in our department, a total of 360 patients
      will meet the inclusion criteria during the study timeframe. Assuming possible losses and a
      high mortality rate within critical care, the final cohort is expected to be 200 patients.

      Sampling technique A non-probabilistic convenience sampling will be used, including patients
      as they are admitted to the ICU.

      Variables The following variables will be collected: anthropometric and sociodemographic data
      and data related to ICU admission, mechanical ventilation, NSO, HRQL and ICU stressors.

      Assessment Tools To assess HRQL, the Short-Form-36 Health Survey (SF-36) will be used. For a
      more specific assessment on respiratory issues, the Saint Georges Respiratory Questionnaire
      (SGRQ) will be used. Both questionnaires have been validated in Spanish.

      To evaluate ICU stressors, the ICU Stressful Experience Questionnaire (ICU-SEQ) will be used.
      This tool was created by Rotondi and modified by Samuelson. In addition to evaluating general
      ICU experiences, it also evaluates experiences related to the endotracheal tube.

      To translate and adapt the ICU-SEQ into Spanish, the following process will be used:

        1. Translation and back translation into Spanish by two bilingual translators.

        2. Transcultural adaptation via a pilot study to assess proper comprehension of the
           different items.

      Data Collection Data will be collected over 12 consecutive months. Patient selection for the
      study cohort will be performed by the research team by evaluating all patients who may need
      or had needed MV. Follow up documentation will be provided for all mechanically ventilated
      patients. When a patient has been mechanically ventilated for over 48 hours, informed consent
      will be obtained from the next of kin. From that moment, all patient data from their medical
      records will be gathered until MV is discontinued.

      One week after the patient has been discharged from the ICU, informed consent will be
      obtained from the patient. Approaching the patient earlier is considered to be inappropriate
      by the research team. If the patient agrees to participate in the study, the SF-36, SGRQ and
      ICU-SEQ questionnaires will be provided for the patient to complete. The same questionnaires
      will be given to the main caregiver at that time.

      One year after ICU discharge, the same questionnaires will be completed again by the patient
      to assess the persistency of stressors' sequelae.

      Data Analysis A descriptive analysis will be carried out for all variables. Mean and standard
      deviation will be utilised for quantitative variables that follow a normal distribution. For
      the rest of the variables, the median, maximum and minimum values will be used. Qualitative
      variables will be described utilising absolute frequencies and percentage values for each
      category.

      Statistical analysis of HRQL results will be performed on the questionnaire's different
      dimensions as well as on the questionnaire as a whole. To compare the results obtained at the
      time of ICU discharge with those obtained one year after discharge, Student's t-test or
      Wilcoxon test will be applied to the paired data depending on the variable distribution. This
      analysis will also depend on the length of MV.

      A multiple regression model will be elaborated utilising as HRQL as the result variable.
      Relevant clinical situations (number of transfusions and surgical interventions, pressure
      ulcers, nosocomial infections…) will be considered as independent variables.

      All analysis will be performed with a 95% confidence interval.

      Limitations and Bias The main limitation of this study is that the patient's quality of life
      one year after ICU discharge could be affected by non-identifiable events that have no
      relation to those studied. The main bias is the patient's memory because the patients will be
      asked about events that may be difficult to recall.

      Ethical considerations This study has been approved by the Ethics Committee of Clinical
      Investigation of the Hospital Universitari Vall d'Hebron.

      Informed consent will be obtained from patients and main caregivers, always making sure
      participants' confidentiality and anonymity is preserved through the process.
    
  