
    
      Human embryos have higher aneuploidy rates (20-80%) than other species. A considerable
      proportion of these aneuploid embryos have the ability to reach the blastocyst stage.
      However, depending on the aneuploidy type, some will fail to implant in the uterus, while
      others will implant but will be unable to carry out early embryonic development
      (miscarriage), or very rarely, result in liveborn children with specific abnormalities. It is
      therefore important to identify aneuploid embryos It is important to identify embryos at risk
      for aneuploid chromosomes in patients with advanced maternal age (AMA), recurrent
      implantation failure (RIF) or recurrent miscarriage (RM).

      The identification of aneuploidies is especially important in embryos from patients with
      higher aneuploidy risk such as those with advanced maternal age (AMA), recurrent implantation
      failure (RIF), or recurrent miscarriage (RM). Therefore, normal embryo morphology and
      development are dependent on the chromosomal complement.

      PGT-A technique analyse the full chromosome content of a single cell with high sensitivity
      and specificity but requires an invasive biopsy to obtain embryonic material for the genetic
      analysis. Thus, non-invasive methods to replace the existing invasive testing method would be
      useful in the improvement of maternal and fetal safety.

      Recently, there have been many research advances in the field of genetic testing. Cell-free
      DNA (cfDNA) has been observed in spent embryo culture media. The origin of the cfDNA at the
      blastocyst stage could be attributed to apoptotic events which may occur during normal
      development. This has encouraged different research groups to carry out analysis spent
      culture media.

      Various studies were initially carried out to detect specific genes associated with monogenic
      disorders (MTHFR9, HBA1/HBA210, SRY11). Recently, non-invasive PGT-A has been developed, with
      highly variable results on the concordance rate (3.5%,59.1%, and 85.7%, 30.6%). The
      chromosomal status of the embryo from the DNA present in the spent culture medium was
      compared to the one obtained following the standard protocol using trophectoderm biopsy. The
      difference in the reported results can be related to the different methodologies applied
      because different amplification and detection methods -aCGH or NGS- were used. Moreover, the
      concordance rates were defined differently on each study, i.e. aneuploid results in spent
      culture media and trophectoderm biopsy could be considered concordant despite of showing not
      the same aneuploid chromosomes.

      The impact of culture conditions in the efficiency of the non-invasive approach has been
      investigated by Hammond et al, (2016). They found that there was consistently a very low
      level of DNA contamination (mitochondrial and nuclear DNA) in media controls, from three
      different types of commercial media, that had not been exposed to embryos. The low baseline
      level of DNA contamination observed is thought to originate from the protein supplement of
      the culture media.

      Finally, there could be influence of two relevant factors on PGT-A: contamination with
      maternal DNA from granulosa cells (MCC) and mosaicism.

      To improve the results of IVF (In vitro Fertilization) programs, there is a need to identify
      the embryo with highest implantation potential. Embryo chromosomal analysis allows the
      selection of euploid embryos, which have a higher implantation success rate.

      The development of a non-invasive PGT-A protocol will improve the current methodologies used
      to identify those euploid embryos avoiding the detrimental effect of the biopsy on the embryo
      and decreasing the economic cost.

      The initial estimated sample size calculated was 3245 embryos (each embryo is considered as a
      subject in the study), considering a dropout rate of 30%.

      Data will be grouped and analyzed at Igenomix at three time points of the study: once 25
      embryos of each center have been processed (to assess the implementation of the methodology),
      after the 30% of the samples have been processed (as an interim to check the results) and at
      the end of the study for the final analysis including the follow up of the clinical outcome.

      After the interim analysis performed at 30% of recruitment, the total sample size has been
      recalculated as 2620 samples, considering a drop-out rate of 5% according to the drop-out
      rate observed during the interim analysis. Results of the interim analysis published in Rubio
      et al., AJOG 2020.
    
  