
    
      Malignant melanoma, or simply melanoma, is a potentially fatal cancer which begins as a skin
      cancer and can spread very aggressively. The incidence of melanoma has been rising rapidly
      over the last decade and it is now becoming a serious health threat in young adults as well
      as older adults. Unfortunately, if melanoma escapes complete surgical removal, there are very
      few treatments which have been found very effective in controlling its growth and spread. If
      the cancer spreads to the lymph node system or beyond, the chances for long-term survival can
      be very poor.

      This study proposes to test the effectiveness for melanoma treatment of a combination of two
      medicines which are in widespread use for other medical conditions. Interferon alfa-2b (also
      known simply as interferon or by a brand name Intron-A) is an exact replica of a protein
      produced by the human immune system. The human body makes this immune system regulator to
      help it kill cells in the body which are damaged or infected and thus need to be removed
      before they can cause further harm to the body. This medicine is often prescribed for
      infections like hepatitis, some types of cancer including melanoma, and immune system
      disorders. This study uses interferon in moderate doses, much less than typically used for
      melanoma treatment when it is used alone, and so the side effects of treatment may be milder.
      The other medicine being used in combination with it is lovastatin. This medicine is most
      often used to help patients reduce their cholesterol levels and therefore reduce the risk of
      heart attacks and strokes. Millions of people use this medicine because it has been found
      very safe and effective. Research has shown that it also has significant effects against the
      growth of cancer cells in laboratory cultures and in some animal models.

      These two medicines have been used together to treat patients with cancer for several years
      in our medical practice, but until now they have not been formally tested in a clinical
      trial. This study will test how well the combination of these medicines can perform and test
      the hypothesis that they can achieve better survival and control of disease than currently
      available standard treatment. The incidence of side effects and other details will be
      monitored too.

      This study is open to qualifying patients with stage 2, 3, or 4 melanoma. The results for
      patients in each group will be compared to other patients in the study with the same or
      similar stage of disease and with historical results of patients receiving the standard,
      already-approved treatments for similar stages of melanoma.
    
  