
    
      There are very few published studies to examine the prevalence of Helicobacter infection in
      Myanmar. Two previous studies (both < 400 participants) suggested that the prevalence was
      approximately 50% (Myint WJG 2015, Aye MMJ 2015).

      The high prevalence of H.pylori is important because gastric adenocarcinoma is the fourth
      most common cancer in the country (WHO 2014). Gastric cancer has an almost uniformly dismal
      5-year survival rates in this resource-limited country and is estimated to kill almost 5000
      patients per year in Myanmar (WHO 2014).

      In addition, anecdotally there is a significant associated burden of peptic ulcer disease in
      the country, although there are few published data to examine the issue.

      Strategies to diagnose and eradicate H.pylori must be considered in the context that the
      annual per capita health budget is USD103 (World Bank 2016).

      Therapeutic regimens must also consider the issue of antimicrobial resistance, which varies
      from country to country. There are very few data from Myanmar to guide us and those that are
      available vary enormously.

      In vitro antibiotic resistance by agent

      Amoxycillin 0%, 8%, 7%

      Metronidazole 33%, 54%,100%

      Clarithromycin 0%, 13%, 50%

      Levofloxacin 6%, NR, 3%

      Tetracycline 0%, NR, NR

      Ciprofloxacin 6%, NR NR

      Studies: Mahachai 2012, Aye 2005, Aye 2014

      However, it is also known that in vitro resistance does not necessarily translate into in
      vivo failure. Furthermore in a resource poor setting like Myanmar, a strategy of
      susceptibility guided treatment is not feasible. Indeed, this is not likely to be
      cost-effective in even wealthy countries (ACG guidelines 2017 and Maastricht consensus
      guidelines 2017).

      The current first line therapy for H.pylori in Myanmar is 10-14 days of concomitant bd PPI +
      bd Clarithromycin + bd Amoxycillin + bd metronidazole. This regimen contains up to 126 pills
      (14 days) and costs up to USD16 (14 days). It is likely that 14 days of 4 drug therapy will
      generate issues with side effects and adherence, although again this has not been examined
      locally.

      Alternatively, a 10-day sequential regimen of 5 days of bd PPI + Amoxycillin, then 5 days of
      bd PPI + Clarithromycin and Tinidazole reduces the pill load to 50 pills and the total drug
      cost to USD6. This regimen has been shown to be highly effective in Slovenia (94.2%),
      Portugal (90%), Belgium (90%), Israel (95.9%), Thailand (94%), Taiwan (91.9%), Singapore
      (90.3%), and the United Arab Emirates (88.6%) (Review, De Francesco 2017).

      A sequential regimen has been shown to have less satisfactory success rates in Greece ,
      Spain, Ireland, Turkey, Iran, Korea, China, and Puerto Rico (although in many of these
      studies, metronidazole was used instead of tinidazole (Review, De Francesco 2017)).

      The current second-line regimen in Myanmar is 10-14 days of bd PPI + Levofloxacin +
      Amoxycillin (pill load 80 pills for 10 days, total cost USD3). In this era of evolving drug
      resistance, we may not want to use quinolones as first line therapy however.

      The current third line therapy is Bismuth based quadruple therapy (BQT). This regimen is
      comprised of Bismuth + PPI + Tetracycline + Tinidazole (pill load 120 pills, total cost
      USD50)

      The proposed study aims to demonstrate that a 10-day course of sequential therapy is not
      inferior to 14 days of 4 drug concomitant therapy. Assuming a cure rate of 80% for
      Concomitant 4 drug therapy, and an inferiority bound of 10%, the sample size is 626 (313
      patients in each arm). To identify 626 patients, we will need to screen approximately 1250
      patients. In this resource-poor setting, diagnosis will be established using monoclonal stool
      antigen testing (SAT BioMerieux BioNexia). Patients who test positive with SAT will be
      randomised 1:1 in an open label study to either a 10-day course of sequential therapy or the
      current first line regimen of concomitant 4 drug therapy. Four weeks after completing
      therapy, eradication will be confirmed with repeat SAT.

      Those patients failing the first line therapy would then receive second line levofloxacin and
      then tested to confirm eradication. This would determine the efficacy of the country's
      current second line therapy.

      Finally, patients failing first and second line therapy would receive the more involved and
      expensive third line therapy. Once again, this would determine the efficacy of third line
      therapy.

      To ensure all participants had their H.pylori infection eradicated, those failing three lines
      of therapy would be offered endoscopy and culture directed therapy.

      The performance of the stool antigen test is affected by the PPI therapy, so the study can't
      easily enrol patients presenting with acute symptoms who will frequently have already been
      taking PPI therapy (higher rate of false negatives). Therefore, the study will enrol
      outpatients about to commence aspirin, NSAIDs or anticoagulants (in whom the risk of GI
      bleeding is higher) or patients with a personal history of peptic ulcer disease or family
      history of gastric cancer. These are all indications for H.pylori testing (ACG guidelines
      2017 and Maastricht consensus guidelines 2017).

      Outputs

        1. The prevalence of H.pylori in Yangon, Myanmar

        2. Clinical and demographic associations of H.pylori infection in Myanmar

        3. Efficacy of

             1. Current first line therapy: 14 days of concomitant PPI + amoxy + clari + metro

             2. Alternative: 10 days of sequential PPI + amoxy + clari + Tinidazole

             3. Current second line therapy: 14 days of PPI + Levo + Amoxy

             4. Current third line therapy: 14 days of Bismuth + PPI + tetracycline + metro (BQT)

        4. Acceptability - to patients and staff - of stool antigen testing for H.pylori screening
           and for confirming eradication.
    
  