
    
      Prostate cancer is a major health problem leading to significant morbidity and mortality in
      men worldwide. Approved therapies for metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC)
      include abiraterone and enzalutamide (targeting the androgen signaling pathway), radium-223
      (bone targeting radionuclide therapy), and taxane chemotherapy. Controversy remains on
      optimal sequencing of available therapeutic agents, and these drugs are still commonly
      prescribed in a trial-and-error manner. Only a minority of patients receives the full benefit
      of the anticancer armamentarium, but all experience unnecessary side-effects, quality of life
      deterioration, and delay in onset to adequate life-prolonging treatment. In addition, the
      prescription of ineffective drugs and avoidable hospital admissions contribute to the
      financial burden of health care systems.

      In recent years, distinct molecular subsets of prostate cancer have been identified in mCRPC.
      These molecular defects may guide physicians in proper sequencing of medication and in
      predicting the individual response more accurately. In previous studies using next-generation
      sequencing (NGS) mCRPC patients could be grouped into clearly distinct molecular subtypes.
      Moreover, in these subtypes biomarkers associated with resistance to certain therapies, or
      biomarkers actually predictive for enhanced response were identified.

      In this study the investigators will introduce routine molecular characterization in
      participants with mCRPC as early as possible in their disease state. Participants will be
      screened before initiation of second-line treatment, since early identification will maximize
      clinical and financial benefit. Following screening, participants will be discussed in
      molecular tumor board and clinical meetings, and stratified to the agent they are most likely
      to respond to. Translational research is included to identify and validate additional
      predictive molecular biomarkers.
    
  