
    
      Cigarette smoking and obesity are the leading causes of preventable morbidity and mortality
      in the U.S. Quitting smoking can lead to weight gain and obesity-related co-morbidities.
      Quitlines provide a natural population-based laboratory to test innovative approaches to help
      people quit smoking and control their weight. However, there is a lack of understanding of
      the effectiveness of intervening on both smoking and weight at the same time. Thus, we
      propose to test the impact on abstinence and weight control of adding an evidence-based
      weight control intervention simultaneously with or sequentially (following) cessation
      treatment via telephone quitlines.

      This study, modeled on Co-I Dr. Bonnie Springs successful efficacy trial, is the first
      attempt to replicate the findings using widely available phone and web-based programs. The
      cessation program will be the effective and cost effective Quit For Life® quitline operated
      by Alere Wellbeing. The weight management program will be the Weight Talk program operated by
      Alere Wellbeing, also shown to be feasible, acceptable and effective in producing positive
      changes in weight, eating behaviors and physical activity. We will be using 5 calls from the
      Weight Talk program for the intervention content for the simultaneous and sequential arms.

      The proposed randomized controlled trial compares the effectiveness for both smoking
      cessation and weight control of two alternative combined interventions offered via telephone
      quitline, as compared to standard of care quitline treatment addressing cessation alone. The
      interventions to be compared are cessation treatment alone versus cessation treatment
      combined with weight control treatment added either simultaneously or sequentially. We
      propose to recruit 2550 smokers who call a quitline and randomly assign them to one of three
      groups: (a) Standard Care (STD): cessation treatment calls (5 proactive calls with a quit
      coach followed by 5 contact control calls); (b) Simultaneous: weight control treatment
      simultaneous with cessation treatment (5 proactive calls with a quit coach combined with
      weight coach/nutritionist followed by 5 'contact control calls'), or (c) Sequential: weight
      control treatment added after cessation treatment (5 proactive calls with a quit coach
      followed by 5 weight coach/nutritionist calls). All three interventions include a total of 10
      phone counseling calls, interactive web, mailed support materials, access to nicotine
      replacement therapy (NRT) and unlimited participant-initiated calls.

      Significance: This study is novel. Combining two phone/web based behavior change programs
      together has never been tested. A cost-effective, population-based strategy for delivering a
      combined smoking cessation and weight control intervention stands to make a significant
      impact. The option of new telephone counseling that helps smokers quit and control their
      weight could encourage smokers to call quitlines who otherwise might not because they are
      concerned about gaining weight. Combined smoking and weight treatment could also increase
      abstinence rates over current best-practice treatment and do so without weight gained its
      adverse consequences. Moreover, if effective, the intervention could rapidly be disseminated
      to the 500,000 smokers who use quitlines annually in the U.S., a large proportion of whom are
      obese.
    
  