
    
      ALS is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder without cure or known treatment that
      significantly improves function. Loss of motor neurons in the brain and spinal cord of ALS
      patients causes the progressive symptoms. Laboratory studies have linked inducible nitric
      oxide synthase (iNOS) and caspase enzyme activation to motor nerve cell death in ALS.
      Minocycline-a medication currently approved by the FDA for treatment of bacterial
      infections-is a tetracycline antibiotic with high central nervous system penetration when
      taken orally. The drug inhibits the activity of iNOS and caspase enzymes.

      Minocycline has been tested and shown to protect nerve cells in many scientific experiments.
      It reduces cell death and prolongs survival in animal models of ALS, stroke, trauma,
      Huntington's disease, and Parkinson's disease. It has been shown to be beneficial in many
      different animal experiments of ALS, conducted in Europe, Canada and the United States.

      Minocycline has been tested in 2 preliminary human trials and has been shown to be safe in
      patients with ALS. It has been well tolerated in conjunction with riluzole (Rilutek), the
      only currently FDA-approved medication for ALS.

      This trial is the final important step in determining whether minocycline improves the course
      of ALS. The principle objective of this clinical trial is to determine whether minocycline
      slows disease progression and helps maintain function in patients with ALS. This multi-center
      placebo-controlled study will select patients early in the course of ALS, when a
      neuroprotective therapy may be most beneficial. The study will measure change in function (as
      detected by ALSFRS-R scores), strength, pulmonary function, survival, and quality of life.
      Participants will undergo monthly outpatient evaluations and analysis of laboratory and
      adverse events. This is a 13-month study.
    
  