
    
      In this phase III trial subjects will be screened and enter a 2-week run-in period (or a
      3-week run-in period if the subject is using agents that influence bowel habit) during which
      the presence of constipation will be confirmed [the subject will complete an electronic daily
      diary (e-diary)]. At the start of run-in, all existing laxative medication will be withdrawn
      and subjects will be instructed not to change their diet or lifestyle during the trial.
      Subjects will be allowed to take a laxative [Dulcolax (bisacodyl)] as rescue medication
      during the trial, but only if they have not had a bowel movement (BM) for 3 or more
      consecutive days. An enema can only be used after unsuccessful use of Dulcolax (bisacodyl).
      No Dulcolax (bisacodyl) should be taken or enemas used between 48 hours before and 48 hours
      after the first intake of study medication.

      After the run-in subjects will be randomly assigned to placebo or prucalopride in an equal
      ratio (1:1) if the subject fulfils the constipation criteria for inclusion. Randomisation
      will be stratified by country and by the average number of complete bowel movements (CBM)
      during run-in: 0 CBM/week and > 0 CBM/week.

      Adult subjects (i.e. subjects ≥18 to <65 years of age) will take 2 mg prucalopride or
      matching placebo once daily before breakfast during the entire 12-week treatment period.
      Elderly subjects (i.e. subjects ≥65 years of age) will start at a dose of 1 mg prucalopride
      or matching placebo once daily before breakfast. In case of insufficient response, defined as
      an average of <3 spontaneous complete bowel movements (SCBM)/week during the preceding 2
      weeks of treatment (i.e. since the previous visit) at Week 2 or Week 4, the daily dose has to
      be increased to 2 mg (or matching placebo). Once the dose is increased to 2 mg once daily the
      subject will stay on this dose for the remainder of the trial. After Week 4 (Visit 4) no
      changes in dose are allowed anymore.
    
  