
    
      Heart failure (HF) is a disabling chronic disease and the most frequent discharge diagnosis
      for hospitalization among older adults.The American Heart Association (AHA) 2006 update on
      heart disease reported that 5 million Americans are believed to have symptomatic HF, and
      550,000 patients are newly diagnosed each year. The estimated direct and indirect cost of HF
      in the United States (U.S.) for 2006 was ~$29.6 billion. Despite the significant resources
      expended on the treatment of this disease, outcomes remain poor. The five-year survival for
      individuals diagnosed with HF is less than 50%, and in end-stage HF, the one-year survival
      may be as low as 25% regardless of medical therapy.

      Recent studies suggest that the failing heart is not refractory to treatment, as was
      previously believed. For example, the observation that a small percentage of subjects with
      left ventricular assist devices can be permanently weaned from their device strongly suggests
      that damaged hearts are capable of recovering lost function.

      Celladon Corporation (Celladon) is investigating gene transfer as a method to restore calcium
      ion (Ca++) cycling in HF patients. The gene therapy vehicle uses a recombinant
      adeno-associated viral vector (AAV), which consists of an AAV serotype 1 capsid and contains
      the human sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca++ ATPAse (SERCA2a) complementary DNA (cDNA) flanked by
      inverted terminal repeats derived from AAV serotype 2 (AAV1/SERCA2a). MYDICAR® refers to
      AAV1/SERCA2a drug product intended for administration by percutaneous delivery. Phase 1/2
      clinical trials have demonstrated initial safety and evidence of improvement in clinical
      outcomes at MYDICAR doses of up to 1 x 10^13 DNase-resistant particles (DRP). The trial
      described here is designed to investigate the safety profile and preliminary activity of
      MYDICAR at a dose of 2.5 x 10^13 DRP; this dose is 2.5-fold higher than previously
      investigated doses.
    
  