
    
      Historical surgical series have reported that the chance of cure with surgery alone is
      approximately one in four. Many phase II studies and some phase III studies have examined the
      role of induction (preoperative) chemotherapy and radiation. In general, these studies have
      demonstrated a trend to improved survival using an induction regimen with one phase III study
      reporting a significant improvement in survival. Two meta-analyses have failed to demonstrate
      a clear advantage of an induction regimen.

      When these trials are reviewed, it is apparent that there is a subgroup of patients who are
      found at the time of resection to have had a complete pathological response to their
      treatment, and these patients clearly experience improved survival.

      These previous trials have used older chemotherapy agents. Nevertheless, cisplatin remains
      one of the most active drugs available for treating solid tumours. Irinotecan is a newer drug
      that has demonstrated significant activity in colorectal cancer and more recently in
      esophageal cancer. A previous single institution trial of cisplatin and irinotecan in
      esophageal cancer demonstrated a significant response and acceptable toxicity.

      By giving one cycle of chemotherapy alone first, it is expected that the dysphagia usually
      experienced by these patients will improve sufficiently and that nutritional support, i.e.
      feeding tube, will not be required (as has been demonstrated in a previous study of this drug
      combination). The same drugs will then be given concurrently with external beam radiation in
      order to take advantage of the radiosensitizing properties of both these drugs.

      This will be followed by a boost dose of radiation, which will provide a total dose in the
      tumourcidal range. Surgery will follow the boost dose of radiation.

      This study proposes to combine two drugs with demonstrated activity in esophageal cancer,
      cisplatin and Irinotecan, with radiation prior to surgery, with the hypothesis that these
      more active agents will offer better control of distant metastatic disease. Their
      radiosensitizing properties, when combined with radiation, will improve local control and
      provide an increased rate of pathological complete response in patients with surgically
      resectable esophageal cancer.
    
  