
    
      Seniors consume a large proportion of health care resources in Canada. It is recognized that
      a significant proportion of seniors over 75 years of age are at risk of functional decline,
      and thus of institutionalization and death. A recent meta-analysis of nineteen studies of
      preventive primary care outreach interventions with older persons found that such
      interventions were associated with a significant reduction of mortality (Summary Odds Ratio
      [OR] 0.83, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.75 to 0.91) and an increased likelihood of living
      in the community (OR 1.23, 95% CI 1.06 to 1.43). While four of the nineteen studies were
      conducted in Canada, none of these examined health-related quality of life or the cost
      effectiveness of the intervention.

      The study we are conducting is a randomized controlled trial of a preventive primary care
      outreach service provided to high risk seniors living in the community. The goal of this
      service is to identify unrecognized problems and individuals at increased risk and to link
      individuals to care. This preventive primary care service is provided by nurse case managers.
      At an initial home visit, the nurse will conduct a comprehensive, multidimensional
      assessment, identify problems and develop a plan of care, using the Minimum Data Set for Home
      Care and Client Assessment Protocols. The nurse will work with the senior and the family
      physician to plan and implement care. While frequency of home and phone visits will depend on
      the needs of seniors, it is expected that, on average, seniors in the intervention group will
      receive 10 hours of nursing contact during the one year of intervention.

      We have recruited primary care networks and family physician practices within these networks.
      Within these practices, we are screening all seniors aged 75 and over. The sample includes
      seniors aged 75 and over who are identified to be at risk according to the Sherbrooke Postal
      Questionnaire. We will recruit 640 patients for the study and randomly allocate them to
      intervention and control groups. A research assistant, who is blind to group allocation, will
      collect data from seniors at baseline, six months, and at the end of one year.

      Outcome measures include health-related quality of life (quality adjusted life years
      [QALYs]), health and social service utilization and costs, mortality, institutionalization,
      functional status, and perceived health status.

      Primary Hypothesis:

      The intervention compared to usual care will result in higher health-related quality of life.

      Secondary Hypotheses:

      Compared to usual care, the PPCO intervention will result in:

        -  the same or lower costs associated with service utilization;

        -  less functional decline;

        -  reduced mortality;

        -  lower rates of institutionalization; and

        -  better self-rated health.

      The available evidence regarding the effectiveness and economic impact of primary care
      interventions with seniors is inadequate for the development of health care policy in Ontario
      and Canada. The present proposal employs a research design that addresses the limitations of
      research conducted to date. The results of this study will guide policy makers in addressing
      problems in primary care for seniors and assist in decision making related to services for
      high risk seniors.
    
  