
    
      The purpose of this pilot randomized controlled study is to adapt a previously tested
      intervention to improve resting state network and blood pressure in 36 (n=12 intervention;
      n=12 attention control; n = 12 control) Black and African American older adults with early
      Alzheimer's disease and related dementia disorders and hypertension.

      The study aims are to:

      A.1. Establish the feasibility and acceptability of the intervention in Black and African
      Americans with Alzheimer's disease and related dementia disorders and hypertension.

      H1: The intervention will be feasible and acceptable to Black and African Americans with
      Alzheimer's disease and related dementia disorders. Feasibility will be measured by
      recruitment, attendance, and attrition. Acceptability will be measured by a garnering
      feedback in a debriefing after each session.

      A.2. Determine the effect size of the difference between the intervention, attention control,
      and control groups in resting state network connectivity and working memory and blood
      pressure to inform the sample size for the R01 trial.

      H2: We hypothesize that compared to both control groups; the intervention group will have
      greater improvement in process measures of self-management mechanisms (self-efficacy,
      self-regulation, and emotion regulation), chronic stress, diet, and physical activity. The
      functional magnetic resonance imaging and blood pressure will be obtained at baseline and 3
      months. The intervention group (Mindfulness + DASH) will have improved resting state network
      connectivity and blood pressure as compared to the attention control (2-hour group social
      time and brief lecture on a non-diet/mindfulness topic such as personal safety, fire safety,
      and disaster preparedness) and the control group (care as usual with no intervention). The
      Center for Cognitive and Behavioral Brain Imaging, Arts & Sciences co-investigators will
      analyze imaging data using their newly published statistical network model to quantify the
      subnetwork structures of the resting state network and evaluate changes of their topological
      properties.
    
  