
    
      Nightmares are a common problem affecting 2-8% of the general population and a higher
      proportion of clinical populations. The negative consequences of untreated nightmares are
      significant and include impaired quality of life, sleep deprivation (often resulting in an
      increased intensity of nightmares), insomnia, daytime sleepiness, and fatigue. Untreated
      nightmares can also exacerbate the symptoms of underlying psychological dysfunction in people
      with depression and anxiety, leading to poor occupational and or social functioning.
      Nightmares can be idiopathic or associated with the use (or withdrawal) of certain
      medications or substances, or associated with disorders including PTSD.

      NightWare (Minneapolis, MN) has developed a novel approach to the treatment of nightmares.
      Through the use of a smartwatch-based application that senses physiologic parameters, the
      participant is aroused from sleep (without awakening the participant) so that the nightmare
      is interrupted prior to reaching a threshold of severity in which the participant would
      awaken in distress. Seconds later the participant returns to sleep without having experienced
      a nightmare. This approach avoids risk from pharmacological treatment, avoids exacerbation of
      symptoms from image rehearsal therapy and allows for a simple method with easily achieved
      adherence compared to existing treatments.

      The NightWare digital therapeutic system consists of a proprietary software application
      installed on a smartwatch. The application has been effective in focus groups when used on
      both Apple smartwatches and Motorola smartwatches. For the purposes of this study, the
      investigators will be using only the Apple (Cupertino, CA) 3rd generation smartwatch and the
      Apple iPhone. The NightWare application uses physiological markers obtained via the
      smartwatch to determine by proprietary algorithm whether a participant is in the early stages
      of a nightmare, but has not yet awoken in distress. As directed by the algorithm, the
      smartwatch then applies varying degrees of vibratory stimulation to the wrist over variable
      lengths of time with the intention of arousing the participant from sleep without eliciting
      an awakening.
    
  