
    
      The incidence of congenital heart disease (CHD) is approximately 1/100 live born children, of
      which up to 50% require cardiac surgery to correct the underlying abnormality at some stage
      during their life. (Centre for Disease Control and Prevention, USA). Despite major
      improvements in CPB devices, the exposure of host blood to large artificial organ surfaces,
      combined with myocardial injury during planned myocardial ischemia, results in a significant
      systemic inflammatory response. CPB-triggered systemic inflammatory syndrome is responsible
      for the most serious and potentially life-threatening side effects associated with cardiac
      surgery. It is characterized by endotoxin release, leukocyte and complement activation, and
      widespread activation of inflammatory mediators, resulting in endothelial leak, increased
      oxygen consumption, and organ dysfunction.

      NO is an endogenous anti-inflammatory mediator that helps to protect endothelial beds and
      immunologically active cells. NO has a myocardial protective effect by reducing reperfusion
      injury. NO generation is essential for regulation of endothelial function and microvascular
      inflammation. However, dysregulation of endogenous NO during CPB may aggravate the subsequent
      inflammatory response.

      A randomized controlled study adding NO into the bypass circuit was conducted by the Royal
      Children's Hospital in Melbourne on 198 children. This pilot study confirmed the positive
      effects of gaseous NO reported in the U.S. trial, as well as a reduction in the incidence of
      low cardiac output syndrome (LCOS). Other improved patient outcomes included a reduced need
      for extracorporeal life support (ECLS), trends towards a reduced length of stay, and shorter
      duration of ventilation. In light of these promising preliminary results from these two
      separate studies, a large multicentre trial to test these findings in children requiring
      cardiac surgery is needed.

      The NASO study is running concurrently with the Nitric Oxide during Cardio Pulmonary Bypass
      during surgery for congenital heart defects: A Randomised Controlled Trial study (ANZCTR
      Trial Registry ID: ACTRN12617000821392) within Australia (run by Lady Cilento, Brisbane).
      This study is aiming to look at the effects of Nitric Oxide on all children under the age of
      2 years undergoing bypass surgery for CHD.

      TGA presents in 5-7% of all patients with congenital heart disease and isolated TGA is
      managed in a similar manner all over the world. The surgical treatment for this is the ASO.
      Hence this single operation and diagnosis provides an appropriate setting to evaluate the
      efficacy of NO in the CPB circuit. By allowing each centre to have their own protocols of
      care (pre, intra and postoperatively) and only collecting 'routine clinical data", the
      investigators anticipate each centre having high rates of screening and consent.

      Patients will be stratified by centre and by age at time of surgery. Participants will be
      randomized into one of two arms:

        -  Intervention arm will receive NO 20 parts per million (ppm) into the oxygenator of a
           cardio-pulmonary bypass circuit

        -  Control arm will not receive NO

      At the end of CPB, the participants will return to the Intensive Care Unit where normal care
      will continue.

      A total of 800 participants will be enrolled in the study and will be stratified by centre
      and age at time of surgery.

      Study aims to investigate whether exposure to gaseous NO reduces the incidence of
      postoperative major adverse events in infants on cardiopulmonary bypass.
    
  