
    
      This study aims to examine the effects of low-level exposures to prevalent neurotoxicants on
      health, growth, and neurobehavior among a representative sample of children. Pregnant women
      were enrolled in the project around 16 weeks of gestation. In the first phase of the study,
      we followed children resulting from the pregnancy through the age of 36 months. The second
      phase extended follow-up through 72 months. Phase 3 extended follow-up to 8 years (range
      7.5-10) with comprehensive neurobehavioral assessments. Phase 4 will allow follow-up at 12
      years (range 11-13), and includes measures of health, growth and body composition, behavior
      and mental health, and neuroimaging. To address the potential adverse health risks of
      environmental chemicals, including persistent pollutants such as PBDEs and PFCs and other
      non-persistent chemicals, on fetal, infant, and child neurobehavior, the investigators are
      systematically examining their associations with endocrine function, cognition, learning and
      memory, motor skills, attention and executive function, and behavior from age 1 to 7.5-10
      years. The investigators are also examining exposures at different developmental stages (in
      utero at 16 weeks of gestation, early childhood, school age, preadolescence) using stored
      biological samples and measure child neurobehavior at 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, and 12 years. This
      longitudinal study will allow the investigators to determine the dose response, windows of
      susceptibility, and persistence of the association. The investigators are also examining the
      contribution of PBDE exposures from house dust in a subset of children who have complete sets
      of samples of maternal serum and child serum collected from annual visits along with
      extensive measures of mouthing behaviors.

      Hypotheses from the four phases of the study are as follows:

        1. In utero exposures measured by survey (alcohol and ETS), maternal and cord blood (lead
           and mercury) maternal and cord serum (ETS), and urine (pesticides) are less predictive
           of in utero effects of prevalent toxicants, including cognition, behavior problems, and
           growth compared with the same toxicants in meconium.

        2. Prenatal and postnatal exposures to prevalent pesticides and ETS are associated with
           adverse neurobehavioral effects, and growth delay in children.

        3. Higher lead exposure, measured during pregnancy and early childhood using maternal
           blood, cord blood, meconium and children's blood, will be associated with lower IQ
           scores and more behavioral problems for children with a maximal blood lead level < 5
           mg/dL.

        4. Children in the lead treatment arm will have: blood lead that is 2.7 mg/dL lower, higher
           IQ scores, greater growth velocity, and fewer behavioral problems than children in the
           control group.

        5. Levels of lead in dust, soil and water will be significantly lower for housing units in
           the lead treatment arm compared with the injury control arm at 36 and 48 month home
           visits.

        6. A multifactorial, housing intervention will reduce residential injury by 30 percent
           among children in the injury treatment arm compared with those in the lead treatment
           arm.

        7. Prenatal and Postnatal exposures to PBDEs and PFCs are associated with altered thyroid
           hormone levels and deficits in infant and child neurobehavior

        8. With increasing child age, PBDE exposure from household dust becomes a stronger
           predictor of child serum PBDE concentration than exposure from placenta or breast milk.

        9. Developmental PBDE and PFC exposures are associated with internalizing symptoms.

       10. Developmental PBDE and PFC exposures are associated with adverse changes in anatomical
           structure, neurochemistry, organization of white matter tracts, and connectivity of
           neural networks.

       11. PFAS affect the gene expression and function of several biological pathways that program
           the fetus/infant towards a 'thrifty phenotype'. This leads to accelerated early
           childhood growth, increased fat mass, and features of metabolic syndrome.
    
  