
    
      Current management protocols regarding cervical laminoplasty is to provide early
      immobilization with rigid cervical neck collars to avoid implant failure, loss of correction
      and recurrence of neurological deficit. However, there is no strong evidence supporting the
      need for neck collars in laminoplasty especially since modern plating fixation methods are
      already very rigid. Cervical neck collars should also not be used haphazardly due to possible
      complications and cost implications. Cervical range of motion has been shown to reduce with
      rigid cervical collars. Decreased voluntary eye movement and postural stability has also been
      illustrated. Longer duration of neck collar use may even lead to postoperative axial neck
      pain. Neck collars has also been linked to complications such as pressure ulcers, nerve
      palsy, skin reactions, dysphagia and respiratory problems. The costs of collar manufacturing
      and maintenance is not small and must also be taken into consideration. With stronger
      fixation devices like plates, the above complications can be avoided. Most clinicians still
      use neck collars for protection mainly due to historical reasons. However this is not an
      evidence-based approach. By eliminating the need for neck collars, patients are allowed
      earlier mobilization, less neck stiffness and axial neck pain while reducing its cost. Hence
      this study is important to provide a basis for changing clinical practice. The study is a
      prospective randomized controlled trial. Patients are consecutively and randomly divided into
      two groups . One group of patients will receive no cervical collar postoperatively and a
      second group will receive rigid neck collar for 3 weeks postoperatively. Operative techniques
      will be standardized. All assessments are performed 3 and 6 weeks, and 3, 6, 12 and 24 months
      postoperatively. The subjects were analysed in terms of clinical and functional outcomes
      through radiographic measurements, clinical assessment and questionnaires.
    
  