
    
      OVERVIEW: This is a Phase 1, multi-center, open-label, dose-escalation study of TAB001, a
      humanized monoclonal IgG4 antibody targeting the Programmed Death -1 (PD-1). It is estimated
      that up to 258 subjects with advanced malignancies will be enrolled in the study. Subjects
      must have an advanced solid malignancy that is refractory to standard therapy or for which no
      standard therapy exists.

      The study has 2 parts. In Part A, up to 18 subjects will be enrolled who have not received
      prior immunotherapy for their cancer. Three dose levels are planned and include: 80, 240 and
      480 mg/dose. Part A will be the traditional 3 + 3 design with 3 or 6 subjects per dose level
      (cohort) and will receive their assigned dose every 14 days in the absence of a dose limiting
      toxicity (DLT) that would prevent further dosing. Subjects will be assigned to a dose level
      in the order of study entry.

      If no DLTs occur in a cohort of 3 subjects, a new cohort of 3 subjects will be treated at the
      next higher dose level. If 1 of 3 subjects in a dose level experiences a DLT, that dose level
      will be expanded to 6 subjects. If only 1 of the 6 subjects has a DLT, then the next cohort
      of 3 subjects will be treated at the next higher dose level. If 2 or more DLTs occur within a
      cohort, then that dose level will be above the maximum tolerated dose (MTD), and the previous
      lower tolerated dose level will be considered the MTD.

      In Part B, up to 240 subjects will be enrolled. Solid tumors may include, but will not be
      limited to, esophageal and gastric carcinoma, nasopharyngeal carcinoma, hepatocellular
      carcinoma sarcomas, both soft tissue sarcoma (excluding leiomyosarcoma) and chondrosarcoma,
      or with agreement of the sponsor, or other tumors that have received at least one line of
      therapy in the metastatic setting.

      Tumor response will be evaluated using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors
      (RECIST v1.1) and the immune-related Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (irRECIST).

      In the absence of confirmed disease progression and intolerable toxicities, subjects will be
      allowed to continue TAB001 administration every 14 days in Part A or every 21 days in Part B.

      DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION TAB001 doses are 80, 240 and 480 mg in Part A and 240 mg in Part B.
      TAB001 will be administered as a 60-minute i.v. infusion for the first 2 doses and may be
      decreased at the investigators discretion to 30 minutes in subsequent infusions.

      SAFETY EVALUATIONS Assessment of safety will be determined by vital sign measurements,
      clinical laboratory tests, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status
      evaluations, diagnostic imaging, physical examinations, electrocardiograms, and the incidence
      and severity of adverse events.

      Safety will also include evaluations of immune safety and immunogenicity. Particular
      attention will be given to adverse events that may follow enhanced T-cell activation such as
      dermatitis and colitis, uveitis, or other immune-related adverse events (irAEs).

      An irAE is a clinically significant adverse event of any organ that is associated with drug
      exposure, of unknown etiology, and is consistent with an immune-mediated mechanism.

      EFFICACY EVALUATIONS will include overall response, disease control, duration of response,
      progression free survival, and overall survival.

      PHARMACOKINETIC EVALUATIONS Pharmacokinetic parameters include AUC, Cmax, CL, Vd and t½z.

      STATISTICAL METHODS The sample size for this study is not determined from power analysis. In
      Part A, it is based on the 3+3 design for dose escalation and safety evaluation requirements.

      Descriptive statistics will include: mean, standard deviation, median, and minimum and
      maximum values for continuous variables; frequencies and percentages for categorical
      variables.

      The efficacy parameters will be summarized using descriptive statistics. All safety and
      pharmacokinetic parameters will be summarized using descriptive statistics.
    
  