
    
      The role of vitamin D deficiency on increased risk for falls and physical dysfunction is
      unclear. It is also unclear if taking vitamin D improves physical function and reduces fall
      risk in older adults. This study will look at the potential effects of taking vitamin D
      regularly on falls and physical function in older adults. A total of 50 individuals with low
      vitamin D levels (i.e., serum 25-hydroxy Vitamin D range 10 ng/mL to 30 ng/mL) and a recent
      fall history will be enrolled into a six-month study. During the 6 months in this study,
      participants will receive capsules containing 800 IU vitamin D, in non-childproof bottles,
      for two 3-month periods. Participants will be asked to consume one capsule per day for the
      duration of this six-month study, as well as attend four study visits: Screening Visit,
      Baseline Visit, 3-Month Visit (in approximately 3 months from the baseline visit), and
      6-Month Visit (in approximately 6 months from the baseline visit). During the screening
      visit, participants will fill out questionnaires, complete the mini-mental status exam, have
      their blood pressure and pulse taken, and a small sample of blood will be drawn from their
      vein. During the baseline visit, participants will fill out questionnaires, have their blood
      pressure, pulse, height, weight, and waist circumference taken, and perform several measures
      of physical function. Finally, a mouth swab will be performed and a staff member will collect
      a stool sample that you brought to the study visit. During the 3-Month Visit, participants
      will complete a questionnaire and have their blood pressure and pulse taken. During the
      6-Month Visit, participants will repeat the questionnaires and measures that they performed
      during the Baseline Visit. The investigators hypothesize that the participants will
      experience fewer falls and function better physically after taking vitamin D for six months.
    
  