
    
      The 36-item Short Form Health Survey is a brief self administered questionnaire that
      generates scores across eight dimensions of health: physical functioning (PF), role
      limitations due to physical problems (RP), bodily pain (BP), general health (GH), vitality
      (VT), social functioning (SF), role limitations due to emotional problems (RE), mental health
      (MH), and one single item scale on health transition. It has proved useful in monitoring
      population health, estimating the burden of different diseases, monitoring outcomes in
      clinical practice, and evaluating treatment effects. The improved longevity suggests that
      health status can no longer be well assessed by population mortality statistics; there is a
      consensus to view health in terms of people's subjective assessment of wellbeing and ability
      to perform social roles the centrality of people's point of view in monitoring health related
      quality of life has led to the proliferation of instruments and a rapid development of
      theoretical literature. Interest in measuring the aspects of health most closely related to
      quality of life usually referred to as health-related. Quality of life (HR-QOL) has increased
      in recent years in Pakistan as in other countries. Advances have been made in methods for
      describing patients' subjective health status using standardized measures, and several valid
      and reliable patient- based measures are available either as generic or disease and treatment
      targeted questionnaires. However, most of these are in English and are intended for use in
      English-speaking settings.With few but relevant exceptions that were actually translated or
      developed as part of Multilanguage and multinational projects. Most of such efforts were
      produced by isolated groups of researchers who seldom published their findings in
      peer-reviewed journals. Among the so-called generic measures, the MOS 36- Item Short Form
      Health Survey (SF-36) is known for its comprehensiveness, brevity, and high standards of
      reliability and validity. It was first translated by independent Italian teams in 1990. With
      the launch of the International Quality of Life Assessment (IQOLA) project. The reliability
      and validity of the SF-36 have been well documented by the developers of the instrument. A
      comparison of a series of generic health status measures indicated that the SF-36 is not only
      psychometrically sound but is also more responsive to clinical improvement than the other
      instruments tested. Moreover, health functioning changed in the hypothesized direction with
      increased age, socioeconomic status and disease status in a population-based longitudinal
      study of the SF-36, which suggests that the instrument is sensitive to changes in the health
      of the general population. The SF-36 has been cross- culturally translated and Adapted to
      many cultures and languages. To the Author's knowledge, there is no version of SF-36 in Urdu.
      Lack of Urdu version of the SF-36 impedes comparison of interventions performed in Urdu
      rehabilitation clinics with those performed elsewhere.
    
  