
    
      Based on positive outcomes from numerous randomized, controlled trials, the implantable
      defibrillators have been included in the current European Society of Cardiology (ESC) and
      American College of Cardiology / American Heart Associations (ACC/AHA) guidelines as a
      standard of care in selected patients, and thus ICD use is currently increasing worldwide.

      In the years after initial implantation, device replacement may become necessary for battery
      depletion or for upgrades to more complex multi-lead ICDs. The increase in generator or lead
      advisories and recalls contributes further to those patients considered for replacement.

      The determination of procedural adverse events is complex, and requires monitoring of both
      short-term complications and long-term patient outcome.

      Previous retrospective series have examined complications with ICD replacements. Moreover,
      the more recent REPLACE registry prospectively collected 6-month complication rates in
      patients undergoing pacemaker or ICD generator replacement at 72 private practice and
      academic sites in United States. This study examined a broad range of major and minor
      complications and found that ICD replacements were associated with a notable complication
      risk, particularly when a transvenous lead addition or revision was required.

      Previous retrospective series have examined complications with ICD implantation in the
      Italian clinical practice, showing frequent interventions for system revision and
      demonstrating an association between adverse events and the complexity of the implanted
      device (i.e. Cardiac Resynchronization Therapy CRT-D versus single- or dual-chamber ICD).
      Moreover, it was shown that device replacement procedures are associated with significantly
      higher risk of infections.

      Nonetheless, detailed data on the complications of ICD replacement in the current Italian
      clinical practice are unavailable.

      This information would be particularly important because ICD replacement-related events may
      be associated not only with a worse clinical outcome, but also with incremental costs to the
      healthcare system.

      The analysis of adverse events would permit to study new preventative strategies with
      significant clinical as well as financial benefits. Moreover, the quantification of the
      complication rate after ICD replacement would permit to estimate the actual long-term cost of
      ICD therapy, and to assess the impact of ICD longevity on the cost-effectiveness of the
      therapy.

      This study has been designed to prospectively estimate long term complication rates (at
      12-months and 5-years) in patients undergoing ICD generator replacement. The study also
      evaluates predictors of complications, patient's management before and during the replacement
      procedure in clinical practice and the estimated costs related to the use of health care
      resources.

      All consecutive patients with standard indications to ICD generator replacement will be
      enrolled In this study. The decision to perform the generator replacement or to upgrade an
      existing device will be made according to the investigators' clinical assessment of their
      patient. The study do not mandate specific surgical or implantation techniques such as venous
      access, use of temporary pacemakers, or surgical site choices. Any commercially available
      generator or lead can be included.

      Patients will be followed for a 60-month period with periodical in-hospital visits or remote
      ICD interrogations via remote patient monitoring (RPM) systems, according to the standard
      hospital practice and the physician's discretion.
    
  