
    
      This study is a comparison between ketamine, used in the standard fashion at Thomas Jefferson
      University Hospital (TJUH) for 5 days, and past data collected from inpatient treatment at
      Methodist Hospital. The collection of blood samples is the only experimental part of the
      study.

      Eligible patients will be identified by a study team member at the end of inpatient treatment
      at Methodist Hospital. The study will be explained to patients at that time. Patients who
      express interest in participation will be given a consent packet to take home and bring to
      their office visit at Jefferson Headache Center prior to admission to TJUH for ketamine
      infusions. Patients will be given the time to read over the study information and have all
      questions answered to their satisfaction. The will provide informed consent at the end of the
      office visit if they choose to participate. Baseline demographic information and past medical
      history including current medications and medications previously tried will be collected.
      Patients and assessors will not be blinded to treatment.

      When the patient is admitted to the hospital for treatment, the neurology team will be the
      admitting team and will consult the Acute Pain Service (APS) for assistance with management
      of ketamine, which is standard practice when ketamine is used for headache treatment at TJUH.
      Patients will be admitted for a total of 5 full days from the time of admission until
      discharge. Adjustments to ketamine infusion will be made according to standard APS protocol
      and data will be collected by the research coordinator or other study team personnel. A
      standard 11-point numeric rating scale (NRS) will be used to obtain pain ratings and they
      will be collected twice daily. A 4-point pain assessment scale (0=none, 1=mild, 2=moderate,
      3=severe) will also be used. Blood samples will be collected at baseline and at 24 hours, 72
      hours, and the final day of treatment. They will be performed at external laboratories. A
      daily headache diary will be used for all patients and they will be given instructions how to
      use one prior to discharge. A depression screening will be performed on day of admission to
      TJUH.

      Follow-up office visits at approximately 2 weeks and 2 months will be used for collection of
      pain ratings and medication use. Headache diaries will be collected. If telephone visits
      occur, assessments will be done over the phone in place of an office visit.
    
  