
    
      STUDY OBJECTIVE

      The objective of this study is to evaluate the safety, tolerability and efficacy of G-FLIP
      (Low Doses of Gemcitabine, Fluorouracil [5FU], Leucovorin, Irinotecan, and Oxaliplatin), when
      used in combination with ascorbic acid (Vitamin C), as first-line therapy in patients with
      advanced pancreatic cancer. The objective of this study is also to evaluate the safety,
      tolerability and efficacy of G-FLIP-DM (G-FLIP + Low Doses of Docetaxel and Mitomycin C),
      when used in combination with ascorbic acid, in patients with advanced pancreatic cancer who
      develop Disease Progression (DP) with G-FLIP treatment. The primary endpoint is 12-month
      survival rate. The secondary endpoints include Overall Survival (OS), Quality of Life (QOL),
      Response Rate (RR), Progression-Free-Survival (PFS), and safety.

      STUDY DRUGS

      Study drugs include G-FLIP, G-FLIP-DM, and Vitamin C (Ascorbic Acid)

      STUDY DESIGN

      Sample Size:

      There will be 30 "evaluable" study subjects in this study.

      Treatments:

      G-FLIP: All study subjects are treated with G-FLIP. Each treatment cycle of G-FLIP is 2
      weeks, with G-FLIP given on Days 1 and 2 of each cycle. If study subjects exhibit Disease
      Progression (DP), treatment with G-FLIP will stop, and they will be treated with G-FLIP-DM.

      G-FLIP-DM: Study subjects who exhibit DP with G-FLIP treatment will be treated with
      G-FLIP-DM. Each G-FLIP-DM treatment cycle is 2 weeks, with G-FLIP-DM given on Days 1 and 2 of
      each cycle.

      Ascorbic Acid: Ascorbic acid will be administered twice weekly throughout the study, given on
      any 2 separate days of the week. Ascorbic acid will be administered throughout the study
      including during the follow-up period, even if treatment with G-FLIP or G-FLIP-DM has been
      terminated due to DP. Additionally, in 50% of the study subjects (i.e., 15 evaluable study
      subjects), treatment with ascorbic acid will begin on the same week when G-FLIP begins. In
      the other 50% of the study subjects (i.e., the other 15 evaluable study subjects), treatment
      with ascorbic acid will be delayed by 2 cycles. Results from these 2 groups of study subjects
      would allow comparison of potential acute safety of ascorbic acid, when used in combination
      with G-FLIP.

      Open-Label: This is an open-label study, where investigators and study subjects are not
      blinded to the treatment.

      Randomization: The assignment of study subjects will be randomized, as long as they meet
      eligibility criteria of the study.

      DOSE DELAY AND DOSE MODIFICATION

      In the event of adverse drug reactions, dose delay and dose modification will be dependent on
      the type of toxicities. The detailed dose modification scheme for G-FLIP, G-FLIP-DM and
      Ascorbic Acid are outlined in the protocol.

      CONCOMITANT MEDICATIONS AND PROPHYLACTIC TREATMENT

      Other than G-FLIP, G-FLIP-DM and ascorbic acid, patients cannot receive any other standard or
      investigational treatment for their cancer, or any study drugs for any non-cancer
      indications, while on this study. All concomitant medications (including names, dosage and
      schedule) must be recorded.

      Prophylactic treatment for drug-related symptoms can be given according to Package Inserts of
      the study drugs and clinical practice. Supportive treatment may include anti-emetic,
      anti-diarrhea, anti-pyretic, anti-allergic, anti-hypertensive, analgesics, antibiotics,
      allopurinol, and others such as blood products and bone marrow growth factors. Patients may
      use erythropoietin for anemia. The investigator may utilize erythropoietic factors, or blood
      or platelet transfusions at their discretion.

      DURATION OF TREATMENT AND FOLLOW-UP

      At least six months of treatment is recommended for study subjects who have a response from
      G-FLIP or G-FLIP-DM, unless or until:

        -  Patients exhibit disease progression in the opinion of the principal investigator

        -  Unacceptable toxicity from the treatment

        -  Patient withdrawal of consent (Note: The investigator should make every effort to
           contact the subject to perform a final evaluation and to determine the reason(s) for
           withdrawal from the study.)

        -  Investigator's discretion to withdraw patients from the study because continued
           participation in the study is not in the patient's best interest.

        -  Underlying illness: a condition, injury, or disease unrelated to the intended disease
           which the study is investigating, that renders continuing treatment unsafe or regular
           follow-up impossible

        -  General or specific changes in the patient's condition that renders the patient
           ineligible for further investigational treatment

        -  Non-compliance with investigational treatment, protocol-required evaluations or
           follow-up visits

      After treatment, study subjects should be followed so that information on survival and post
      study treatment are available for at least 1 year after the study subjects participate in the
      trial.

      EFFICACY ASSESSMENTS

      The efficacy of the study drugs will be assessed according to the following parameters:

      Response Criteria of Complete Response (CR), Partial Response (PR), Stable Disease (SD), and
      Progressive Disease (Disease Progression or DP) will be derived from CT or MRI according to
      Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST 1.1) (Eisenhauer et al. 2009).

      Response Rate (RR) is the number of study subjects, expressed as a percentage of the total
      number of study subjects participated in the trial, who exhibit PR or CR that has been
      confirmed from 2 consecutive scans (CT or MRI).

      Progression-Free-Survival (PFS) is the length of time when SD (or better) of a study subject
      is first documented until the time when DP, or death from any cause, occurs.

      Overall Survival (OStreatment) is the time from which the study subjects are first treated
      with G-FLIP to the time when death from any cause occurs. OS, which is the time from which
      the study subjects are first diagnosed with advanced pancreatic cancer to the time when death
      from any cause occurs, will also be recorded.

      12-Month Survival Rate is the number of study subjects, expressed as a percentage of the
      total number of study subjects in the trial, who survive for 12 months starting from the time
      when the study subjects are accrued to the trial. The 12-Month Survival Rate for study
      subjects who survive for 12 months starting from the time when the study subjects are first
      diagnosed with advanced pancreatic cancer will also be recorded.

      Safety Assessments

      The efficacy of the study drugs will be assessed from the first dose to 1 month after last
      dose of the study drugs. The assessments will be based on the following parameters, performed
      at baselines and at various times during the study:

        -  physical exams

        -  evaluation of symptoms

        -  vital signs

        -  ECOG performance status and survival

        -  clinical pathology (clinical chemistry, renal function [assessed utilizing the
           Cockcroft-Gault formula], hematology, and coagulation)

        -  urinalysis

        -  QOL, assessed as described by Aaronson NK, et al. 1993.
    
  