
    
      This prospective randomized long-term superiority clinical trial tests the hypothesis that an
      implant with an acid-etched fixture surface and internal-hex machined flat collar results in
      greater bone preservation.

      Age-eligible participants were recruited into this study between 1990 and 1992 from the
      external clinics of a university dental faculty and hospital affiliated dental department.
      Study was peer reviewed, had satisfied ethics committee's criteria for human clinical
      research, and was to take place at the university dental faculty and hospital affiliated
      department. Sixty participants were enrolled. The study's coordinator evaluated clinical
      charts to confirm that participants had satisfied the pre-determined inclusion criteria, and
      that registry operations, data collection, documentation and analysis followed established
      protocol.

      A statistician who was not part of the research team prepared a sampling design that included
      three Configurations. Each Configuration contained five implants of the three types, thereby
      allowing an equal number of each implant type to be placed in a cyclical side-by-side
      rotating fashion at each of five sites between the mental foramen. Consequently, 100 implants
      of each of the three types were to be placed for a total of 300. However, two participants
      opted out before start of study so that 58 (30 women) received 290 implants, and each
      participant acted as their own control. A different identification number was placed on each
      participant's chart, and allocation concealment then allowed 20 participants to receive
      Configuration 1, 19 Configuration 2, and 19 Configuration 3. Configuration diagram (but not
      number) identifying the implant type and length to be placed at each site was stored inside
      each chart, and only shown to the operating team at surgery. Following restoration with a
      fixed complete dental prosthesis on the implants, each participant was examined and
      standardized peri-apical radiographs were taken of each implant after 12 and 24 months and at
      15-20 years of function. Distance between first bone-to-implant contact point (fBIC) and
      crestal abutment-implant interface/microgap (MG) was measured at right and left sides of each
      abutment-implant surface on the radiographs by examiners who were not part of the research
      team. Mean fBIC-MG values were then calculated, documented and compared between Brånemark,
      Swede-Vent and Screw-vent at the three intervals.

      Assessment was based on intention to treat. Inter and intra-examiner reliability of
      measurements was assessed using Intraclass Correlation Coefficient and Bland-Altman
      Repeatability. Statistical analysis was based on the mixed linear model that included fixed
      effects of time, implant position, implant configuration, implant type (and implant length as
      a covariate effect). Position and time were repeated within participants, and Shapiro-Wilk
      Test was applied to verify that data was following normal distribution. Bonferroni correction
      was used for pairwise comparisons, and a p value of <0.05 was considered significant.
      Confidence Interval was established at 2-sided 95% Confidence Level. All statistical analyses
      were performed using Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS) Version 23® (IBM
      Corp, Armonk US).

      The following were consulted in order to utilize standardized descriptive terms.

      American Society of Anesthesiologists Physical Status Classification System (1963) was used
      to classify each participant's physical health as Class 1 (obligatory).

      Lekholm-Zarb Classification System (1987) was used to classify each participant's quality
      (density) of mandibular bone as Types 2 and 3 (obligatory).

      Salzman Skeletal Bone Intermaxillary Classification System (1966) was used to classify each
      participant's profile skeletal relationship between maxilla and mandible as Class 1
      (obligatory).

      American Psychological Association (APA) Publication Manual (2001, fifth edition, Washington,
      DC) was used to describe certain participant baseline demographic characteristics.
    
  