
    
      BACKGROUND:

        -  Li-Fraumeni syndrome (LFS) is a dominantly-inherited cancer predisposition syndrome
           associated with a lifetime risk of approximately 90% by age 60 of numerous cancer types,
           most notably bone and soft-tissue sarcomas, breast cancer, brain tumors, leukemia, and
           adrenal cortical carcinoma

        -  Classic LFS is defined by 1) A proband with a sarcoma diagnosed before 45 years of age,
           and 2) a first-degree relative with any cancer under 45 years of age, and 3) a first- or
           second-degree relative with any cancer diagnosed under 45 years of age or a sarcoma at
           any age. Li-Fraumeni-like syndrome (LFL), a more inclusive diagnostic criteria, shares
           some of the features of LFS but that do not meet the strict LFS diagnostic criteria

        -  TP53 was identified as the underlying cause of LFS in 1990. A TP53 mutation is
           identified in approximately 70% of classic LFS and 40% of LFL

        -  Although screening LFS patients for certain cancers can lead to early detection, a
           favorable impact on quality of life or overall survival as a result of such screening
           has not been shown. Currently, there is no standard recommended screening protocol in
           either adults or children with LFS

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To evaluate and define the clinical spectrum and quantify cumulative cancer risk in
           individuals with LFS and LFL

        -  To develop a cancer screening program for individuals with LFS and LFL

        -  To identify genetic determinants, environmental factors, and gene-environment
           interactions that potentially modify cancer risk in these high-risk individuals

        -  To explore the plausibility of lifestyle risk-reducing interventions

        -  Evaluate the psychological and social functioning effects of LFS on the individuals and
           the family

        -  To create an annotated biospecimen repository of LFS-related materials for translational

      Research

      ELIGIBILITY:

        -  A family or personal medical history of cancers consistent with the diagnosis of LFS or
           LFL; or,

        -  A personal history of a germline TP53 mutation; or,

        -  A first- or second- degree relative of a TP53 mutation carrier, regardless of mutation
           status; or,

        -  A personal history of three or more LFS-related primary cancers; or,

        -  A personal history of adrenal cortical carcinoma or choroid plexus carcinoma at any age

      DESIGN:

        -  Long-term prospective cohort study to collect data from as many individuals with LFS as
           permissible in order to precisely evaluate the main aims

        -  Medical/pathology records are reviewed to ascertain the family history and verify a
           diagnosis of LFS. Questionnaires are administered to gather etiologic risk factor data.

        -  Participants are offered the option of undergoing a screening protocol and are followed
           prospectively. Biospecimens are collected to investigate cancer etiology and mechanisms
           of carcinogenesis.

        -  Clinical genetic testing is offered as appropriate after education and counseling.
           Genetic testing is optional, and not required for other protocol aspects.

        -  We do not offer anti-cancer therapy; consultations for treatment recommendations of
           cancer diagnosed while on study will be offered if available.
    
  