
    
      The investigators propose a cross-sectional cohort study, where individuals with no history
      of AF and with a Congestive heart failure, Hypertension, Age ≥ 75 years, Diabetes mellitus,
      Stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA), Vascular disease, Age 65 to 74 years, Sex category
      score (CHA2DS2VASC) ≥3, type II diabetes, congestive heart failure or a history of stroke/TIA
      will be included. Data on demographics, personal health habits, medications, and medical
      history will be obtained by interviewing participants and reviewing the electronic medical
      records. All participants will undergo a Cardiac Magnetic Resonance imaging (CMR) to assess
      for markers of LA and LAA pathology. Markers of LA and LAA pathology that will be studied
      include: LA fibrosis level, LA functional parameters, LA shape characteristics, and LAA
      characteristics (including morphology, orifice area and flow velocity). Additionally, all
      participants will undergo a brain Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) at the same visit to
      assess for the presence of embolic-appearing brain infarcts, regardless of previous
      stroke-related symptoms.

      The investigators will analyze the association between each cardiac imaging feature and the
      prevalence of embolic-appearing strokes on brain MRI to determine whether patients with
      higher LA and LAA remodeled features are more likely to have embolic-appearing brain infarcts
      on MRI. The LA and LAA pathology imaging features with the strongest statistical association
      will be used to develop an imaging predictive score capable of identifying patients with the
      highest risk of embolic stroke.

      All brain and cardiac imaging data will be assessed by experienced operators at Tulane
      Medical Center facilities. Operators analyzing CMR will be blinded to brain MRI results, and
      operators assessing brain MRI will be blinded to CMR results. The study will include a single
      center study at Tulane Medical Center and Clinics, with investigators from different medical
      specialties, and the proper facilities and equipment to conduct the project accurately and
      safely. The investigators expect a recruitment of 120 subjects over a period of 18 months
      from both cardiology and neurology clinics to complete the study.
    
  