
    
      Previous studies have shown the clinical and antimicrobial efficacy of eyelid hygiene with
      tea tree oil (TTO) in resolving chronic blepharitis. This randomized, outcomes-assessor
      masked, clinical trial aims to determine the efficacy of Cliradex®, which contains the most
      active ingredient of (TTO), as compared with I-Lid 'n Lash® Hygiene, in treating chronic
      blepharitis

      Blepharitis is a family of inflammatory disease processes of the eyelid. It can be divided
      anatomically into anterior and posterior blepharitis. Anterior blepharitis refers to
      inflammation mainly centered around the eyelashes and follicles, while the posterior variant
      involves the meibomian gland orifices. Anterior blepharitis usually is subdivided further
      into staphylococcal and seborrheic variants. Frequently, a considerable overlap exists in
      these processes in individual patients. Blepharitis often is associated with systemic
      diseases, such as rosacea and seborrheic dermatitis, as well as ocular diseases, such as dry
      eye syndromes, chalazion, trichiasis, conjunctivitis, and keratitis.1-3

      The pathophysiology of blepharitis involves bacterial colonization of the eyelids. This
      results in direct microbial invasion of tissues, immune system-mediated damage, or damage
      caused by the production of bacterial toxins, waste products, and enzymes. Colonization of
      the lid margin is in-creased in the presence of seborrheic dermatitis or meibomian gland
      dysfunction.1-3

      Blepharitis can be difficult to manage because it is often chronic or tends to recur. Despite
      the cause, eyelid hygiene is the cornerstone of treatment for most cases of blepharitis. This
      includes the use of commercially available over-the-counter lid cleansing wipes. Previous
      studies have shown the clinical and microbial efficacy of lid scrubs with tea tree oil (TTO)
      in resolving chronic blepharitis; however, lid scrubs based on TTO are not convenient for
      self-administration and cause irritation in some patients.4-11

      Cliradex® (Bio-Tissue, Miami, FL) is a commercially available cosmetic pad containing the
      most active ingredient of TTO, which also exerts potent anti-microbial effects which may
      eliminate the need for systemic and/or topical antibiotic therapy for blepharitis.

      In this trial, the investigators propose to conduct a randomized, outcomes assessor masked,
      clinical trial to determine the clinical and antimicrobial efficacy of Cliradex® and I-Lid 'n
      Lash® Hygiene, in improving the signs and symptoms of blepharitis, as well as decreasing the
      microbial flora in these patients.
    
  