
    
      The proposed study will evaluate the effectiveness and implementability of a manual-guided
      integrated psychosocial treatment, Integrating Combined Therapies (ICT). ICT is an adaptation
      of the Combined Behavioral Intervention (CBI) from NIAAA Project COMBINE, and expands CBI's
      indication for alcohol problems to extend to drug use and the most common psychiatric
      problems in addiction treatment. ICT is designed to be transferable to routine care settings
      and for delivery by the existing workforce. Findings from a 2014 study provide a signal for
      ICT effectiveness and implementation.

      We intend to randomly assign 76 eligible patients in outpatient addiction treatment to ICT
      adapted standard care (ICT+SC) versus standard care only (SC). There are 2 specific aims for
      this study:

      Aim 1: Relative to standard care alone, to evaluate if patients receiving ICT have more
      significant reductions in alcohol use and severity as measured by the 90-day Timeline Follow
      Back (TLFB), Addiction Severity Index (ASI), and Short Inventory of Problems (SIP).

      Aim 2: Relative to standard care alone, to evaluate if patients receiving ICT have more
      significant reductions in psychiatric symptom severity, as measured by the Brief Symptom
      Inventory (BSI) adn the ASI psychiatric severity composite.

      This study involves a two-group repeated measure design. This study is a randomized
      controlled trial. The investigators plan to examine the outcomes associated with ICT versus
      standard care among patients receiving outpatient addiction treatment services. The
      investigators will employ assessments at baseline, four-month follow-up, and seven-month
      follow-up. Eligible participants will be randomly assigned to ICT therapy (plus standard
      care) or standard care, and all will be followed for the research assessments regardless of
      whether they drop out of treatment early (whenever possible).

      Patients admitted to the participating addiction treatment program are routinely screened for
      an alcohol use disorder using the AUDIT and a mental health disorder using the MMS. These
      forms are collected by clinic staff and scored for alcohol use disorder (AUDIT: 8 or greater)
      and mental health disorder (MMS: 6 or greater). Patients meeting the threshold criteria on
      the AUDIT and MMS measures are approached by clinic staff about potential interest in the
      study. If they wish to learn more about the study, the research assistant is contacted, a
      suitable time is arranged, and the patient engaged in the process of informed consent.

      If consent is granted, the participant completes the baseline assessment. The baseline
      assessment consists of measures gathered via interview by a member of the research team,
      self-administered surveys completed directly by the participant, and review of the
      participant's medical record to extract substance use, treatment history, and chart
      diagnoses.

      The interview portion of the assessment consists of :

        -  Standardized interview designed to assess mental health diagnoses: Structured Clinical
           Interview for DSM5 (SCID).

        -  A urine screen and breathalyzer to test for alcohol and other drugs.

        -  Standardized follow-back method for gathering data on recent alcohol and drug use:
           Timeline Follow-back calendar (TLFB)

      The self-administered portion of the assessment consists of measures designed to assess:

        -  Alcohol and drug use, as well as associated problems in other life areas such as
           medical, employment, legal, social, and psychiatric: Addiction Severity Index

        -  Psychiatric symptoms: Brief Symptom Inventory (BSI)

        -  Mental health disorders: Modified MINI Screen (MMS)

        -  Negative consequences of alcohol and substance use: Short Inventory of Problems- Alcohol
           and Drugs (SIP-AD)

        -  Substance use symptoms and problems: Brief Addiction Monitor (BAM)

        -  Treatment utilization: Recent Treatment Survey (RTS)

      If the participant continues to meet criteria for a mental health disorder (i.e. SCID
      interview confirms diagnosis of DSM5 mental health disorder, he or she is randomized to
      receive the study ICT therapy or standard care (SC)

      Research assessments are then also conducted at four months and seven months post baseline
      assessment. The follow-up assessments will consist of the same measures administered at
      baseline, with the exception of the SCID interview.

      The investigators plan to randomize approximately 76 participants in the study.
    
  