
    
      The study is designed to investigate the myocardial calcium handling in patients with heart
      failure with or without type 2 diabetes mellitus and if Dapagliflozin (study drug) improves
      the myocardial calcium handling in patients with heart failure and diabetes mellitus.

      We propose to conduct this study in two parts.

        1. OBSERVATIONAL CROSS-SECTIONAL STUDY

           An observational cross-sectional study will be undertaken to compare myocardial calcium
           in patients with diabetes mellitus and normal left ventricular ejection fraction (n=20),
           patients with heart failure in the absence of diabetes mellitus (n=60), and patients
           with both diabetes mellitus and heart failure (n=60). They will be compared with healthy
           volunteers (n=20).

           There will be an initial meeting, where informed consent will be documented and a
           medical assessment including blood tests will be undertaken as well as an echocardiogram
           will be performed. Healthy volunteers will only undergo Manganese enhanced cardiac MRI
           scan. The other cohorts will undergo a gadolinium enhanced cardiac MRI scan on their
           first visit. On a subsequent visit, they will undergo 1 cardiac Manganese enhanced
           Manganese MRI scan (MEMRI) which lasts 45-60 minutes. Participants will be monitored
           with blood pressure and ECG monitoring throughout the MEMRI scan. Patients will be
           offered an anti-sickness medication if required following the MEMRI scan.

        2. RANDOMISED CONTROLLED TRIAL

      We will undertake a randomised double-blind placebo controlled trial of patients with heart
      failure with (n=60) and without (n=60) type 2 diabetes mellitus. These participants would
      have been recruited as part of the observational study as described above from out-patient
      clinics at the Edinburgh Heart Centre. If all eligibility criteria are met, patients will be
      randomised to receive treatment with either Dapagliflozin 10 mg, or matched placebo, once
      daily for 6 months at a ratio of 1:1. Detailed clinical assessment including history and
      examination, blood sampling, electrocardiogram, echocardiogram and cardiac MRI will be
      collected at baseline, 1 and 6 months.

      There will also be a 3 month safety visit after randomisation to record any adverse events.
    
  