
    
      Gait training is often delayed during the rehabilitation process because gait is thought to
      require preparation such as improved strength, balance, and coordination before the
      initiation of this more complex and demanding activity. We propose a new approach to perform
      early gait training with acute stroke patients, which consists of Supported Treadmill
      Ambulation Training (STAT) combined with conventional rehabilitation for achieving functional
      ambulation.

      Hypotheses: This study will test three hypotheses;

        1. The STAT group will develop greater gait speed, longer walking endurance, and lower
           oxygen costs for walking as compared to stroke patients receiving regular rehabilitation
           care.

        2. The STAT group will develop better functional outcomes (Functional Independence
           Measurement total scores and on the transfers and locomotion subscales) as compared to
           stroke patients receiving regular rehabilitation care.

        3. The STAT group will develop higher submaximal oxygen consumption as measured on a
           bicycle ergometer test compared to stroke patients receiving regular rehabilitation
           care.

      Specific Objectives and Projected Timetable:

      Since stroke patients have reduced walking capability, poor health status, decreased
      functional capacity, as well as a sedentary lifestyle, the specific objectives of this
      project are:

        1. Compare the effects of regular inpatient stroke rehabilitation to regular stroke
           rehabilitation combined with STAT after an acute stroke on gait performance;

        2. Compare the effects of regular inpatient stroke rehabilitation to regular rehabilitation
           combined with STAT after an acute stroke on functional outcomes, as defined by the
           Functional Independence Measure (FIM);

        3. Compare the effects of regular inpatient stroke rehabilitation to regular stroke
           rehabilitation combined with STAT after an acute stroke on the oxygen consumption during
           a seated exercise task.

        4. Explore whether neurophysiological characteristics using the Brain Motor Control
           Assessment (BMCA) predict rehabilitation outcomes.

      Timetable: This 3-year project will compare the outcomes between two strategies of
      intervention during stroke rehabilitation. Admission, randomization, testing, intervention,
      reevaluation, and discharge will follow the time frame established by the facility while
      providing regular rehabilitation care for stroke patients. On average, the stroke
      rehabilitation process lasts two to three weeks.
    
  