
    
      OBJECTIVE OF THE PROJECT The major aim of the present study is to use a double blind
      randomized clinical trial design to evaluate the long-term efficacy and safety of two
      different doses, 300 and 400 Units of Botulinum Toxin Type-A for the treatment of detrusor
      hyperreflexia (Neurogenic Bladder Overactivity). While also improving bladder capacity in
      spinal cord injured patients with refractory symptoms who have failed anticholinergic agents.

      RESEARCH PLAN Inclusion Criteria: Male and female subjects 18-80 years of age with
      suprasacral SCI refractory NBOA incontinence, and/or impaired detrusor compliance associated
      with a small bladder capacity will be eligible. Subjects will be recruited on the basis of
      incontinence symptoms and adverse urodynamic parameters including impaired bladder compliance
      less than 50ml/cm, H20 and bladder (cystometric) capacity less than 300 ml.

      Exclusion criteria: Allergy to Botulinum Toxin Type-A, pregnancy, breast-feeding women,
      active medical or psychiatric disorders, active urinary tract infection, coagulopathy,
      myasthenia gravis, upper urinary tract changes unrelated to lower tract dysfunction, and
      aminoglycoside use during the last three months. Furthermore, subjects with radiation
      cystitis (by history), vesico-ureteral reflux (by videofluoroscopy), bladder calculi (by
      cystoscopy) will be excluded.

      Evaluation will include history and physical examination, urine analysis, urine culture and
      sensitivity, 24-hour voiding diary for 3 consecutive days, urine pregnancy test in female
      subjects of reproductive age, validated questionnaires, multichannel videourodynamics (UDS),
      post-void residual volume at the time of UDS, and renal ultrasound.

      METHODOLOGY One week after the pre-intervention evaluation, endoscopic injection of Botulinum
      Toxin Type-A (300 Units or 400 Units) into the detrusor muscle will be performed. During the
      24 month duration of the study, participants will take and record their regular bladder
      medications as Dr. Gousse (or one of his assistants) decide necessary to control their
      urinary symptoms. Subjects will be scheduled to return at 2, 6, and 12 weeks after the first
      injection session, and every 3 months thereafter. At the 2-week visit we will assess untoward
      effects. At the 6-week visit and every subsequent visit a focused physical examination will
      be carried out, along with validated questionnaires.

      Participants with initial success, as defined by 50% improvement (voiding diary) in
      diminished leakage, improved cystometric capacity by greater than 100 ml, improved compliance
      by 15 ml/cm H20, 50% improvement in questionnaire scores, but who lose the initial
      therapeutic benefit will be considered candidates for re-injection every 6 months. Patients
      who continue to maintain therapeutic benefit pass 6 months after initial injection will not
      be re-injected and will be re-evaluated at every 3 months thereafter prior to possible
      re-injection. Pregnancy testing will be obtained prior to each injection session in
      appropriate female subjects in their reproductive years.

      Depending on the type of variable being analyzed different statistical techniques will be
      used for these comparisons including paired sample t-tests, Wilcoxon's signed rank tests,
      McNemar's tests, and Cochran's Q tests. Cross-sectional as well as longitudinal analyses will
      be performed to compare 300 vs. 400 Unit groups with respect to each of the variables
      ascertained at each time point, and also with respect to changes over time for the major
      study end points.
    
  