
    
      After having borrowed to participate in the study, we proceeded to the random assignment of
      each intervention as follow: the last 2 numbers of the clinical history, typical of the
      ocular surface office, were taken and they were placed in a list in order of lower to higher.
      Then, each of them was assigned to a number from a table of random numbers. The list was
      rearranged from lowest to highest using the assigned random number. Finally, the treatment
      was assigned by simple randomization without replacement. In this way, the subject with the
      lowest random number, the correspondence in the first treatment drawn. It was continued in
      the same way, respecting the order assigned by random numbers until completing the 21
      subjects.

      Three groups of 7 subjects each were formed in this way: treatment group or group Rebamipida
      (GR); standard treatment group or autologous serum group (GSA) and mixed group or serum and
      Rebamipide group (GSAR).

      Before beginning with the assigned treatment, all the participants was started a period of
      wash-out of any medicine they were ussing, that least for two weeks. The participants were
      asked to suspend all the drops that they been used until then (antibiotics, corticosteroids,
      cyclosporine, artificial tears, autologous serum, etc.), and to place them using only
      artificial tears (sodium carboxymethyl cellulose). 1%, AUCIC 1%) four times a day in all
      cases. The purpose was to minimize the effect of the medication that could interfere with the
      results obtained from the treatments tested. The two week period also allowed the hemotherapy
      service to prepare the autologous serum for the subjects assigned to this group and initiate
      the treatment without delays.

      Immediately after the washout period, the subjects began to receive the last treatments for
      90 days.

      After the first intervention cycle and with the objective of influencing the treatment cycle
      of the first treatment cycle, a second washing period of two weeks duration was carried out.

      With the intention of increasing the sample size, the GR and GSA groups were crossed, in this
      way the patients received the opposite treatment to the start. The second treatment period
      lasted 90 days, equal to the first.

      The mixed group (GSAR) did not cross, ending their participation at the end of the 90 days.

      Admission and control of all patients on days 0, 30 and 90 of both cycles were performed by
      the same ophthalmologist.
    
  