
    
      This is a prospective open label dose finding study (phase I) of Iscador®P in patients with
      histological or cytological confirmed diagnosis of an advanced malignant disease during a
      therapy-free interval. Primary objective : To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of
      Iscador®P as intravenous infusion in the aforementioned patient population, based on the
      incidence of dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs). Secondary objective :To investigate safety and
      tolerability of long-term intravenous infusion of Iscador®P based on incidence and severity
      of adverse drug reactions.

      All patients are receiving best supportive care and may receive, if necessary, specified
      concomitant therapies, which should not interfere with the safety parameters chosen for this
      study.

      Investigational therapy will be administered in six Dose Groups (DG): 10 mg, 20 mg, 40 mg, 90
      mg, 140 mg and 200 mg Iscador®P. The initial dose group of the study is set to 40 mg
      Iscador®P.

      The two lower dose groups (20 or 10 mg) will only be used in case of intolerance at 40 mg
      Iscador®P. Once per week patients receive intravenous infusions of Iscador®P dissolved in 250
      ml of sodium chloride solution (0.9 %). After the 4-week period of the MTD estimation phase
      each subject will immediately be included into a follow up observation in which he/she
      receives the last well tolerated dosage they had or the next lower dosage than the currently
      investigated DG in the running phase Ib study depending on the current estimate of the MTD at
      that time.

      Study entry of individual patients will be set apart by one week. Dosages of subsequent dose
      groups depend on the incidence of DLTs in former groups.

      For safety reasons the values of endotoxin content in Iscador®P, measured by the limulus
      test, are considered as the real content of endotoxins although the mistletoe lectins are
      cross reacting in this test. This leads to a maximum dose of 200 mg representing the upper
      limit of this dose finding study.
    
  