
    
      Study Population Eligible patients are those with relapsed or refractory primary mediastinal
      large B-cell lymphoma. Patients must also have histologically-confirmed CD30-positive
      disease, fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG)-avid and measurable disease of at least 1.5 cm, an Eastern
      Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status of 0 or 1, and adequate hematologic,
      kidney, and liver function.

      Eligible patients must not previously have been treated with Brentuximab vedotin or
      previously received an allotransplant. In addition, patients must not have congestive heart
      failure, known cerebral/meningeal disease, or any active viral, bacterial, or fungal
      infection requiring treatment with antimicrobial therapy within 2 weeks prior to first study
      dose.

      Study Design This is a single-arm, open-label, multicenter, clinical trial to evaluate the
      efficacy and safety of Brentuximab vedotin as a single agent in patients with relapsed or
      refractory primary mediastinal large B-cell lymphoma.

      Brentuximab vedotin will be administered as a single IV infusion on Day 1 of each 21-day
      cycle. Measures of anti-cancer activity will be assessed using the revised response criteria
      for malignant lymphoma. CT scans (chest, neck, abdomen, and pelvis) will be performed at
      baseline and Cycles 2, 4, 7, 10, 13, and 16 and PET scans will be done at baseline and Cycles
      4 and 7. Patients will have an EOT assessment 30 ± 7 days after receiving their final dose of
      study drug. Long-term follow-up assessments (including survival and disease status
      information) will be performed every 12 weeks until either patient death or study closure,
      whichever occurs first. Patients who discontinue study treatment with stable disease or
      better will have CT scans done every 12 weeks until disease progression.

      Test Product, Dose, and Mode of Administration Brentuximab vedotin, 1.8 mg/kg, administered
      via outpatient IV infusion on Day 1 of each 21-day cycle.

      Number of Planned Patients 20 patients will be enrolled in this study. Duration of Treatment
      Brentuximab vedotin will be administered as a single IV infusion on Day 1 of each 21-day
      cycle. Patients may continue on study treatment until disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Patients who achieve stable disease or better should receive a minimum of 8, but no
      more than 16 cycles of study treatment.

      Duration of the study The study duration is 18 months for enrollment and 2 years for the
      follow-up. Efficacy Assessments Treatment response will be assessed by tumor imaging (spiral
      CT of neck, chest, abdomen, pelvis and PET scans) performed at protocol-specified timepoints.
      Determination of antitumor efficacy will be based on objective response assessments made
      according to the Revised Response Criteria for Malignant Lymphoma. Clinical response of
      progressive disease (PD), stable disease (SD), partial remission (PR), or complete remission
      (CR) will be determined at each assessment. Responses will be determined by investigator.

      Safety Assessments Assessment of safety during the course of this study will consist of the
      surveillance and recording of adverse events (AEs), recording of concomitant medication and
      measurements of protocol-specified physical examination findings and laboratory tests.
    
  