
    
      Probiotics are live microorganisms which when administered in adequate amounts confer a
      health benefit on the host. They are a part of the normal gastrointestinal flora and have
      safely been used to boost immune responses in patients with perennial and seasonal allergic
      rhinitis. Their exact mechanism of benefit is unknown but they primarily help to regulate
      T-cell function which is important in maintaining immune tolerance.

      Chronic rhinosinusitis is widely prevalent and affects nearly 16 million people in the US
      alone each year. It puts a strain on the health resources of the nation in terms of costs
      related to medications and surgery. Chronic rhinosinusitis can be caused by a variety of
      reasons including allergy/hypersensitivity, infection, nasal anatomical variations and T-cell
      regulatory dysfunction. We hypothesize that regular use of probiotics in patients with
      chronic rhinosinusitis will result in substantial improvement in their symptoms by boosting
      their immunity and may also help decrease their medication usage.

      Our study will be a double-blinded, randomized, control trial. We hope to recruit 100
      patients from the University Otolaryngology and Allergy Clinics. Fifty patients will be
      randomized to the treatment (active) arm and 50 patients to the placebo arm. Subjects will be
      followed for 2 months during their period of participation in the study.

      The main aim of our study is to determine whether regular use of probiotics in patients with
      chronic rhinosinusitis helps improve their quality of life. Our main outcome of interest is a
      change in the mean score of the Sino-Nasal Outcome Test (SNOT-20) form in the treatment group
      and a greater change in the mean score of the SNOT-20 in the treatment arm as compared to the
      placebo arm. If probiotics are found to be effective, they may be used as a cost-effective,
      adjunctive therapy for patients with chronic rhinosinusitis.
    
  