
    
      Study Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as
      in the flip of a coin) to 1 of 2 study groups before your surgery. This is done because no
      one knows if one group is better, the same, or worse than the other.

        -  In Group 1, you will receive deep NMB and Sugammadex.

        -  In Group 2, you will receive moderate NMB and neostigmine.

      Neither you nor the surgeon or surgical staff will know to which group you have been
      assigned. The surgeon will not know which group you are in because researchers want to learn
      how much, if at all, the surgeon needs to adjust the insufflation pressure during surgery.
      However, if needed for your safety, the surgeon will be able to find out which group you are
      in.

      For your safety, the anesthesiologist will know to which group you have been assigned.

      Surgery and Study Drug Administration:

      After you have been assigned to a study group, you will have your surgery as scheduled. You
      will sign a separate consent form for surgery which describes the procedure and its risks in
      more detail. You will also sign a separate consent form to receive anesthesia.

      Before your surgery, blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for biomarker testing.
      Biomarkers are found in the blood/tissue and may be related to the status of the disease
      and/or your reaction to the study drug(s).

      During the surgery, the insufflation pressure that is being used, including any changes that
      are made to the pressure, will be recorded. After the surgery has been completed, you will
      receive either Sugammadex or neostigmine by vein until the effects of the NMB have been
      reversed.

      You will recover after surgery in the post-anesthesia care unit (PACU). At about 15, 45, and
      90 minutes after your surgery, a PACU nurse will ask you about any shoulder pain you are
      feeling and if so, how intense the pain is. Information about how long you stay in the
      hospital after surgery and if you have any side effects after surgery (such as
      nausea/vomiting or shoulder pain) will also be collected from your medical record.

      Follow-Up:

      After 30 days after you leave the hospital, you will be called by a member of the study staff
      to ask how you are doing and if you have had any additional hospitalizations since leaving
      the hospital. This phone call should last about 5-10 minutes.

      Length of Study Participation:

      Your participation in this study will be over after completing the 30-day follow up phone
      call.
    
  