
    
      Executive dysfunction following brain injury (BI) is commonly observed and has been well
      documented in the literature (Mateer, 1999; Prigatano, 1999; Levine et al., 2000; Shallice &
      Burgess, 1991; Cicerone & Giacino, 1992; Goldman-Rakic, 1993; Lezak, 1995, Riegal & Gauggel,
      2002; McDonald, 2002; Stuss and Levine, 2003). Level of functioning such as vocational
      success, community reintegration, and social autonomy are associated with executive
      functioning abilities following BI (Mazaux et al. 1997, Sohlberg, Mateer, & Stuss, 1993;
      (Stuss & Levine, 2002, McDonald, 2002). Studies describing the rehabilitation of executive
      dysfunction have been limited to mostly single case or small group designs (Cicerone, et al.,
      2000). However, there have been three small randomized clinical trials that have had
      promising results suggesting the need for more research in this area. When considering all of
      the studies, it is evident that emphasis has been placed on three areas of intervention:
      attention remediation, emotional regulation and problem-solving. Consequently, given the
      pervasive disability found in individuals with BI that is secondary to executive function
      disorders and the promising, but limited, success of problem-solving-based interventions for
      executive functions, a randomized controlled trial (RCT) of the efficacy of a short-term,
      intensive executive function training program (Short-Term Executive Plus) is proposed. The
      Short-Term Executive Plus (STEP) program will combine treatments and treatment approaches
      that have proved to be effective in previous studies and will be compared to "wait-list"
      control group. This design was chosen because no appropriate control intervention exists. In
      other words there is no "standard" rehabilitation treatment available to these individuals
      that could serve as an appropriate "control" condition/treatment. As discussed earlier,
      cognitive remediation is typically delivered in extended full-time day treatment programs or
      weekly/bi-weekly individual sessions. Using more traditional extended treatments as a control
      condition would be inappropriate, as persons who can participate in extended, full-time are
      not the target of the proposed intervention. It is hypothesized that the STEP program will
      result in significant improvements in executive functioning (and related areas of attention,
      memory, community participation, and life satisfaction).
    
  