
    
      Medical transfers in the ICU are a critical part of patient care. Ensuring consistency of
      information that is passed on within the intensive care unit i.e. from shift to shift or
      between different functional areas (eg ICU to surgery) is ensured. Incorrect, incomplete or
      incomprehensible information in this context can have severe consequences and jeopardize
      patient safety. Research on handovers from other high risk organizations that are associated
      with a high risk of error, such as space flight control centers has shown potential
      consequences that result from incomplete handovers. Apart from a flawed mental model about
      the state of the system, the respective recipient of the handover are not able to anticipate
      possible future events and respond accordingly. The main barriers to implement effective
      handover in the medical setting are the following factors: The medical and clinical context
      (constant background noise and lack of privacy); the organizational hierarchy and status
      differences, which may lead the submitter to stress, as well as linguistic and cultural
      barriers that may impede further communication.

      To counter these barriers, a variety of memory aids (tools) have been designed to structure
      the handover along defined cornerstones. Examples of such handover tools are LAURS(Listen,
      Accept, Utilize, Reframe, Suggest) and SBAR (Situation, Background, Assessment,
      Recommendation). These memory aids facilitate a problem-centered and consistent delivery of
      information.

      This however neglect a crucial fact: from a psychological perspective, the intensive care
      unit presents a multi-team system. This means that different functional groups (Senior
      doctors, assistant doctors and nurses) work together towards a common goal, ie the treatment
      of a patient. However handovers occur mostly parallel with different functional areas, which
      hampers the consistent exchange of information between the groups. This in turn may reduce
      team effectiveness and lead to errors in the treatment of a patient.

      For this reason, a handover tool not only supports the information flow within a function
      group, but also between the various functional groups. The previous research on communication
      between physicians and nurses suggests that the perceived psychological safety is an
      important prerequisite for overcoming the perceived status differences, and thus for
      effective and efficient teamwork. Another crucial variable for the joint achievement of a
      goal is the degree of perceived team collaboration i.e. cooperation between doctors and
      nurses. If these two parameters - psychological safety and team collaboration - are not met
      or are insufficient, this may lead not only to lack of information, but also to reactance
      against the other group. This in turn can lead to inefficient or faulty handovers and thus
      fatally compromise patient safety.

      The aim of the proposed study, therefore, is the development and evaluation is a tool -
      handSAFE - designed to increase the problem-centered structure of handovers.
    
  