
    
      Stigma towards mental health patients exists within health systems worldwide, affecting high-
      and low-income countries alike. Stigmatizing beliefs held by health professionals toward
      mental illness can have detrimental health impacts on the patients. These stigmatizing
      beliefs against mental health patients within the health system have been noted across South
      Asia, including Nepal. Two sources of stigmatizing beliefs towards mental illness are
      explicit (conscious) and implicit (unconscious) attitudes held by health professionals. There
      is a dearth of research that investigates both explicit and implicit attitudes of health
      professionals towards mental health in South Asia though. One method to reduce stigma is
      through contact with people who suffer from mental illness. However, there is a gap in the
      literature on low- and middle-income countries integrating contact with mental health service
      users in health provider trainings. Forthcoming research in Nepal is exploring the causal
      impact of service user involved mental health trainings of health professionals on explicit
      and implicit attitudes as well as clinical care, but this research has yet to investigate the
      effects of service user training on health professional students (in progress). Research
      efforts on mental health trainings should be expanded to student populations to reduce
      negative attitudes before providers enter the workforce.

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate whether information-based training with or without
      service user testimony is more effective at reducing implicit and explicit biases toward
      mental health patients and increasing clinical care in Nepali health professional students.
      The findings from this study will fill the gap in research that evaluates intervention
      efficacy of reducing stigma towards mental health patients in Nepali student health
      education. By implementing mental health trainings, the long-term goals of this intervention
      are to reduce stigma held by health professionals against mental health patients and improve
      clinical care in Nepal by reducing negative implicit and explicit attitudes.
    
  