
    
      Part I (Formative Period) Given these issues, in addition to establishing a baseline estimate
      of the ages and risk behaviours of males currently undergoing MMC at the Aurum clinic over a
      six month period, we include a qualitative research component. We conducted research in 2014
      to establish a baseline estimate of the ages and risk behaviours of males undergoing MMC at
      the Aurum clinic over a six month period. The baseline estimate (Ethics reference number
      M130711) will be referred to as the formative Part I. The formative Part I includes a
      quantitative and qualitative research component. The qualitative component will include both
      genders and be used to develop MMC recruitment messaging tailored to mature men(25-49 years
      old) . Men will provide their opinion on circumcision and on what type of marketing message
      they feel will encourage mature men (25-49 years old) to be circumcised. Women will also
      provide their perspectives on male circumcision and what messaging could be used to encourage
      their partners or male family members to be circumcised. During this study, we explored if
      women have a role in promoting male circumcision to their partners, family and the community.
      These qualitative findings will be used to develop interventions to increase the ratio of men
      (25-49 years old) mature, or at least of higher risk men, undergoing MMC at the clinic. These
      interventions and the outcomes related to them will be presented as an amendment to this
      protocol after the baseline and qualitative data are collected and analysed.

      Part II (Intervention Period) Findings from the formative period will be used to develop
      interventions to increase the ratio of men (25-49 years)mature, or at least of higher risk
      men, undergoing MMC at the clinic. During this proposed intervention period we would like to
      evaluate the effectiveness of those interventions and the outcomes related to them. These
      proposed interventions will directly address the barriers to MMC that challenge uptake of MMC
      among mature men (25-49 years). Additionally, epidemiologic research will be conducted among
      men attending our MMC clinic to evaluate whether mature men (25-49 years) exhibit, as is
      presumed, higher risk profiles for HIV. We will also explore the cost-effectiveness of this
      strategy.
    
  