
    
      Prolonged wound drainage following total joint replacement surgery has been shown to be a
      predictor of Periprosthetic Joint Infection (PJI) 1-3. Several studies have highlighted this
      subject, and estimates of the risk of postoperative infection range from 1.3% to 50% among
      patients with persistent wound drainage 4. Such infections can be one of the most challenging
      complications following joint replacement surgery and is one of the leading causes of
      revision surgery following primary hip and knee arthroplasty 5,6.

      Several patient-related factors have been associated with delayed wound healing and increased
      risk of infection following joint replacement surgery. Obesity 4,7, diabetes 8, smoking 9,10
      and autoimmune disease 11 have been shown to have a detrimental effect on wound healing.
      Recently there has also been reports that patients with hypertension 12 have impaired wound
      healing following total hip arthroplasty (THA) and total knee arthroplasty (TKA).

      Surgery related factors such as surgical approach, pneumatic tourniquet time and use of
      peri-articular local anesthesia have also been shown to have an effect on postoperative wound
      oozing 9,13.

      Finally, several pharmacological factors, such as thromboembolic chemoprophylaxis 4, steroid
      treatment 9,14 and possibly statins 15,16 might also influence wound healing.

      In recent years tissue adhesives for wound closure have been introduced as a replacement or a
      supplement to conventional closure techniques. Currently very few studies investigate the
      effect of such tissue adhesives in Total Knee Arthroplasty, and high quality randomized
      controlled trials (RCT) are lacking.

      In this project we wish to:

      Evaluate the effect of supplemental wound closure using a high viscosity tissue adhaesive
      (Leukosan®) in primary TKA with respect to postoperative wound drainage and wound healing.

      This project is carried out as a randomized single-blinded controlled trial, in which the
      clinical outcomes after wound closure following primary bilateral simultaneous TKA with
      either 1) standard 3-layer closure methods with skin staples or 2) 3-layer closure methods
      with skin staples supplemented with tissue adhesive (Leukosan®) are compared.

      After written informed consent is obtained patients scheduled for a primary bilateral
      simultaneous TKA will be enrolled in this study and left knee will be randomized to receive
      either 1) standard 3-layer closure methods with skin staples or 2) 3-layer closure methods
      with skin staples supplemented with tissue adhesive (Leukosan®), with the opposite treatment
      on the contralateral knee. All patients will receive AGC total knee prosthesis in both knees
      (department standard). The standard 3-layer closure consist of: size 2 coated VICRYL® Plus
      Antibacterial suture for capsule closure, size 2-0 coated VICRYL® Plus Antibacterial suture
      for subcutaneous tissue closure and stainless steel staples using PROXIMATE® Fixed-Head
      stapler for cutaneous closure. Wound oozing will be assessed by project nurses during
      postoperative day 1-3 as well as patient reported wound oozing on postoperative day 3-21.
      Wound healing will be assessed using ASEPSIS 17,18 score 3 weeks postoperatively.

      Range of motion (ROM) will also be recorded at 3 months postoperatively. Allocation of the
      participants to one of the two treatment groups is done intraoperatively after initial
      incision has been made. Participants as well as the research coordinator handling the
      collected questionnaires postoperatively and evaluating wound healing are all unaware of
      which method was used for skin closure.

      Recruitment of participants to this project is expected to begin in September 2015 or as soon
      as permission from the Regional Ethics Committee and the Danish Data Protections Agency is
      obtained. A total of 30 participants are to be included at our institution. Recruitment is
      expected completed after a maximum period of 1.5 years. The project is expected to be
      completed 1 year after recruitment of the last participant (2018).
    
  