
    
      The overall purpose of this research is to determine if a surgical operation called
      "Extracranial-Intracranial Bypass" can reduce the chance of a subsequent stroke in someone
      who has complete blockage in one main artery in the neck (the carotid artery) that supplies
      blood to the brain and has already suffered a small stroke. This surgery involves taking an
      artery from the scalp outside the skull, making a small hole in the skull and then connecting
      the scalp artery to a brain artery inside the skull. In this way the blockage of the carotid
      artery in the neck is bypassed and more blood can flow to the brain. In some people natural
      bypass arteries develop and the brain is already getting plenty of blood. These people have a
      low risk of stroke if they take medicine. In other people, no natural bypass arteries develop
      so less blood flows to their brains. This second group has a much higher risk of stroke while
      taking medicine, as high as 25-50% within the next two years. It is this second group of
      people who may benefit from having the bypass operation and who are the candidates for this
      study.

      This bypass surgery is considered experimental because it is not generally performed for this
      condition and it is unknown whether it leads to a decrease, an increase or no change in the
      risk of stroke. In order to determine if people fit into this second group of people who may
      benefit from the bypass operation they need to have a test called a PET scan. The PET scan
      measures the amount of blood that is getting to the brain and the amount of oxygen that the
      brain is using. The PET scan uses radioactive oxygen and water and is experimental (not
      approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration). If the PET scan shows that less
      blood is getting to the brain, there will be a 50-50 chance (like a coin toss) of receiving
      the bypass surgery or not. There will then be follow-up visits to the clinic one month later
      and then every three months for two years to check on the appropriate medical treatment that
      everyone will receive and to determine who has had a stroke.

      The study hypothesis is that extracranial-intracranial bypass surgery when added to best
      medical therapy can reduce by 40 percent subsequent stroke within two years in participants
      with recent TIA ('ministroke") or stroke (</= 120 days) due to blockage of the carotid artery
      and reduced blood flow to the brain measured by PET.
    
  