
    
      FLT-PET Scan:

      An FLT-PET scan uses the FLT solution, which contains a small amount of radioactive material,
      to help locate cancer cells inside the body. This scan may help doctors find solid tumors as
      well as learn if these tumors are growing and how fast they are growing. This information
      could be used to help predict if the cancer will respond to treatment.

      Study Visits:

      Within 2 weeks before Day 1 of Cycle 1 and between Days 19 and 21 of Cycle 1, you will have a
      FLT-PET scan.

      For at least 4 hours before the FLT-PET scan, you must not eat or drink anything. You will
      receive the FLT solution by vein. The FLT solution is a mildly radioactive material. The
      radioactive nature of the solution allows the scanner to "see" it in certain places in your
      body. After the injection, you will need to rest quietly until it is time for the scan. The
      amount of rest time may vary, but be prepared to wait for about 60 minutes. During the scan,
      you will lie flat on your back on a table. After the solution is injected into a vein, the
      PET scanner takes pictures of the radioactive solution as it moves through the body and
      collects at various sites in the body. By watching how the solution travels through the body
      and studying where the solution collects, researchers can learn the status of disease in the
      body. The scan itself may last about 40-60 minutes.

      Your vital signs (blood pressure, heart rate, temperature, and breathing rate) will be
      measured before each injection of the FLT solution, 30 minutes after each injection, and
      before each PET scan. You will be allowed to leave 30 minutes after your scan, if your vital
      signs are acceptable.

      Length of Study:

      You will be off this study after the second FLT-PET scan. You will be taken off study early
      if you have intolerable side effects or the study doctor thinks it is in your best interest.

      This is an investigational study. The FLT solution is not FDA approved or commercially
      available. At this time, FLT solution is only being used in research.

      Up to 5 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  