
    
      Some people appear to be more resistant than others to gaining weight when they overeat,
      though they do not increase their physical activity. This may indicate that adaptive
      mechanisms exist, which lead to wasting as heat part of the excess calories taken in. Such
      mechanisms exist in rodents including activation of brown fat, a tissue which can also
      convert calories to heat for warmth. Human studies have provided conflicting results. A pilot
      study on the relationship of the weight change over time with the changes in the amount of
      energy an individual uses over 24 hours (energy expenditure, EE) with 48-h overfeeding (OF)
      and fasting (F) in Pima Indian men has shown that persons with the greatest increase in EE
      with OF and the smallest decrease in EE with F gained the least weight over time, indicating
      that the ability to waste more calories when overfed may reduce weight gain. Other studies,
      however, have not shown this relationship. In addition, it has been proposed that unbalanced
      diets can help magnify these effects. The aims of this study are to test whether (a) the
      changes in EE in response to 24-h OF and F predict changes in weight over two years, and (b)
      high-carbohydrate diets or diets with high or low protein amounts may magnify the metabolic
      response to 24-h OF compared to normal protein and high-fat diets. 64 volunteers will be
      evaluated at baseline, 6 months and on a yearly basis for up to 7 years. At baseline,
      subjects will undergo 8 24-h sessions in a human respiratory chamber to measure EE while on a
      weight-maintaining diet, and then in random order: fasting, 200% OF on a normal-protein diet,
      200% OF on a high fat, low-protein diet, 200% OF on a high-fat, normal-protein diet, 200% OF
      on a high fat, high protein diet, and 200% OF on a high-carbohydrate, normal-protein diet.
      Fifteen volunteers will have two additional chambers to try and understand if the source of
      carbohydrates, i.e. simple sugars versus complex carbohydrates, in a high carbohydrate diet
      affect metabolism. Thirty volunteers will also undergo 2 positron emission tomography (PET)
      studies to look at the relationship of brown fat with EE in adult humans. Body weight and
      composition will be measured at each subsequent admission. Hormonal measurements to find
      determinants of adaptive changes in EE in response to OF and F will also be performed. This
      study will provide significant insights into possible mechanisms that may help people resist
      weight gain and obesity.
    
  