
    
      This is a multi-center randomized study, double-blind phase 3 trial. Approximately 222
      patients are planned to be enrolled in Phase 3.

      Docetaxel, doxorubicin, and cyclophosphamide (TAC) will be used as the chemotherapy in this
      study. These agents are among the most active and commonly used chemotherapeutic agents
      employed for treating patients with breast carcinoma. In particular, TAC chemotherapy has
      been used for the adjuvant treatment of HER2 negative early breast cancer patients with node
      positive disease as well as for node negative breast cancer patients who have a high risk of
      recurrence.

      Plinabulin is a novel small molecule that is being developed for the mitigation of
      chemotherapy-induced neutropenia. Administered by IV infusion on the same day of
      (approximately 1 hour after) chemotherapy (TAC), plinabulin will be given in a single dose
      per cycle. Plinabulin is being studied to see if it is a convenient alternative to G-CSF,
      pegfilgrastim, for the prevention of chemotherapy-induced neutropenia.

      In this trial, treatment will be double blinded, approximately 222 patients with breast
      cancer are expected to be enrolled. Patients are randomly assigned to one of the treatment
      arms, with 111 patients enrolled in each arm, with the arm designation and planned
      intervention as follows:

      Arm 1: TAC + pegfilgrastim (6.0 mg) + placebo matching plinabulin.

      Arm 2: TAC + pegfilgrastim (6.0 mg) + plinabulin (40 mg).

      Cycles 1 to 4 will consist of TAC (or TC for Cycles 2 to 4) administered IV on Day 1 every 21
      days. Patients will receive a single dose of plinabulin or placebo IV over 30 minutes (±5
      minutes) in a double blinded manner, 30 minutes after the end of the TAC (or TC for Cycles 2
      to 4) infusion. On Day 2 of each cycle (≥24 hours after completing chemotherapy), all
      patients will receive a single dose of pegfilgrastim (6.0 mg).

      The long-term safety follow-up through patients contacts by phone calls, letters or
      electronic means; or medical records reviews will be conducted to all subjects approximately
      every 6 months up to 5 years to monitor long term safety of plinabulin.
    
  