
    
      Skin lesions, more or less deep, are areas of rupture and tissue loss with exposure of the
      underlying tissues.

      The term "external lesion" or "wound" indicates the morphological and functional destruction
      of the continuity of the superficial skin layers and, in the most serious cases, of the deep
      subcutaneous layers.

      The lesions are evaluated and cataloged on the basis of their width, depth and
      characteristics. Furthermore, the development, the causes (etiopathogenesis) and the
      pathophysiological context of the wound are considered.

      Superficial, slight lesions affect only the epidermis, the dermis and at most part of the
      hypodermis; the deeper ones involve all the subcutaneous tissue (fat) up to the muscles, the
      periosteum, reaching the exposure of the bone or supporting structures (tendons and
      cartilages); the most severe (chronic) are characterized by loss of substance in the skin and
      a poor tendency to healing.

      According to the timing of healing, the lesions are divided into acute and chronic.

      Acute injuries heal through 3 different phases and reach tissue repair within 8/10 weeks.
      Beyond this time the lesion becomes chronic and, if not acted correctly, the wound becomes
      more complicated and degrades in increasingly serious stages / degrees.

      The acute wounds that the healthcare professional must treat most frequently are surgical
      wounds. Depending on their extent, acute wounds can be distinguished into stab wounds,
      puncture wounds, lacerated wounds and lacerated-contused wounds.

      This type of acute wounds can generally heal in a physiological way or be induced to healing
      through the use of dressings, which reduce healing times.

      The main dressings used to treat these lesions are hyaluronic acid-based dressings containing
      antiseptics, such as silver sulphadiazine to prevent the risk of contamination and
      colonization by microorganisms. In these dressings, hyaluronic acid promotes the acceleration
      of the tissue repair process.

      However, among the main products used by hospital and non-hospital surgeries there are also
      dressings based on Rigenase® (aqueous extract of triticum vulgare) and polyhexanide.
      Rigenase®, containing the aqueous extract of triticum vulgare, has pro-proliferative,
      anti-inflammatory and antioxidant activity. These activities are attested by recent
      literature which indicates that the aqueous extract of triticum vulgare has pro-proliferative
      activity on fibroblasts and keratinocytes, the main cells involved in proliferation during
      the lesion repair process; in addition, the aqueous extract of triticum vulgare also has a
      documented anti-inflammatory activity, mediated by the reduction of the main cytokines
      responsible for skin inflammation, and an anti-metalloprotease9 activity, the main actor of
      inflammation in skin lesions. The antioxidant activity of Rigenase®, verified on the
      hemolysis of erythrocytes, is comparable to that of ascorbic acid.

      The activity of polyhexanide is also fundamental for the prevention of the risk of
      colonization and contamination by microorganisms in acute skin lesions. In fact, this latest
      generation antiseptic has a consolidated antiseptic activity on gram positive and gram
      negative bacteria, on fungi and on some viruses, without the development of resistance both
      in vitro and in vivo.

      Based on the foregoing, this study aims to compare the efficacy and clinical tolerability of
      two medical devices in gauze and cream containing the aqueous extract of triticum vulgare and
      polyhexanide in comparison with two medical devices containing hyaluronic acid and silver
      sulfadiazine. in the treatment of acute skin lesions. The reason why the two types of devices
      are compared is because hyaluronic acid and silver sulfadiazine represent the gold standard
      for the treatment of acute skin lesions. Therefore, making a comparison between the activity
      of the aqueous extract of triticum vulgare and polyhexanide and this gold standard of control
      in the treatment of acute skin lesions, is useful to better define the efficacy and
      tolerability of both medical devices in order to to possibly expand the therapeutic
      armamentarium available for the treatment of acute skin lesions
    
  