
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Compare the progression free survival (PFS) of the combination of cetuximab and sorafenib
      to that of cetuximab alone in patients with recurrent, refractory or metastatic squamous cell
      carcinoma of the head and neck (SCCHN).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the response rate, overall survival (OS) and toxicity of the combination of
      cetuximab and sorafenib and of cetuximab alone.

      II. To evaluate the presence of EGFRvIII mutation, increased EGFR gene copy number and
      activated EGFR gene expression signature, and correlate with clinical parameters (RR, OS and
      PFS) in the cetuximab alone and cetuximab/sorafenib arms.

      III. To evaluate whether VEGF receptor family and their ligand expression can predict
      response to cetuximab/sorafenib.

      IV. To determine the proteomic profiles in serum and tumors that can predict the response and
      survival upon the treatment with cetuximab or cetuximab/sorafenib.

      V. To evaluate the effect of therapy on both general and head and neck specific
      functionality, symptom burden and QOL.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive cetuximab IV over 60-120 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15 and oral
      placebo twice daily on days 1-21. (oral placebo closed as of 02/18/2010).

      ARM II: Patients receive cetuximab IV over 60-120 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15 and oral
      sorafenib tosylate twice daily on days 1-21.

      In both arms, courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      Paraffin embedded tissue samples are collected at baseline for pharmacogenomic studies and
      blood samples are collected at baseline and for the first 3 courses for research purposes.
      Quality of life and symptom burden are assessed by Vanderbilt Head and Neck Symptom Survey,
      FACT-HN, and Fatigue and Pain Inventory questionnaires at baseline, at day 43, and at 3 and 6
      months.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for 3 years.
    
  