
    
      Recent medical endpoint studies employing conventional basal bolus insulin therapy (BBI) in
      type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) have been disappointing, showing either inconsistent or no
      effect of treatments on risks for micro- or macro-vascular events, or a long interval between
      treatment initiation and evidence of clinical benefit. In fact, one trial has suggested that
      treating glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1C) to lower targets may even lead to harm. This has
      raised the possibility that more aggressive glucose lowering approaches lead to harm that
      overwhelms benefit in those with T2DM. Potential explanations for these results include three
      closely related physiologic processes: glycemic variability, weight gain and hypoglycemia.
      Too much variability of glucose, especially post-prandial hyperglycemia, poses the dilemma of
      how to achieve near-normal mean glucose and HbA1C levels without causing insulin-induced
      hypoglycemia and/or weight gain. All three of these processes have been linked to worsening
      systemic inflammation and oxidative stress, and to increased renal and cardiovascular risks.

      Fortunately, new tools are available that allow us to assess the severity of glycemic
      variability (continuous glucose monitoring, or CGM), and to investigate the mechanisms
      through which it may lead to cardiovascular risk (e.g., systemic inflammation and oxidative
      stress, sensitive measures of diabetic renal disease, and Holter or Telemetry monitoring for
      hypoglycemia-induced arrhythmias). In addition, preliminary studies have suggested that
      replacement of rapid-acting analogue (RAA) in traditional BBI with the glucagon-like
      polypeptide-1 (GLP-1) agonist, exenatide, may substantially reduce glycemic variability
      without a strong tendency to increase body weight or hypoglycemia.

      This research trial, "FLuctuATion reduction with inSUlin and Glp-1 Added togetheR
      (FLAT-SUGAR)", by using these new methods to optimize glycemic control while limiting
      unwanted adverse effects, will be a definitive comparative effectiveness trial. This trial is
      designed to address the following primary hypothesis:

      In middle aged and older individuals with T2DM and additional risk factors for cardiovascular
      disease, and on a background therapy of basal insulin (insulin glargine) and metformin, the
      addition of the GLP-1 analogue, exenatide, reduces glycemic variability more than the
      addition of a rapid-acting-analogue (RAA) (insulin aspart, insulin glulisine or insulin
      lispro) during an active treatment period of 26 weeks.

      The primary outcome measure will be the change in the coefficient of variation of continuous
      glucose readings, as assessed by CGM. Importantly, FLAT-SUGAR will plan, a priori, to assess
      glycemic variability using CGM. Secondary trial goals will be to explore potential
      between-group differences in complications that may result from glycemic variability,
      including hypoglycemia, systemic inflammation and oxidant stress, diabetic renal disease,
      weight gain and cardiac arrhythmias. If, as we expect, FLAT-SUGAR demonstrates that CGM
      provides objective verification of reduced glycemic variability in T2DM with the new GLP-1
      agonist-based regimen, the main goal of the trial will be accomplished. If reduced
      variability is associated with lower risks of adverse events of inflammation, albuminuria
      progression, weight gain, hypoglycemia, and/or cardiac arrhythmia, a long term clinical
      comparative effectiveness trial powered to evaluate medical outcomes will be justified.

      In order to conduct FLAT-SUGAR, a randomized, controlled, multicenter, open-label
      investigator-initiated trial, the primary funding is supported by Sanofi-Aventis US with
      donations of other medications and devices by several other companies. The
      Sponsor-Investigator is the University of Washington, which will also be the Operation Center
      (OC).The Data Center (DC) is the University of Texas at Houston School of Public Health.
      There will be 12 clinical sites with diabetes and CGM expertise to screen and enroll
      qualified participants for approximately 8-10 weeks of a run-in period, then ultimately
      randomize, and follow 120 total participants for an active treatment period of 26 weeks.
    
  