
    
      Atrial fibrillation is a common cardiac disease, with increasing incidence and prevalence.
      There are two main treatment strategies for this arrhythmia, rhythm control and rate control.
      As rate control is easier to achieve and no major difference in outcome has been found
      between these two strategies, it is considered a reasonable initial treatment for the
      majority of AF patients.

      Reduced exercise capacity is the most prevalent symptom in patients with permanent AF. In the
      first Rate control in Atrial Fibrillation (RATAF) study, we demonstrated that calcium channel
      blockers preserved exercise capacity, reduced arrhythmia-related symptoms and lowered levels
      of NT-proBNP - whereas the beta blockers reduced the exercise capacity, did not reduce
      arrhythmia-related symptoms and increased NT-proBNP.

      These findings are relevant to a large proportion of patients with permanent AF, suggesting
      that calcium channel blockers should be the first drug of choice for rate control in patients
      without heart failure or coronary heart disease. Our results challenge the current widespread
      use of beta blockers in this setting. However, as the follow up time in the RATAF study was
      only 3 weeks, it is not clear if these effects are sustained over time. Furthermore, we do
      not know the mechanisms for the differential effects on exercise capacity, arrhythmia related
      symptoms and NT-proBNP levels.

      In the RATAF II study we will investigate whether the effects on NT-proBNP levels, exercise
      capacity and symptoms are sustained over time, and explore potential mechanisms that may
      explain the difference in these effects. The study will provide new insights and results
      relevant for everyday clinical practice and be of importance for a large and growing group of
      patients.

      A total of 240 patients will be included. Eligible patients will be recruited from the
      out-patient clinics at the participation hospitals and through advertisements in local
      newspapers. After inclusion and a wash-out period of 14 days free from drugs affecting the
      heart rate, patients will be examined by echocardiography, 12-lead ECG (electrocardiography),
      24h Holter monitoring, maximal cardiopulmonary exercise test and venous blood sampling at
      rest, at maximal exercise and after recovery. Perceived arrhythmia related symptoms, quality
      of life and level of physical activity will be assessed using self-administered
      questionnaires.

      Participants will be randomized through a computer-generated randomization list, to receive
      one of the study drug regimens; metoprolol 100 mg o.d. or diltiazem 360 mg o.d. The
      investigators and study personnel will be blinded with regard to allocated study drug. The
      participants themselves will know what study drug they are assigned. Also, study personnel
      not involved in examinations will also be able to acquire knowledge concerning assigned study
      drug, to ensure the process of dosage in the startup phase, assess adverse events (AE) and
      side effects throughout the study.

      Examinations will be repeated after four weeks and six months. All examinations will be
      performed at the Department of Medical Research, Baerum Hospital to ensure standardized
      procedures.
    
  