
    
      The study is a multicenter observational study with primary endpoints to determine the
      sensitivity and specificity of IDx-DR to diabetic retinopathy in the primary care setting.
      IDx-DR is an automated software device that is designed to analyze ocular fundus digital
      color photographs taken in frontline primary care settings in order to quickly screen for
      diabetic retinopathy (DR).

      The study will involve 834 subjects after exclusions. Participants who meet the eligibility
      criteria will be recruited from sites staffed by primary care providers. After assessing
      eligibility and securing written informed consent, fundus photographs will be captured using
      a commercially available, Food and Drug Administration (FDA) cleared, non-mydriatic ocular
      fundus camera by a camera operator who does not have previous professional experience in
      ophthalmic photography. Images will be taken according to a specific IDx-DR imaging protocol
      provided to the camera operator and then analyzed by the IDx-DR device.

      The photography protocol consists of two images of the ocular fundus (one optic disc
      centered, one macula centered), obtained from both eyes of enrolled participants. After
      generating an IDx-DR screening result, professional ophthalmic photographer will perform gold
      standard imaging for reference standard grading and determination of the sensitivity and
      specificity of the IDx-DR device.

      The CRO will follow standard operating procedures for monitoring this study in accordance
      with Good Clinical Practice (GCP) recommendations and FDA regulatory requirements. Any site
      not meeting the minimum requirements to initiate the trial, or that has administrative,
      procedural or data quality deficiencies that require correction in order to comply with
      regulatory requirements, the protocol, or to meet the requirements of the sponsor and the
      CRO, will be notified in writing of the deficiencies and permitted a reasonable opportunity
      to rectify deficient conditions. After study initiation, the inability of the site to rectify
      seriously deficient conditions in a timely manner or to maintain compliance with regulatory
      requirements may be cause for termination of study activities, closure of the investigational
      site, and notification of that decision to the relevant Institutional Review Board (IRB) or
      Independent Ethics Committee (IEC) and other regulatory authorities as appropriate.

      Participating sites will have an initial monitoring visit, routine interim monitoring visits
      (at a schedule determined by sponsor or CRO) during the study and a study close-out visit
      conducted by experienced monitoring personnel. Additional monitoring visits may be performed
      for cause or if the volume of information to be reviewed cannot be easily completed in a
      single visit. Study visits will normally be scheduled well in advance so that necessary site
      staff and appropriate records will be available during the monitoring visit.

      Each monitoring visit will utilize a standardized checklist of elements to be reviewed at the
      site, tailored to the specific requirements of this study. Site monitoring visits will
      routinely review the participating site staff roster; study administrative and financial
      documents; required regulatory documentation; status of IRB/IEC approvals; changes or actions
      taken since any previous visit; participant recruitment status, screening, enrollment, and
      follow-up visit records; documentation of informed consent for each participant; review of
      adverse events; investigational product storage conditions; outstanding data clarifications
      and a review of data elements against source documentation. Site visits will follow standard
      CRO procedures and a report will be prepared for study records.

      The CRO will host and manage a web-based integrated clinical data system in compliance with
      FDA's guidance on Computerized Systems Used in Clinical Investigations (2007) and 21 CFR Part
      11. The CRO will also develop and implement standard web-based electronic Case Report Forms
      (eCRFs) used by the clinical trial sites and the image reading center. Quality assurance and
      selected data integrity controls will be built into each eCRF, and the CRO may apply
      additional data integrity checks to assist in monitoring and improving data quality. The CRO
      will obtain IDx-DR results directly from the computer server system that is isolated from
      sponsor access during and after the study until the analyses are completed according to the
      SAP.

      The Sponsor has chosen an independent data storage center for the clinical trial. The IDx-DR
      software will be locked prior to initiating the clinical trial. A copy will be placed in
      escrow prior to the start of enrollment for auditing purposes.

      Documentation, logging and audited records will provide evidence that IDx does not have
      direct access to any trial data during the course of the trial.

      Safety will be evaluated during the time the participant is in the study which will include
      from the time of consent through the time of exit which will typically be less than one day.
      Safety will be assessed by frequency and incidence of ADEs and UADEs.

      Because this is considered a device study, it is consistent to use the following definitions
      when assessing safety issues:

        -  Adverse device effect (ADE), which means an adverse event related to the use of an
           investigational medical device.

        -  Unanticipated adverse device effect (UADE), which means any serious adverse effect on
           health or safety or any life-threatening problem or death caused by, or associated with
           its use that had not been previously identified in nature, severity, or degree of
           incidence.

      The CRO will provide safety reporting services, including review, assessment, documentation,
      and reporting of AEs or UADEs submitted by clinical investigators. Investigators and the
      Sponsor will be notified if unreported AEs or UADEs are observed in study records by the
      monitors during routine or for cause monitoring activities.

      Events considered serious and unexpected by the site staff or the CRO will be immediately
      investigated by the CRO or Sponsor to determine if the event qualifies for expedited
      reporting to regulatory authorities. The CRO will be responsible for coordinating the
      expedited reporting of serious and unexpected AEs or UADEs to regulatory authorities within
      the required timeframes once the determination for reporting has been made. The CRO will
      review summary information on all reports of unexpected serious AEs or UADEs submitted by
      investigators, and will review individual events if the situation requires.
    
  