
    
      In recent years, the importance of deciduous teeth and the hazards of caries in deciduous
      teeth have gradually attracted the attention of professionals and parents of children. The
      dental pulp disease and periapical disease of deciduous teeth are the main and important
      factors that cause deciduous teeth defects, deciduous dentition and mixed dentition deletion,
      which have a serious impact on the physical and mental health of children from the local or
      systemic aspects. From the point of view of children's stomatology, according to the
      principle of treatment of dental caries of deciduous teeth, vital pulp preservation should be
      selected in patients with deep caries and reversible pulpitis; This concept has been carried
      forward especially after the advent of new materials with good biocompatibility and good edge
      sealing. After judging the existing state of the affected teeth (such as deep caries or
      reversible pulpitis) and removal of caries, indirect pulp capping, direct pulp capping, and
      vital pulpotomy can be correspondingly selected. Complete healthy pulp can be preserved in
      indirect pulp capping and direct pulp capping. During vital pulpotomy, coronal pulp due to
      infection induced by various causes is removed, and healthy root pulp is retained.

      The success of the preservation of vital pulp in carious deciduous teeth depends not only on
      determining the health status of the pulp, but also on selecting the most suitable pulp
      capping agent. No matter the use of calcium hydroxide and mineral trioxide aggregate (MTA) or
      new biomaterials, controlling pulp inflammation and preserving healthy pulp are the keys to
      successful treatment. The clinical reality is that it is not easy to determine the state of
      the pulp accurately because of the child's feelings of pain and the unreliability of the
      description. Thus, the secondary treatment can be easily produced after treatment. For
      example, pulp re-infection requires dental pulp extraction; or severe infection results in
      removal of the affected teeth and space maintenance. In the face of this reality, many
      clinicians will advise parents to select dental pulp extraction for deciduous teeth at the
      first visit. If there is a reliable clinical pathway for the preservation of the vital pulp
      of the carious deciduous teeth, the doctor will put aside his worries. Therefore, this study
      is designed to find a suitable clinical pathway and to increase the success rate of the
      preservation of the vital pulp of carious deciduous teeth. The key to solving this problem
      lies in the selection of suitable pulp capping agent, as well as the repair method of the
      crown selection to obtain a better edge sealing. Numerous studies have confirmed that crown
      repair of deciduous teeth can obtain better edge sealing on the basis of obtaining the
      largest degree of morphological restoration. The difficulty and key point are to select the
      best biomaterials as the pulp capping agents for the preservation of vital pulp.

      The investigators will select classical and new biomaterials for the preservation of vital
      pulp and compare them so as to select a pulp capping agent with high success rate. With the
      further research of biomedical ceramic materials, such as restorative material for pulposis
      Bioaggregate and restorative material to dentin Biodentine, the biocompatibility of such
      materials allows the destructed dental pulp tissue to be reconstructed. Shayegan et al.
      performed vital pulpotomy for pigs using Biodentine, white MTA and formaldehyde cresol as
      pulp capping agents, and using Biodentine, white MTA and calcium hydroxide as direct pulp
      capping, and observed the response to dental pulp tissue. They concluded that Biodentine and
      white MTA have the same biocompatibility, and they are suitable for the pulp capping material
      of porcine deciduous teeth. In recent years, TheraCal LC has emerged as a new type of pulp
      capping agent. Some scholars believed that both MTA and TheraCal are good indirect pulp
      capping materials. TheraCal has better operability and similar chemical property as MTA. In
      the indirect pulp capping treatment of deciduous teeth, TheraCal can be a successful
      alternative to MTA. Nevertheless, TheraCal is rarely used in direct pulp capping, and vital
      pulpotomy.

      In summary, this study will select Biodentine and TheraCal, verify their efficacies, and
      explore their superiorities. Calcium hydroxide and MTA will be selected as controls, which
      will be separately used in indirect pulp capping, direct pulp capping, and vital pulpotomy to
      provide reliable choices for clinicians.
    
  