
    
      This study is a pilot trial to determine the feasibility of conducting a subsequent large
      multi-centre RCT.

      The objectives of this pilot trial are:

      Primarily:

        1. To establish the proportion of eligible participants and their willingness to be
           randomised to home NB-UVB

           Secondarily:

        2. To establish participants' adherence and satisfaction in using home phototherapy

        3. To assess success of blinding of both participants and outcome assessors by using an
           identical placebo unit with visible light fluorescence bulb instead of NB-UVB bulb.

        4. To establish possible short term side effects i.e. if the device is suitable for home
           use with limited medical supervision

        5. To manualise the treatment intervention, i.e. prepare package educating participants in
           how to use the intervention and to deal with possible side effects.

        6. To define and test the primary and secondary outcome measures and the methods of data
           collection for the main RCT

      Trial Configuration:

      Parallel groups-Three arms study

        1. Group A: active hand held NB-UVB unit (Dermfix 1000)

        2. Group B: active hand held NB-UVB unit (Waldmann)

        3. Group C: placebo hand held NB-UVB unit (placebo Dermfix 1000) The allocation to the
           active or placebo group will be 2:1. This trial configuration will reflect the
           participants' allocation to active and placebo groups in the main RCT (75% of the
           participants will receive active treatment), as the latter is most likely to be a three
           arm or a factorial trial. Subsequently, the results obtained from this pilot trial
           regarding the participants' willingness to be randomised will be a more precise estimate
           of the main RCT.

      Setting:

      Participants will primarily be indentified in secondary care (Nottingham, Leicester, Derby
      and Mansfield) and by direct advertising. Recruitment will be extended to include primary
      care if time and resources allow.

      Sample size estimate:

      This is a pilot study, with sample size being resource driven in terms of available subjects
      in a reasonable time frame, for which no formal statistically based sample size estimate is
      applicable.

      For this pilot study, 21 participants (7 in each group) will allow the investigators to
      measure the recruitment rate from each site; n=21 will also give a reasonable estimate of
      acceptability and completeness of outcome data.

      Number of participants:

      The investigators estimate to recruit 21 participants, 7 in each group; however the
      recruitment will depend on time and resources available.

      Description of interventions:

      The hand held NB-UVB unit is a portable and light weight NB-UVB device that is slightly
      larger than a usual hairbrush.

      These units are CE marked and are being used within their licensing authorisations.

      The hand held device is held above any small area of the skin (10-12cm x 6.5-4 cm) and
      spacers are provided in order to standardise the distance from the skin. Hand held NB-UVB
      units are suitable for small lesions making phototherapy available for participants with
      limited disease, and for participants who find it difficult to attend hospital-based
      phototherapy units 2 to 3 times a week.

      The lamp is held still above the vitiliginous lesion. If the size of the lesion is bigger
      than mentioned above i.e. 10-12 cm X 6.5-4 cm, the participant (or their parent or legal
      guardian for younger participants) will be asked to move the lamp slowly above the area in
      circular movements.

      In this trial the investigators will explore 2 similar hand held NB-UVB (311nm) phototherapy
      devices with the same output, but a slighly different size of treatment window, weight of the
      device and cable length. By doing this the investigators will be able to monitor and assess
      which of the 2 units is best tolerated in terms of participants' satisfaction and
      minimisation of side effects. The information gathered will assist in the choice of device
      for the main RCT.

      Device A: Dermfix 1000 NB-UVB Device B: Waldmann UV 109 Both devices are manual units with an
      on/off switch and an external digital timer. The user of this device has to follow the
      written treatment protocol, set and re-set the timer each time manually and to keep an
      accurate diary of exposure times.

      The devices need to be connected to a socket all the time.

      Placebo Device: Placebo Dermfix 1000, same as Device A The placebo device to be used is
      identical to the active device Dermfix with the only difference that it will not emit 311nm
      NB-UVB.

      Duration of study:

      The recruitment is planned to commence as soon as approvals (ethics and R&D) are in place and
      should take approximately 6 months. Each participant will participate in the study for 4
      months. Participants will be assessed at face to face visits at the beginning of the
      screening stage-baseline, 8th week and 16th week. Outcomes will be assessed at the same time
      points.

      Follow up telephone calls will be made at weeks 1, 2 and 12.

      Randomisation and blinding:

      Participants will be blinded to which device they have received, (intervention groups A or B
      or control group C).

      The research nurse will be blinded to which group the participants are allocated
      (intervention groupS A or B or control group C).

      The randomisation will be based on a computer generated pseudo-random code using random
      permuted blocks of randomly varying size, created by the Nottingham Clinical Trials Unit
      (CTU) in accordance with their standard operating procedure (SOP) and held on a secure
      server. The randomisation will be stratified by 3 groups (Group A, B and C) and 2 recruiting
      sites.

      Statistical methods:

      Demographic, baseline data and measure of compliance will be summarised by descriptive
      statistics (number[n], mean, standard deviation [SD], median, minimum and maximum) or
      frequency tables, stratified by treatment.

      Also, calculation of the re-pigmentation rate, spread & cessation of the vitiligo lesions
      will be conducted for all of the 3 devices. This information will be vital for the sample
      size calculation for the definitive trial.
    
  