
    
      Cholangiocarcinoma is an uncommon tumor arising from the biliary tract. It can be stratified
      into two categories based on location, intrahepatic and extrahepatic. In the United States,
      approximately 4,000-5,000 cases of cholangiocarcinoma are diagnosed each year. The most
      common location is at the bifurcation of the common hepatic duct and is classified as
      extrahepatic, also known as a Klatskin tumor. Approximately 60-80% of tumors are found in
      this perihilar location. A history of primary sclerosing cholangitis confers 10% lifetime
      risk of developing cholangiocarcinoma. Other known risk factors include ulcerative colitis,
      liver fluke infestations, hepatolithiasis, thorotrast exposure and choledochal cysts.
      Cholecystectomy decreases the risk. Most patients are lymph node positive at diagnosis,
      approaching 55-60%, and less than half are resectable at diagnosis.

      Because of the rare nature of the tumor, there are limited prospective trials addressing the
      roles for surgery, chemotherapy (CT) and radiation therapy (RT) in the treatment of
      cholangiocarcinoma. Despite advances in surgical and radiotherapy techniques, the prognosis
      for cholangiocarcinoma remains dismal. Historically, survival is poor with a 0-10% 5-year
      survival. In more recent years, a median survival of 2-15 months is expected. Patients who
      are able to undergo surgical resection at diagnosis have longer survival of approximately
      20-24 months. Recent investigations in the area of neoadjuvant chemoradiation followed by
      orthotopic liver transplant in a select group of patients report promising results, with 1-,
      3- and 5-year overall survival of 92%, 82% and 82%, respectively. Although this approach may
      be appropriate for select patients, namely younger patients with small tumors, no or limited
      nodal involvement, and no encasement of the major vasculature, the majority of patients
      presenting with cholangiocarcinoma will present with unresectable disease at initial
      diagnosis, often due to nodal involvement.

      Chemotherapy The role of chemotherapy (CT) in cholangiocarcinoma has not been established.
      Most chemotherapy trials have been small single institution phase II trials, and there have
      been no large prospective randomized trials. Additionally, most chemotherapy trials include
      patients with intrahepatic, extrahepatic and gallbladder carcinomas, as well as patients with
      locally advanced and metastatic disease. Response rates have ranged from 0-40% with no
      complete remissions. The most extensively investigated CT agent has been 5-fluorouracil
      (5-FU), which has disappointing response rates of 9% as a single agent. Response rates were
      not improved by the addition of streptozotocin or methyl-CCNU (Semustine) to 5-FU in a
      randomized trial performed by Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG).6 Multiple
      combination CT regimens have been investigated in small clinical trials, and none have shown
      a survival benefit.

      Gemcitabine has shown some promise as a potential chemotherapeutic agent in the treatment of
      cholangiocarcinoma. A multicenter retrospective analysis out of Japan examining a multitude
      of different CT regimens in patients with intrahepatic, extrahepatic or gallbladder
      carcinomas reported gemcitabine was the most effective treatment, with a reduction in
      mortality by about 50%.7 Fifty-eight patients of the 413 identified in this study were
      treated with gemcitabine, 6.9% showed partial response, 50% remained stable, and 39.7%
      progressed despite therapy. Median survival was 8.05 months with a hazard ratio (HR) of 0.50
      (95% confidence interval 0.35-0.72). Sixteen out of the 58 patients treated with gemcitabine
      had extrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma. In numerous phase II trials of gemcitabine as a single
      agent, response rates have ranged from 6-30%, with greater than 50% of treated patients
      having either a partial response or stable disease. 7-12 Median survival (MS) has ranged from
      6.5-14 months in these trials. In 2008, guidelines for CT in biliary tract cancers were
      published in the Journal of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery.13 Seven trials using
      gemcitabine as a single agent were identified, with response rates ranging from 0-36% and MS
      ranging from 4.6-14 months. In this article the use of gemcitabine in unresectable cancers of
      the biliary tract was given a recommendation level C1, meaning that its use may be
      considered, although there is a lack of high-level evidence.13

      The combination of 5-FU or it's oral analog capecitabine and gemcitabine chemotherapy alone
      (without radiation) in the advanced metastatic setting has improved response rates and median
      overall survivals from around 10% or 6.1 months to 10-36% and 9.7 to 14 months
      respectively.13a Based on this data it likely should have synergy if both agents are given
      concurrently with external beam RT. The combination of continuous 5-FU and gemcitabine with
      external beam radiation in locally advanced pancreatic cancer has been shown to be safe and
      resulted in a complete response in 2 patients (6.3%), a partial response in 18 patients
      (56.3%), with an overall all response rate of 62.5% 13b. Based on this data and the similar
      dose of external RT therapy it seems reasonable and safe to combine the two agents 5-FU and
      gemcitabine with RT in advanced cholangiocarcinoma. We chose to use 5-FU rather than oral
      capecitabine due to occasional problems obtaining prescription coverage for this more
      expensive alternative and the prior available safety data and our own institutional
      experience using 5-FU and gemcitabine combination with RT for pancreatic cancer.

      Radiation Therapy Data for the use of radiation therapy (RT) alone in the setting of
      unresectable disease is sparse. In a report from Johns Hopkins, a total of 23 patients were
      treated with a surgical procedure followed by RT.14 Complete resection was accomplished in 14
      of these patients and palliative stenting for 9. Postoperative RT doses ranging from 45-63 Gy
      delivered by external beam radiation therapy (EBRT) followed by brachytherapy boost or EBRT
      with cone down boost. RT had no effect on overall survival of patients who had undergone
      complete resection or on patients who were being treated with palliative intent. Of note,
      none of the patients in this study were treated with concurrent chemotherapy. The subgroup of
      patients who were stented and then treated with palliative RT applies to our current
      investigational study group, and in this subset of patients there was no survival benefit for
      RT alone.

      Chemotherapy and Radiation Therapy Because of the success of combined CT and RT in other
      gastrointestinal cancers, and the unsuccessful attempts at CT and RT alone, multimodality
      treatment has been applied to cholangiocarcinoma. There is limited data on the use of EBRT in
      combination with 5-FU specifically for extrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma. In a retrospective
      review, Kim et al looked at ≥40 Gy EBRT with concomitant bolus 5-FU (500mg/m2) for the first
      3-days of each of two weeks of radiation, followed by monthly maintenance chemo with 5-FU for
      one year.15 Eighty four patients were included, of which 72 had a gross total resection (47
      negative margins, 25 microscopically positive margins) and the remaining 12 had palliative
      procedures prior to the chemoradiation. The 5-year survival was 31%. Although this trial was
      specifically looking at postoperative chemoradiotherapy, the subset of patients that did not
      undergo gross total resection would apply to our study population. The 5-year actuarial
      survival was 14% overall for this subgroup.
    
  