
    
      Stroke is the fifth leading cause of death in the U.S. and a leading cause of serious
      long-term disability. There are over 7.5 million patients in the U.S. living with stroke, and
      an estimated 795,000 additional cases of stroke occur annually in the U.S. Of these cases,
      approximately 610,000 represent initial attacks and 185,000 represent recurrent stroke
      according to the CDC.

      Spasticity is a common finding in patients with stroke, arising in about 30% of stroke
      patients, and occurring usually within the first few days or weeks. It is a disorder of motor
      function that results from injury to the spinal cord or brain, and causes decreased motor
      performance as well as pain, discomfort and muscle weakness that greatly interferes with
      functional recovery. Spasticity can range from mild to severe and can cause striking
      impairments in functional movement.

      An initial clinical trial of safety and feasibility suggests that five sessions of treatment
      with the MyoRegulator速 device temporarily reduces spasticity and overall stiffness of the
      affected extremity with optimal reductions in spasticity occurring 2-3 weeks post stimulation
      intervention.

      MyoRegulator速 is a non-significant risk (NSR) investigational non-invasive neuromodulation
      device using multi-site direct current stimulation (multi-site DCS) for the treatment of
      spasticity. Multi-site DCS utilizes trans-spinal direct current stimulation (tsDCS) paired
      with transcutaneous peripheral direct current stimulation (pDCS). This study was designed to
      evaluate the efficacy and safety of MyoRegulator速 in the treatment of post-stroke upper-limb
      spasticity.

      The primary performance endpoint is defined as the reduction in wrist joint spasticity as
      measured using the Modified Ashworth Scale and will use a responder analysis. The study will
      be considered to have a successful outcome if a significant number of actively treated
      subjects respond to MyoRegulator速 treatment as compared to the sham treated subjects between
      2 and 6 weeks post-treatment.

      The primary safety endpoint is defined as the incidence of device-related serious adverse
      events. The safety of the device will be demonstrated if there are no incidents of serious
      adverse events caused or contributed to by the device treatment that are clinically
      unacceptable in light of the treatment benefits.

      In order to evaluate the relationship between response to treatment and BDNF genotype,
      subjects will be asked to provide a saliva sample and give consent for BDNF genotyping.
    
  