
    
      Study design:

      In this study, the MOST methodology (multiphase optimization strategy; Collins et al., 2014)
      will be applied. First, the most effective intervention components for specific target groups
      will be determined, which is called the optimisation phase. To this end, we run a parallel
      randomized trial that investigates all combinations of three interventions modules (= 9
      combinations) in terms of its usability and its effectiveness.

      To collect in-depth information about usability and feasibility, we will additionally run a
      qualitative survey with a small subsample of the trial.

      After this optimisation phase, the intervention's effectiveness will be tested against a
      control group in a randomized controlled trial, which is called the evaluation phase.

      For the optimisation phase, participants will be randomly assigned to one of nine conditions.
      All participants are randomized into one of nine intervention group in a 1:1:1:1:1:1:1:1
      ratio. For the randomization, an even randomization procedure is applied using Qualtrics.
      Because the randomization is even, the probability is fixed if the number of the participants
      can be divided by 9, it means that at the end we will have exactly even number of
      participants in each group.

      In the evaluation phase, the optimised intervention from the optimisation phase will be
      tested in an RCT. To this end, participants will be randomly assigned to one of two
      conditions: final intervention vs. control group (TAU). The control group will not be given
      access to the final intervention. Nonetheless, they will be working with the study
      application for answering the three questionnaires (pre-test, post-test, follow-up) and the
      short questionnaires (diary days). The control group will further have access to the public
      information concerning the FOPHs recommendations on hand hygiene.

      Recruitment and informed consent procedure:

      The sample will be recruited via Facebook and Instagram. Those who click on the link of the
      campaign will lead to a landing page with the relevant study information. Here, participants
      read the study info and enter their e-mail address. When they click on "send", an info box
      explains that an email has been sent including the link to the actual study.

      In the mail, the participants can access via link to an eligibility and consent survey with
      detailed information about the nature of the study (=optimization and evaluation phase), its
      purpose, the procedures involved, the expected duration, the potential risks and benefits,
      any discomfort it may entail and finally an e-consent form to give consent to the study
      electronically. If people meet all inclusion criteria, the participants can directly sign
      with the mouse (on computer) or finger (on mobile device) the consent form.

      After the participants agree to participate in the study, they receive a registration code
      via e-Mail to participate in the study as well as a signed copy of the consent form (at the
      latest of one week after giving consent electronically).

      In the mail, the participants are guided to download the app "soapp" from their app store
      with the registration code. After downloading the app, they have to register and tip in the
      registration code. After that, they start with the first questionnaire T1 (optimization
      phase) or pre-test (evaluation phase).

      Study procedure:

      The duration of the study is 5 weeks (optimisation phase) plus a 6-month follow-up in the
      evaluation phase. Each participant receives two different intervention modules which each
      last 2 weeks.

      After downloading the study app, the participants receive the first baseline questionnaire
      (T1 or pre-test).

      Optimization phase: The day after T1, people attend a diary day. The diary day includes five
      1-minute-questionnaires during one day. People will be informed that the intervention starts
      on the subsequent day after the diary day. The intervention will take four weeks and includes
      two modules. During the first module, people will attend another diary day at the end of each
      week (2 in total during one module). On the subsequent day of the last dairy day of the first
      module, people will receive the second questionnaire (T2). After T2, the second intervention
      module follows in the same structure: The participants follow the instructions of the
      intervention and their hand hygiene behaviour is surveyed on the last day of each week using
      the short questionnaire within the diary day. A day after the participants completed the last
      diary day and with that the second module, they receive the last questionnaire (T3).
      Additionally, to the normal questionnaire, the participants can indicate at T3, whether they
      are willing to take part in a qualitative survey. Here, people will be interviewed via
      telephone by a study member. This interview will take around 30 minutes for the participants,
      where they will be asked questions about the usability of the app and their experience with
      the intervention modules. This information will be used to improve the study app before
      starting with the evaluation phase. By the end of the study, the participants will have
      completed three questionnaires (T1-T3) and five short-questionnaires.

      Evaluation phase: The day after the pre-test questionnaire, people attend a diary day to
      assess their previous hand hygiene behaviour. People will be informed that the intervention
      starts on the subsequent day after the diary day. The intervention will run for four weeks.
      During these four weeks, people will attend another diary day at the end of each week (4 in
      total during the total intervention). A day after the last diary day of the intervention,
      participants are asked to fill in the second questionnaire (post-test). In the evaluation
      phase, the participants will receive a six-month follow-up. They will first attend a diary
      day after 6 months after the intervention started and will then receive the follow-up
      questionnaire the subsequent day. By the end of the study, the participants will have
      completed three questionnaires (pre-test, post-test, follow-up) and six short-questionnaires.

      Hypotheses:

      Optimisation:

      Hyp.1: The intervention groups show a significant increase in correct hand hygiene behaviour
      at key times (T3).

      Hyp.2: The intervention groups significantly differ in their effects on correct hand hygiene
      behaviour at key times (T1-T3).

      Hyp.3. The intervention groups show a significant increase in (not correct) hand hygiene
      behaviour at key times (T3).

      Hyp.4. The groups attending a motivation module show a significant increase in a) intention,
      b) self-efficacy, c) outcome expectancies and d) attitude from T1 to the post measures.

      Hyp.5. The groups attending a habit module show a significant increase in a) habit strength,
      b) action control, and c) planning from T1 to the post measures.

      Hyp.6. The groups attending a social norms module show a significant increase in a)
      injunctive norms and b) descriptive norms from T1 to the post measures.

      Evaluation:

      Hyp. 7. The intervention group show a greater increase in correct hand hygiene behaviour at
      key times at the post measure (H7a) and at 6-month follow-up (H7b) compared to the control
      group.

      Hyp. 8 The intervention group show a significant increase in the targeted behavioural
      determinants that are included compared to the control group at the post-intervention measure
      (H8a) and at 6-month follow-up (H8b). [the exact behavioural determinants depend on the
      results of the optimisation phase].

      Statistics:

      In the optimisation phase, 387 subjects are to be randomized. This sample size was determined
      with an a priori power analysis with g*power (Faul et al., 2009). The aim is that a
      statistical analysis using repeated-measures ANOVA with a within-between-interaction with a
      power of 0.80 and α = 0.05, a small effect of f =0.1 should be detectable. Accounting for 20%
      attrition, this leads to N = 465 for the enrolment in the parallel control trial.

      In the evaluation phase, 204 new subjects are to be randomized. The aim is that that a
      statistical analysis using an independent samples t-test adopting an error probability and
      statistical power of α = 0.05 and β = 0.80, at least a small intermediate intervention effect
      of Cohen's d = 0.35 should be detectable (Faul et al., 2007). Accounting for 20% attrition,
      this leads to N = 245 for the enrolment in the RCT.

      There is no statistical criterion of termination of trial. If more participate are included
      in the study than 387 people in the optimisation phase and 204 people in the evaluation
      phase, the results can be examined in more detail and more complex contexts in terms of
      differential indication can be examined thereby helping to improve the intervention.

      Planned Analyses:

      The analysed sample includes all randomized participants. The analyses are carried out on the
      basis of the intention-to-treat approach.

      In the optimisation phase, the primary analyses will be conducted (T1-T3) to test the
      hypotheses using R and SPSS after 387 participants have completed the study.

      To address the primary research question, the main effect of a univariate analysis of
      variance with repeated measures will be analysed. After, post-hoc comparison analyses with
      independent t-test will be conducted between all groups. Last, multiple linear regression
      analyses will be conducted to test the effect of the targeted behavioural determinants on the
      outcome.

      In the evaluation phase, the primary analyses will be conducted (pre-test, post-test,
      follow-up) to test the hypotheses using R and SPSS after 204 participants have completed the
      study. Secondary follow-up analyses will be conducted six months later. Multiple linear
      regression analyses will be conducted to test the effect of the targeted behavioural
      determinants on the outcome and to test mediation hypotheses.

      The qualitative data in the optimisation phase are analysed by using thematic analysis (Braun
      & Clarke, 2006).

      No interim analyses or safety analyses are planned. Deviations from the planned analyses will
      be reported in the final report.

      Handling of missing data and drop-outs:

      The main analysis will be performed according to the intention-to-treat (ITT) principle. The
      ITT analysis includes every subject who is randomized according to randomized study group. It
      ignores noncompliance, protocol deviations as not adhering to the intervention modules, and
      anything that happens after randomization. Participants who withdrew consent are excluded
      from ITT analysis. ITT analysis avoids overoptimistic estimates of the efficacy of an
      intervention resulting from the removal of non-compliers by accepting that noncompliance and
      protocol deviations are likely to occur in practice.

      To analyse our hypotheses and research questions, we follow-the ITT analysis strategy. This
      includes: 1) Attempt to follow up all randomized individuals, even if they withdraw from
      allocated group. 2) Perform a main analysis that is valid under a plausible assumption about
      the missing data and that uses all observed data 3) Perform sensitivity analyses to explore
      the impact of departures from the assumption made in the main analysis 4) Account for all
      randomized individuals, at least in the sensitivity analyses.
    
  