
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose and toxicity profile of lenalidomide in combination
      with standard doses of rituximab and nivolumab in relapsed/refractory (R/R) diffuse large B
      cell lymphoma (DLBCL) (non-germinal center B cell [non-GCB]) and in primary central nervous
      system (CNS) lymphoma (PCNSL) (Phase I).

      II. Evaluate the efficacy of lenalidomide in combination with standard doses of rituximab and
      nivolumab in R/R non-GCB type DLBCL and PCNSL (Phase II).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the safety and tolerability of nivolumab when combined with lenalidomide and
      rituximab.

      II. To determine the time to progression (complete response, partial response or stable
      disease), progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS).

      III. To evaluate the difference in overall response rate between those with and without
      programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1) protein expression in tumor (subgroup analysis).

      IV. To evaluate the difference in overall response rate between those with and without MYD88
      mutation in tumor (subgroup analysis).

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To perform PD-L1, PD-1 expression on tumor cells by immunohistochemistry including double
      staining for PAX-5 and PD-L1 and CD68 and PD-L1, CD3/CD4/CD8 for T cell infiltration, CD68
      for tumor associated macrophages.

      II. To assess for presence of MYD88 L265 mutation by allele specific polymerase chain
      reaction (PCR) in tumor tissue and /or cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) (where lumbar puncture is
      clinically performed).

      III. To perform fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) for 9p24.1/ PD-L1/PD-L2 locus.

      IV. To evaluate MYD88 PCR on CSF (where available). V. To perform gene expression panel for
      tumor immune response in tumor samples (prioritizing cases in which a second serial biopsy is
      available).

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of lenalidomide followed by a phase II
      study.

      Participants receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on days 1 and 15, rituximab
      IV on day 1, and lenalidomide orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21. Treatment repeats
      every 28 days for up to of 8 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Patients with partial response (PR) or stable disease at the end of 8 cycles will
      be offered lenalidomide and nivolumab maintenance for up to 12 courses.

      After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up every 3 months for 2 years
      and then every 6 months until year 4.
    
  