
    
      Many bone marrow failure syndromes in humans are now recognized to result from immunological
      mechanisms. These diseases include aplastic anemia, pure red cell aplasia, and some types of
      myelodysplasia. Patients with these conditions, who may suffer variable degrees of anemia,
      leukocytopenia, and thrombocytopenia, alone or in combination, have been shown to respond to
      a wide variety of immunosuppressive agents, ranging from corticosteroids to cyclosporine
      (CSA) and antithymocyte globulin (ATG), however, nonresponse and relapse continues to be a
      problem. Why some patients do not respond initially or others respond and then relapse is
      unclear. Autoreactive T cells may be resistant to the effect of ATG/CsA (nonresponders),
      while in others residual autoreactive T cells expand post-treatment leading to hematopoietic
      stem cell destruction and recurrent pancytopenia (relapse). Therefore, novel, less toxic
      immunosuppressive regimens that increase response rates and hematologic recovery and decrease
      relapse rates are needed.

      One such novel therapy, Daclizumab, a humanized anti-interleukin-2 receptor (lL-2R)
      monoclonal antibody (mAb), acts against activated lymphocytes, thus sharing an important
      mechanism of action with ATG. The mAb is much less toxic than ATG and may be administered to
      outpatients at relatively infrequent intervals (every 2 weeks). Treatments with ATG alone and
      CsA alone have demonstrated varying degrees of success in alleviating the cytopenia of MDS.
      Our experience suggests that ATG rather than CSA is the more effective agent inducing
      hematological responses in susceptible MDS patients and that certain variables including the
      patient's age, whether or not they were HLA DR15, and days of red cell transfusion dependence
      prior to treatment were predictive of response.

      We therefore propose this randomized phase II study to evaluate and compare a new
      immunosuppressive therapy, Daclizumab, with antithymocyte globulin (ATG) to treat the
      cytopenia of MDS in a population of subjects with intermediate or high predicted probability
      of response.
    
  