
    
      PERC is a commonly used technique to treat patients harboring large or complex renal calculi.
      PERC is a particularly effective procedure, and has been associated with few complications.
      However, the effect PERC has on renal functional parameters is not well defined.

      The effect of PERC on renal function has been examined in an animal model by several groups.
      In one porcine model, the baseline renal function, as defined by PAH and creatinine
      clearance, was compared to that measured at one month post-procedure. No acute data were
      recorded, but the authors did note that although there was no significant change in renal
      function at the one month follow-up point, there was a significant amount of renal scarring
      present. This finding of significant renal scarring following PERC in an animal model has
      been corroborated by others. One group has studied a canine model, and detected a significant
      diminution of renal function (defined by creatinine clearance) at 48 hours following PERC,
      and at 6 weeks following PERC renal function returned to normal. In human subjects undergoing
      PERC, percutaneous tracts have also been associated with renal scarring. These studies, both
      retrospective case series, did not capture strictly defined measures of renal function, such
      as creatinine clearance, but rather compared pre- and post-procedure serum creatinine as a
      surrogate for renal function. No significant change in serum creatinine was identified in
      either study, but blood collections were performed at variable times, in uncontrolled
      settings.

      Nuclear renography is an imaging technique that records renal functional parameters. There
      has been only one report of nuclear renographic assessment of the effect of PERC on renal
      function. This report was an uncontrolled study, and the renograms were performed at a median
      of 22 days post-procedure. At this time interval, it is not possible to derive any
      conclusions regarding the acute effects of PERC on renal function.

      The investigators have recently demonstrated in a porcine model that PERC is associated
      acutely with significant deleterious effects on renal function. Following routine PERC,
      glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and renal plasma flow (RPF) decline by 50% in both the
      treated and the untreated kidney and return to normal when measured at 72 & 74 hours (n=3
      pigs). Sodium excretion, however, was markedly below baseline at 72 and 74 hours in 2 of the
      3 pigs. PAH extraction, a measure of the efficiency of renal tubular secretion of organic
      anions, averaged 43.5 ± 9.7% and 42.6 ± 14.1% at 72 and 74 hours for the 3 pigs. These values
      are substantially below the baseline value of 80.4 ± 4.0% measured in sham-PNL pigs.

      To date, the examination of the effect of PERC on renal function has been restricted to gross
      measures of function as defined by serum creatinine, and radionuclide studies performed at a
      sub-acute interval following PNL, often without differential measurements or controls.
      Importantly, the investigators' recent studies in a porcine model demonstrate that PERC may
      cause significant alterations in renal function. There is a need to define in a rigorous
      fashion the effect PERC has on renal blood flow and renal function. If a deleterious effect
      is identified, future efforts can be focused on minimizing this insult.
    
  