
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Hypertension related diseases are major causes of morbidity and mortality among United States
      Blacks. Among Blacks and whites, lower levels of education are associated with higher levels
      of blood pressure, stroke, and coronary heart disease mortality. High levels of blood
      pressure in United States Blacks compared to United States whites persist even after
      controlling for education. Furthermore, it has been demonstrated that individuals living in
      the southeastern part of the United States continue to have higher stroke and coronary heart
      disease mortality rates than those living in most other areas of the United States. The
      number of upwardly mobile Blacks, based on education and occupation, has been increasing in
      the United States yet relatively little is known about the relationships of improvements in
      socioeconomic status and cardiovascular risk factors, particularly blood pressure. In Africa,
      for over four decades, hypertension has been regarded as a rare disease among the Black
      Africans. However, recent evidence from hospital and community based populations suggests
      that hypertension is the most prevalent cardiovascular disease among Africans and constitutes
      a major public health problem, particularly in West Africa. Furthermore, stroke is an
      increasing health problem.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      In this longitudinal study, the United States students were recruited and followed annually
      for three years. The African students were followed for two years. At the initial clinic
      visit blood pressure, heart rate and anthropometric measurements were obtained and
      questionnaires completed concerning socioeconomic status, family and medical history, dietary
      practices, and smoking and drinking habits. One out of every four students had blood pressure
      measurements reassessed. Each participant collected an overnight urine sample for analysis of
      sodium and potassium. Fifty percent of the population wore a physical activity monitor for
      two days. Approximately ten percent of the students' families were studied to validate the
      hypertensive status and medical history of the parent as reported by the students and to
      assess known cardiovascular risk factors including obesity, smoking, alcohol intake, physical
      activity, and behavioral factors. Univariate analyses were conducted to assess the
      association between the dependent variable of blood pressure and each of the independent
      variables including age, body mass index, height, sodium and potassium. T-tests were used to
      analyze the dichotomous variables such as sex, race, and geographic location. Stratification
      was used to examine blood pressure levels for Blacks and whites by socioeconomic status.
      Multiple regression models were used to determine whether physiological or psychosocial
      variables were more predictive of cardiovascular risk.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  