
    
      Background. Compared to healthy population, individuals with prediabetes have a higher risk
      to develop diabetes and other cardiovascular diseases. However, these downward progressions
      might positively associate with autonomic nervous dysfunction, especially low vagal tone,
      which can be detected prior to comorbidities confirmed. The significant correlations among
      low autonomic nervous, high psychological distress, inflammatory status, and poor glycemic
      regulation, which are regarded as the psychoneuroimmunological integration, have not been
      well studied in prediabetes individuals. Heart rate variability (HRV) biofeedback is an easy
      and noninvasive intervention, which has been confirmed to strengthen baroreflex stimulation,
      facilitate the modulation of vagal tone, and further promote the physiological and
      psychological wellbeing in various diseases but not in prediabetes.

      Objective. To test the effectiveness of HRV biofeedback on the modulating vagal tone and
      further enhancing the psychoneuroimmunological integration related to glycemic control,
      anti-inflammatory reaction, and psychological wellbeing.

      Research methods. In this 2-year RCT study, the investigators are planning to recruit 90
      prediabetes individuals and randomly assigned them into wait-list control group or
      experimental group by using the random sequence of numbers generated from the Excel Bernoulli
      Function. Experimental group will receive 8 once-a-week, individual, 30-min sessions of HRV
      biofeedback and 1 session of healthy lifestyle education. During the biofeedback training
      period, subjects will be encouraged to self- home practice of resonant frequency breathing
      for 20 mins, twice-a-day. Control group will receive 1 session of healthy lifestyle
      education. All subjects will be repeatedly assessed at time of enrollment, post-training (8
      weeks after enrollment), 3-month, and 6-month follow-up. Repeated assessments will include
      physiological measurements of HRV, BDNF, GAS6, HbA1c, CRP, IL- 6, FPG, and salivary cortisol,
      and psychological measurements of perceived stress, anxiety, and depression.
    
  