
    
      Advanced-stage PCa is usually treated with androgen-deprivation therapy (ADT). Most patients
      with metastatic disease who were managed with ADT eventually progress to castration-resistant
      prostate cancer (CRPC) and die of the disease. CRPC can be treated with docetaxel,
      abiraterone plus prednisone, enzalutamide, and cabazitaxel, which provide limited survival
      benefits. Thus, there is still a need to improve the therapeutic options available for
      advanced-stage prostate cancer patients. Targeting therapy-resistant cancer stem cells (CSCs
      )in prostate cancer provides a unique opportunity for novel therapeutic interventions.

      Metformin, a common well-tolerated oral biguanide prescribed for type II diabetes, could be
      used to sensitize prostate CSCs to current conventional anticancer therapies and improve the
      efficacy of treatment. Some studies reported that Metformin could enhance the effectiveness
      of ADT. Metformin augmented the antiproliferative and apoptotic effects of ADT in prostate
      cancer. The combination of these two drugs significantly reduces prostate cancer cell growth
      compared to monotherapy with either drug. Also, metformin might reduce the development of
      CRPC.

      Many studies showed that obesity and DM were linked to aggressive prostate cancer phenotype,
      including biochemical failure after radical prostatectomy and external beam radiotherapy with
      higher incidence of complications of ADT. Interestingly, metformin reduces the incidence of
      diabetes and the adverse metabolic effects of ADT, including hyperinsulinaemia and
      dyslipidaemia, and decreases myocardial infarction risk and prolongs survival in diabetic
      patients.

      To the best of our knowledge, after extensive computer research, there is no published
      results from prospective randomized trials evaluating role of metformin among men with high
      risk locally advanced or metastatic prostate cancer patients who will start treatment with
      ADT.
    
  