
    
      Multicenter, randomized, open-label, parallel-group study of guadecitabine vs Treatment
      Choice (TC). Approximately 408 subjects will be randomly assigned 2:1 to either guadecitabine
      or TC.

        -  Guadecitabine: approximately 272 subjects.

        -  TC: approximately 136 subjects.

      Before randomization, the investigator will assign each subject to one of the following TC
      options:

        -  Low dose cytarabine (LDAC).

        -  Standard Intensive Chemotherapy (IC) of a 7+3 regimen.

        -  Best Supportive Care (BSC) only. BSC will be provided to all subjects as per standard
           and institutional practice. Subjects randomized to TC will not be allowed to cross over
           to guadecitabine. Data will be reviewed by an independent Data Monitoring Committee at
           regular intervals, primarily to evaluate safety during study conduct. Randomization will
           be stratified by disease category (MDS vs CMML), bone marrow (BM) blasts (BM blasts >10%
           vs BM blasts ≤10%), TC option (LDAC vs IC vs BSC), and study center region.

      Guadecitabine: 60 mg/m2 given SC daily on Days 1-5 in 28-day cycles (delayed as needed to
      allow blood count recovery). Treatment should be given for at least 6 total cycles in the
      absence of unacceptable toxicity or disease progression requiring alternative therapy. Beyond
      6 cycles, treatment should continue as long as the subject continues to benefit. BSC should
      be given according to standard and institutional practice.

      Treatment Choice (TC): Before randomization, the investigator will assign each subject to one
      of the following TC options:

        -  Low dose cytarabine (LDAC) given as 20 mg/m2 SC or IV once daily for 14 days in 28-day
           cycles (delayed as needed to allow blood count recovery). Treatment should be given for
           at least 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Standard Intensive Chemotherapy (IC) of a 7+3 regimen: given as cytarabine 100-200
           mg/m2/day given as continuous infusion for 7 days and an anthracycline given as per
           institutional standard practice such as daunorubicin (45-60 mg/m2/day), or idarubicin
           (9-12 mg/m2/day), or mitoxantrone (8-12 mg/m2/day) by intravenous infusion for 3 days.

        -  Best Supportive Care (BSC) only: given according to standard and institutional practice.
           BSC includes, but is not limited to blood transfusions (RBCs or platelets), growth
           factors including erythropoiesis stimulating agents (ESA), granulocyte stimulating
           factors (GSFs), iron chelating therapy, and broad spectrum antibiotics and/or
           antifungals.
    
  