
    
      Low back pain is a highly prevalent health condition, with a reported lifetime prevalence of
      up to 84% worldwide. Currently, it induces more disability than any other health condition,
      such as depression, diabetes, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or other musculoskeletal
      disorders. Approximately 85% of all low back pain complaints are non-specific, meaning that
      the pain cannot be attributed to a recognizable specific pathology such as an infection or
      vertebral fracture. While many patients with low back pain recover within a month, a large
      number of patients report a recurrence within one year. Current treatment interventions often
      remain unsuccessful, which highlights the current lack of knowledge on the underlying
      mechanisms of non-specific low back pain.

      Postural control deficits have been identified as a key factor in the development and
      recurrence of non-specific low back pain. To achieve optimal postural control, the central
      nervous system needs to process, integrate and weigh proprioceptive signals from different
      body regions (e.g. ankle muscles and lower back muscles) with vestibular and visual inputs.
      Several studies have shown that patients with non-specific low back pain have a decreased
      ability to optimally weigh proprioceptive signals during standing, which leads to reduced
      postural robustness compared to pain-free individuals. More specifically, patients with low
      back pain dominantly rely more on proprioceptive signals from the ankle muscles and are not
      able to up-weigh proprioceptive signals from the lower back muscles when needed. This might
      be due to an impaired central processing of proprioceptive signals. However, up to now no
      studies have investigated central proprioceptive processing in patients with recurrent
      non-specific low back pain.

      Therefore, this project aims to elucidate whether patients with recurrent non-specific low
      back pain showed altered brain activation patterns during the processing of proprioceptive
      signals from the ankle muscles and lower back muscles compared to healthy controls, by
      applying local muscle vibration during functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI).
    
  