
    
      In a society that is growing in the number of older adults who are also becoming more
      sedentary, it is critical to identify the types of exercise that harness significant health
      benefits. First, we hypothesize that older adults (60-80 y) need a certain background level
      of physical activity, judged by number of steps per day. This is important, especially to fat
      metabolism. Secondly, because older adults claim they don't have time to exercise, we have
      developed a time efficient program (10 min/day) that has shown promise for offsetting
      sarcopenia and significantly improving cardiovascular function.

      Our Aim 1 is to determine the range of daily step counts in older adults (60-80 y; n=24) that
      is needed to prevent acute impairment of post-prandial fat metabolism, measured the morning
      after exercise. We have recently shown in young adults that when their level of background
      physical activity drops below the range of 5,000 - 8,500±500 steps/d, that they don't adapt
      positively to an acute 1 h bout of exercise (i.e.; 'exercise resistance') that normally
      improves fat metabolism.

      Our Aim 2 is to determine the ability of a time-efficient 24-week program of exercise
      training for both maximal neuromuscular power and aerobic power to counteract sarcopenia and
      declines in aerobic power and functional tests in men and women 60-80 y. We have recently
      found in a preliminary study of older men and women (50-70 y) that performing multiple
      maximal 4 s sprints of rapid acceleration cycling bouts for only 8 weeks, eliciting maximal
      power, displayed significant (p<0.05) increases in muscle thigh volume (MRI), whole body
      muscle mass, maximal neuromuscular power and peak oxygen consumption. We now propose to train
      older men and women (i.e.; 60-80 y; n=60) for longer durations (i.e.; 24 weeks) and describe
      the time course of adaptations. We will additionally monitor their background levels of daily
      physical activity and determine if it correlates with improvements in neuromuscular and
      cardiovascular function.
    
  