
    
      Hemolytic disease of the newborn (HDN) due to red cell alloimmunisation is an important cause
      of hyperbilirubinemia with significant morbidity in the neonatal period . Hemolytic disease
      of the newborn has unfortunately continued to contribute to perinatal and neonatal morbidity
      and mortality in developing countries . The degree to which the fetus is affected correlated
      with the amount of maternal antibody that cross the placenta .

      Hemolysis from ABO incompatibility is one of the most common cause of isoimmune hemolytic
      disease during neonatal period. Infants with blood group type A or B , carried by blood group
      type O mother, will have a positive antibody because of maternal anti-A or anti-B transfer in
      to the fetal circulation. Ten percent of these infants will present with hemolytic disease .
      Most of the infant presents with unconjugated hyperbilirubinemia in the first 24 h of life
      and it is rarely a cause in patients who are discharged from nursery and readmit with severe
      hyperbilirubinemia.

      Rh incompatibility can occur when an Rh-negative pregnant mother is exposed to Rh-positive
      fetal red blood cells secondary to fetomaternal hemorrhage during the course of pregnancy
      from spontaneous or induced abortion , trauma, invasive obstetric procedures, or normal
      delivery. As a consequence, blood from the fetal circulation, and, after a significant
      exposure, sensitization occurs leading to maternal antibody production against the foreign Rh
      antigen. Once produced, maternal Rh immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies may cross freely from
      the placenta to the fetal circulation, where they form antigen-antibody complexes with Rh-
      positive fetal erythrocytes and eventually are destroyed, resulting in a fetal
      alloimmune-induced hemolytic anemia and Jaundice.

      Traditional neonatal treatment of HDN consists of intensive phototherapy and exchange
      transfusion (ET). However, ET is a high-risk invasive procedure associated with a significant
      rate of adverse effects .Although the mortality rate associated with ET is currently reported
      to be less than 0.3% in term infants , the morbidity rates can reach 74% and includes
      catheter-related complications, sepsis, thrombocytopenia and hypocalcemia

      Intravenous Immunoglobulin G (IVIG) therapy has been widely used for a variety of indications
      in newborn period such as alloimmune neonatal thrombocytopenia and an adjunctive treatment of
      neonatal infections. American Academy of Pediatrics, recommends high dose IVIG (0.5_1 g/kg)
      as an additional treatment of Rh and ABO hemolytic disease and its use however there is no
      consensus on its routine use in ABO hemolytic disease yet .

      IVIG "contains a spectrum of antibodies capable of interacting with and altering the activity
      of cells of the immune system as well as antibodies capable of reacting with cells such as
      erythrocytes". When hemolytic disease occurs, maternal antibodies present in the infant's
      blood attach to the antigen receptors on the infant's red blood cells. Specifically, the
      maternal antibody attaches its Fc region, the lower portion of the antigen, to specific
      immune system cells , such as machrophages, stimulating the destruction of the
      antigen-antibody complex and the red blood cell. It has been proposed that IVIG blocks the Fc
      receptor and therefore blocks the binding of the antibody to the antigen. With this blockade,
      hemolysis no longer occurs.

      Neonatal treatment with intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) has been suggested as an altenative
      therapy to ET for isoimmune hemolytic jaundice to reduce the need for exchange transfusion
      and duration of phototherapy and hospitalization in isoimmune hemolytic disease of the
      newborn.
    
  