
    
      Background:

        -  Prostate cancer is the most common cancer and the second leading cause of death in males
           in the United States with an estimated 191,930 new cases and 33,330 deaths in 2020.

        -  There has been progress in identifying established risk factors for the development of
           prostate cancer, including genetic predisposition. The study of the molecular genetics
           of prostate cancer has identified pathogenic variants, such as BRCA1 and BRCA2
           (associated with hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome), HOXB13 (associated with
           hereditary prostate cancer), and DNA mismatch repair (MMR) gene variants (MLH1, MSH2,
           MSH6, PMS2, and EPCAM) associated with Lynch syndrome.

        -  While our understanding of molecular genetics continues to grow, there remains a need to
           identify additional germline and somatic mutations and alterations that may increase an
           individual s risk to develop prostate cancer and potentially the aggressiveness of the
           disease. In studying the following alterations in prostate cancer, in both localized and
           advanced stages, potential expanded molecular findings may lead to actionable
           therapeutic targets and biomarker development. A better understanding of molecular
           genetics in a longitudinal study of subjects with prostate cancer may be helpful for the
           design of future treatment studies, and to develop a better understanding of the natural
           history of the disease

      Objectives:

        -  To longitudinally evaluate subjects with prostate cancer with known germline and/or
           somatic variants in PIK3 and/or AKT, PALB2, BRIP1, RAD50, RAD51, RAD54, RB1, SPOP,
           Wnt/B-catenin pathway, and MMR genes: MLH1, MSH2, MSH6, PMS2, and EPCAM to better
           understand the natural history of the disease.

        -  To longitudinally evaluate subjects with tumor mutational burden-high (TMB-H) prostate
           cancer [greater than or equal to 10 mutations/megabase (mut/Mb)].

      Eligibility:

        -  Subjects with histologically confirmed prostate cancer

        -  Must have known germline and/or somatic variants in PIK3 and/or AKT, PALB2, BRIP1,
           RAD50, RAD51, RAD54, RB1, SPOP, Wnt/B-catenin pathway, and MMR genes: MLH1, MSH2, MSH6,
           PMS2, and EPCAM and/or TMB-high or be deemed an exceptional responder. NOTE: any
           platform for genomics testing is acceptable (research or CLIA-certified)

        -  Age greater than or equal to 18 years old

      Design:

        -  This will be a long-term multi-center study to comprehensively study participants with
           prostate cancer.

        -  Participants will provide clinical information (including medical history, clinical
           tests, imaging studies and reports, surgical pathology reports, genetic test results).

        -  Since long-term follow-up of individuals with prostate cancer is a major feature of the
           study, local sites intend to maintain active contact with study subjects for as long as
           possible. Participants will be followed throughout the course of their illnesses, with
           particular attention to patterns of disease recurrence and progression, response to
           therapies and duration of responses.
    
  