
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To identify the maximally tolerated dose of trametinib to be used in combination with
      whole brain radiation therapy in patients with brain metastases. (Cohort A) II. To quantify
      trametinib in resected brain metastatic lesions utilizing high performance liquid
      chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS) and compare to quantification of adjacent
      tissues: brain margin, arachnoid, and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). (Cohort B)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the tolerability and feasibility of the combination of trametinib and
      radiation therapy to brain for brain metastases.

      II. To evaluate the objective response rate per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors
      (RECIST) criteria of combination trametinib and radiation therapy.

      III. To evaluate the local control rate, as measure from the time of study enrollment until
      the time of death.

      IV. To evaluate the neurologic progression-free survival, as measured from the time of study
      enrollment until the time of progression within the brain or death.

      V. To evaluate overall survival, as measured from the time of study enrollment until the time
      of death.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To quantify cyclin D1, p27, phosphorylated mitogen-activated protein kinase 1 (pERK)-1/2,
      phosphorylated v-akt murine thymoma viral oncogene homolog 1 (pAKT), phosphatase and tensin
      homolog gene (PTEN), phosphorylated mammalian target of rapamycin (pMTOR), phosphorylated
      ribosomal protein S6 kinase (pS6K), and ribosomal protein S6 (pS6) of resected metastatic
      brain lesions via quantitative immunohistochemistry (IHC) and compare to the IHC profile of
      the primary tumor.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of trametinib. Patients are assigned to 1 of 2
      treatment cohorts.

      COHORT A: Patients receive trametinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) for 4 weeks. Beginning in
      week 2, patients undergo whole brain radiation therapy five days a week for 3 weeks.
      Treatment continues for 4 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      COHORT B: Patients receive trametinib PO QD on days 1-14 followed by surgical resection of
      the tumor.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 4 weeks, every 2 months for
      1 year, every 3 months for 3 years, and then every 6 months thereafter.
    
  