
    
      Information and Communications Technologies (ICTs) as a global trend refers to a cluster of
      technologies that are used to share, distribute, gather, and communicate information. ICTs
      encompass hardware that is often Internet capable such as computers, smart phones, and
      tablets, as well as the software and applications, such as email, social media sites, and
      video conferencing that are used on these devices. In Hong Kong, as of March 2016, the number
      of mobile service subscribers was 16.72 million, representing one of highest penetration
      rates in the world at about 228.3 per cent; amongst these subscribers, 14.69 million were 3G/
      4G service customers. As of March 2016, a surge to 20,557 Terabytes (or an average of 1,358
      Megabytes per 2.5G/3G/4G mobile user) was recorded for local mobile data usage, representing
      a growth of 1.18 times and 1.58 times over the same period in 2015 and 2014 respectively.

      In light of the review on family services in Hong Kong in 2000, pilot projects on the
      Integrated Family Service Centre (IFSC) service mode, were conducted in 2002. The Review
      report "Building Effective Family Services: Review on the Implementation of the IFSC Service
      Mode" stated that the IFSC service mode is an appropriate service mode for public-funded
      family services in Hong Kong. However, the Review also identified factors hindering the
      delivery of IFSC services. These hindering factors are the namely poor accessibility of some
      IFSCs, heavy workload, and stigmatisation. With the use of ICT, these hindering factors can
      be overcome, thus improving the IFSC service mode. The Review also recommended that "IFSCs
      should explore service enhancement through appropriate use and sharing of information
      technology."

      To gain a more comprehensive understanding of the current level of ICT use by providers of
      family services in Hong Kong, and their anticipated future direction regarding ICT use, focus
      group interviews are conducted with various stakeholders, including heads of service and
      programme directors at Hong Kong NGOs running IFSCs, and social service workers and service
      users of various IFSCs. Focus group interviews and survey questionnaires for service
      providers and service users are used to collect the information on the view and use of ICT in
      their daily practice.

      The Hong Kong Jockey Club Charities Trust has initiated the Jockey Club SMART Family-Link
      Project in collaboration with The University of Hong Kong (HKU) and NGOs to promote the
      effective use of information and communications technology (ICT) and data analytics in family
      services. This project is aimed at helping 26 NGO-operated Integrated Family Service Centres
      and Integrated Service Centres (Centres) devise an innovative and evidence-based family
      service delivery model that leverages the effective use of ICT and data analytics and enhance
      the quality and efficiency of their family service.

      This study aims to (i) understand the current practice of ICT use in family services and
      identify the needs and concerns of the stakeholders (heads of service, programme directors,
      counsellors, social service and related workers, and service users) on using ICTs in family
      services; and (ii) assess the impact of the Jockey Club SMART Family-Link Project.
    
  