
    
      The aim of the P3 program is to provide supportive and comprehensive care from a variety of
      perspectives, including medical, social, and psychological. The premises on which the program
      are built include: a commitment to the respect, confidentiality, dignity and medical care of
      clients; health promotion; normalizing the care of HIV-positive pregnant women; knowledge
      translation; and the intentions to build a model of care that is transferable to other
      clinicians and to other conditions.

      During antenatal visits, pregnant women are seen by a multidisciplinary team of professionals
      including an Obstetrician, Midwife, Prenatal Nurse and Social Worker. Different rooms are
      used for routine antenatal care maneuvers and for consultation and counseling. The Midwife
      attends the births of the women in the program, and does home post partum care visits. Care
      is provided that is patient- and family-centered. Partners are invited to attend as many
      visits as the couple wishes. Because of this team approach, significantly more time is spent
      with each woman than would occur at a routine prenatal visit.

      The patient population at the St. Michael's clinic is largely made up of immigrant women.
      Many of these women are refugees, and have fled conflict zones or wars to come to Canada.
      More than 50% have lived in Canada for less than five years. Many of these women are
      marginalized, and may not access care elsewhere. They have many issues beyond HIV, and some
      of the social determinants of health that we observe during their time in the program include
      issues surrounding housing, finance, immigration, legal issues, social support, co-morbid
      conditions and substance use.

      Since the launch of the program, there has been a rapid increase in the number of women
      attending each year. The program has also attracted significant attention, both from within
      the medical and health care communities and beyond.

      This study seeks to determine if women cared for in the Positive Pregnancy Program will have
      a high degree of satisfaction with this model of care.
    
  