
    
      Sepsis is currently defined as life-threatening organ dysfunction secondary to a dysregulated
      host response to infection (Sepsis-3). Septic shock is a subgroup of patients who also have
      sustained arterial hypotension requiring vasopressors and tissue dysoxia. The mortality
      varies from 10 to 40% depending on the severity. The latest "bundles" of the SSC request to
      perform within the first hour of sepsis identification a fluid loading of 30 mL/kg of
      crystalloids in the presence of hypotension, and to initiate a vasopressor support in case of
      persistent hypotension to maintain a mean arterial pressure ≥ 65 mmHg. However, early fluid
      resuscitation is not necessarily associated with an improvement of sepsis prognosis and may
      even be deleterious when leading to excessive positive fluid balance. Accordingly, the SSC
      recommends investigating a personalized approach to define for each patient the appropriate
      volume of fluids to be administered according to the initial mechanism of sepsis-induced
      cardiovascular failure. Echocardiography is currently recommended as a first-line modality to
      identify the origin of acute circulatory failure, sepsis remaining the leading cause. It has
      been shown to alter ongoing treatment based on the sole SSC recommendations in the intensive
      care unit. In contrast, the impact of hemodynamic assessment using echocardiography at the
      early stage of sepsis in patients admitted to the Emergency Department (ED) is unknown.

      In this randomized trial, patients will be either assessed hemodynamically using
      transthoracic echocardiography to guide early therapeutic management (intervention arm) or
      managed according to standards of care based on current SSC recommendations (control arm).
      Early echocardiography will be performed after 500 mL of fluid loading initiated upon
      identification of septic patients based on the qSOFA score (hemodynamic criterion required:
      systolic blood pressure ≤ 100 mmHg). This will allow identifying the hemodynamic profile at
      the origin of sepsis-induced circulatory failure and to monitor both the efficacy and
      tolerance of fluid resuscitation, or of any other therapeutic intervention (e.g., inotropic
      support) according to a predefined therapeutic algorithm. Patients allocated to the control
      arm will be managed conventionally according to current SSC recommendations, including a
      standardized fluid loading of 30 mL/kg.

      Organ dysfunctions will be assessed in the two study arms by the SOFA score 24 hours after
      randomization and patient will be followed up until hospital discharge to determine outcome.
    
  