
    
      Follicular NHL, a type of blood cancer, is the second most common type of non-Hodgkin's
      lymphoma, with approximately 15,000 new cases being diagnosed each year in the United States.
      Chemotherapy is a common treatment option for people with NHL, and at first most people
      achieve cancer remission with initial chemotherapy. However, after the initial chemotherapy,
      people with this disease typically experience a continuous pattern of relapse that results in
      progressively shorter remission durations. A blood stem cell transplant is another treatment
      option for people with follicular NHL. In a blood stem cell transplant procedure, healthy
      blood stem cells are taken from a donor and transplanted into the patient. The cells can be
      donated by a family member or an unrelated donor who has a similar tissue type. Typically,
      people who are undergoing a blood stem cell transplant receive high doses of chemotherapy
      before the transplant to prepare their bodies to accept the donor stem cells. In this study,
      participants will undergo a type of stem cell transplant called a nonmyeloablative
      transplant, which involves a reduced intensity method of transplantation that does not
      require high doses of chemotherapy. The purpose of the study is to examine the effectiveness
      of a nonmyeloablative allogeneic blood stem cell transplant at improving survival rates in
      people with relapsed follicular NHL.

      This study will enroll people with relapsed follicular NHL. At a baseline study visit,
      participants will undergo a medical history review, physical examination, blood collection,
      lung function testing, computed tomography (CT) scans, a bone marrow biopsy, and
      questionnaires to assess quality of life. Participants will be admitted to the hospital and
      on various days in the 2 weeks before the transplant, they will receive fludarabine,
      cyclophosphamide, rituximab, which are cancer medications, and tacrolimus, a medication that
      will help prevent graft-versus-host disease (GVHD), which is an attack by the donor cells on
      the body's normal tissues. Participants will then undergo the blood stem cell transplant. At
      various times during the 2 weeks after the transplant, participants will receive rituximab
      and methotrexate, which is another medication to prevent GVHD. They will also receive
      tacrolimus for at least 6 months to help prevent GVHD. Participants will remain in the
      hospital for as long as necessary to recover from the transplant. Follow-up study visits will
      occur weekly for Weeks 1 to 14, and then at Months 6, 12, 18, and 24. At each study visit,
      select baseline procedures will be repeated.
    
  