
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess whether the combination nab-paclitaxel and bevacizumab (AB) prolongs
      progression-free status relative to ipilimumab as a treatment in patients with unresectable
      stage IV melanoma.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the hazard of death among those randomized to AB then ipilimumab relative to
      those randomized to ipilimumab then AB as treatment in patients with unresectable stage IV
      melanoma.

      II. To assess whether tumor response rate (as determined by Response Evaluation Criteria in
      Solid Tumors [RECIST] criteria 1.1) differs with respect to first (1st) treatment course.

      III. To estimate whether the tumor response rate differs with respect to second (2nd)
      treatment course for those who progressed during their first treatment course.

      IV. To further examine the safety profile of each of these regimens.

      CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES:

      I. To examine the pharmacokinetics of nab-paclitaxel when combined with bevacizumab therapy.

      II. To examine pharmacodynamic changes of blood-derived parameters (biomarkers) of
      angiogenesis and immunity as a function of therapy.

      III. To examine whether changes in serum biomarkers are also seen in the tumor.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive bevacizumab intravenously (IV) over 30-90 minutes on days 1 and 15
      and nab-paclitaxel IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15. Courses repeat every 28 days in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients experiencing
      progressive disease may cross-over to Arm B within 2-4 weeks.

      ARM B: Patients receive ipilimumab IV over 90 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21
      days for up to 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Patients experiencing progressive disease may cross-over to Arm A within 2-4 weeks.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for up to 5 years.
    
  