
    
      This study is a prospective, monocentric study, with biological analyses. The investigational
      product will be administered according to French health agency. The duration of the study for
      each patient will be 3 months with 3 visits and from 3 to a maximum of 18 months for the
      clinical follow-up.

      Hypothesis: Apixaban significantly decreases D-dimers and other markers of coagulation
      activation in patients with NVAF ( paroxysmic and chronic atrial fibrillation).

      Primary endpoint:

      Measurement of D-dimers at baseline (before apixaban treatment) and under chronic apixaban
      treatment at 3 months in the overall population.

      Secondary endpoints:

      Difference of the D-dimers levels between enrollment (V1) and the final visit (V3) at three
      months in both subgroups separately. In the subgroup B,comparison of D-dimers in patients
      previously treated by VKA (V1) and under apixaban (V3).

      Similarly than for D-dimers levels, each following parameters will be analyzed for the
      overall population and for both subgroups separately :

        -  Difference of prothrombin fragments F1+F2 levels between V1 and V3.

        -  Difference of thrombin and antithrombin complexes levels between V1 and V3

        -  Difference of vWF levels between V1 and V3.

      Correlation will be evaluated between:

        -  AntiXa apixaban activity (at trough) and D-dimers difference

        -  D-dimers difference and clinical follow-up (ischemic events and-bleeding events) V2 and
           V3 levels of each parameter will be compared to assess the delay of appearance of the
           apixaban effect if any. Inflammation parameters ( C reactive protein and fibrinogen)
           will be used as explicative for the other parameters.

      Effect on APTT( activated partial thromboplastin time) and PT(prothrombin time) will be
      compared to specific apixaban anti Xa activity

      Subgroup analysis:

        -  Subgroups A and B (newly diagnosed and VKA naïve NVAF and chronic NVAF)

        -  age >80 years,

        -  creatinine clearance < 50 ml/min,

        -  gender Multivariate analysis for the primary endpoint

      Statistical analysis Continuous variables will be analyzed for a normal distribution with the
      D'Agostino-Pearson test. They will be presented as mean and standard deviation (SD) and
      compared with Student's unpaired t-test if normally distributed, or presented as median and
      interquartile range and compared with Mann-Whitney rank-sum test, if not. Categorical
      variables will be presented as counts and percentages and will be compared by means of the
      χ2-test or Fisher's exact test.

      Correlations between quantitative variables will be assessed with Pearson correlation
      coefficients. Predictive factors will be determined using a stepwise multivariable logistic
      regression analysis. In this study, we will expect an initial D-dimers level around 1500ng/ml
      with a standard deviation of ±700ng/ml in patients with newly diagnosed NVAF. At 3 month, we
      expect a level of D-dimers of 1000±600ng/ml (reduction of 500ng/ml compared to the enrolment
      visit). A sample size of 60 patients has been estimated in this pilot study. The study will
      include 60 patients with NVAF with 50% of patients with newly diagnosed NVAF (Subgroup A,
      n=30) and the other 50% with NVAF previously treated by VKA (Subgroup B, n=30).

      All information required by the protocol must be provided in the case report form. The data
      will be transferred in the case report forms as and when they are obtained, whether clinical
      or biological. The investigators will make the data available strictly necessary for qua lity
      control and audit relating to the biomedical research in accordance with the legislative and
      regulatory provisions in force (Articles L.1121-3 and R.5121-13 of the French Public Health
      Code).

      Those responsible for biomedical research quality control (Article L.1121-3 of the French
      Public Health Code) will take all necessary precautions to ensure the confidentiality of
      information about the experimental medications, the research, the research subjects and in
      particular the identity of the subjects and the results obtained. These individuals, as well
      as the investigators themselves, are subject to professional secrecy (in accordance with the
      conditions set out in Articles 226-13 and 226-14 of the Penal Code).

      All Serious Adverse Events (SAEs) that occur following the subject's written consent to
      participate in the study through 30 days of discontinuation of dosing must be reported to
      Bristol-Myers Squibb Worldwide Safety and to the sponsor.
    
  