
    
      Bipolar disorder (BD) is a chronic psychiatric illness of partially unknown pathophysiology.
      BD likely involves, at a molecular and cellular level, dysfunctions of critical neurotrophic,
      cellular plasticity and resilience pathways and neuroprotective processes. Abnormalities of
      neurotrophins (NTs) and other trophic factors orchestrate important alterations which could
      be implicated in the etiology of BD. As consistently reported in post-mortem studies, these
      modifications are generally associated with the disruption of distinct subregions and
      functions of the brain, one of which is the deregulation of neurotrophins.

      NTs are capable of signaling neurons, glial cells and other cellular systems to enable
      survival, differentiation and growth. BDNF is one of the most studied and abundant NTs in the
      brain, which plays an important role in a variety of neural processes during the development
      of both animals and humans. Initially, BDNF is important for neurogenesis, neuronal survival,
      and normal maturation of neural development pathways. In the adult, BDNF is not only
      important for synaptic plasticity and dendritic growth, but also for long-term memory
      consolidation. Several studies have proved that BDNF is significantly reduced in manic,
      hypomanic or depressive stages of BD, whereas euthymic patients exhibit BDNF levels similar
      to healthy controls.

      Rafael T. de Sousa et al have observed a significant increase in serum BDNF levels after 28
      days of lithium monotherapy in patients with BD and suggested neuroprotective role of lithium
      due to its direct regulatory effect on BDNF. Oxcarbazepine is a commonly used mood stabilizer
      which has demonstrated comparable efficacy to divalproate sodium and better tolerability
      profile but till date there is no study on its effect on BDNF. The aim of the present study
      is to evaluate the change in serum BDNF level with oxcarbazepine monotherapy in bipolar
      disorder and to explore the possibility of its neuroprotective effect.
    
  