
    
      This project is designed as a prospective, randomized, comparative study between the Trigen
      Trochanteric Femoral Nail (Smith & Nephew, Memphis) and a standard femoral intramedullary
      nail that utilizes a piriformis fossa portal in the treatment of fractures of the
      subtrochanteric and diaphyseal shaft regions of the femur. The hypothesis is that the
      trochanteric insertion portal will have no difference when compared with the piriformis fossa
      portal in terms of pain and strength of the hip abductor muscles, while allowing faster
      surgical fixation of the femur fracture.

      Any patient who has sustained a fracture of the femur, is at least 19 years of age, and meets
      the study's inclusion and exclusion criteria will be asked to participate in the study. After
      informed consent has been obtained, the patient will be taken to the Operating Theater for
      surgical fixation of the femur fracture. No fracture will be entered into the study unless
      antegrade femoral nailing is the treatment of choice of the attending surgeon.

      The outcome variables consist of the intraoperative and postoperative adverse device effects
      recorded in the medical record and on the study data collection form, intraoperative and
      postoperative complications recorded in medical record and on the study data collection form,
      hip functional outcome using the WOMAC score recorded for each patient, SF-36 score recorded
      for each patient, results of clinical examination at 6 weeks, 3, 6, and 12 months recorded in
      medical record and on the study data collection form, radiographic examination evaluated by
      two surgeons for the presence of callus and radiographic healing recorded in the medical
      record and on the study data collection form. Radiographic healing at 6 weeks, 3, 6, and 12
      months recorded in the medical record and on the study data collection form. (The injury
      severity score for all multiple trauma patients recorded on the study data collection form,
      and soft tissue score according to Gustillo and Anderson for open injuries and according to
      Tscherne for all closed injuries recorded on the study data collection form. This data will
      be taken into account relative to the outcome variables). The effects will be measured by
      clinical examination, radiographic examination, and subjective patient's outcome survey.
      Additionally, hip abductor muscle strength will be measured and ability to perform one leg
      stance and hop will be documented at 6 and 12 months.

      Data will be collected and entered into EXCEL spreadsheets with double keying for quality
      control purposes and managed by the Department of Orthopaedic Surgery at the University of
      Alabama at Birmingham (UAB). After data entry is complete, the file(s) will be copied to
      diskette and delivered to the UAB Biostatistics statistician for analysis and report
      generation. The analysis will involve simple descriptive statistics (means, standard
      deviations, proportions) to assure balance of the treatment groups with respect to relevant
      variables. T-test will be used to compare the mean times to callus formation and radiographic
      healing between groups. Analysis of covariance will be performed if there are variables that
      require adjustment. Growth curve analysis (survival models) and Cox regression procedures
      will be used to compare the rates of callus formation and/or healing between the two groups.
      Assumption of proportional hazards in the model will be verified before attempting Cox
      regression procedures. P-values will be computed using a Mann-Whitney U test for
      non-parametric data.
    
  