
    
      Treatment with ARC-520 for injection is expected to reduce all HBV proteins and replicative
      intermediates via ribonucleic acid (RNA) interference. The magnitude of the reduction and
      duration of effect will depend on the dose. Since to date ARC-520 has not been administered
      to patients with chronic HBV infection, the effective therapeutic dose in patients with
      chronic HBV infection is unknown. This study is designed to assess the antiviral activity of
      ARC-520, especially its effect on HBsAg, in patients with chronic HBV infection at different
      dose levels.

      This is a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, single-dose escalation
      study of ARC 520 in combination with entecavir administered to participants with hepatitis B
      virus e antigen (HBeAg)-negative (Cohorts 1 through 4) or HBeAg-positive (Cohort 5) immune
      active, chronic HBV infection, followed by a two-dose open-label cohort (Cohort 6), three
      open-label single-dose cohorts in treatment-naïve participants (Cohorts 7, 11 and 12) and an
      open-label multi-dose extension study (Cohorts 8, 9, 10). Cohort 6 will investigate ARC-520
      in combination with entecavir administered in two doses to participants with HBeAg-positive
      immune-active chronic HBV infection. Cohorts 7, 11 and 12 will enroll treatment-naïve
      participants. Cohort 8 will only enroll participants previously completing Cohorts 1-4.
      Cohort 9 will only enroll participants previously completing Cohort 5 or 6. Cohort 10 will
      only enroll participants previously completing Cohort 7.

      Participants will undergo the following evaluations at regular intervals during the study:
      medical history, physical examinations, vital sign measurements (blood pressure, heart rate,
      respiratory rate, and temperature), weight, adverse events (AEs), 12-lead electrocardiograms
      (ECGs), concomitant medication, blood sample collection for hematology, coagulation,
      chemistry, pharmacokinetic (PK) and exploratory pharmacodynamic (PD) measures, urinalysis,
      HBV serology, HBV genotyping and sequencing, follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) testing and
      pregnancy testing for females of childbearing potential. Clinically significant changes
      including AEs will be followed until resolution, until the condition stabilizes, until the
      event is otherwise explained, or until the participant is lost to follow-up.
    
  