
    
      A pilot study and collaboration between patients, relatives and professionals in the research
      program has clarified the need to develop a PCC eHealth platform. Previous research has shown
      that eHealth support, where the users are not involved in the process, has a low impact and
      has highlighted several limitations with respect to: patients' participation in the design
      process; its anchorage in the home and local environment and opportunities for communication
      rather than information. Therefore this study has a participatory design which assumes that
      all users (patients, relatives and health care professionals) are involved in the study
      design which facilitates implementation. An end-user perspective as a starting point
      increases the chances that users adapt a positive attitude towards the new system.
      Person-centred care combined with an eHealth support along the chain of health care showed a
      4-fold chance of improved self-efficacy in combination with return to work or prior activity
      level after an event of acute coronary syndrome.

      PCC can be delivered at distance and make health care more effective above and beyond usual
      care. Inclusion of the principles of PCC in an eHealth support for patients with chronic
      heart failure (CHF) and/or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) will reduce the need
      for medical care (primary care and hospital admission) amongst these patients by improving
      self-management, self-efficacy and collaboration in the process of care.

      The aim of this project is to implement and evaluate the PCC approach at distance to patients
      with CHF and/or COPD and their informal care givers to live better and cope more effectively
      with the disease burden associated with CHF and/or COPD. In the PCC approach, the aims,
      capabilities and needs of each patient, will be the starting point. Self-care strategies will
      be reinforced and empowered.

      This study is a randomized, open, parallel group intervention study where patients are
      eligible when they are hospitalized due to worsening CHF and/or COPD. They will be asked
      before discharge about participation.

      Patients admitted to hospital for worsening CHF and/or COPD will be recruited by the research
      nurses employed in this project from Emergency or on the ward once their condition has
      stabilized sufficiently.

      Patients will be screened against inclusion and exclusion criteria for eligibility to
      participate in the study. Written informed consent will be obtained. Patients will be
      randomized into either the control or the intervention arm 1:1. The control group will
      receive usual care. The intervention group will receive usual care plus a PCC nurse-led
      intervention. Randomization will be done through computer generated lists and stored in
      sealed envelopes.

      Patients listed in Närhälsan with a confirmed diagnosis of CHF and/or COPD will be screened
      and sent an informing letter about the study from the chief at each centre. Specially trained
      registered nurses (RNs) will then screen patients against study inclusion and exclusion
      criteria and by phone contact eligible patients and inform the patient about the aims of the
      study and ask if they are interested to participate. If the patient wants to participate a
      consent form is sent to the patient and then returned to the RN. Then the randomization
      procedure is performed which is based on a computer-generated list and the patient will be
      informed about the outcome by phone. Patients randomized to the intervention group will need
      a computer, smart phone or iPad to participate in the study. Patients who want will have the
      possibility to be provided an iPad for the duration of their participation in the programme.

      Two dedicated full-time Registered Nurses (RN) follow the procedures closely. A monitor
      controls the protocol adherence. All case record forms, questionnaires and referrals will be
      constructed (for intervention and usual care groups).

      Patients listed at a primary care centre in Närhälsan with CHF and/or COPD will be randomized
      to usual care (control) or PCC (intervention) after informed and written consent. Follow-up
      questionnaires on general self-efficacy, cardiac self-efficacy, quality of life, anxiety and
      depression will be sent out to all patients in both groups after 3,6,12 and 24 months after
      randomization.

      Patients randomized to usual care will be managed by regular evidence-based treatment and
      care as outlined in treatment guidelines and followed as usual at their local primary care
      centre.

      Patients will be called by a dedicated RN who has received special training in PCC
      communication at distance, the eHealth platform, CHF and COPD for an initial person-centred
      dialogue by phone. Based on the patient narrative patient´s goals, resources and needs are
      identified. The patient (sometimes maybe together with relatives) and the RN formulate a
      person-centred health plan. This plan is part of and will be up-loaded to the eHealth
      platform which also contains individual notes and information about CHF and COPD. The plan
      will be the point of departure for the forthcoming dialogue at distance via the eHealth
      platform that the patient and the RN will have during the study period (6 months).

      The eHealth support contains headings that may inspire the patient to make notes on "a good
      day" respectively "a bad day". The health plan contain three parts; 1. "My goal is to feel or
      be able to do". 2. "To be able to reach my goal I will." 3."Support I need to reach my goal".
      In the communication during the study period between the RN and patient, the personal health
      plan is discussed and any needs of reformulating the goals may be discussed. The overall goal
      is to help the patient to identify their own capabilities/resources such as a strong will,
      social relations etc. and formulate goals that help them increase their self-efficacy and to
      cope with their condition in daily life.

      The RN presents the eHealth support for communication (computer, iPad, smart phone) and they
      agree on how they will be in contact thereafter. The RN invites the patient and activates
      their account where he/she can login via an individual user name and formulate, comment,
      evaluate or develop the health plan. Access to the diary will be password protected.
      Different forms of symptom-ratings and comments can also be made. The RN can see the
      patient´s account and make comments. The patient can add or delete staff or private persons
      that have access to the account. The patient can also limit the access to the account. This
      makes it relatively simple to connect it to the health account (patient record through
      internet)
    
  