
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose of fenretinide (4-HPR) Lym-X-Sorb™ (LXS) oral
           powder (4-HPR/LXS oral powder) in patients with recurrent, refractory, or persistent
           neuroblastoma.

        -  Define the toxicities of 4-HPR/LXS oral powder in these patients.

        -  Determine the plasma pharmacokinetics of 4-HPR/LXS oral powder and its metabolites in
           these patients.

        -  Determine the tolerability of the combination of ketoconazole and 4-HPR/LXS oral powder
           in these patients.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the response rate in patients treated with 4-HPR/LXS oral powder.

        -  Determine the level of 4-HPR/LXS oral powder in normal peripheral blood mononuclear
           cells (PBMC) as a tumor cell surrogate tissue.

        -  Determine plasma levels of 4-HPR/LXS oral powder when given in combination with
           ketoconazole.

        -  Determine whether ketoconazole increases 4-HPR/LXS oral powder plasma levels.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of fenretinide (4-HPR) Lym-X-Sorb™ (LXS) oral
      powder, followed by an open-label study. Patients are sequentially assigned to 1 of 2
      intervention groups.

        -  Group I: Patients receive 4-HPR/LXS oral powder 3 times daily on days 0-6.

        -  Group II: Patients receive 4-HPR/LXS oral powder as in group I and oral ketoconazole
           once daily on days 0-6.

      In both groups, treatment repeats every 21 days for at least 6 courses in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients in complete remission at study
      enrollment may receive up to 12 courses (9 months) of therapy.

      Blood samples are collected at baseline and during courses 1, 2, and 6 for pharmacokinetic
      and correlative studies.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 32 patients will be accrued for the dose-escalation portion and
      36 will be accrued for the open-label portion of this study.
    
  