
    
      Patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) develop anemia due to reduced erythropoietin
      production by the kidney. Correction of anemia has been shown to improve exercise capacity,
      cognition, quality of life and may slow disease progression.

      The primary objective of this study is to compare the change in hemoglobin (Hb) that occurs
      from study start to the end of the study in pre-dialysis patients with anemia of chronic
      kidney disease (CKD) who are receiving PROCRIT (epoetin alfa) once every two weeks (Q2W) and
      once every four weeks (Q4W). This study will enroll 259 patients who will be randomly
      assigned (assigned to a treatment group by chance) to receive epoetin alfa subcutaneously
      (SC, under the skin) at one of four doses.

      This study will have a Screening Phase of up to one week when patients will be evaluated for
      study eligibility followed by an open-label Treatment Phase of 16 weeks when patients will be
      randomly assigned to receive epoetin alfa administered under the skin at one of four dosing
      regimens. Patients will then complete a Post-Treatment Follow-Up Phase of 1 week (Week 17).
      Hemoglobin will be measured weekly. There will be no dose adjustments during the initial 4
      weeks of the study, however, the dose may be withheld during this time if necessary. Further
      dose increases may occur at 4-week intervals and dose reductions may occur as frequently as
      the dosing interval assigned at randomization.

      Patients will be eligible for epoetin alfa dose adjustments starting at the Week 5 visit if
      Hb is > 12 g/dL or Hb increases too rapidly (e.g., >1.0 g/dL in the last one or two
      consecutive weeks). The last dose of epoetin alfa administered for any treatment group will
      coincide with the dosing frequency assigned to that group. Epoetin alfa will not be
      administered later than Week 16 for any treatment group.

      Hematology, serum chemistry, and iron status will be assessed at intervals throughout the
      study. The number of units of blood transfused, pre-transfusion Hb level, and the reasons for
      transfusion will be collected. Clinical laboratory results, vital signs, and the incidence
      and severity of adverse events will be assessed and monitored during the study.

      Protocol Addendum: An Open-Label Extension of PROCRIT (Epoetin alfa) Maintenance Therapy
      Administered Every Six Weeks (Q6W) for the Treatment of Anemia of Chronic Kidney Disease
      (CKD). The Main Protocol, as described above, was designed to evaluate whether patients with
      anemia of CKD could be started on epoetin alfa therapy at one of four dosing regimens: 10,000
      U once every week, 20,000 U every two weeks, 20,000 U every 4 weeks, or 40,000 U every four
      weeks. As an addendum to the Main Protocol, up to sixty (60) patients completing the original
      protocol with a hemoglobin (Hb) between 11 and 12 g/dL will be given an opportunity to enroll
      in an open-label extension study that will begin at the end of the Main Protocol timeline
      (Week 17). The primary objective of this open-label extension is to evaluate if epoetin alfa
      40,000 U given SC every six weeks (Q6W), can maintain Hb within the range of 11-12 g/dL in
      patients with anemia of chronic kidney disease (CKD).

      This open-label extension will have a Screening Phase of up to one week (during Week 17) when
      patients will be evaluated for eligibility, an Open-Label Treatment Phase of 12 weeks
      duration (Weeks 18-Week 30), and a Post-Treatment Follow-Up Phase of 6 weeks (ending at Week
      36 or 6 weeks from the date of the last dose of epoetin alfa). All patients will receive a
      first dose of epoetin alfa 40,000 U SC every 6 weeks beginning with Week 18, a second dose at
      Week 24, and a third and final dose at Week 30. During the Treatment Phase, Hb will be
      measured weekly. Dosing will not be increased during the open-label extension. A six-week
      follow-up period is required after administration of the Week 30 dose for those patients
      receiving all 3 doses. If Hb falls below 10 g/dL at any time or if the patient requires a red
      blood cell (RBC) transfusion, the patient will be withdrawn from the open-label extension,
      and the Post-Treatment Follow-Up Phase will occur 6 weeks later.

      Hematology, serum chemistry, and iron status will be assessed at intervals throughout the
      study. The number of units of blood transfused, pre-transfusion Hb level, and the reasons for
      transfusion will be collected. Clinical laboratory results, vital signs, and the incidence
      and severity of adverse events will be assessed and monitored during the study. Patients will
      receive epoetin alfa under the skin (SC) at a dose of 10,000 units (U) every week, 20,000 U
      every 2 weeks, 20,000 U every 4 weeks or 40,000 U every 4 weeks for 16 weeks. Protocol
      Addendum: Patients will receive epoetin alfa 40,000 U every 6 weeks over 12 weeks.
    
  