
    
      Acute exacerbations of asthma and COPD are an important cause of hospital admission and the
      main cause of annual winter bed shortages; responsible for the majority of asthma and COPD
      exacerbations. Despite current guideline recommendations, treatment with oral corticosteroids
      (for both asthma and COPD exacerbations) and antibiotics (for COPD exacerbations) is not
      wholly adequate, whilst a significant number of patients suffer side effects from these
      medicines. Furthermore, almost 40% of patients with an exacerbation, treated in a standard
      way with oral prednisolone, do not respond and require further treatment or re-treatment, and
      depressingly following a severe COPD exacerbation, 10% die within 30 days. The risk of death
      in patients with asthma is especially high in those who have poorly controlled asthm5. These
      events are all by definition treatment failures or non-response and impact on patient
      outcomes. In patients with COPD the outlook is particularly bleak following a second hospital
      admission with a significant increase in mortality.

      Inflammation in exacerbations of asthma and COPD

      It is now recognised that there are two dominant patterns of airway inflammation in patients
      presenting with an acute wheezing illness: 1. infection associated neutrophilic airway
      inflammation; and 2. non-infection related eosinophilic airway inflammation; both related to
      asthma and COPD, with a predominance of non-infection related eosinophilic inflammation in
      patients with asthma. These patterns of airway inflammation are very rarely seen together and
      cannot be distinguished reliably by clinical categories (i.e. asthma or COPD) or a standard
      clinical assessment. They can however be identified by the peripheral blood eosinophil count,
      which is ≥2% in 90% of patients with eosinophilic airway inflammation and <2% in a similar
      proportion of patients with infection associated neutrophilic airway inflammation.
      Furthermore, these types of inflammation are consistent within patients, whether assessed
      when in the stable state or in the setting of an acute attack. Furthermore, patients with
      eosinophilic inflammation have been repeatedly shown to have more exacerbations and that
      incomplete suppression of eosinophilic inflammation leads to an accelerated time to next
      exacerbation in COPD. These findings raise important questions about our current 'one size
      fits all' approach to management of acute wheezing illnesses in patients with asthma and COPD
      and suggest that targeted treatment based on effective reduction of inflammation would result
      in more efficient and effective management.

      Treatment of exacerbations

      A key component of treatment of the acute exacerbation event in patients with asthma and COPD
      is systemic corticosteroids i.e. oral prednisolone often at a dose of between 30-50mg once
      per day for 5 to 14 days. This is especially the case in patients with eosinophilic
      inflammation at the onset of the exacerbation event. However, even in patients with the right
      pattern of airway inflammation the beneficial effects of prednisolone have to be offset
      against a high potential for harm. One study using systemic corticosteroids in the
      exacerbation setting in patients with COPD estimated the number needed to treat (NNT) to
      reduce 1 treatment failure episode as 10 whilst simultaneously reporting that the number
      needed to harm (NNH) as 5. Adverse effects include significant hyperglycaemia, leading to
      diabetes in approximately 8% of patients' treated; osteoporosis with recurrent prescription;
      and treatment induced psychosis. Moreover, in a recent retrospective analysis of hospital
      prescriptions for systemic corticosteroids, excluding patients with airways disease, the
      incidence of patients with adverse events and harm in the first 30 days of a short course
      prednisolone prescription was significantly high, with an incidence rate (95%CI) of sepsis of
      5.3 (3.8 to 7.1); venous thromboembolism of 3.3 (2.8 to 4.0); and fracture rate of 1.9 (1.7
      to 2.1). Additional difficulties with prednisolone include the short duration of action and
      the requirement for treatment adherence. These factors increase the chance of relapse as a
      result of recurrent eosinophilic airway inflammation and has been shown to be associated with
      an increased time to next exacerbation in a single centre study of 230 COPD patients.
      Alternative treatments that have a more secure, selective and prolonged beneficial effect are
      thus needed.

      Benralizumab, an IL5 receptor alpha monoclonal antibody: benefit risk considerations and dose
      justification Benralizumab is a humanized afucosylated monoclonal antibody (mAb) directed
      towards the human interleukin-5 (IL5) alpha receptor sub-unit, found on eosinophils and
      basophils. Afucosylation confers enhanced antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC)
      which results in highly efficient eosinophil depletion by apoptosis22. Single and repeated
      doses of benralizumab in mild to severe asthma patients' results in rapid and sustained
      depletion of blood eosinophils; repeat doses of benralizumab subcutaneously (SC) also
      markedly reduced airway mucosal/submucosal and sputum eosinophil levels. Benralizumab 30 mg
      SC every 8 weeks is currently approved for severe eosinophilic asthma patients age ≥ 18 whose
      asthma is poorly controlled by high dose ICS/LABA therapy based on 3 Phase III trials
      demonstrating improvements in the annual rate of asthma exacerbations, lung function, asthma
      symptoms, quality of life, and OCS-sparing in OCS-dependent asthma patients. More recently,
      the safety profile of benralizumab in severe eosinophilic asthma patients during a second
      year of treatment was shown to be similar to that of the first year of treatment, with no new
      safety concerns27.

      In the only other study where single intravenous doses of benralizumab were tested vs.
      placebo at the time of an asthma exacerbation, the proportion of patients with at least 1
      exacerbation was not different from placebo. However, benralizumab reduced asthma
      exacerbation rates vs. placebo by 49% (3.59 vs 1.82; P=.01) and resulting in hospitalization
      by 60% (1.62 vs 0.65; P=.02) and was well tolerated. This may have been influenced by i) the
      lack of efficacy in treating non-eosinophilic exacerbations and ii) the additional harm from
      prednisolone.

      In a Phase 1 study in mild to moderate asthmatics with sputum eosinophilia (MI-CP166), a
      cohort of patients received 100 or 200 mg of benralizumab SC or placebo dosed every 4 weeks
      for 3 doses. In this study the incidence of all adverse events was similar between the
      placebo and benralizumab groups. In a Phase 2b, dose-ranging study in uncontrolled severe
      asthma (MI-CP220) compared the safety and efficacy of SC benralizumab at 2, 20 and 100 mg
      with placebo. Investigational product was dosed every 4 weeks for the first three doses and
      every 8 weeks for a further 4 doses. Both the benralizumab 20 mg and 100 mg treatment arms
      demonstrated efficacy to reduce exacerbations and improve lung function, symptoms and quality
      of life in patients with high blood eosinophils compared to placebo. Treatment-emergent
      adverse events were reported by a higher proportion of participants in the combined
      benralizumab groups (277 of 385, 72%) than in the placebo groups (143 of 221, 65%) and
      serious adverse events were reported by the same proportion of participants receiving
      benralizumab as for placebo at 10%.

      The Phase 2a study in moderate to very severe COPD patients with sputum eosinophilia
      (MI-CP196) compared the safety and efficacy of benralizumab 100 mg SC to placebo dosed every
      4 weeks for the first three doses and every 8 weeks for a further 5 doses. Benralizumab
      demonstrated numerical, albeit non-significant, improvements in acute exacerbations, lung
      function and quality of life in a sub-set of patients with high blood eosinophils. There was
      little difference between groups in the total number of treatment-emergent adverse events,
      the proportion of patients who reported at least one treatment-emergent adverse event, and
      events with an incidence of 5% or greater. A higher incidence of serious treatment-emergent
      adverse events were recorded in patients in the benralizumab group than in those in the
      placebo group (14 vs 9 patients), although none of these events were considered by the
      investigator to be benralizumab related.

      The 100 mg SC dose of benralizumab was also extensively studied in two large Phase 3 trials32
      [GALATHEA & TERRANOVA] in patients with moderate to very severe COPD. Both studies did not
      meet the primary endpoint of a statistically significant reduction of exacerbations. The
      safety and tolerability findings in the studies were consistent with those observed in
      previous trials with benralizumab.

      Rationale for the study design

      As discussed above, prednisolone is the main stay of treatment for all patients with an
      exacerbation of COPD. Previous work with a different IL-5 monoclonal antibody (mepolizumab)
      has shown efficacy in preventing COPD exacerbations in patients with a raised eosinophil
      count. As benralizumab is a novel agent for the treatment of COPD exacerbation, the trial
      will included a combination arm to assess the potential added benefit of benralizumab to
      prednisolone during an exacerbation of asthma and/or COPD.

      Patients with asthma and/or COPD can sometimes have variable stability of their raised blood
      eosinophil count34. The observational arm will thus have two purposes. The first aim of the
      observation group will be to observe the clinical response to prednisolone when the
      eosinophil count in not raised and to compare this to prednisolone alone treatment when the
      eosinophil count is raised. It is believed and there is previous data to suggest that
      corticosteroids are not beneficial for patients with a low eosinophil count and may be
      harmful, although this remains to be the standard treatment for these patients. The second
      aim of the observational group will be to allow us to maintain a pool of patients who could
      potentially have an eosinophilic exacerbation in the future. As will be described further in
      this protocol, patients would be eligible to consent if they have shown a raised blood
      eosinophil count in the 2 years prior to consenting at Visit 1. The observational arm will
      capture patients who did not have a raised eosinophil count at time of their first
      exacerbation. They will then be allowed up to 4 non-eosinophilic exacerbations in the
      observational group. Patients would be unlikely to have an eosinophilic exacerbation after 4
      non-eosinophilic exacerbations and therefore would not continue to be tested during further
      exacerbations.

      Study Hypothesis

      The hypothesis being tested is that for patients with an exacerbation of asthma and/or COPD,
      who have a raised peripheral blood eosinophil count (≥300 cells/uL), a single injection of
      Benralizumab alone or in combination with prednisolone, will increase the rate of recovery
      and reduce the rate of treatment failure, compared to prednisolone. This will also be
      compared this with an observational arm of prednisolone treatment (usual care) of
      non-eosinophilic exacerbations.
    
  