
    
      Background Recent oversea randomized control trials have proven effectiveness of lowering
      clinic and home BP if uncontrolled hypertensive patients were taught to perform home BP
      monitoring properly with validated BP device. Patients were taught to response to home BP
      reading (e.g. follow drug regime, or doctor adjust drug according to patients' home BP
      record)

      Study design 1. Prospective cluster randomized control trial, 2. Qualitative individual
      interview

      Aims The investigators aims at comparing providing validated home BP device, followed by
      group education of self-management of hypertension as well as self-BP monitoring and
      appropriate medication in response to home BP reading, followed by nurse follow up with usual
      care, which may possibly improve older adults with uncontrolled hypertensions drug adherence,
      and therefore improve their BP level in primary care setting. The investigators would also
      like to evaluate patients' view and operational concerns on self BP monitoring

      Subjects Age ≥65 years old Chinese on hypertensive treatment more than 12 months with
      uncontrolled hypertension by mean clinic BP measurement on the day of recruitment.
      Uncontrolled hypertension is defined as BP > 140/90mmHg in subjects age < 80; and BP >
      150/90mmHg in subjects age≥80. You will be invited to participate if you are willing and
      capable to perform home BP monitoring by themselves on daily basis.

      Sample size 270 (45 people from each clinic); 30 people for qualitative interview

      Assignment 3 clinics will be randomly assigned to intervention clinic while the other 3 will
      be randomly assigned to control clinic (usual care)

      Intervention(s) Doctors and Nurses in intervention clinic will receive 1 hour briefing +
      education on the background, scientific basis and detail of the program during lunch time.
      Patients from intervention clinics will be invited to attend 2 x 2 hours education group
      (15-30 subjects / group) ran by clinic nurses and doctors. You will be educated on basic
      knowledge, management and drug for hypertension in the first session. In the 2nd session, a
      certified valid Home BP device will be loaned to you for 6- 9 months and you will be taught
      to perform home BP monitoring, record and response to the BP reading accordingly. Upon
      completion of session 2, you will be arranged for nurse individual follow up after 4-8 weeks
      to see your progress and monitoring.

      30 people from intervention group will be interviewed individually for your opinion on the
      program, management of hypertension and performance of home BP monitoring.

      Outcome measures BMI (BH/ BW), Waist circumference, Clinic BP (sitting position/ standing
      position), Lab Test: FBS, Lipid profile, eGFR, Urine PCR, ECG Qualitative data for patient's
      view on home BP monitoring

      Follow up duration 6-9 months
    
  