
    
      Overactive bladder (OAB) is a symptom syndrome characterized by urgency frequency with or
      without urgency incontinence, usually no metabolic or anatomical disorders can be found and
      it may have great impact on quality of life. Traditional medication for OAB is antimuscarinic
      agent which targets at the muscarinic receptors. There are several adverse events such as dry
      mouth, constipation, blurred vision, and dizziness related to antimuscarinics, therefore,
      some patients cannot tolerated this treatment. Intravesical botulinum toxin A (BoNT-A) has
      recently emerged as novel treatment for OAB refractory to antimuscarinics, however, BoNT-A
      injection can cause acute urinary retention and large postvoid residual. Urinary tract
      infection usually occurred following large postvoid residual and urinary retention. If we can
      deliver BoNT-A through the urothelium to the suburothelial space, but not into the detrusor
      layer, we might have therapeutic effects on the urothelial sensory nerves without
      compromising the detrusor contractility. This treatment will enable us to prevent the
      undesired detrusor underactivity after BoNT-A injection, especially in the elderly patients
      who had impaired detrusor contractility and OAB. Liposomes are vesicles, composed of
      concentric phospholipid bilayers separated by aqueous compartments. Because liposomes adsorb
      to cell surfaces and fuse with cells, they are being used as vehicles for drug delivery and
      gene therapy. In this grant we will evaluate liquid liposome delivery of BoNT-A (Liposome
      encapsulated BoNT-A) into the bladder without the need for cystoscopic-guided needle
      injection for refractory OAB, and study the mechanism of action of intravesical liposomal
      drug delivery. If successful, we will leverage our technology transfer expertise and bring
      the science from the bench top to the bed side to apply for a physician sponsored
      Investigational New Drug (IND) trial using liposome-BoNT in patients with OAB or DO.
    
  