
    
      Recruitment of six countries:

      This study will use targeted/purposive sampling to recruit participating parents or
      caregivers (n = 30-100 in Malaysia, Moldova, Montenegro, North Macedonia and Philippines; 400
      in South Africa). Groups will start to operate after at least 7 members have been consented
      and can have up to 15 members per group.

      Malaysia: The National Population and Family Development Board (LPPKN) is our partner
      organisation for both the Semarak Kasih Parenting Program (2018-2020) and e-Semarak Kasih /
      ParentChat. A total of 24 staff of LPPKN have been trained for the Semarak Kasih Parenting
      Program, of which, 12 of them have conducted the actual program. The majority of these
      facilitators are University graduates holding various posts at LPPKN such as counsellors,
      Information Officers and Community Development Officers.

      Moldova: The Health for Youth Association, has been implementing PLH for children 2-9 years
      in the country, in cooperation with Youth Klinics network. In Moldova, the program will be
      focused on caregivers/parents of adolescents (10-17 years old). The Moldovan research team
      will identify potential eligible parents to invite to participate in ParentChat through a)
      social media pages (FB, OK) of the Youth Klinics network, b) through the announcement of
      different partners organizations that work in social support area, and c) through the
      communication with YK consultants who work with parents of adolescents.

      Montenegro: In Montenegro, trained facilitators from our implementing partners (health
      centres, kindergartens and NGOs) will recruit families by applying the same strategies used
      for face-to-face PLH:

        -  Inviting potential participants on the waiting lists for face-to-face PLH,

        -  Advertising on social media (the Oxford team may advertise as well if partners seek
           support),

        -  Inviting families known to service providers (e.g. parents of children attending the
           participating preschools, parents using psychological/mental counselling at health
           centres, parents users of NGO led services such as single parent support groups and the
           like).

      North Macedonia: The Institute Alternativa - Institute for Marriage, Family and Systemic
      Practice has been implementing PLH for children 2-9 years in the country. The Institute
      Alternativa has identified potential eligible parents through the FB page of the Institute,
      and also those who have contacted the Institute Counselling Telephone line during the
      COVID-19 pandemic and expressed readiness to participate in an online programme. The
      psychologists who work on this help line will provide the research team with a list of
      eligible participants with children ages 2 to 17 years. There are already approximately 70
      parents that expressed interest, of which 50 will be randomly selected for initial
      recruitment.

      Philippines: The research team will work closely with the Department of Social Welfare and
      Development (DSWD) staff to identify potential eligible parents who are recipients of the
      conditional cash transfer program (4Ps). 4Ps staff will provide the research team with a list
      of eligible participants with children ages 2 to 17 years, of which 50 will be randomly
      selected for initial recruitment. If less than 50 of the selected participants provide
      consent and are eligible, the remaining adults will be randomly selected from the original
      list until the full target sample size is reached.

      South Africa: Recruitment of programme facilitators will be done from the already trained
      pool of PLH facilitators in South Africa with the support of Clowns Without Borders (CWBSA).
      The South Africa research team and implementing team will recruit and train 10 facilitators
      consisting of two trained PLH trainers/Coaches from CWBSA, and 8 moderators (persons
      experienced in PLH implementation) who will each run 1 PSG. The two facilitators from CWBSA
      will also play a mentoring role for the other facilitator/moderators. The rest of the other 8
      moderators will be sourced from various organisations and individuals that have been trained
      in PLH programmes (both PLH Kids and PLH Teens) in 5 of South Africa's provinces. For the
      ParentChat (Caregivers) groups, the moderators will conduct the recruitment of
      parents/caregivers telephonically or by one-on-one visit. This will be done from their
      communities where they work. Initial contact will be made with a few caregivers, who may then
      refer others to the group. Each group would have about 8-12 caregivers. 1000 families are
      expected to be reached.
    
  