
    
      Background: People with prediabetes have an increased risk of Type 2 diabetes. Traditional
      Chinese medicine (TCM) lifestyle modification has been shown to be effective in achieving a
      balanced status and decreasing the risk of prediabetes progressing to diabetes. TCM theories
      note that Body constitution (BC) lays the foundation for diagnosis, treatment and disease
      prevention. The measurement and regulation of an individual's body constitution might prevent
      disease. TCM practitioners give individualized interventions according to each person's body
      constitution. Qi (energy) also is a core concept in TCM. Both body constitution and meridian
      energy (ME) can be used to determine deviated and abnormal body function. The Lifestyle
      Modification Mobile Health Application (APP) could help to decrease blood sugar among
      individuals with prediabetes, it could also prevent a later occurrence of diabetes. But, a
      few studies to development a TCM regimen-based lifestyle APP, and evaluate the effectiveness
      of receiving TCM regimen-based lifestyle APP in prediabetes. In this study, the objective was
      to development a TCM regimen-based lifestyle APP, and evaluate the effectiveness of receiving
      TCM regimen-based lifestyle APP in prediabetes.

      Aims of the study: To development a TCM regimen-based lifestyle APP, and evaluate the
      effectiveness of receiving TCM regimen-based lifestyle APP in prediabetes.

      Materials and Methods: A three-arm randomized controlled trail. The study was carried out
      involving 100 participants, who were recruited at a teaching hospital in northern Taiwan. The
      study variables include socio-demographics, disease history, and lifestyle, the physiological
      indicators from the blood-test will be obtained from the oneline medical charts. Physical
      activity was measured by International Physical Activity Questionnaire Self-Administered
      Short Version (IPAQ-SS). Health related quality of life was assessed by the SF-36, which
      yielded physical component score (PCS) and mental component scores (MCS) covering 8
      subscales: physical functioning (PF), role physical (RP), body pain (BP), general health
      (GH), vitality (VT), role emotional (RE), social function (SF), and mental health (MH), with
      higher score indicating better quality of life. The Body Constitution questionnaire (BCQ) was
      used to measure neutral, Yang-deficiency, Ying-deficiency, and Phlegm-stasis, with higher
      scores indicating larger deficiencies. Meridian energy was examined by using the Meridian
      energy device, which included individual point and balance of meridian energy measurements
      (metabolism, musculoskeletal & circulation, mental health, and autonomic nervous system
      status).

      Possible effect: There is no TCM regimen-based lifestyle mobile health APP among people with
      prediabetes. Through the study, The investigators hope to develop a TCM regimen-based
      lifestyle mobile health APP, and evaluation it. By TCM regimen-based lifestyle using and use
      of APP, health management of the could be improved. The results could serve as a reference
      for promotion of traditional Chinese preventive medicine.
    
  