
    
      Obesity and related non-communicable chronic diseases (NCDs: cardiovascular diseases, cancer
      and diabetes) represent the main causes of death and disability in Chile as well as
      worldwide. They account for an important proportion of health-care costs and loss of
      productivity, overloading a country's economy, particularly in developing countries. From a
      population perspective, it is now clear that preventing the emergence of these conditions is
      the most effective approach; however most of the current policies fail to incorporate
      scientific knowledge and thus, are not effective or sustainable. There is now compelling
      evidence that although obesity and NCDs are mainly observed in adulthood, the risk for most
      of these conditions originates in the first 1000-days of life (i.e. from pregnancy to two
      years old). Maternal lifestyle and conditions during pregnancy (e.g. maternal obesity) could
      affect not only future maternal health, but also risk for NCDs in the next generation.
      Therefore, pregnancy is a critical window in the implementation of NCDs prevention
      strategies. Most of the interventions on diet and physical activity (PA) during pregnancy
      have focused on decreasing gestational weight gain (GWG). Recent meta-analyses of
      interventions have demonstrated that lifestyle interventions during pregnancy can have a
      positive effect on GWG. Beyond lifestyle interventions, other dietary interventions have been
      proposed such as probiotics, vitamin D or n-3 long chain polyunsaturated fatty acids
      (n3LC-PUFAs) supplementation. Regarding n3LC-PUFAs, differences in plasma fatty acid profiles
      between women with gestational diabetes (GDM) and women without GDM suggest a possible
      alteration in fatty acid metabolism in GDM. Data from systematic reviews show a consistent
      association between marine or algae oil supplementation with higher length of gestation,
      improvement in maternal mood and neural development. Nonetheless, few interventions on diet
      and PA have focused on metabolic control in obese women and their impacts have not been
      consistent. Additionally, few intervention studies have explored the effect of n3LC-PUFAs
      supplementation on pregnant women in the incidence of GDM, with no studies conducted in obese
      pregnant women. Therefore, combining an n3LC-PUFAs supplementation with a lifestyle
      intervention could enhance the metabolic control of obese pregnant women. We propose to
      evaluate the effects of an n3LC-PUFAs supplementation intervention among obese pregnant women
      (independently and combined with a diet and physical activity intervention) on metabolic
      control in mothers and their offspring.

      In 2013 we started in 12 primary health clinics (PHCC) of the South East area of Santiago
      Chile a cluster randomized trial -the Chilean Maternal & Infant Nutrition Cohort Study
      (CHiMINCs)- that aims to improve weight control during pregnancy and offspring growth during
      infancy by enhancing PHCC's maternal and infant weight monitoring systems as well as
      promoting breastfeeding. In the current study we propose to expand that effort trying to
      optimize metabolic control of obese pregnant women and their offspring by combining
      home-based diet and physical activity counseling and n3LC-PUFAs supplementation. Women who
      seek prenatal care in any of the 12 selected PHCC with <14 weeks gestation at first prenatal
      visit; body mass index (BMI) >30 Kg/m2 at first prenatal visit; have a singleton pregnancy
      will be asked to participate. We will recruit 1000 women; 250 women per arm of the study.
      After randomization, obese pregnant women in the intervention group 1 will receive home-based
      Diet & Physical activity (PA) counseling plus n3LC-PUFAs oral supplementation based on
      Schizochytrium oil (S-oil) containing 800 mg docosahexaenoic (DHA) acid/day, which will be
      administered as capsular preparations containing 200 mg DHA/capsule (4 capsules/day). Obese
      pregnant women in the intervention group 2 will receive the standard education sessions
      included in the prenatal controls at PHCC but no home-based counseling sessions, plus
      n3LC-PUFAs supplementation of 800 mg of DHA. Obese pregnant women in the intervention group 3
      will receive the home-based diet & PA counseling sessions plus n3LC-PUFAs placebo that will
      consist of S-oil containing 200 mg DHA/day. Placebo will be administered as capsular
      preparations containing 50 mg DHA/capsule (4 capsules/day), given that evidence suggests that
      it would be unethical not to provide DHA during pregnancy. Placebo will be delivered in the
      same way that the n3LC-PUFA supplementation. The control group will receive routine diet & PA
      PHCC counseling sessions plus placebo (4 capsules of 50 mg DHA per day). Measurements will be
      collected at baseline (<14 weeks of pregnancy), mid-pregnancy (24-28 weeks), and at delivery.
      Baseline and 24-28 weeks measurements will be carried out at home.

      Analyses will be done according both to the "intention-to-treat" (i.e. effectiveness
      approach) and "per protocol" (i.e. efficacy approach) principles. In accordance with the 2×2
      factorial design, the diet & PA intervention (Intervention Groups 1 and 3) will be compared
      to the routine care intervention (Intervention Groups 2 and Control Group) and the n3LC-PUFAs
      supplementation intervention (Intervention Groups 1 and 2) will be compared to placebo
      (Intervention Group 3 and Control Group). To evaluate the effects of the two combined
      interventions the outcomes in each of the 3 intervened groups will be compared between them
      and with the outcomes in the control group. We expect that the intervention will contribute
      to achieving a better metabolic control during pregnancy. Ultimately, we expect that this
      study will contribute to advance the understanding of how to develop and implement effective
      actions to promote healthier pregnancies and therefore, healthier lives for mothers and their
      offsprings.
    
  