
    
      A. Study design

        1. Prospective randomization (Virtual AAD TEST group vs. Empirical AAD group )

        2. Target number of subjects: 300 (150 per group)

        3. Rhythm FU : 2012 ACC/AHA/ESC guidelines (Holter monitoring at the baseline, 2 month, and
           thereafter every 6 months; ECG if the patient has any symptom)

        4. Anticoagulant therapy followed by 2014 ACC/AHA/ESC guidelines

        5. All complications in each group will be evaluated including the re-hospitalization rate,
           cardioversion frequency, major cardiovascular event, and mortality rate.

      B. Progress and rhythm/ECG follow-up

        1. To be performed in accordance with the 2012 ACC/AHA/HRS guidelines for AF management

        2. Follow-up at 2 weeks, 2 months, and thereafter every 6-month after medication.

        3. Rhythm control at 2 months, and thereafter every 6-month follow-up with Holter after
           medication

        4. If the patient complains of symptoms, ECG will be performed at any time, and rhythm
           follow-up will be carried out with a Holter or event recorder.

      C. Follow-up All the patients will be followed-up at 2 weeks, 2, 6 months, and thereafter
      every 6 months. If the patient shows any symptom within the clinical study period, patient
      will visit the outpatient clinic. ECG will be performed at every outpatient visits, and
      24-hour Holter or event recording will be performed 2months and every 6 months for 2 years,
      and every year after 2 years (2012 Heart Rhythm Society/EHRA/European Cardiac Arrhythmia
      Society Expert Consensus Statement guidelines). If atrial fibrillation or atrial tachycardia
      lasting more than 30 seconds is observed in 12-lead ECG or Holter, it will be evaluated as
      recurrence. Recurrence within 3 months after the procedure will be classified as early
      recurrence, and that after 3 months will be classified as clinical recurrence.
    
  