
    
      Non Adherence to treatment is a common concern among physicians because it is associated with
      negative impact on patients' health. Among the different factors that can explain why
      treatment adherence is so low, forgetfulness is the most common.

      Several interventions have been put into practice. Some of them have been proven to be
      successful, others not. An effective intervention not only has to be successful but also
      practical.

      Technology is an integral part of our everyday lives. In Canada, most adults have access to
      smartphones, which opens the door to a world of new innovations. Among these are useful
      applications designed to improve different aspects of every day life.

      Electronic reminders are applications designed to send messages, which could improve the
      adherence to treatment. So far, there are several studies that have proven this benefit in
      older children and adult population. At this moment, there are no studies involving younger
      children. Therefore, in this study, the null hypothesis is that electronic reminders will
      improve the adherence to twice daily application of moisturizers among parents/caregivers of
      children 10 and under with atopic dermatitis.

      The study population will be parents/caregivers of children age 10 and under with atopic
      dermatitis recruited from Dr. Bergman's paediatric dermatology clinic.

      The parents/caregivers of the patients will be invited to participate in this project by the
      Medical Office Assistant who will send them a letter with the invitation one week before
      their scheduled appointment. If they agree to participate, they will be asked to sign a
      consent form and then they will be asked to select an unmarked envelope from a container. The
      envelopes contain the information for two different groups, one is the experimental and the
      other the control group.

      The experimental group will have the extra task of downloading and utilizing an application
      called MediSafe. This application will be set up to send reminders two times per day. The
      control group will be encouraged to continue with the standard of care with no added
      intervention. Both groups will received a free unlabeled bottle of CeraVe cream. The
      moisturizer will be unlabeled so as not to allow parents/caregivers perceptions on a specific
      brand to affect their utilization. External forces such as advertising the parents/caregivers
      sees or cost of the product could affect the parents/caregivers perception of value and in
      turn affect adherence.

      The parents/caregivers will also receive a calendar in which they have to mark every time
      their children have moisturizer applied. The calendar will be provided as label on the bottle
      of moisturizer.

      If during the study period the parents/caregivers run out of moisturizer, they can return to
      the clinic to pick up extra bottles of moisturizer at no cost.

      The atopic dermatitis of patients from both groups will be assessed using the EASI score at
      the beginning and at the end of the 28 days.

      Additionally, the parents/caregivers of both groups will be asked to fill up a brief survey
      form. They will submit this form, along with the calendar label, in an unmarked envelope to
      maintain anonymity.

      The bottles of moisturizer will be weighed before and after the study and also every time a
      refill of moisturizer is required, to determine the amount of moisturizer used by each group.

      This study will follow the standard of care for treatment of atopic dermatitis; no treatment
      will be withheld.

      The principal outcome of this study is to probe whether or not electronic reminders can
      improve the adherence of moisturizer use in parents/caregivers of children 10 years and under
      with atopic dermatitis. The changes in the EASI score of the patients after the study and the
      differences in the amount of moisturizer used per body surface area will be secondary
      outcomes.

      The number of times the calendar label will be marked will reflect the adherence to the
      treatment. Other data such as severity of eczema, and amount of moisturizer used will be
      collected. The height, weight, severity of eczema and use of steroid/calcineurin inhibitors
      will provide additional information that could be used indirectly to measure adherence.

      Regarding the data analysis:

      Mean differences between the experimental and control groups on adherence and EASI scores
      will be analyzed using Student's t-test for independent groups. Possible difference on
      treatment compliance between baseline and post-implementation within the groups will be
      explored using Student's dependent t-test for paired samples. This pilot study's sample size
      will be sufficient for the planned analyses, and to help determine effect size and power
      needed to conduct a larger study on this topic. Univariate descriptive statistics will be
      reported for all variables.
    
  