
    
      This study evaluates the effectiveness of an interactive mobile health information service,
      Care4Life, in supporting patient self-management through its ability to facilitate patient
      education, behavior change, and improved adherence with standard care practices. The study
      population comprises adults who have been diagnosed with Type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM) and a
      hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) test above 8% in the past year. All members of the study population
      are treated at primary care clinics under the auspices of the Utah Beacon Community Program,
      which aims to improve health through use of health information technology. We will compare
      outcomes in two groups within this population: patients with DM who enroll in Care4Life (in
      addition to receiving standard care) to patients with DM who receive standard care from their
      physician. We will compare these groups both within the clinic and at an aggregated, overall
      level.

      This study relies on the use of information and communications technology (ICT) in supporting
      patient-empowerment strategies. Features of successful diabetes care programs for improving
      adherence to standards of care, such as the use of diabetes self-management education,
      checklists that mirror guidelines, and automated reminders are well suited to delivery using
      an interactive mobile health platform.

      Research Questions

      This study will evaluate the efficacy of the Care4Life mHealth program by:

        1. Evaluating if a short message service via cell phone texting (SMS) protocol will lead to
           improvements in clinical, utilization and satisfaction outcomes for patients with DM
           compared to patient who receive standard care.

        2. Evaluating if an SMS protocol can be readily adopted by an adult population in both
           urban and rural areas with a time-consuming chronic illness.

      Targeted outcomes include:

        1. Improved measures of diabetes control, demonstrated as HbA1c percentage levels ≤ 8%;
           improved blood pressure (BP) control, demonstrated as BP ≤ 140/90 millimeters mercury
           (mm Hg); and lower body mass index (BMI) among users of the SMS-based tool.

        2. Improved knowledge of self-care and disease management practices among adult patients
           with diabetes treated in Beacon clinics in the Salt Lake Metropolitan Statistical Area
           (Salt Lake, Tooele, and Summit counties).

        3. Dissemination of results and proof of concept with the broader healthcare community in
           Utah.

      The mobile centric diabetes support service at the center of our study is Voxiva's Care4Life
      platform, which is an interactive mobile application designed to educate participants,
      encourage behavior change and promote adherence to their prescribed DM treatment protocol. It
      includes a series of SMS-based tools that have been developed in collaboration with the
      Instituto Carso de la Salud, located in Mexico. The service sends content relevant to the
      target participants and their standard treatment protocol. Care4Life delivers an individually
      tailored diabetes education and management plan based on data that are collected from
      patients at enrollment and added to the participant's personal health profile.

      The SMS protocol draws on the experience of a number of interventions that have been
      independently studied and shown to improve health outcomes. Care4Life functionality consists
      of the following components: (1) a diabetes diary that can be used to develop a history of
      glucose levels and trigger alerts and feedback based on the participant's results; (2) health
      education with content tailored to the participant's health profile; (3) medication adherence
      reminders and monitoring; (4) medical appointment reminders; (5) a database that allows a
      participant to record and monitor her/his weight, BMI, blood pressure and laboratory results;
      and (6) a health portal that allows a participant to review his/her data, obtain advice and
      guidance based on the information entered, and manage his/her preferences.
    
  