
    
      Azoospermia is defined as the absence of sperm in the ejaculate. Around 1% of general
      population suffers from azoospermia. Men who were rendered infertile due to a non-obstructive
      azoospermia, who have been subjected to Testicular Sperm Extraction (TESE) surgery and found
      to be lacking elongated spermatids or spermatozoa, are commonly advised to consider utilizing
      a sperm donor or apply for adoption. It is reported that ~30% of men with non-obstructive
      azoospermia lack elongated spermatids and spermatozoa but may still produce round spermatids
      (less mature form of haploid germ cells) in their testicles. Round Spermatid Injection (ROSI)
      technology to fertilize oocytes is not a brand-new technology, however, it is plagued with
      notoriously low efficiency. Despite this limitation, it has been reported that most of these
      patients still desire to have the ROSI procedure instead of applying directly for other
      options, i.e. sperm donation or adoption.

      High failure rate of traditional ROSI has been attributed to a few potential causes:

        1. Incorrect selection of round spermatids (to distinguish from diploid spermatogonia
           cells)

        2. Using round spermatids that were already in the process of degeneration

        3. Incomplete imprinting in the round spermatid

        4. Incomplete activation of oocytes Recently Tanaka and colleagues in Japan established a
           new ROSI method and reported over 90 babies born via this method1. They described a new
           method of round spermatid selection and oocyte activation using NEPA21 super
           electroporator (10 minutes prior to round spermatid injection).

      Babies born from this new ROSI method in Japan have been evaluated for developmental and
      cognitive differences for 2 years1. Babies conceived with ROSI were found to have a shorter
      gestation times, and lower body weight at 12 and 18 months when compared to their naturally
      conceived counterparts, but also showed an increased birth weight and showed no body weight
      differences at 24 months of age. No diseases resulting from genetic anomalies have been
      reported thus far, but the relatively small sample sizes present in the literature needs to
      be tested in larger cohorts. Therefore, this effective ROSI method should still be considered
      as an "experimental fertility treatment".
    
  