
    
      COVID-19 is a respiratory disease caused by a new coronavirus (SARS-CoV2) and with
      substantial morbidity and mortality. Among different populations at risk, cancer patients
      stand out. These patients undergo immunosuppressive treatments with chemotherapy and
      radiotherapy and more often require hospital visit for treatment and monitoring.

      Several strategies have been investigated to deal with this situation. Antiretrovirals,
      anti-inflammatories, antibiotics, anti-IL6, immune response modulating agents, among others,
      including combinations. Most of these experiences have focused on patients with severe
      hospitalized conditions

      As of March 28, approximately 630,000 confirmed cases have been recorded, including 24,282
      serious cases and 28,963 deaths worldwide. In Brazil, after one month since the first case,
      there are 3417 infected and 92 deaths. All states registered cases of the disease, and nine
      have deaths: Amazonas, Ceará, Pernambuco, Rio de Janeiro, Goiás, Paraná, Santa Catarina, Rio
      Gran de do Sul and São Paulo. Cases have progressed and currently there is no specific
      antiviral therapy for coronavirus infections. A few intervention studies have been conducted
      as most strains of human coronavirus cause self-limiting diseases and requires only
      supportive care. After the severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS), the coronavirus was
      identified in 2002 and caused a major global outbreak, there was a growing interest in the
      development of specific therapeutic agents. Therefore, since the SARS outbreak, new
      therapeutic agents targeting viral entry, proteins, proteases, polymerases and
      methyltransferases have been tested. Nevertheless, none of them have been shown to be
      effective in clinical trials. Recent publications have drawn attention to the possible
      benefit of drugs such as chloroquine, hydroxychloroquine associated or not with azithromycin,
      which have been used in the treatment of patients infected with SARS- CoV.

      Using the combination of hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin, French patients confirmed with
      Covid-19 were included in a single arm protocol between early March and March 16th, receiving
      600mg of hydroxychloroquine daily. Nasal swab viral load was tested daily in a hospital
      setting. Azithromycin was added to the treatment based on the clinical presentation. Control
      patients included patients from another center and those who refused the protocol. Day End
      point was presence or absence of virus on day 6 post-inclusion. There were six asymptomatic
      patients, twnty two with upper respiratory tract infection and eight had symptoms of lower
      respiratory tract infection. Twenty cases were treated in this study and showed a significant
      reduction in viral transport at post-day 6 of inclusion compared to controls, and mean
      transport duration much shorter than that reported in untreated patients in the literature.
      Despite the small sample size, research shows that treatment with hydroxychloroquine is
      associated with a significantly reduction / disappearance of viral load in patients with
      COVID-19, and its effect seems to be reinforced by azithromycin.

      Hydroxychloroquine alone or in combination with azithromycin has been increasingly studied
      and used in the treatment of respiratory disease induced by COVID-19. In March 2020, the Food
      and Drug Administration (FDA) interim approved the use of the combination of
      hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin for clinical use in patients with severe respiratory
      syndrome associated with coronavirus. There are dozens of studies in progress evaluating this
      therapeutic alternative in different regions of the world. The World Health Organization
      (WHO) has just launched a global clinical trial evaluating the four treatments considered
      promising, including hydroxychloroquine. In Brazil, a consortium of clinical research is
      underway that is conducting three randomized clinical trials with treatments with
      hydroxychloroquine, azithromycin and corticosteroids. Considering that these medications have
      been studied in different institutions and regions and in different contexts, it is important
      to know the role that these medications can play in the prevention or treatment of COVID-19
      in a population of cancer patients undergoing cancer treatments such as chemotherapy and
      immunotherapy.This clinical trial was designed to evaluate the therapeutic effect of the
      combination of hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin on non-critical adult patients.
    
  