
    
      Concussions are a major public health issue and occur in many sports, for example soccer,
      basketball, or American football. After sustaining a concussion balance is affected, often
      for weeks. The return to motor and cognitive tasks frequently occurs as soon as postural
      stability seems to be recovered. However, a research group around Cavanaugh investigated
      already in 2005 changes in postural control by analyzing the center of pressure (COP)
      movement. Their findings suggest that postural sway variables cannot be interpreted as the
      only parameters regarding rehabilitation of balance, since postural control was still
      noticeably affected after the sway variables returned to normal levels. They further state
      that athletes who return too early back to sport may still be "unstable" and are likely to be
      more vulnerable than healthy athletes. Furthermore, a compromised balance may lead to falls,
      shown in several studies, which found correlations between weak balance and the risk to fall.
      An additional and very important issue is that a second impact to the head of a not fully
      recovered person can lead to cumulative effects. Athletes with successive concussions showed
      significantly lower performance on memory testing than athletes with only one concussion.
      Consequently, it was stated that the "return-to-field" or "return-to-play" decision, for
      instance in rugby, is one of the most important questions to solve in the context of
      concussions in sport. However, despite the increasing research interest in the last decade, a
      very recent systematic review conducted by McLeod still highlights the difficulty of
      diagnosing a concussion and of making "return-to-action" decisions.

      Due to their natural need of movement, adolescents and children are specifically at risk of
      returning to unsafe situations too early after sustaining a mild traumatic brain injury
      (mTBI). Hugentobler pointed out that age seems to have a major effect on common used
      post-concussion postural control assessments. During the ten competition days of the Youth
      Olympic Games in Innsbruck 2012, 7,2% of the injured athletes suffered from a concussion.

      Research into concussions often focuses on collegiate athletes; fewer studies are available
      on adolescents or children. Researchers observed that high school children had prolonged
      memory dysfunction after a concussion compared to college athletes. The reason for this age
      difference might be the different brain structure of children compared to that of adults,
      observed as overall increase in white matter volumes, regional differences in gray matter
      mass and also volumetric differences. These age-related distinctions may lead to different
      alterations in postural control in children, maybe due to not fully automated motion
      patterns, as shown for hand movements during writing. Hence, while the study of Cavanaugh
      already identified limitations in the standard assessment of concussion-related deficits in
      the postural control of healthy adults, it remains an open research question, how the
      postural control system of children or adolescents is affected and how the recovery process
      develops in this age group in which postural control is less automated.

      Furthermore, assessments of the COP, as in the study of Cavanaugh, give an indication that
      changes exist, but cannot answer the question which control mechanisms are affected. For
      example, concussions might disturb the coordination of postural control movements, e.g.
      change the coordination between hip and ankle strategies, or concussions could affect how the
      postural movements are controlled, e.g. slower reaction mechanisms or slower or false
      anticipatory mechanisms. None of these mechanisms can be distinguished in an assessment of
      the COP excursion. However, a whole body analysis of kinematic marker data using a principal
      component analysis (PCA) is a more detailed approach and proved to be reliable for
      investigating the mechanisms that play a role in human postural control. The method offers
      two new variables: 1) Analysis of movement components and their relative contribution to the
      overall motions needed to maintain balance (PC-eigenvalues) and 2) principal accelerations
      (PA), which can be interpreted as motor control actions and therefore facilitate a deeper
      insight into what aspects of the postural control processes may be compromised.

      The proposed study has two main goals. The first goal is to better understand the effects of
      concussions on balance and postural control in adolescents and children. Since postural
      control in this age group is less automatized and due to several other structural differences
      in the nervous system between adolescents and adults the investigators expect that
      concussions might affect their postural control differently. It is also expected that the
      recovery process may differ. The second goal is to develop a better understanding of how
      concussions compromise postural control by applying a novel analysis technique based on
      principal component analysis (PCA). The researchers expect that the PCA will be better able
      to distinguish effects on the coordination of segment movements from effects on how movement
      components are controlled. Specific hypotheses that will be tested are, for example,

        1. Existing results suggest that the recovery of postural control after a concussion occurs
           in different phases. Early in the recovery process (three days to two weeks), postural
           sway amplitudes, which are substantially increased after a mTBI, return to normal
           levels. Yet, how postural movements are controlled (measured through the entropy of the
           COP movements) shows abnormalities for several weeks. The investigators hypothesize that
           the early phase will be characterized by disturbed coordination of movement components
           (quantifiable through PC-eigenvalues). The late recovery phases will be characterized by
           timing issues in the control of individual movement components, which can be detected in
           the movement component accelerations (PAs).

        2. The PAs might also reveal underlying mechanisms of how concussion affects the neural
           postural control system. For example, if concussion prolongs sensorimotor delays, then
           one might expect less frequent activity in the PAs.

        3. The opposite behavior might also occur: if the concussion disturbs automatized control
           processes in the brain, then one might hypothesize that more cognitive processes need to
           be involved in postural control after a concussion. This might manifest in more frequent
           changes of the PAs.

      To analyze the data in the prescribed way a principal component analysis (PCA) will be
      conducted with the kinematic data of the participants, representing the whole kinematics of
      the movement. The idea is to divide the movement into many one-dimensional principal
      components (PCs) with different impact on the whole movement. This method is valid for
      comparing the measured variance of center of pressure (COP) data of participants standing in
      quiet stance, with the variance given by calculated PCs as resulting from a PCA. The COP
      variance was explained by the resultant principal movements (PMs) better than other methods
      did so far. The first 15 PMs explained 99.3% of the postural variance during the quiet stand.
      Every PC described a little part of the whole movement and had its own impact on the overall
      motion called "eigenvalue". The method is therefore proven to be able to detect even small
      adjustment movements performed by the motor control system during quite stance. This ability
      of revealing very small adjustments enables it to be used as method investigating movement
      patterns.

      All statistical analyzes will be performed using the Statistical Package for the Social
      Sciences (SPSS) with the alpha-level set to 0.05. A Shapiro-Wilk test will be used to ensure
      the normal distribution of the data. The comparison of the PC-values as main output will be a
      within-subject analysis and therefore the used method is going to be a one-way repeated
      analysis of variance (rANOVA) to evaluate the data provided in case of normal distribution.
      If normal distribution is not given, a Friedmann test will be utilized. Applied Post-Hoc
      tests will be conducted using a Sidak correction.

      The sample rate is dependent on the amount of children and adolescents suffering from a
      concussion in the planned time period of the study that moreover want to participate.
      However, based on the study of Cavanaugh a power-analysis was conducted for the planned
      repeated measures ANOVA, within factors. The α-error was set to 0.05 and the expected power
      was set with 0.95. The effect size of 0.73 was calculated using the mean of difference in the
      concussed group (0.19) and the standard deviation of difference (SD = 0.26) calculated by
      multiplying the given standard error of the mean (SEM = 0.05) with the root out of the sample
      size (n = 27). Power analysis stated a required total sample size of 27 participants based on
      the calculations.

      In case a dropout-quote of 50% would occur and would slim the sample size to only 15
      participants, this would yield to a power of 75% based on our calculations.
    
  