
    
      Introduction:

      Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is a disease of alarmingly increasing prevalence (8 - 16%)
      associated with mortality [1]. CKD can progress towards end-stage renal disease (ESRD),
      requiring renal replacement therapy. ESRD currently accounts for 6.3% of the Medicare
      spending in the United States, and is projected to increase by 85% by 2015 [2]. In a study
      conducted among rural population in Bangladesh overall CKD prevalence was found about 19%
      [3]. Furthermore, ESRD has a major impact on quality of life and life expectancy [4].
      Therefore, it is very important to develop therapeutic interventions to prevent, alleviate,
      or decelerate progression of renal failure.

      Diabetes mellitus and hypertension represent major causes of CKD and initiation of dialysis
      [5]. In addition, glomerular diseases, malnutrition, infectious diseases, and acute kidney
      injury may lead to ESRD, contributing to the increased global burden of death [6]. Current
      treatment modalities often fail to target the major underlying contributors for progression
      of renal disease [7]. Management of CKD at present mostly aims at control of the predisposing
      factors and supplementation of kidneys homeostatic functions but not at the treatment of the
      diseased kidney itself. Again due to lack of adequate facilities or financial constraints
      people of a developing country like Bangladesh are unable to continue long term or lifelong
      dialysis. Chronic glomerular and tubule-interstitial fibrosis is a common pathway to ESRD,
      often associated with apoptosis, oxidative damage, fibrosis and microvascular rarefaction.
      Unfortunately, the regenerative potential of kidney is limited under chronic conditions and
      inefficient to prevent progressive glomerulosclerosis and tubule-interstitial fibrosis [8].
      Treatment strategies that boost cellular regeneration might therefore offer good alternatives
      for patients with CKD.

      Stromal vascular fraction (SVF):

      SVF of adipose tissue is a rich source of pre-adipocytes, mesenchymal stem cells (MSC),
      endothelial progenitor cell, T cells, B cells, mast cells as well as adipose tissue
      macrophages [9,10]. SVF is a component of the lipo-aspirate obtained from liposuction of
      subcutaneous tissue. Lipo-aspirate contains a large population of stem cells called adipose
      derived stem cells (ADSCs), which share a number of similarities with bone marrow stem cells,
      including the capacity for multilineage differentiation .

      Stem Cells:

      A stem cell is a generic term referring to any unspecialized cell that is capable of
      long-term self-renewal through cell division but that can be induced to differentiate into a
      specialized, functional cell. Stem cells are generally two types, embryonic stem cells and
      adult stem cells. Adult stem cells can be obtained from many differentiated tissues including
      bone marrow, bone, fat, and muscle etc. Obtaining adult stem cells also does not raise any
      ethical concerns [11]. For most studies, the adult stem cell in question is actually a
      mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) or mesenchymal stromal cell. They are multipotent but not
      pluripotent, which means they can differentiate into some, or "multiple," but not all tissue
      types [11]. Stem cells that are harvested from the patient with the intention of
      administering them back to the same patient are termed autologous MSCs. MSC can also be
      isolated from the bone marrow (bmMSC), peripheral blood, connective tissue, skeletal muscle,
      dental pulp (dpMSC), umbilical cord wall (ucMSC), umbilical cord blood (cbMSC), amniotic
      fluid (afMSC) and all have been used in experimental settings to treat various types of renal
      diseases. An important feature of MSCs is their capacity to induce proliferation of renal
      glomerular and tubular cells, increasing cellular survival [12].

      Advantages of adipose tissue-derived stem cells (ADSCs):

      ADSCs are somatic stem cell population contained in fat tissue and have been shown to possess
      stem cell properties such as trans-differentiation and self-renewal [13]. Similar to other
      types of MSCs, ADSCs express multiple CD marker antigens (CD73+CD90+CD105+ CD34+/- CD11b-
      CD104b- CD19- CD31- CD45- SMA-) [14,15]. Additionally, utilizing ADSCs is advantageous in
      that large quantities of stem cells are easily isolated using minimally invasive surgical
      procedures [16].

      ADSCs are vascular precursor cells. Many studies have shown that SVF contains progenitor
      cells that are able to differentiate into endothelial cells and participate in blood vessel
      formation [17]. Additionally, a recent study demonstrated that SVF cells expressing both
      pericyte and mesenchymal markers reside in a peri-endothelial location and stabilize
      endothelial networks [17] Another study showed that ADSCs transplanted into an ischemic renal
      cortex preferentially migrate toward micro vessels where they differentiate into vascular
      smooth muscle cells [18]. Some trials on kidney transplant recipients as well as the one on
      FSGS and 2 on CKD patients include in their protocol the utilization of adMSC. Adipose tissue
      is an important source of MSC, with a frequency 100 to 1000 times higher than bmMSC. They
      also seem to possess a higher potential for angiogenesis or vasculogenesis [19].

      Kidney disease and mesenchymal stem cells:

      A number of different types of cells from the bone marrow have been tested in animals and in
      clinical studies for potential use in kidney disease. Amongst all the cells under
      investigation, MSCs have shown the most promising results to date as they help kidney cells
      to grow, inhibit cell death and encouraging the kidney's own stem cells to repair kidney
      damage [20].

      Few clinical trials have tested safety and efficacy of MSCs for renal disease. Reinders and
      colleagues studied safety and feasibility in six kidney allograft recipients who received two
      intravenous infusions of expanded autologous bone marrow-derived MSCs [21]. Importantly,
      delivery of autologous MSCs was not associated with adverse events, nor did it compromise
      graft survival. Several clinical trials are currently underway to evaluate the therapeutic
      potential of autologous and allogeneic MSCs for treatment of renal diseases [22]
      Administration of both bmMSC and adMSC has demonstrated significant reno-protective effects
      including reduction of intrarenal inflammatory infiltrate, decreased fibrosis, and
      glomerulosclerosis [12] MSCs possess unique immunomodulatory properties that ameliorate
      inflammation and immune responses, constituting a promising tool to facilitate renal repair.
      In recent years, experimental studies have uncovered the potential of MSCs to improve renal
      function in several models of CKD, and several clinical studies have indicated their safety
      and efficacy in CKD [22].

      ADSCs could be incorporated into damaged tissues or organs which could give rise to new
      functional components and also exert potent anti-inflammatory, anti-fibrotic, or
      immunomodulation effects through paracrine or autocrine routes (via vascular endothelial
      growth factor, granulocyte/macrophage colony stimulating factor, stromal-derived
      factor-1alpha and hepatocyte growth factor) [23,24]. Interestingly, it is proposed that even
      apoptotic or dying ADSCs exhibit distinctive immunosuppressive properties [25]. ADSCs have
      been shown to possess stronger anti-inflammatory and immuno-modulating functions than bone
      marrow derived MSCs [26].

      Villanueva et al. explored the effect of ADSCs on CKD by a single intravenous infusion of
      ADSCs on a nephrectomy induced CKD model of rats [27]. ADSC treatment was associated with
      reduced plasma creatinine, higher levels of epitheliogenic and angiogenic proteins, and
      improved renal function. Work by Hyun et al [28] illustrated the beneficial effects of ADSCs
      on improving renal function on a IgAN mouse model. Zhang et al. [30] found that repeated
      systemic administration of ADSCs attenuated proteinuria, glomerulus hypertrophy, and tubular
      interstitial injury in a DN rat model [29].

      Currently, several Clinical trials have been uploaded in the NIH database, all aim to test
      mainly the safety of using MSC and their efficacy in treating CKD. Two of them propose the
      use of autologous bmMSC and two adMSC. A study conducted in Tehran, Islamic Republic of Iran,
      which was designed to provide confirmation of Mesenchymal stem cell therapy in CKD. There 18
      months safety and efficacy of autologous MSC as a therapy for CKD total of 10 patients were
      conducted with I/V injection of high dose of 2x106/kg of autologous MSC. Assessments were
      performed at 1,3,6,12 and 18 months after cell injections [30].

      Another study conducted in Birmingham, Alabama, Rochester, Minnesota, Jackson, Mississippi,
      USA where stem cell product called "Mesenchymal stem cell" grown from person's own fat tissue
      infused back in to the patient's own kidney and primary outcome measured after 3 months where
      renal tissue oxygenation increased and decrease in kidney inflammation was seen as secondary
      outcome [31].

      Route of delivery:

      Various routes for delivery of ADSCs, ADSC-induced cells, or ADSCs combined with compound
      materials have been developed for the treatment of different diseases or damaged tissue.
      These routes can be classified into two categories: systemic delivery through blood vessels
      (intravenous injection or intra-arterial injection) or local delivery directly into injured
      tissues or organs [32] The route of MSC delivery may influence the cells' capacity to home
      and engraft the damaged tissue, and thereby their efficacy for renal repair. Commonly used
      experimental methods to deliver MSCs include systemic intravenous, intra-arterial, or
      intra-parenchymal delivery. In nonhuman primates the cells distribute broadly into the
      kidneys, skin, lung, thymus, and liver with estimated levels of engraftment ranging from 0.1
      to 2.7% [33].

      The route of MSC delivery, intravenous, intra-arterial, or intra-parenchymal, may affect
      their efficiency for kidney repair. When labeled MSC intravenously infused into baboons were
      observed for 9-21 months, estimated levels of engraftment in the kidney, lung, liver, thymus,
      and skin ranged from 0.1-2.7% [34] Indeed, the intravenous route lags in delivery efficiency,
      because MSC may initially be trapped in the lungs. Intra-arterial infusion of MSC was the
      most effective route to achieve immunomodulation in rat kidney transplantation, possibly by
      avoiding lodging in the pulmonary circulation, allowing MSC to home to the injured kidney
      [35].

      An important feature of MSCs is their capacity to induce proliferation of renal glomerular
      and tubular cells, increasing cellular survival. By secreting proangiogenic and trophic
      factors, injected MSCs not only can enhance proliferation, but also can decrease apoptosis of
      tubular cells [36]. Several routes of administration (intra-parenchymal, sub-capsular,
      intravenous) have been explored and all seem to be effective. Multiple, repeated injections
      of MSCs appear to be even more effective than single injections [37,38].

      Methodology:

      A Prospective study from April 2019 onwards (Approximately Five years or till completion of
      sample requirements with minimum one year of follow up) will be conducted in Bangladesh LASER
      & Cell Surgery Institute & Hospital , Dhaka. 31 Patients of CKD who fulfill the selection
      criteria and admitted at the selected health care facility for treatment will be included in
      the study. SVF (stromal vascular fraction) will be collected from the abdominal subcutaneous
      adipose tissue. Subsequent processing ( Incubation, centrifugation, mixing, washing &
      neutralization ) will produce final viable & active SVF (ADSCs) cell which will be transfused
      intravenously. Considering the possibility of further damage of the already damaging or
      damaged kidney during angiography and placement of catheter into the renal artery, the
      investigators opt for intra-venous transfusion of the SVF. Before transfusion sample will be
      collected & cell counting will be done using automated fluorescent cell counter.
    
  