
    
      Module 1 comprises two sequential parts:

        -  Part A: First-in-human (FiH) dose escalation investigating the safety and tolerability
           of CT7001 to identify the minimum biologically active dose (MBAD) and maximum tolerated
           dose (MTD). Part A also includes a cohort expansion for breast cancer participants only:
           this includes sequential tumour biopsies for evaluation of pharmacokinetic (PK),
           pharmacodynamic (PD) and tumour responses. Recruitment is completed.

        -  Part B: To refine the safety, tolerability, and PK and PD profiles of CT7001 monotherapy
           in participants with advanced solid malignancies from up to four tumour- specific
           cohorts, which may include, but is not limited to, triple-negative breast cancer,
           ovarian cancer, small-cell lung cancer and prostate cancer.

             -  Part B, Cohort 1, Triple-Negative Breast Cancer (M1B-1 TNBC) treated with CT7001 as
                monotherapy. Recruitment is currently closed.

             -  Part B, Cohort 2, Prostate Cancer (M1B-2 CRPC) treated with CT7001 as monotherapy.
                Recruitment is currently closed.

             -  Additional Module 1B Cohorts of up to 25 participants each may be added in the
                future.

        -  Module 4 is a study investigating the effect of food on the PK of CT7001 monotherapy in
           participants with advanced solid malignancies. Recruitment is completed.

        -  Module 2 is a Phase Ib/II, 3-part safety and efficacy study in participants with
           hormone-receptor positive (HR+ve) and human epidermal growth factor-2 negative (HER2-ve)
           breast cancer. This module will dose CT7001 in combination with fulvestrant. Module 2
           consists of 3 parts - Part A, Part B and Part C. Module 2 Part A recruitment is
           completed.Part B is double-blind, randomized and placebo-controlled Part C will be a
           crossover from Part B.

        -  Module 6 is a Phase 1 study to explore the tolerability of, and the total and peak
           exposure of, an enteric capsule formulation of CT7001 [CT7001(EC)], when given as
           monotherapy to patients with advanced solid malignancies.
    
  