
    
      The only patients eligible are transgender men following penile reconstruction undergoing
      insertion of an inflatable penile prosthesis under general anaesthesia. Patients will be
      identified by the theatre booking lists at St Peter's Andrology and will be contacted by
      phone. The trial will be discussed and any concerns addressed. The patient information sheet
      will be emailed to them (or posted by mail, if preferred by the patient). Patients will be
      given at least 24 hours to consent to participate in the trial. As much time as possible will
      be given to consider the information provided.

      The study sites (University College London Hospital, The London Clinic and King Edward VII's
      Hospital) are where the operations for insertion of inflatable penile prosthesis are
      performed. The sites will not play any other role in the study and equipment for the study
      will be brought to the hospitals as required.

      The consent form will be signed on the morning of the procedure by the patient. Patients who
      consent to participate in the study will be randomly assigned to having either a Urethrotech
      UCD or a Bardia Aquafil Foley catheter for their first attempt at urethral catheterisation.
      If unsuccessful, a flexible cystoscopy (telescopic examination) will be performed and a
      guidewire passed directly into the bladder. A Foley catheter will then be passed over the
      wire, into the bladder.

      Following surgery, patients will be admitted overnight and the catheter removed the next day
      followed by discharged. After 30 days, patients will be followed-up by phone.

      All data will be kept in a password protected document and no data or intellectual property
      will be transferred to other research groups although there may be future need to share
      deidentified data with other groups. All study activities will be performed by the research
      group.
    
  