
    
      Overt obscure gastrointestinal bleeding (OGIB) is a distinct clinical entity with
      significantly worse outcomes compared with colonic bleeding and upper GI bleeding. The
      mortality rate for patients with acute small bowel bleeding was 10%.1 Recently, a
      meta-analysis of 10 studies showed that VCE and DBE have an equivalent diagnosis yields in
      patients with obscure GIB (62% for VCE and 56% for DBE).2 The limitation of this
      meta-analysis study was that the included studies examined patients with occult OGIB and
      overt OGIB. Comparing with occult OGIB, patients with overt OGIB are more likely to present a
      significant lesion that causes a recurrent bleeding which subsequently increases risk of
      morbidity and mortality.3 According to emergency endoscopy concept from upper and lower GIB,
      patients with overt OGIB have been demonstrated the usefulness of urgent VCE and urgent DBE
      in a diagnosis tool with an impact on clinical management.4-7 Although previous studies
      showed promising data about the use of urgent enteroscopy, the debate about using VCE or DBE
      first in patients with massive overt OGIB is still uncertain. Thus in this study, we
      conducted the prospective study to compare urgent VCE with urgent DBE in patients with
      massive overt OGIB.

      Objective The objective of this study was to compare the diagnostic yield between urgent VCE
      and urgent DBE in patients with massive overt OGIB.

      Patients and Methods Patients Between October 2010 and March 2012, patients referred to a
      tertiary, King Memorial Chulalongkorn University Hospital to evaluate GIB. The consecutive
      patients with massive overt OGIB defined as a visible gastrointestinal bleeding (GIB) (eg,
      melena or hemotochezia) of unknown origin that persists after an initial negative
      esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) and colonoscopy were recruited. Massive was defined as the
      need for at least 3 units of blood transfusion. All patients underwent an EGD and colonoscopy
      within the first 48 hrs of hospitalization. In case that the causes of gastrointestinal
      bleeding had not been identified, informed consent was obtained from all enrolled patients.

      Exclusion criteria were pregnancy, patients with a suspected intestinal obstruction or
      stricture, cardiac pacemaker implantation or other electromedical device implantation,
      diabetic gastroparesis, a history of gastrectomy and small bowel surgery.

      This study was a prospective study comparing between urgent VCE and urgent DBE. VCE and DBE
      were performed within the first 72 hrs of hospitalization. VCE was carried out 12 hrs before
      DBE. The independent operators performed VCE and DBE. The VCE results were blinded to the DBE
      endoscopists. A positive finding was considered that finding could explain the cause of
      bleeding and/or resulted in a correct therapeutic management including taking biopsy
      sampling. A negative finding was considered when the cause of bleeding was not detected and
      there was no recurrence of bleeding during the follow up period. The results of CE and DBE
      were evaluated whether or not the total small bowel was visualization. The diagnosis yield
      and the impact on clinical outcome were assessed.

      CE procedure CE was performed at the bedside according to the manufacturer's instruction
      (MiroCam, Intromedic Co., Seoul, Republic of Korea). The technical description of CE has been
      documented.8 The capsule has a complementary metal oxide semiconductor sensor with an image
      acquisition rate of 3 frames per second. As a result of a power saving measure, the recorder
      incorporates two external electrodes and a single skin electrode for electric data conduction
      across the body which avoids the need for radiofrequency transmission.8 Patients ingested 2L
      of polyethylene glycol (PEG) for small bowel preparation. Patients were allowed to drink
      clear liquid at 2 hrs after swallowing the capsule. No any medication (prokinetic drugs,
      simethicone) was given during the examination. The small bowel transit time was defined as
      the time between the passage of the capsule through the pylorus and the arrival of the
      capsule in the cecum. The boundary between the jejunum and ileum was defined as the half-time
      of small bowel transit. 9 The positive finding on VCE were defined as either the
      visualization of a lesion including angioectasia, mass and ulcer or the presence of blood
      and/or blood clots in the small bowel lumen. The terms of negative findings were defined as
      no abnormalities or non-specific findings such as red spots, erosion and visible submucosal
      vein.

      DBE procedure The standard DBE system (Fujinon Inc, Saitama, Japan) was used in the
      examination. The system consists of the high resolution endoscope (Fujinon EN-450T5/20) with
      a 200-cm working length, 8.5 mm of outer diameter and a 145-cm flexible overtube with 12 mm
      of outer diameter. The endoscope's working channel has a 2.2 mm in diameter. Two latex
      balloons were attached at the tips of both the enteroscope and the overtube and were inflated
      and deflated with the air from a pressure controlled system. The technique has been described
      in the detail previously by Yamamoto et al.10 The initial oral approach was usually selected.
      Whilst, the anal approach was performed initially in patients suspected ileum lesion who
      presented with hematochezia. The anal approach was performed in the same session when the
      initial route was negative. In case that the other approach was considered, the small bowel
      mucosa was marked by submucosal India ink injection using injection catheter at the most
      distal part during the oral approach and the most proximal part during the anal approach. DBE
      was performed under conscious sedation with midazolam and/or meperidine administration and
      cardiorespiratory monitoring by the experience endoscopists.

      If the bleeding cause was detected, the endoscopic treatment was used to achieve hemostasis
      including argon plasma coagulation (APC), injection or clipping. Biopsy was taken whenever
      possible. In case that tumor was found, India ink was marked into submucosa around it.
    
  