
    
      Lung cancer is the most leading malignant tumor, among which small cell lung cancer accounts
      for about 15%. Approximately 65% of new patients were diagnosed with ES-SCLC at the first
      visit with less than 6 months of median PFS (mPFS) and 8-13 months of median OS (mOS).
      Platinum combined with etoposide or irinotecan chemotherapy is the first-line standard
      chemotherapy treatment. Despite high objective response of initial treatment, it is evitable
      to develop chemotherapy resistance and the effects of follow-up line treatment is
      dissatisfying. Therefore, combination therapy may be promising and efficient.

      Anlotinib, the brand new multi-target protein tyrosine kinase (PTK) blockers, could normalize
      distribution of blood vessels in the tumor, gather T cells and enhance effect of immune drugs
      via vascular endothelial growth factor receptor (VEGFR), platelet-derived growth factor
      receptor (PDGFR), fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR), type Ⅲ tyrosine kinase and others
      signal pathways, and then inhibit the growth, proliferation and differentiation of lung
      cancer cells. According to ALTER1202 study, anlotinib played a promising role in local tumor
      control and effectively prolonged PFS in third line or more for ES-SCLC patients. Meanwhile,
      immunocheckpoint inhibitors can improve tumor immune microenvironment, relieve VEGF-mediated
      immunosuppression, reduce Treg activity, promote tumor antigen presenting ability and better
      infiltrate T cell into the tumor to play an anti-tumor effect. Emerging studies have shown
      that immunocheckpoint inhibitors, such as Atezolizumab, Pembrolizumab and Nivolumab, can
      effectively improve ORR, DoR and survival in SCLC patients. In terms of molecular mechanisms,
      immunocheckpoint inhibitors and vascular targeting drugs complemented and the combination of
      two drugs has superior efficacy in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), just as it shown in
      IMpower150 and other studies. However, the role of immunocheckpoint inhibitors in maintenance
      therapy in SCLC were disappointing in CheckMate451 and a study of pembrolizumab, although it
      obtained some victories in first line or more for SCLC.

      In summary, the investigators proposed that first-line etoposide/platinum-based chemotherapy
      followed by toripalimab combined with anlotinib for maintenance may prolong chemo-resistance
      in extensive small cell lung cancer.
    
  