
    
      Chronic pain impacts the daily lives of fully one-third of Americans over the age of 45, with
      prevalence expected to increase as the population ages. In well-intended and industry-driven
      efforts to provide relief to chronic pain sufferers, the prescription of opioids has
      increased dramatically since the turn of the century, such that it is currently estimated
      that between 5 and 8 million Americans use opioids on a daily basis for chronic pain
      management. Yet, prescription opioid therapy for chronic pain is not an evidence-based
      intervention. In fact, as evaluation data accumulate, it is becoming clear that outcomes are
      often poorer for patients on opioid therapy, and that improvements are appreciated when
      tapered off the medications. In the midst of an "epidemic of prescription drug abuse" it is
      critical that opioid prescription practices be evidence-based and delivered "in the best
      possible manner that maximizes effectiveness and minimizes harm".

      A theorized explanation for poorer outcomes (functionality, quality of life) for patients on
      opioid therapy is the phenomenon of opioid-induced hyperalgesia (OIH). Well-demonstrated in
      animal and inferred in patients, ongoing opioid use results in increased sensitivity to
      experimental pain, which, in the case of the chronic pain patient, is believed to interfere
      with (if not preclude) desired pain relief outcomes. However, the causal relationship between
      opioid discontinuation and OIH has received little empirical attention, such that it is not
      clear the degree to which opioid taper improves pain responses and outcomes, if at all.
      Evidence supporting that prescription opioids makes the pain experience worse for chronic
      pain patients would support a sea change in current practice of chronic opioid therapy.

      Studying the direct effects of an opioid taper on pain responses in chronic pain patients is
      challenging; complicated by the reemergence of pain, variable compliance with taper and
      concomitant increased use of non-opioid pain medications, a controlled examination of pain
      responses during and following opioid detoxification is not immediately tenable in this
      patient population. Thus, funded is a proof-of concept trial to identify and characterize the
      direct effects of opioid detoxification on experimental pain responses in opioid-dependent
      patients without chronic pain to establish if, in fact, a notable effect size can be
      discerned. If supported, these findings will provide a foundation upon which to predict
      efficacy in patients with the more complicated picture of chronic pain.

      Specifically, in a well-characterized sample of men and women seeking addiction treatment in
      a residential setting, experimental pain responses will be serially described over the course
      of and for three months following a standard observed opioid (buprenorphine) taper, and
      compared to those of matched control patients initiated on buprenorphine maintenance therapy.
      Pain responses will be measured with two valid and reliable experimental pain induction
      techniques commonly used to measure OIH (cold-pressor, quantitative sensory testing), and
      subject-level predictors of response identified.
    
  