
    
      The present proposal will evaluate the neural underpinnings of (a) the decline of mobility
      function in Parkinson's disease (PD), and (b) the effects of an innovative computer-guided
      dual-task (DT) mobility training platform (complementary approach: exercise intervention).
      Improved mobility functioning in PD, specifically balance, gait and cognition, directly
      translates to improved community ambulation as well as increased physical activity and social
      participation. These benefits are known to have a significant preventive and
      disease-modifying impact that surpasses any currently available pharmacological
      interventions. Outcomes of this research will provide new insights into brain plasticity
      mechanisms and will accelerate further optimization and commercialization of multi-modal
      mobility-cognitive training applications along with accompanying smart electronic monitoring
      tools. With wider usage of this training platform, rehabilitation specialists will be able to
      effectively scale services, while still monitoring quality and ensuring accountability. Thus,
      the study is highly transformative.

      The investigators propose a collaborative project between our research centers at the
      University of Manitoba and the University of Toronto, to further understand the neural
      underpinnings of cognition/gait impairment and the effects of DT training in PD.

      Cutting-edge behavioural brain imaging methods will be used to identify functional brain
      metabolic network re-organization and the molecular basis of gait/cognitive impairment. This
      will be used to evaluate the neurophysiological underpinnings of the DT treadmill training
      effect, which has repeatedly demonstrated to be clinically effective. The possibility of
      detecting these changes and localizing the site(s) of brain plasticity will have important
      implications at several levels. These biomarkers could be used as an indicator of disease
      severity, outcome measures for neuroprotection studies and other treatment and lifestyle
      strategies.

      Objective 1: To characterize the abnormal brain metabolic pattern in PD patients during
      DT-walking as compared to healthy age-matched controls.

      Objective 2: The investigators will examine whether a 10-week treadmill walking program
      combined with specific cognitive activities (i.e. true DT walking training known to improve
      gait function and reduce falls) will "normalize" the brain abnormality (that is identified in
      Aim 1), or whether it will activate a novel compensatory mechanism and therefore evidence to
      isolate the region(s) of brain plasticity.

      The hypothesis is that the DT gait-related abnormal brain metabolic pattern and abnormally
      elevated amyloid deposition are inter-related and that these abnormal functional connectivity
      patterns and structural changes are highly associated with gait, cognitive and DT walking
      deficits in PD. It is also hypothesized that the DT treadmill-training program will result in
      specific and significant changes in the DT gait-related abnormal brain metabolic pattern, in
      the PD participants.
    
  