
    
      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety of and the clinical response to a human
      monoclonal anti-interleukin-12 antibody (J695) administered to patients with Crohn's disease.
      Crohn's disease, an incurable, chronic, relapsing inflammation of the small and large
      intestine, affects approximately 500,000 people in the United States. The disease is
      characterized by full-thickness involvement of the gut wall leading to episodes of abdominal
      pain, diarrhea, hematochezia, weight loss and complications such as bowel obstruction,
      fistula formation and extraintestinal manifestations. The rationale for this study is based
      on two compelling observations. First, despite the standard therapeutic use of steroids,
      aminosalicylates, antibiotics, antimetabolite immunosuppressants (6-MP, methotrexate), and
      early agents of the emerging biologics class of drugs (anti-TNF alpha antibodies, e.g.), the
      treatment of Crohn's disease is still troubled by loss of effectiveness of standard therapy
      over time, outright nonresponsiveness, and serious medication side effects. For these reasons
      newer agents for the treatment of Crohn's disease need to be developed and tested. Second,
      studies in both animals and humans support a central role for IL-12 in the gut inflammatory
      response in Crohn's disease. Administration of anti-IL-12 antibodies in animal models has
      prevented inducible or ameliorated established colitis. For these reasons IL-12 is an
      appropriate therapeutic target for the treatment of Crohn's disease.

      This study proposes to measure the toxicity and clinical effect of two doses of anti-IL-12
      (J695) administered subcutaneously to patients with moderately active Crohn's disease. The
      primary outcome measure is the rate and severity of adverse events. Secondary outcome
      measures include J695 pharmacodynamics, incidence of anti-J695 antibodies, and clinical
      response. A separate substudy at the NIH will measure gut lymphocyte apoptosis and gut and
      peripheral blood cytokine responses to study drug as well as endoscopic and histologic
      response to treatment. Our short-term goal is to assure good tolerance of anti-IL-12
      treatment regimens in Crohn's disease patients and observe a beneficial clinical response.
      The long-term goal of this study is to establish anti-IL-12 as an effective alternative with
      a low risk profile in the therapeutic armamentarium for Crohn's disease.
    
  