
    
      Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is the most common inflammatory arthritis, affecting ~1% of the US
      population. Severity of RA varies from mild synovitis to joint destruction with associated
      disability and increased mortality. Methotrexate (MTX) is the major drug used to treat RA and
      the anchor drug for clinical trials of investigational new drugs (INDs) in RA. Eight biologic
      agents are currently FDA-approved for RA. No drug is effective in every patient, and there is
      great variability in toxicity and price.

      The use of concomitant MTX and biologic agents has dramatically improved the outcomes of RA
      treatment in the US. This proposal is based on the premise the next major advance needed in
      the treatment of RA is not additional drugs, but rather a dramatic improvement in the
      efficiency and cost-effectiveness of the use of drugs for individual patients with RA. One of
      the hopes for modern medicine is the realization of "personalized" medicine, which allows
      accurate, quick prediction of which drug will be the most efficacious, least toxic, and least
      expensive for an individual patient.

      One of the major obstacles to identifying clinically useful markers of treatment response in
      RA is the lack of cohorts with prospectively collected treatment response data coupled with
      biological samples. Because of the importance of this issue and the paucity of funding for
      such efforts, multiple efforts to establish single institution (using institutional funds) or
      multisite cohorts and repositories (typically dependent on private practitioners and
      pharmaceutical company support) are planned. To date, there has been no attempt to harmonize
      the efforts of the US academic RA research community to create a public resource.

      Recognizing that building de novo cohorts within a short time frame is not feasible, our
      current proposal will fill a critical need: establishing an infrastructure of academic
      investigators to lay the foundation for future collaborative large-scale registries; and
      uniting the efforts of many organizations with the common goal of improving care of RA
      patients. This project will facilitate future research that will result in significant,
      publicly visible improvements in health care. Identifying predictors of treatment response in
      RA will lead to rapid, early institution of optimal drugs rather than a "hit or miss"
      sequential approach; reduce adverse events; improve patient compliance; and lead to
      substantial reduction in the cost of health care. By unifying the efforts of academic
      researchers, we can create unique resources, such as a bank of cryopreserved blood cells to
      allow sophisticated immunologic research to dissect molecular signals of successful treatment
      of RA.

      In order to determine the feasibility of this infrastructure for prospectively collecting
      data and samples we will enroll a small number of participants (10/site/year for each of 2
      years, for a total of 200 participants).
    
  