
    
      This study is a prospective, routine care, covering pediatric population suicidal (who
      attempted suicide) and suicide (with suicidal ideas with planning) hospitalized in the
      pediatric hospital in Nice- Lenval Hospital.

      The main objective of the study is to describe the number of diagnosis of bipolar depression
      and comorbid suicidal behavior according to the diagnostic criteria of the DSM-5.

      The secondary objectives are: 1) comparison of the suicide attempt rate of recurrence at 6
      months and 12 months among subjects with a diagnosis of mood disorder (depression or bipolar)
      and subjects with a diagnosis mood disorder; 2) the identification of specific suicidal
      recurrence risk factors in the diagnosis of mood disorder; 3) comparing the diagnostic
      evaluation field (ICD-10 criteria) vs standardized assessment (DSM-5 criteria).

      For this the investigator propose an observational cohort study, single center, on a trailing
      12 months after inclusion.

      The topics are selected and included consecutively over a period of 12 months. The inclusion
      criteria are: 1) children - teenagers age: 6-18 years inclusive; 2) hospitalization for
      suicide attempt or suicidal ideation with planning in the Pediatric Hospital of Nice Lenval
      Hospital; 3) French patients; 4) speaking parents 5) affiliation to the social security
      system.

      The criterion for inclusion is not the refusal or failure to realize the Kiddie - SADS with
      the subject and / or his parents.

      The number of subjects to be included is estimated at 100. At baseline: standardized
      assessment of comorbid psychiatric diagnosis according to DSM-5 Mood disorders according to
      DSM-IV R criteria for other diagnoses. The investigatorwill use the KIDDIE-SADS,
      semi-structured interview for diagnostic purposes adapted to the DSM for that assessment.

      The patients were distributed into two groups: mood disorder group - group without mood
      disorder.

      In parallel, the field team evaluates blind psychiatric diagnosis according to ICD-10
      criteria.

      The population included subjects is described: clinicaly - demographic - overall operation -
      individual and family psychiatric history.

      The topics included are reassessed at 6 months and 12 months. At 6 months: occurrence of an
      attempted suicide or recurrence of suicidal thoughts with planning - overall operation -
      clinical condition. At 12 months: re standardized diagnostic evaluation with KIDDIE-SADS and
      re identical clinical evaluation at 6 months.

      The recidivism risk factors and recidivism rates are evaluated in both groups. The primary
      endpoint of the study is the attempt recurrence rate of suicide.
    
  