
    
      Cardiovascular disease (CVD) affects the lives of millions of people and is one of the
      largest causes of death and disability in this country. Huge improvements have been made in
      the prevention and treatment of CVD over the last decade. However, comparisons with other
      countries show that England could still do better in improving CVD mortality rates - as
      demonstrated by the recent Lancet article on the Global Burden of Disease Study.

      Cardiovascular Disease Outcomes Strategy published by Department of Health calls for
      improving outcomes for people with or at risk of cardiovascular disease by reducing premature
      mortality rates for CVD by improving prevention, diagnosis and treatment, bringing all
      services up to the standards of the best. To prevent disease and improve health, it is
      essential to understand why diseases arise, and conversely why, in many cases, they do not.
      To do this, it is necessary to study the distribution of natural history of disease in
      populations and to identify the agents responsible; effective strategies can then be planned.
      Epidemiology involves the study of populations rather than the direct study of individuals
      which enhances the practice of medicine by increasing the understanding of how diseases arise
      and how they might be managed both in the individual and in societies as a whole.

      Stroke is one of the top three causes of death in England and a leading cause of adult
      disability. Approximately 110,000 strokes and a further 20,000 Transient Ischaemic Attacks
      ('mini strokes') occur in England every year. There are at least 300,000 people in England
      living with moderate to severe disabilities as a result of stroke. Stroke costs about £7
      billion a year.

      Most strokes are caused by occlusive arterial disease (obstruction in the vessels providing
      oxygen rich blood), around 15% are due to atrial fibrillation (AF) which is irregular heart
      rhythm, and a further 15% or more are associated with carotid stenosis. Many could be avoided
      if people with AF and Carotid artery stenosis were identified and treated appropriately with
      antithrombotic, anti-hypertensive and lipid-lowering drugs as well as encouraging them to
      stop smoking. Some younger patients with tight carotid stenosis, who are well treated
      medically, can avoid future stroke by appropriate carotid intervention.

      The effects of known risk factors can vary enormously from one population to another, and
      there is still substantial uncertainty as to how important these are in different settings
      and as to how their importance is changing with time. By understanding the medical, social
      and ethical factors that affect community health, solutions to public health problems could
      be developed.

      Having access to a large dataset for a range of cardiovascular screening tests provided by
      Life Line Screening, enable us to reliably study the distribution of natural history of
      stroke in asymptomatic British and Irish populations and to assess risk factors responsible.
      We will identify a large cohort of people with asymptomatic Carotid Artery Stenosis (CAS) and
      AF, drawn from those attending Life Line Screening appointments in the UK to conduct a
      prospective study to assess the number of cardiovascular events in the cohort and compare it
      with a group of participants without CAS and AF.

      The study consists of an observational, prospective study of the prevalence of and risk
      factors for AF, CAS and stroke amongst 5,200 people who voluntarily attended cardiovascular
      screening appointments provided by Life Line Screening. Participants completed a detailed
      questionnaire and provided information on: prior disease; current medications (i.e.
      anti-hypertensive, lipid-lowering and anti-platelet therapies); exercise; alcohol intake;
      smoking history; relevant family medical history; and physical measurements (including
      height, weight, waist circumference, blood pressure). They were then tested for the following
      conditions: AF; CAS (with Duplex scanning); Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm (with aortic
      ultrasound); Peripheral Vascular Disease (with ankle-brachial pressure index). They were
      provided with a written report and advised to consult their GP to discuss abnormal results.
      The company recorded all such anonymised data in a research database.

      This cohort will have long-term (up to 5 or more years) follow up via an annual interview
      and/or health questionnaire to determine the contemporary risk of stroke in each group
      (asymptomatic CAS and/or AF versus no CAS and/or AF).

      As the study is quantitative with clear numerical interpretation, Mann-Whitney test and
      t-test will be used for the statistical analysis. The median and interquartile range will be
      used to summarise continuous variables such as age. Data and all appropriate documentation
      will be stored for a minimum of 10 years after the completion of the study.
    
  