
    
      Data Collection & Measurements:

      Blood Measurements: Blood will be collected at seven different time points, Baseline, Post
      IPC, 15 and 90 minutes post IRI and then 6,12 and 24 hours post IRI. At each time point
      approximately 35 ml of blood will be collected. Samples will be collected for the following
      measurements: Serum LFT and electrolytes, Serum CPK isozymes, Plasma cytokines, coagulation
      profile, TEG profile, Plasma cytokines, xanthine and XO/XDH activities, Plasma neutrophil
      activation, Total plasma Nitrate levels, Plasma lactate and ammonia levels and pulmonary
      artery blood (from indwelling Swan Ganz) for Plasma Myeloperoxidase levels. Some of these are
      routine measurements done during and after liver surgery.

      Biopsies: Two Liver trucut biopsies - one prior to implantation (and in case of liver
      resection from the normal remnant liver before occlusion) and the other immediately prior to
      closure of the abdomen - will be taken to study the changes in tissue oxidation, tissue
      adhesion molecule upregulation and morphology prior to and after preconditioning.

      Intra-operative haemodynamcis: Cardio-pulmonary haemodynamics will be monitored using a
      Swan-Ganz catheter (if it is clinically indicated and already in place) to note the effects
      of skeletal muscle ischemic preconditioning on the liver, lungs and the heart. In those
      patients undergoing liver resection invasive heaemodynamic monitoring will not be performed
      for the purpose of the study, if not required clinically by the anaesthetists and intensive
      care physicians. Non-invasive measurements will be made of hepatic and cutaneous circulation
      using surface Laser Doppler flow meter and Ultra sound probes. Cutaneous microvascular
      responses to iontophoresis (non-invasive) of acetylcholine, an endothelium-independent
      vasodilator and sodium nitroprusside, and endothelium-independent vasodilator will be
      measured using the laser Doppler flow meter. NIRS probes (non -invasive) will be used on the
      surface of the to measure liver tissue oxygenation. All probes will be properly sterilised
      prior to application.

      Post-operative heamodynamics: Cardio-pulmonary haemodynamics will continue to be monitored
      using a Swan-Ganz catheter (routinely inserted during liver transplantation) in the
      post-operative period for 24 hours.

      ICG measurements: To assess liver function by injecting 0.5 mg/kg of indocyanine green (ICG)
      pre-operatively, intra-operatively and post operatively. ICG is routinely used in many liver
      centres for the assessment of liver function in clinical practise. No additional blood
      samples will be collected since the uptake and excretion of ICG by the liver will be measured
      by a non invasive digital pulse densitometric device (ICG Pulsion) connected to the patient
      by a finger sensor.
    
  