
    
      Childbirth education is critical to maternal outcomes. Receiving formal education on the
      birthing process sets the stage for optimal mother/baby bonding, postpartum mood, and future
      interactions with healthcare professionals. The American Congress of Obstetrics and
      Gynecology recommends patients attend birthing classes prior to labor and delivery, however
      previous studies found that attendance is dropping with only 56% of first-time mothers
      attending childbirth education classes in 2005 compared to 70% in 2001.

      Multiple barriers to accessing prenatal childbirth education have been identified.
      Traditionally, childbirth education classes are structured as in person lectures with
      multiple sessions over a period of weeks and are taken prior to the onset of labor. Most
      childbirth education classes have accompanying costs ranging from $20-$50 for hospital
      classes and hundreds of dollars for private classes. Significant barriers impact patients
      ability to attend these classes including difficulty obtaining childcare, financial
      constraints, getting time off from work, and obtaining transportation. The Coronavirus
      pandemic has further worsened barriers to accessing childbirth education as most in-person
      group classes have been cancelled due to lack of funding or need for social distancing.

      Most childbirth education focuses on preparation for labor and pain management in the first
      stage of labor neglecting the second stage. This is the stage of labor that requires the most
      maternal involvement and effort. Among women with epidural anesthesia pushing may not be
      instinctive and hence, coaching and preparation are integral to success.

      The current standard of care for teaching a patient how to push is nurse-led coaching
      performed at the bedside immediately before the patient starts pushing. At this point, most
      patients are tired, anxious, and have not had enough time to process the new knowledge
      learned about how to push. A long or abnormal second stage is associated with adverse
      outcomes such as cesarean delivery, infection, and hemorrhage. Nulliparous patients are
      especially vulnerable to these adverse outcomes in the second stage so long as they do not
      feel empowered, knowledgeable, or involved in their own birth experiences.

      Previous literature shows that coached pushing can decrease second stage duration up to 13
      minutes. This is important as a prolonged second stage of labor is associated with maternal
      and neonatal morbidity including higher rates of cesarean delivery, chorioamnionitis,
      perineal trauma, NICU admission, neonatal sepsis, and APGAR score < 4 at 5 minutes. In most
      clinical scenarios, the standard of care is coaching or guidance from the nurse or provider
      once the patient reaches complete dilation. There are limitations to this approach as waiting
      to coach after a potentially long and arduous labor course is suboptimal. While physicians
      and nurses are qualified to coach, they may not be universally available to all patients and
      the quality of coaching may be impacted by volume and acuity on Labor & Delivery.

      In theory, the advent of video-based education can easily be transferred to the hospital to
      address this issue and allows for education during labor once an epidural is placed, the
      patient is comfortable, and well before pushing starts. The average duration of labor and
      delivery in a first-time mother ranges from 14 to 20 hours. This presents an opportune window
      of time for video-based childbirth education to narrow gaps in childbirth education
      disparities and increase maternal involvement without the barriers present in the outpatient
      setting. The efficacy of this novel way of providing childbirth education has not been
      tested.

      To address this quality gap, we propose a randomized trial comparing an intrapartum video
      education tool to standard provider-based coaching
    
  