
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the incidence of monthly thorough skin self-examinations (TSE) for early
           detection of melanoma in healthy participants who are under routine care by their
           primary care physician.

        -  Determine the impact of the intervention package and the resulting change in TSE
           performance, in terms of visits to healthcare providers for skin problems, in these
           participants.

        -  Evaluate the efficacy of this intervention package in improving performance of TSE in
           these participants.

        -  Estimate potential effect of this intervention on health care resource use.

      OUTLINE: This is a controlled, randomized study.

      Two weeks prior to their appointment with their physician, participants undergo a baseline
      assessment. During the appointment, participants are randomized to 1 of 2 intervention arms.

        -  Arm I (control): Participants receive written educational materials and watch a video on
           healthy dietary habits during their appointment. They receive nutrition tip sheets,
           including information related to reducing fat, saturated fat, and cholesterol in the
           diet, at 2 and 6 months after their initial appointment. Participants also undergo
           telephone assessments at 2, 6, and 12 months after their initial appointment.

        -  Arm II (skin self-examinations): Participants undergo a 10- to 15-minute face-to-face
           counseling session with the study intervention specialist and receive training in
           thorough skin self-examination (TSE) directly after their appointment. They also receive
           written educational materials and watch a 25-minute video designed to motivate and teach
           them to do TSE. Two weeks later, participants receive a follow-up call from the same
           study intervention specialist. Participants receive tailored feedback at 2 and 6 months
           and a motivational postcard at 4 months after their initial appointment. Participants
           also undergo telephone assessments as in arm I.

      Participating physicians seeing participants in both arms attend a 60-minute educational
      session regarding skin cancer detection, prevention, identification, and triage, supplemented
      by written materials. They are also trained and prompted to deliver a 30-second message
      emphasizing the desirability of performing monthly TSE during their appointment with
      participants.

      After completion of the study intervention, participants are offered the educational
      materials of the intervention arm to which they were not randomized.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 1,135 participants will be accrued for this study.
    
  