
    
      Hypothesis: DHA treatment would be able to revert, at least partially, the lipid disturbances
      associated with HAART and to improve or at least not to worse fat redistribution associated
      with HAART, without inducing further derangements to dendritic cells and monocyte functional
      ability.

      Variables: effects of DHA treatment on total cholesterol and its fractions, triglycerides,
      insulin, fibrinolysis markers, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α), and fat distribution
      assessed by anthropometric measurements, bioimpedance, sonography, DEXA and abdominal CT.
      Effects of DHA administration on phenotype and functional capabilities of dendritic and
      mononuclear cells. Objective: To determine if treatment with high doses of highly purified
      docosahexanoic acid (DHA) is able to revert, totally or partly, the lipid disturbances and
      the fat redistribution associated with highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART), and the
      effects on phenotype and function of dendritic cells and monocytes Data analysis: Baseline
      data will be analyzed for a good balance. Fisher´s exact test will be used to assess
      differences between categorical variables, Student's t test for continuous variables, and
      Mann-Whitney test for ordinal variables. The main efficacy variable will be differences
      between baseline and final values using MANCOVA model taking baseline value as covariable.
      Efficacy will be assessed by contrasting adjusted means at the end of the study between both
      groups of treatment. Intention to treat analysis will be used.

      The methodology to perform in the centers where the clinical trail will be conducted are the
      following: After obtaining informed consent, the patient's baseline will be examined with the
      collection of demographic data, HIV infection status, pharmacological data, anthropometric
      parameters, and it will proceed to conduct a complementary examination designed to identify
      and define body fat composition, body fat distribution and to perform a basal analysis
      including the parameters previously mentioned. It also will be evaluated the
      hygienic-dietetic habits of the patient with special attention to alcohol intake, physical
      activity and concomitant medication. This procedure will be carried out by making
      retrospective diaries from the last 7 days. The patient's daily caloric intake will be
      quantified by the Nutrilogic ® software (Bio Logic, Barcelona, España). Physical activity
      will be quantified by the Minnesota scale (Elosua R, Marrugat J, Molina L, Pons S, The
      MARATHOM Investigators. Validation of the Minnesota leisure time physical activity
      questionnaire in Spanish men. Am J Epidemiol 1994, 139: 1197-1209).

      Body fat composition and body fat distribution: will be done with the following additional
      tests:

      Densitometry or DEXA: Will be determined with the patient in supine position with legs
      straight and feet together, on a standardized examination table from a densitometry device
      (Lunar Prodigy, Madison, WI, USA). In the initial study enerarán more faces of the different
      regions that will be copied and transferred to the images of subsequent studies to reduce the
      variability of successive determinations. There will be performed a body fat measurement,
      body composition and assessment of bone mineral density by dual absorptiometry technique.
      There will be performed a total body "scan" (body composition) or focused on lumbar spine
      (trabecular bone) and proximal third of the femur (cortical bone) for the evaluation in the
      last two cases of bone mineral density and a possible osteopenia or osteoporosis.

      Abdominal CT: Will be obtained by performing a spinal digital radiography, latero-lateral
      view, locating L4 and getting a tomographic section passing through the center of the
      vertebral body. Subsequently, there will be a digital calculation of intra-abdominal fat and
      subcutaneous fat, manually selecting the area of interest. The areas measured will be done in
      cm2.

      Lab analysis: blood samples for biochemical determinations will be obtained in Vacutainer
      tubes of 10 ml without additives. Blood will be clotted at room temperature for 30 minutes
      and centrifuged at 2500 rpm for 15 minutes. After separating the serum from the clot (about
      4-5 ml), will be divided into 1 aliquot of 1.5 ml (for the study of lipids) and 5-7 aliquots
      of 0.5 ml aliquots which will be frozen at -20 °C until the biochemical analysis are carried
      out.

      Plasma lipids, glucose, glycosylated hemoglobin, insulin and C-peptide: measurements of total
      cholesterol and triglycerides will be performed using automated trading methods (enzyme
      colorimetry, Roche Diagnostics) adapted to the automated autoanalyzer Hitachi 911. The
      determination of apolipoproteins AI, B and C-III, lipoprotein (a) will be held mediate
      commercial methods (immunoturbidimetric assay, Roche Diagnostics and Wako Chemicals) adapted
      to the automated autoanalyzer Hitachi 911. The determination of cholesterol lipoprotein
      fractions (Lipid, ELIP) (VLDL, LDL, HDL) will be performed by the following methods: VLDL
      separated by ultracentrifugation of flotation, cholesterol HDL determined by a direct method
      (Roche Diagnostics) and cholesterol LDL determined by difference in total cholesterol and
      VLDL and HDL cholesterol fractions. Glucose: by a commercial method (enzyme colorimetry,
      Roche Diagnostics) adapted to the automated autoanalyzer Hitachi 747. Serum insulin
      concentration will be determined by non-competitive chemiluminescent enzyme immunoassay
      (Immulite 2000TM, Diagnostic Products Corp., Los Angeles, CA, USA). The serum concentration
      of C-peptide is determined by non-competitive chemiluminescent enzyme immunoassay (Immulite
      2000TM, Diagnostic Products Corp., Los Angeles, CA, USA).

      Determining the size of LDL particles: The size of LDL particles will be determined from
      total plasma using acrylamide gradient gel electrophoresis under nondenaturing conditions.
      Will be used a standard of four known LDL diameter bands, previously determined by electron
      microscopy.

      Determination of fatty acids in plasma: Treatment compliance will be corroborated by
      determining the fatty acid composition of plasma lipids by gas chromatography. Plasma total
      lipids will be extracted by the method of Bligh and Dyer with chloroform: methanol (2:1, V:
      V). Methyl esters of fatty acids will be obtained by transesterification with boron
      trifluoride in methanol at 80 °C for 60 min. which allows a high recovery of all the lipidic
      compounds including PUFAs. Aliquot containing the methyl esters of fatty acids will be
      analyzed with a gas chromatography device (Hewlett-Packard model 5890) on a 30 m. RTX-2330
      column (Restek, Bellefonte, PA) with an internal diameter of 0.25 mm equipped with a flame
      ionization detector. The carrier gas will be helium at a pressure of 105 kPa. To the total
      separation of the different compounds it has provided with two temperature settings: 140
      °C-200 °C to 3 °C/min or in two stages of 140°C-180°C to 4°C/min and 180°C-210°C at 2°C/min.
      The temperature of the injector and detector is 260 °C. The linear response of the detector
      will be tested periodically with standard mixtures. Typically, two internal standards with
      different molecular weight (13:0 and 23:0 or 27:0) will be used. Peaks will be integrated
      with an integrator D-2500 (Hitachi Ltd., Tokyo) and identified by comparison of retention
      times with standards. When necessary, the identification may be confirmed by mass
      spectrometry (Hewlett-Packard detector model 5970B) at an ionization potential of 70 eV.

      Study of markers of inflammation: blood will be withdrawn in 5 ml EDTA tube. After
      extraction, the tube will be centrifuged, and plasma collected in eppendorf tubes and frozen
      at -70°C until cytokines determination. The content of TNF-alpha, IL-1 beta and IL-6 in the
      plasma samples will be measured by ELISA. Each sample will be analyzed in duplicate using
      ELISA kits "R & D Systems" following the specifications that commercial supplier.

      Intervention: Patients will be randomized to one of two treatment groups (placebo and DHA),
      using a centralized randomization list. The study will be conducted according to the
      double-blind trial methodology, in which neither the patient nor the physician are unaware of
      the active substance administered to the patients. The randomization procedure will be
      performed assigning either strategy according to a randomization scheme generated by the
      module PROC PLAN SAS (version 8.2) in multiple of 2 blocks and following a pattern 1:1
      stratified by center. A list of random assignment will generated according to the above
      mentioned, and as from the same will be issued a sealed opaque envelope, identified by a
      sequential number and the name of the center. The envelopes shall be deposited in the center
      of central data management and analysis, which will act as coordinator of the centralized
      randomization assignment by telephone contact.

      Patients will be evaluated for inclusion in the study, and their personal data collected in a
      specific collection data notebook. After the informed consent procedure and if the patient
      consents to be included in the study, the centralized randomization assignment center will be
      contacted. When patient data are registered, the envelope will be opened and the strategy
      assigned to the patient reported to the investigator. The procedure shall be transcribed into
      a document contained in the envelope, signing and dating this register the person responsible
      at the central randomization center.

      Capsules with identical external appearance containing oleic acid (placebo) and
      docosahexaenoic acid at doses of 500 mg per capsule will be previously prepared. The capsules
      are coated with a protective cover which makes it taste imperceptible to the patient. The
      dosage of DHA will be of 4 g daily. At the same intervals, patients in the placebo group will
      take 4 g daily of oleic acid.

      Data collection: The data of patients will be collected by a physician devoted entirely to
      guide patients, coordinating tests to perform, and recording information into a database.
      Data will be collected in a previously designed specific collection data notebook.

      o Sample size assessment to specify the number of participants or participant years necessary
      to demonstrate an effect.

      Estimating sample size and data analysis:

      It is expected to be able to show a difference in favor of the active treatment in the main
      variable, namely, reduction in triglycerides values at the end of the follow-up period (48
      weeks) of at least 20% in magnitude, in the comparison of the means adjusted by a covariance
      analysis. According to the estimated standard deviation of 86 from our own data, consistent
      with literature data (AIDS 1999, 13:1424-1425), and the magnitude of the minimum effect
      pre-defined as relevant (20% reduction), it would be enough to some 29 evaluable patients per
      group. It is intended to recruit more patients as forecast of possible expected losses of
      about 10%, or in other words, 33 subjects per group.

      Re-estimation of the sample size:

      Since variability is estimated from data from other situations (pre-treatment baseline data),
      and there is no concrete data on the experimental situation (variability after DHA
      treatment), it is predefined in this protocol to perform a re-estimation of the sample size
      when will be obtained a follow up of the 50% after 4 weeks of treatment of the triglycerides
      values. To this objective data from the main variable, triglyceride levels at baseline and
      after 4 weeks post-treatment, along with the random assignment but masking the codes will be
      provided to a second independent statistical group (Catalan Institute of Oncology, Department
      of Epidemiology and Cancer Registration. Statistician: Dr. Victor Moreno) respect to central
      statistical analysis of this study (Laboratory of Biostatistics and Epidemiology (LBE),
      Section Clinical Trials, Autonomous University of Barcelona. Statistician: Dr. Ferran
      Torres). This new group will perform the analysis, and will only reveal variability data to
      recalculate the sample size. If the sample size were less than expected, it will be
      maintained according to the initial design. Under no circumstances significance tests will be
      performed or the study will be prematurely stopped secondarily to re-estimate variability.
      According to this method, you do not need any adjustment of multiplicity.

      o Plan for missing data to address situations where variables are reported as missing,
      unavailable, "non-reported," uninterpretable, or considered missing because of data
      inconsistency or out-of-range results Treatment of missing values

      The main analysis by intention to treat will require using all subjects without relevant
      deviations from the selection criteria, whom they have taken at least one dose of the studied
      medication and who have evaluation of the main variable prospectively, at least at three
      months of the follow up. Under this assumption, it is expected that in a 1-year study follow
      up find subjects with measurements not made. Therefore it is set out the imputation of
      missing values of the main variable as follows:

        -  If the lack of data is due to problems of efficiency, or the cause is unknown, shall be
           attributed the 95% percentile value for the study group.

        -  In case of missing data for other reasons, will be implemented the LOCF (Last
           Observation Carried Forward) method provided the availability of a value of at least
           three months after its baseline measurement.

      The detailed procedure will be included in the statistical report and it is planed evaluate
      the consistency of the method before closing the database at a meeting at which anonymous
      listings will be facilitated for its evaluation 'Blind Review' where the procedure may be
      re-evaluated (CPMP/EWP/1776/99: Points to Consider on Missing Data).

      Difficulties and limitations of the study:

      The number of patients and the peculiar management that they will have, due to the additional
      tests performed, make the study inevitably complex. However, there will be a physician who
      permanently coordinates all patients and all tests performed. In addition, the research team
      is wide with concrete and synergistic functions for each researcher. Finally, researchers
      constitute a consolidated group and are experienced in previous studies with similar
      requirements.

      o Statistical analysis plan describing the analytical principles and statistical techniques
      to be employed in order to address the primary and secondary objectives, as specified in the
      study protocol or plan.

      Statistical analysis Descriptive analysis

      The following descriptive indexes will be detailed in the statistical report according with
      the nature of the variables:

        -  In continuous variables: Mean, CI 95%, SD, minimum, P25, median, P75, max, N and
           missing. Per group and globally.

        -  In categorical variables: % total with respect to the column, N in each category. Per
           group and globally.

        -  In ordinal variables: They will be described with two tables: one with descriptive
           parameters of the continuous variables and the other with categorical variables.

      In open fields or when are interested to list all cases for one or more variables, will be
      described by lists.

      Inferential analysis The statistical treatment of the primary and secondary efficacy
      variables will be specifically described in a section below. For all other variables, the
      appropriate hypothesis test will be applied according to its nature: Fisher exact test for
      categorical variables, the Student t test for continuous variables, Mann-Whitney U test for
      ordinal variables.

      Basal homogeneity between groups An analysis of the baseline comparability of treatment
      groups will be established regarding demographic variables, risk factors and clinical
      characteristics at the time of inclusion.

      Main efficacy analysis The main variable of efficacy will be evaluated by comparing the
      difference between baseline and end values of the different treatments using ANCOVA model
      with the baseline value of the test as covariate. Adjusted means were calculated and
      confidence intervals at 95% (95%) by the ANCOVA model. As the main decision criterion of
      efficacy the contrast between the adjusted means at the endpoint of the study between the two
      treatment groups will be performed. Additionally and as an exploratory intent, shall be
      evaluated the compared effect at the different times of observation. No multiplicity
      adjustments will be made due to the exploratory nature of this second analysis.

      In case of relevant deviations in the cases pursuant of the parametric tests, it will be
      applied a nonparametric approach using transformations to ranges of the corresponding
      variables. The main analysis of the efficacy will be done with the population intended to
      treat. However, as evidence of sensitivity and robustness of the results, the analysis under
      the protocol approach will be provided.

      Tolerability and acceptability tests All patients who have been randomized and treated will
      be included in the safety analysis. The frequency of appearance of adverse events in the two
      groups will be compared using the Fisher's exact test.

      Level of significance In all proposed statistical tests the level of significance required
      shall be the conventional (p < 0.05 bilateral). No provisions have been made to perform any
      multiplicity adjust except in the intermediate analysis.
    
  