
    
      Stress urinary incontinence (SUI) is defined as involuntary leakage of urine on effort, or
      exertion, or on sneezing or coughing or laughing. This is the commonest form of incontinence
      in women affecting one in three over the age of 18 years with significant impact on their
      quality of life.

      The Tension-free vaginal tape (TVT) was introduced in 1996 and has become one of the most
      widely used incontinence operations worldwide. In 2001, Delorme described a new mid-urethral
      sling using an outside-in transobturator approach, where the tape is inserted through the
      skin and the obturator foramen into the vagina (TOT). DeLeval developed a similar approach in
      2003, where the tape is inserted inside-out from the vagina through the obturator foramen and
      the skin (TVT-O). TVT, TOT and TVT-O are collectively known as mid-urethral sling (MUS)
      operations.

      Mid-urethral sling (MUS) operations can be performed as minimal invasive surgery in local
      anesthesia with short operative time and minimal surgical dissection. This type of surgery is
      now considered to be the standard surgical management for both SUI and mixed urinary
      incontinence (MUI) in which there is a predominant stress component. The short- and long term
      results are comparable to the Burch colposuspension and have been well documented.

      Surgical treatment of SUI and MUI is generally recommended after the completion of
      childbearing for several reasons, one reason being that numerous studies have demonstrated
      pregnancy and delivery to be risk factors for SUI. Furthermore, in women treated with MUS, a
      new pregnancy and delivery might, in theory, change the position of the tape leading to the
      recurrence of incontinence symptoms. Women treated with MUS, who have recurrence of their SUI
      and MUI, also have a poorer outcome if given a second procedure (either a MUS or a bulking
      agent).

      There is very limited knowledge about the consequences of a pregnancy in women who have
      undergone a mid-urethral sling operation, and only a few case reports exist in the
      literature. There is currently no consensus on either the management of a subsequent
      pregnancy or the mode of delivery after MUS surgery. Some clinical experts have claimed that
      vaginal delivery, where the baby's head exerts pressure on the anterior vaginal wall, may
      cause the tape to dislocate with potential injury to the bladder and urethra15. During the
      last decade, there has been a marked increase in the number of mid-urethral sling operations.
      This increase is probably due to the excellent short and long-term results, with less
      morbidity and a shorter hospital stay compared to colposuspension (the previous "gold
      standard" for SUI). It may therefore be expected in the future that more women of fertile age
      will request surgical treatment of SUI before the completion of their childbearing.

      Several observational studies have shown that SUI is more prevalent in patients who have
      delivered at least one child. Obstetrical factors such as vaginal birth vs. elective cesarean
      section, parity, age at first pregnancy/birth and operative vaginal delivery have been
      associated with an increased risk of developing SUI. In addition, anal incontinence in
      fertile women is associated with SUI, probably due to more risk of pudendal nerve damage
      after an obstetrical anal sphincter injury with subsequent anal incontinence. Although
      obstetric factors are associated with the development of SUI, there are no studies on whether
      the same factors may negatively impact the outcome after SUI surgery.

      The Norwegian Female Incontinence Registry (NFIR) was established in 1998. The purpose of the
      registry is to ensure the quality of incontinence surgery in Norway and that each department
      should be able to keep track of their results and use the information to improve the quality
      of their surgery. The majority of gynecological departments in Norway performing incontinence
      surgery report preoperative subjective and objective data, the type of incontinence
      procedures and complications, as well as 6-12 months' subjective and objective follow-up data
      to the registry. There are currently about 20 000 patients recorded in the registry, in a
      deidentified form, which means that only the Department that performed the operation has
      access to patient identity through a coded patient ID number (NFIR-number). Approximately 5
      000 of these women are registered as being of childbearing age (< 45 years old) at the time
      of operation. In 2013 the NFIR obtained status as a National Quality Registry.
    
  