
    
      *Background and study aims: Total knee arthroplasty (TKA) infection is a devastating
      complication requiring multiple hospitalizations, operations, and outpatient visits placing a
      significant burden on both patients and treating surgeons. The incidence of prosthetic joint
      infection after primary hip or knee arthroplasty is about 2% among the Medicare population.
      When revision surgery is needed, two kinds of treatment include one-stage and two-stage
      re-implantation procedure can be applied. Bengtsonet al., in an earlier report, evaluated 107
      patients with a 75.7% success rate after one-stage revision. In the case of two-stage TKA
      revision success rates of 89% to 100% are noted with follow-up periods of 2 to 7.5 years.
      Delayed re-implantation after administration of intravenous antibiotics appears to offer
      better success rates than direct-exchange techniques. Therefore, the two-stage
      re-implantation procedure is considered the gold standard for treatment of subacute and
      chronic deep prosthetic joint infections (PJI). However, the protocols of the antibiotic
      therapy after resection arthroplasty have varied in different reports. The purpose of this
      study will be to evaluate the clinical outcomes of two-stage re-implantation for infected
      knee arthroplasty using the standardized protocol of combined parenteral and oral antibiotic
      therapy and the criterion for re-implantation.

      *Study participants

      Study period: from March 2011 to June 2019.

      *Procedures and operations

      -The first stage The first stage consisted of the removal of the prosthesis and all hardware,
      debridement of all infected and devitalized tissues, removal of all biofilms, and aqueous
      povidone iodine irrigation. For primary joint arthroplasty with cement, all the bone cement
      was removed. Samples for culture and histology were performed at the time of removal of
      prosthesis (ROP). The Long-leg splint was applied to the limb until the next replacement
      procedure. The first stage was using antibiotic-impregnated bone cement as a static spacer
      block. The types of antibiotic regimens were determined according to the results of cultures
      form the preoperative joint aspirations. In this study, 1 to 2 g of vancomycin (for
      gram-positive bacteria) and/or 1 to 2 g of ceftazidime (for gram-negative bacteria) per 40g
      package of cement would be hand-mixed according to the previous culture. Any past history of
      adverse events of the antibiotics used in the cement would be clarified to avoid any possible
      allergic reactions to the antibiotic-loaded cement. If the patient had allergic reactions to
      vancomycin or ceftazidime, daptomycin or gentamicin 1 to 2 g will be used for alternative
      antibiotic cement.

      All patients received at least two weeks of intravenous antibiotics after first stage
      operation, and then additional 2 to 4 weeks of oral antibiotic therapy according to the
      laboratory and culture results performed preoperatively or at the time of the first-stage
      procedure. If the cultures revealed certain drug-resistant pathogens, including
      methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus epidermidis
      (especially when the vancomycin MIC≧1 mg/L) or vancomycin-resistant enterococci, daptomycin
      or linezolid would be selected as the therapy option. Intravenous antibiotic therapy would be
      continued until the serum CRP decreased to normal range (less than 1 mg/dL). When the CRP
      levels remained normal (< 1 mg/dL), no pathogens were identified from aspirations, and there
      were no signs of active infection clinically, the re-implantation surgery would be scheduled.

        -  The second stage (reimplantation) In the second stage of reimplantation, four sets of
           bacterial cultures from different adjacent knee joint tissue (medial and lateral
           condyles, patella, and femur-tibia joint space) will be obtained. Prophylactic
           antibiotic will be used in the second stage. All patients will be examined clinically at
           1st week, 2nd month, 6th month and one year postoperatively at the orthopedic
           department. Laboratory tests including complete blood counts (CBC) and differential
           counts (D/C), liver alanine aminotransferase (ALT), creatinine (Cre) and CRP will be
           performed at each visit. Free of recurrent infection will be defined when the clinical
           evaluation of the joint did not show any sign of infection and CRP will be less than 1
           mg/dL. Antibiotic therapy, either intravenous or oral form, will be discontinued if
           cultures of debridement are sterile. If persistent infection is documented in the
           second-stage reimplantation procedure, the patients will be transferred to the medical
           ward for an additional 4 to 6 weeks of antibiotics (including intravenous form treatment
           at least for 2 weeks) until CRP sustained below 1 mg/dL.

        -  Antibiotic cement In this study, 1-2 g of vancomycin (for gram-positive bacteria) and/or
           1-2 g of ceftazidime (for gram-negative bacteria) per 40-g package of cement will be
           hand-mixed according to the previous culture identified. Any past history of adverse
           events of the antibiotics used in the cement will be clarified to avoid any possible
           allergic reactions to the antibiotic-loaded cement. If patient had allergic reactions to
           vancomycin or ceftazidime, daptomycin or gentamicin 1-2 g will be used for alternative
           antibiotic cement.

        -  Follow-up Patients will be arranged to follow-up mainly at Orthopedic clinic regularly.
           Infectious Disease specialist will be consulted immediately during follow-up if
           necessary.

        -  Definition Recurrent and persisted infection Recurrent or persisted infection will be
           defined as swelling and pain of the joint with drainage, elevated CRP, persistent
           positive culture after two-stage of implantation during follow-up at clinic.

        -  Case record A standard case record form will be used to collect patients' information,
           including age, sex, underlying diseases, primary and secondary diagnoses, surgery,
           cultures, and the timing of replacement. Complete blood counts, differential counts,
           ALT, Creatinine and C-Reactive Protein will be recorded.
    
  