
    
      A convenience sample will be drawn from 6 Congregate Dining (CD) groups in the Chinese
      community. There are six groups of CD programs run by Yee Hong Centre for Geriatric Care run
      at different locations in the Greater Toronto Area. The screening will be offered on site at
      regular CD meetings to participants who have given informed, written consent. All
      participants will attend a private post-screening interview. Those who score above the
      threshold for depression and/or cognitive impairment, and who have not previously been
      diagnosed or treated for these conditions, will be randomly assigned to one of two groups: an
      intervention group and a usual care group. Participants in the intervention group will
      receive their screening results at the post-screening interviews and will also be provided
      with suggestions for possible follow-up. They will be given the option of receiving further
      psychiatric assessment at the Wellness Centre, or seeking care with their family physician
      and assisted to obtain further care, if desired. Participants in the intervention group will
      attend an appointment 3 months after receiving screening results and follow-up options during
      which the rate of help seeking, rate of confirmed psychiatric diagnoses and types of
      intervention received will be determined. Participants in the usual care group will not be
      given screening results at the post-screening interview but will instead attend an
      appointment 3 months post screening to receive their results and information about follow-up
      options.

      The results of this research will: demonstrate whether community living Chinese elders are at
      greater risk of psychiatric disorders and demonstrate the need for screening in older Chinese
      adults living in the community; aid in the development of systematic and targeted
      community-based screening and outreach to at-risk members of the target population; and help
      determine if identification of mental health issues and education about treatment resources
      has any effect on help-seeking for those conditions.
    
  