
    
      Cisplatin is used to treat different cancers, including testicular, germ cell, head and neck,
      bladder, and lung cancer. This drug has an atom-containing platinum, which is designed to
      poison cancer cells, causing them to die.

      Pemetrexed is designed to block enzymes in the body that play a part in tumor growth.

      Imatinib mesylate is a drug that blocks certain proteins that play a part in the development
      of cancer. Imatinib mesylate has also been shown to increase the effect of chemotherapy in
      tumor cells.

      Before you can start treatment on this study, you will have what are called "screening
      tests." These tests will help the doctor decide if you are eligible to take part in this
      study. You will have your complete medical history recorded and a physical exam, including
      measurement of your vital signs (temperature, pulse, breathing rate, and blood pressure) and
      weight. An ECOG performance status evaluation (a test looking at your ability to perform
      day-to-day activities) will be done. Blood will be drawn (about 3 to 4 teaspoons) through a
      needle in your vein for routine tests. You will be asked about any medications you are
      taking. Women who are able to have children must have a negative blood pregnancy test. Also,
      your tumor will be evaluated by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or computerized tomography
      (CT) scans before the start of this study.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will begin taking imatinib
      mesylate. Depending on when you begin treatment on this study, you may be asked to take 3, 4,
      or 6 tablets of imatinib mesylate by mouth once a day. Your doctor will also ask you to take
      folic acid tablets (or a multivitamin with folic acid) during the week before you receive
      your first infusion of pemetrexed and then every day while you are on this study. You will
      also be given an injection of vitamin B12. The vitamin B12 shot will be repeated every 9
      weeks during treatment on this study. Folic acid and vitamin B12 will help to decrease the
      risk of severe side effects from pemetrexed.

      After 1 week of imatinib mesylate and folic acid, you will receive cisplatin and pemetrexed
      by IV infusion. Cisplatin (given over 2 hours) and pemetrexed (given over 40 minutes) will be
      given on the first day of each treatment cycle for a total of 6 cycles. Each cycle is 28 days
      long.

      Dexamethasone will also be given by vein before you receive pemetrexed. Dexamethasone will
      help to decrease the risk of rash and nausea that may be caused by pemetrexed. Your doctor
      will also ask you to take dexamethasone tablets by mouth twice a day (12 hours apart) only on
      Day 2 of each cycle.

      Every 4 weeks, you will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs and
      weight. You will also have a performance status evaluation. Blood will be drawn (about 3 to 4
      teaspoons) through a needle in your vein for routine tests. Also, at every 8 weeks, your
      tumor will be measured by a CT or an MRI scan.

      After you complete 6 treatment cycles of cisplatin and pemetrexed, you will continue to take
      imatinib mesylate tablets every day up to 1 month after the 6 treatment cycles. If you
      develop any intolerable side effects or if your disease gets worse, your treatment on this
      study may be delayed; the dose of the study drugs decreased until your side effects are gone;
      or you may be taken completely off this study. Your doctor will talk with you about any
      changes in your dosing schedule or in the doses of your medication after you been evaluated
      in the clinic.

      After you have completed all of your treatment, you will have what is called an end-of-study
      visit. At this visit, you will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital
      signs and weight. You will have an ECOG performance status evaluation. You will have blood
      drawn (about 3 to 4 teaspoons) through a needed in your vein for routine tests. You will also
      have your tumor measured by CT or an MRI scan.

      This is an investigational study. Both cisplatin and pemetrexed have been approved by the FDA
      for the treatment of malignant mesothelioma. The FDA has approved imatinib mesylate for the
      treatment of leukemia and certain sarcomas; however, it has been authorized by the FDA for
      use in research only in the treatment of malignant mesothelioma. Up to 42 patients will take
      part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  