
    
      Causal links between breakfast consumption, the individual components of energy balance, and
      health have recently been established and it is now important to examine and target the
      underlying biological mechanisms over a longer period of time to maximise potential health
      benefits.

      Specifically, the substitution of a portion of carbohydrate for protein at breakfast may
      enhance the potential health benefits of breakfast through targeting distinct mechanistic
      pathways. Broadly, introducing a greater protein load at breakfast increases insulin
      secretion and delays gastric emptying, thereby eliciting a potentiated insulin response. In
      turn this may therefore improve glucose tolerance during a subsequent meal. Additionally,
      maintenance of euglycaemia following breakfast consumption, coupled with the thermic effect
      of feeding protein may accentuate the elevated energy expenditure following breakfast
      observed in previous studies. Finally, both the physical and chemical properties of protein
      exert a marked satiating effect. Collectively, these mechanisms could interact to maximise
      the net impact of breakfast on energy balance and associated health outcomes. However, whilst
      the evidence indicates obvious benefits of feeding a higher protein dose at breakfast,
      relatively little research has focused on the response to protein over multiple meals/days.
      Furthermore, and importantly, the mechanisms involved in the second-meal phenomenon and the
      potential for initial meals of varied composition to target these mechanisms have never been
      systematically investigated.

      To begin investigating the outlined mechanisms healthy, non-obese participants will be
      recruited to undergo a 4 week intervention study in which they will consume one of three
      breakfasts for 28-days. The breakfast interventions provide will be:

      Carbohydrate rich breakfast

      Whey protein enriched breakfast

      Extended morning fast

      Participants will undergo 7 days of habitual physical activity and diet monitoring prior to
      visiting the laboratory for their preliminary metabolic assessment in which they will consume
      the carbohydrate rich breakfast followed by an ad libitum meal for lunch. They will then be
      randomised to one of the 3 breakfast interventions for 28-days. During the 28-days weekly
      monitoring of physical activity and energy intake will take place in order to assess energy
      balance.

      Upon completion of the intervention phase participants will revisit the laboratory to
      replicate the initial visit in which postprandial metabolism was assessed.
    
  