
    
      This project intends to address the gaps in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and precision medicine
      (PM) research in American Indian and Alaska Native (AI/AN) populations by comparing written
      and video-based materials for recruitment into AD and PM research, and by creating an AD-PM
      registry of AI/AN individuals who are willing to be contacted for future research
      opportunities. The project will be a 3-arm RCT with a sample size of 501 AI/AN adults, aged
      40 years and older. The RCT enables us to compare outcomes between groups to determine the
      effect of a tailored brochure and video compared to non-tailored, text-based recruitment
      materials, and assemble a large registry of AI/ANs with biospecimens and data from medical
      records for future AD research.

      The AI/AN population is growing as a proportion of the total US population, and gains in life
      expectancy mean that the number of Native elders at risk of AD is rapidly increasing.
      Therefore, there is a need for research in this understudied group.

      The study procedures are expected to take participants approximately 2-3 hours to finish.
      Participants will be asked to complete a pre-intervention self-report questionnaire and have
      their height, weight, and neck circumference measured. Next, they will be randomized to one
      of the 3-treatment arms. Participants allocated to the control condition will receive the
      standard brochure on AD and PM, with standard text-based content not specifically tailored
      for AI/ANs. Participants randomized to the intervention will either view a short culturally
      tailored video (5 minutes) or read a culturally tailored educational brochure. All brochures
      and video will contain the same base information on AD and PM. Participants will have as much
      time as they need to review the material. After each participant has finished reading the
      relevant brochure or viewing the video, they will be asked to complete post-intervention data
      collection that includes: 1) an ADRD knowledge questionnaire and 2) enrollment in the AD-PM
      Registry. If the participant chooses not to enroll in the AD-PM Registry, their participation
      in the study is complete. If the participant agrees to enroll in the registry, they will be
      asked to complete 3) the AD-PM Module, 4) biospecimen donation (blood, saliva, and urine
      samples), and 5) permission to access medical records. Participants who complete the AD-PM
      module and provide biospecimens but decline consent to access medical records will still be
      added to the registry.
    
  