
    
      Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) represents a spectrum of diseases ranging from
      simple steatosis to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), the progressive form of liver
      disease that can lead to cirrhosis and liver-related mortality in persons who drink little or
      no alcohol. Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) represents the more severe end of this
      spectrum and is characterized by steatosis, ballooning degeneration and lobular inflammation
      with or without fibrosis. The etiology of NASH is not completely understood, but it is often
      associated with obesity, type 2 diabetes, hyperlipidemia and insulin resistance.
      Lipotoxicity, insulin resistance and oxidative stress appear to be central to the
      pathogenesis of NASH. Currently, there is no FDA approved treatment for NAFLD/NASH. Weight
      loss and exercise are the recommended but often difficult maintain these lifestyle changes in
      the long term and therefore therapeutic agents have been investigated. Ezetimibe is an LDL
      lowering agent that works through inhibition of the fat absorption from the small intestine.
      In this study, we propose to treat 50 patients with NASH with either Ezetimibe or placebo for
      24 weeks. After an initial evaluation for insulin sensitivity, MRI liver fat distribution and
      liver biopsy, patients will receive either 10 mg/day of Ezetimibe or placebo. Patients will
      be monitored at regular intervals for symptoms of liver disease, side effects of Ezetimibe
      and serum biochemical and metabolic indices. At the end of 24-weeks, patients will have a
      repeat medical evaluation, liver MRI and liver biopsy. Pre and post treatment MRI-derived
      liver fat content, liver histology and insulin sensitivity will be compared. The primary end
      point of successful therapy will be improvement in hepatic steatosis measured by MRI.
      Secondary end points will be improvement in insulin sensitivity, liver histology and liver
      biochemistry.
    
  