
    
      Research Design and Methods

      Hypotheses Knowledge of central aortic pressure waveforms (central pressure therapy, CPT)
      will affect the intensity of antihypertensive medication prescription, and treatment
      decisions based upon this knowledge in turn will lead to an enhanced reduction in CBP and
      AIx. Finally, it is hypothesized that this reduction in AIx/CBP will lead to improved
      exercise performance and LV systolic and diastolic reserve function.

      Basic Study Plan This is a single-blind, randomized, controlled, parallel group intervention
      study examining the effects of a novel, noninvasive diagnostic test for determining AIx and
      CBP (SphygmoCor, Atcor Medical) on medical care, blood pressure control, exercise
      performance, and LV functional reserve in patients with chronic heart failure (HF) and
      systolic dysfunction (25%<EF<50%) and with preserved systolic function (EF>50%). Eligible
      subjects will undergo resting echocardiogram, noninvasive CBP assessment, and metabolic
      exercise stress testing on a recumbent cycle ergometer to quantify exercise performance.
      Echocardiography and CBP assessment will be performed at rest, during graded exercise, and
      immediately after peak exercise to determine indexes of LV systolic and diastolic performance
      and changes in CBP. Subjects will then be randomized (1:1) to subsequent determination of CBP
      at 1 month heart failure clinic visits versus sham (tonometry information acquired, but not
      shared with investigator). Investigators will then make adjustments to subject's medical
      therapy and antihypertensive regimen based upon the additional data procured via the
      Sphygmocor device. Subjects randomized to sham will have adjustments made as per standard
      clinical judgment based upon brachial blood pressure assessment and other clinical variables.
      In addition to standard clinical assessment, each subject will undergo 6 minute walk test at
      each visit, administered by the study coordinator.

      At the 6 month follow up visit, subjects will undergo resting and exercise echo/CBP/metabolic
      stress testing exactly as performed at visit 1. The co-primary endpoints will be the change
      in central augmentation index (defined below) and change in peak oxygen uptake (VO2) from
      baseline. Secondary endpoints will include the changes in resting and exercise-induced CBP
      and brachial blood pressures, number of antihypertensive medications prescribed, resting and
      exercise change in LV systolic and diastolic function (see below), changes in: cardiac
      output, exercise time, anaerobic threshold, minute ventilation (VE) over carbon dioxide
      produced (VCO2) slope (ventilatory efficiency). There will be a total of 7 visits, the first
      and last for exercise testing; the intervening 5 visits will be routine heart failure clinic
      follow up appointments.
    
  