
    
      Heart failure is a major health problem worldwide. Optimal treatment of this disabling and
      fatal condition may require functional characterization of the failed left ventricle (LV) and
      its interaction with the arterial system. Part of the physiological significance of the
      ventriculo-arterial coupling has been studied experimentally and clinically using the
      framework of the ratio of effective arterial elastance (Ea) to end-systolic elastance (Ees),
      with limited clinical applications.

      From central ascending aorta to terminal arterioles, every segment of the arterial tree
      contributes to the arterial loads that interact and impact LV performance in both systole and
      diastole, leads to atrial and ventricular remodeling and hypertrophy, and results in the
      development of heart failure. On the other hand, the ventricular systole is a complex
      coordination of multi-directional myocardial fibers involving longitudinal contraction,
      circumferential shortening, radial thickening, twist, and torsion, the so-called LV
      deformations.

      In the proposed 3-year project, the investigators hypothesize that the different components
      of arterial load are coupled with different components of LV function. The regional
      ventriculo-arterial couplings may be important in the pathogenesis of heart failure and
      ventricular remodeling, and in the prediction of future cardiovascular events. Therapies
      targeting these may play a role in the prevention and treatment of heart failure. Therefore,
      the investigators will study at least 60 patients with chronic heart failure (NYHA Class
      II-IV) who will randomly receive a direct renin inhibitor, aliskiren, or a placebo for 6
      months on top of standard therapy. The purposes of the present study are to investigate the
      relationship between different components of hemodynamic load or arterial abnormalities and
      different components of LV myocardial deformations or regional LV function, the modulating
      effects of endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) on the ventriculo-arterial coupling, and the
      therapeutic effects of aliskiren on the components of hemodynamic load and LV myocardial
      deformations and their couplings. The investigators will also investigate whether the
      ventriculo-arterial coupling, EPCs, and add-on therapy of aliskiren predict cardiovascular
      outcomes.
    
  