
    
      Background: The reasons for initiation and continuation of use of illicit substances are
      multifactorial; however, some individuals appear resistant to both. One set of determinants
      lies in the environment. In ongoing studies, we are examining environmental concomitants of
      behavior in individuals in drug treatment. In this study, we will examine environmental
      factors that may impact initiation, addiction, and treatment seeking among the greater
      population at large (non-drug-users, current opioid/stimulant users, and current marijuana
      users).

      Scientific goals: (1) To assess, cross-sectionally at baseline, differences in stress, social
      stability, and mental and physical health among three main neighborhood-matched groups of
      current opioid/stimulant users, current marijuana users, and nondrug users; (2) to assess,
      longitudinally, mediators of 12-month changes in drug-misuse status in the same three groups;
      (3) to provide neighborhood-matched control groups of non-drug-using individuals,
      Unclassified/former drug users, and current opioid/stimulant drug users not seeking treatment
      for our ongoing environmental studies of individuals in drug treatment; (4) to explore the
      possible role of genetics and its interplay with environment in regards to drug use
      initiation, addiction, and treatment seeking among the study groups, (5) to assess EMA
      reports of drug use and psychosocial stress as well as real-time environmental risk exposure
      in a non-treatment seeking and/or nondrug using population and compare to our ongoing
      environmental studies of individuals in drug treatment, (6) to assess the accuracy of stress
      detection in the lab and the field by the Health Tag.

      Participant population: We will enroll 650 participants in Phase B of the study for a total
      enrollment (Phase A + Phase B + Phase C) of 3000 participants. Target enrollment will include
      25% women and 70% minorities (mostly African-American).

      Experimental design and methods: This is a three-group observational study with a
      crosssectional component and a longitudinal component: each participant will be assessed in
      two visits spaced approximately 12 months apart. The three main groups will be: (1)
      non-drug-users (NDUs), (2) current opioid/stimulant users [(COSUs) comprised of two
      subgroups: treatment seeking (COSU-TS) and non-treatment seeking (COSU-NTS)], and current
      marijuana users (CMUs). All groups will be roughly matched for socioeconomic status and
      neighborhoods of residence. Each participant will attend a 3-5-hour initial study visit and a
      3-5-hour 12 month visit #2. The study visits will include a questionnaire component and a
      biological-sample component. Questionnaires will cover substance use, stress, social
      stability (including healthcare access/utilization, and neighborhood environment), physical
      and mental health (including quality of life, HIV, and trauma). The biological component will
      consist of samples of urine (for drugs of abuse and cotinine), breath (for alcohol and carbon
      monoxide). Blood for genetics will be obtained at Visit 1 or Visit 2. The primary outcome
      measures will be lifetime substance-misuse history (cross-sectional component) and changes in
      drug-use status across the 12 months between visits (longitudinal component). Secondary
      outcome measures will include: biological assessments of drug use; medical, psychiatric,
      social determinants of health; and impulsivity and decision-making factors. Individuals who
      choose not to return for a 12-month Visit #2 will be asked to complete a 45-minute telephone
      visit #2. In the HON EMA/GMA secondary study participants will carry a smartphone for up to 4
      weeks after completing Visit 1. Event-triggered entries will be initiated by participants (1)
      each time that they use a drug (COSU) or marijuana and/or alcohol (NDU, CMU, and
      Unclassified) and (2) each time they feel overwhelmed, anxious, or stressed more than usual.
      Participants will also make 5 random-signal-triggered recordings per day and one brief end of
      day recording. During this study participants will also come to the clinic once a week to
      complete compliance visits. In the Health Tag secondary study, participants will undergo a
      one-day laboratory session followed by a 30-day field study.

      Benefits to participants and/or society: There are no benefits to participants. The knowledge
      gained may benefit society by providing data on the health outcomes of drug-using and
      nondrug-using individuals and the natural history of drug use by neighborhood.

      Risks to participants: This is a minimal-risk study, consisting of standard physical and
      questionnaire-based assessments.
    
  