
    
      The Articulinx ICMC is a minimally invasive orthopedic device intended to be implanted into
      the basilar, or first carpometacarpal (CMC) joint, as an interpositional spacer between the
      first metacarpal and trapezium bones. The device is intended to be used in the treatment of
      thumb disabilities resulting from osteoarthritis of the CMC-1 joint.

      The Articulinx ICMC is a molded polymer disc with an encapsulated radiopaque marker. The
      Articulinx ICMC is designed to be an inter-positional spacer for the treatment of symptoms of
      early-stage osteoarthritis of the first CMC joint. When properly positioned in the joint, the
      ICMC can preserve or restore normal space between the trapezium and thumb metacarpal bones in
      the first CMC joint. The restoration of natural spacing and biomechanics within the joint is
      expected to reduce pain and restore strength and function.

      The ICMC is designed to be implanted earlier in the OA disease process than other basilar
      joint implants. The ICMC allows a more active lifestyle and may reduce or eliminate the need
      for long-term use of prescribed arthritis medications. Because the ICMC procedure does not
      remove supportive bone or tissue, the procedure is reversible and treatment options for later
      stage disease progression remain available to patients.

      The ICMC was first placed on the EU (European Union) market by the Sponsor in April, 2011
      following approval to carry the CE (European Community) Mark based upon successful
      pre-clinical and clinical testing. In other clinical studies, one single site study and one
      multicenter site study, both conducted in accordance with ISO 14155 (International Standards
      Organization), the 1-year enrollment is completed and 2-year follow-up is ongoing.

      The primary objective of this study is to document the safety of the Articulinx ICMC by
      evaluating Incidence of unanticipated device and procedure related adverse events
      intra-operatively, and through one year follow-up.

      The secondary objectives of this study are to describe clinical and radiographic outcomes in
      patients who are treated with the device.

      This is a single site study in The Netherlands. Study enrollment will begin following
      required regulatory submissions/Ethics Committee approval and after site study personnel
      training is completed. The study will be conducted in conformance with ISO 14155 and will
      evaluate the performance of the Articulinx ICMC for the relief of the symptoms of
      osteoarthritis in the CMC-1 joint. Primary and secondary study endpoints will be evaluated
      through one year and patients will continue to be followed for two years for evaluation of
      longer-term performance.
    
  