
    
      Although STN-DBS is routinely used to treat PD motor symptoms, several studies have reported
      that STN-DBS also provides benefit for sleep dysregulation through normalization of sleep
      architecture. In our previous work, using local field potentials (LFP) recorded from STN DBS
      electrodes implanted for the treatment of PD, unique spectral patterns in STN oscillatory
      activity were identified that correlated with distinct sleep cycles, offering insight into
      sleep dysregulation. These findings were used to construct an Artificial Neural Network (ANN)
      that can accurately predict sleep stage. Building on this work with the use of new DBS
      battery technology that allows exploration of potential biomarkers and prototyping of
      closed-loop algorithms, the investigators will test the hypothesis that STN-a highly
      interconnected node within the basal ganglia- contributes to the regulation and disruption of
      human sleep behavior and can be manipulated for therapeutic advantage.

      This is the first part, Aim 1, of a two-part study. Investigators will enroll 20 subjects for
      Aim 1 of this study and 20 subjects for Aim 2, with 10 subjects enrolled at each clinical
      site for each aim (University of Nebraska Medical Center and Stanford University Medical
      Campus). In Aim 1, subjects will undergo standard-of-care STN DBS lead implantation surgery
      for the treatment of PD. They will return 3 weeks later to the in-patient Sleep Lab for 3
      nights of STN LFP recordings with concurrent PSG, EMG, EOG, actigraphy, and video-EEG. The
      first two nights of recording will be used to establish a physiological sleep baseline for
      each patient. The third night of recording will involve sub-clinical thresholds of
      stimulation in all subjects, in an effort to favorably alter sleep-stage duration, so that
      NREM and REM-3 are prolonged. As a secondary outcome, subjects will be asked to complete a
      sleep questionnaire for all three nights, sleep during which stimulation occurred will be
      compared to the preceding two nights. Data collected during all three nights of recordings
      will be used to predict sleep stage identity from the LFPs recorded within STN, with the
      ground truth for each sleep stage provided by sleep-expert evaluated PSG. These data will
      also be used to identify the optimal sub-clinical threshold current amplitude and sleep-stage
      timing for adaptive stimulation to improve sleep. The stimulation algorithm developed in Aim
      1 will be implemented in the second part of the study, Aim 2, to provide adaptive stimulation
      to subjects during nighttime sleep, over the course of 3 weeks of in-home sleep.
    
  