
    
      The impact of fever and its management in different medical and surgical populations of
      critically ill patients has not been explained to date. Clinical trials in critically ill
      surgical patients have demonstrated null or potentially harmful effects of treatment of
      moderate degrees of fever. However, the pathophysiological effects of fever treatment are not
      well defined according to different patient populations, and clinical trial results are
      questionably generalized to medical ICU patients. This may relate to different mechanisms of
      fever in these populations and merits further investigation. There is also very little known
      about the exact timing of expression of the diverse pro and anti-inflammatory mediators
      involved in inducing, maintaining and eventually abrogating the fever response. Treating on
      the sole basis of an elevated temperature may lead to detrimental effects if the
      anti-inflammatory cascade naturally regulating this response is active, demonstrating the
      importance of understanding the normal pattern of regulation of these diverse mediators. The
      current study aims to assess the safety and efficacy of treatment of critically ill patients
      with a permissive versus aggressive fever treatment strategy. In addition, the effect of
      anti-pyretic therapy on markers of inflammation in neurologically intact critically ill
      adults will be evaluated.

      The study population will be neurologically intact febrile adults (≥18 years) admitted to the
      Peter Lougheed Center (PLC) or Foothills Medical Center (FMC) ICU over a 12-month period in
      Calgary, Alberta, Canada. Consenting patients that fulfill enrolment criteria will be
      randomly allocated to either the permissive or aggressive treatment group (see Interventions
      section for details). Randomization will be concealed using the consecutively numbered sealed
      opaque envelope technique. Samples of blood will be collected from study patients at
      enrolment and subsequently at 12, 24 and 48 hours for assessment of inflammatory mediators.

      Markers of feasibility will include the rate of enrolment, adherence of patients to assigned
      treatment regimen/protocol violation, acceptance of the protocol by staff, and facility and
      maintenance of random allocation technique. Markers of safety will include potential adverse
      events such as 28-day survival, nosocomial infection rate, and evidence of myocardial
      ischemia, or hepatocellular inflammation during the febrile episode.
    
  