
    
      Weaning from mechanical ventilator is an essential element in the care of critically ill
      intubated patients receiving mechanical ventilation. It covers the entire process of
      liberating the patient from mechanical support and from endotracheal tube1. The process of
      weaning involves two-step strategies: 1. Assessment of readiness for weaning, including
      physiological measurement, such as maximum inspiratory pressure, tidal volume, respiratory
      rate and etc. 2. Spontaneous breathing trial. The incidence of successful weaning is
      estimated around 68.8%.

      Despite there is no consensus on the optimal timing of tracheostomy, patients with prolonged
      trans-laryngeal intubation are finally succumbed to tracheostomy, as prolonged
      trans-laryngeal intubation causes tissue trauma, promotes bacterial translocation and
      infection, making tracheostomy an increasingly common intervention in ICUs. Meanwhile,
      tracheostomy may reduce work of breathing by improving some aspects of pulmonary mechanics,
      such as reducing dead space and decreasing airway resistance, but to date, there is no
      evidence that this is linked to reduction in weaning time or length of stay.

      Ｗe believe such improvement in pulmonary mechanics, which may reflect in the weaning
      parameters that respiratory therapist measured before weaning program, may be different after
      tracheostomy creation, especially in those patient with weaning failure. Ｗe therefore
      hypothesized that there may be an improvement in pulmonary mechanic for patients with weaning
      failure after tracheostomy, and that this improvement may be able to predict the subsequent
      successful weaning from mechanical ventilator support. Hereby the investigators perform a
      prospective single-center study to investigate the changes of weaning parameters in weaning
      failure patients after tracheostomy as a predictor of successful weaning.
    
  