
    
      Background:

      * Cytomegalovirus (CMV) is a common virus which infects around half the UK population.
      Infection is usually mild, but after infection the virus is never completely eradicated, and
      may reactivate in ill health. Reactivation is most commonly seen in those with compromised
      immune systems, such as people with advanced HIV infection, or whilst on immunosuppression
      following organ transplantation. CMV reactivation in these patients can be life threatening.
      There is evidence to support the use of antiviral medication in these groups of
      immunosuppressed patients to prevent CMV reactivation, and their use is part of standard
      therapy. There is increasing evidence demonstrating that a third of critically ill patients
      will reactivate CMV, and these patients have as much as a doubled mortality.

      Aims:

      * This study is a proof of concept study designed to assess whether antiviral prophylaxis can
      effectively and safely suppress CMV reactivation in CMV seropositive high risk critically ill
      patients. Antiviral prophylaxis is currently not standard practice in critical care units,
      and no previous trials of prophylaxis have been undertaken in this setting. All commonly used
      antiviral agents have side effects, and it is important to demonstrate their efficacy and
      safety in the critical care setting before undertaking a large multicentre trial powered to
      identify mortality or morbidity differences with prophylaxis. Intravenous ganciclovir, and
      its oral prodrug valganciclovir have been effectively used as prophylaxis at low doses in
      immunosuppressed patients. Intravenous aciclovir and its oral prodrug valaciclovir in high
      dosage have also been demonstrated to be effective as prophylaxis in immunosuppressed
      patients. This study sets out to determine whether their use in critically ill patients are
      both effective and safe.

      Plan of Investigation:

      * This is a prospective, randomised, open-label single centre study. Patients admitted to the
      Queen Elizabeth Hospital Birmingham critical care unit, and identified by study criteria to
      be at high risk of CMV reactivation will be assessed for inclusion into the study. Blood will
      be analysed for CMV antibodies to establish eligibility. Recruited patients will be
      randomised to receive high dose aciclovir/valaciclovir, or low dose
      ganciclovir/valganciclovir for the duration of their critical care stay, for a maximum of 28
      days, or to enter the control group receiving standard care. CMV viral load by polymerase
      chain reaction (PCR) will be measured in blood, throat swab, urine, and sputum via
      non-directed bronchiolar lavage (NDBL) twice weekly.

      Potential Impact:

      * Latent CMV infection is common, affecting around half of all adults in the UK. Evidence
      demonstrates that a third of these patients will reactivate leading to CMV viraemia when
      critically ill. Epidemiological data from multiple independent groups have identified a
      doubling in mortality in this group, although a causal link between CMV reactivation and
      mortality without a trial of antiviral drugs can not be assumed. From these figures, it is
      estimated that 16.5% of critically ill patients (current mortality rates of around 40%) may
      benefit from antiviral prophylaxis. Almost no patients are receiving prophylaxis or screening
      for reactivation worldwide in this group. Demonstration of mortality or morbidity
      improvements could potentially change worldwide intensive care practice.
    
  