
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the dose limiting toxicities and maximum tolerated dose of photodynamic therapy
      (PDT) using 730 nm light and lutetium texaphyrin in patients with locally recurrent prostate
      adenocarcinoma who have failed previous definitive radiotherapy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Measure lutetium texaphyrin levels in needle biopsies of the prostate before and after PDT
      using an HPLC and tissue fluorescence assay and calculate the percent change in lutetium
      texaphyrin after treatment.

      II. Measure lutetium texaphyrin fluorescence in situ in the prostate before and after PDT
      using optical methods and correlate these results with the direct tissue measurements made in
      the biopsies of these patients.

      III. Determine clinical outcome including clinical response, progression free survival, time
      to complete response, time to biochemical relapse, time to local progression, time to distant
      failure, overall survival, and disease specific survival in these patients treated with this
      regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of lutetium texaphyrin and light fluence.

      Patients receive lutetium texaphyrin IV over 10-15 minutes 3-24 hours before photodynamic
      therapy (PDT). Optical fibers attached to a laser are inserted through a catheter into the
      prostate. The laser delivers 730 nm light to the prostate until the specified fluence is
      delivered. Patients undergo biopsy of the prostate and bladder before and after PDT. Cohorts
      of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of lutetium texaphyrin and light fluence until the
      maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at
      which 2 of 6 patients experience dose limiting toxicity.

      Patients are followed at 2 weeks, 1 month, 2 months, 3 months, then every 3 months until 2
      years, then every 6 months for 3 years, and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A minimum of 24 patients will be accrued for this study within 3 years.
    
  