
    
      Postpartum depression and anxiety are the two most common perinatal mental health disorders
      (mental health disorders occurring during pregnancy and the year after birth), with
      prevalence rates higher among women living in Qatar than in most western countries. The
      negative outcomes associated with postpartum depression and anxiety are profound, and include
      poor birth outcomes, poor parenting practices, and compromised infant and young child
      development. Although interventions exist to prevent postpartum depression and anxiety, to
      date there have been no studies that have attempted to prevent postpartum depression or
      anxiety among Arabic speaking women in the Middle East, including Qatar. This project brings
      together a multidisciplinary team of researchers and clinicians from Sidra Medicine (Qatar)
      and Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine (USA) to conduct a first-of-its-kind
      study that examines the feasibility, acceptability, and outcomes associated with an
      evidence-based postpartum depression intervention-Mothers and Babies (MB). MB has been widely
      used in the USA and has been linguistically translated into Arabic and successfully delivered
      to Arab-American women. In Phase One of this project, the investigators will culturally and
      contextually adapt Mothers and Babies to ensure its suitability for use with women residing
      in Qatar. In Phase Two, the investigators will conduct a small pilot study that examines the
      acceptability, appropriateness, and feasibility of the adapted Mothers and Babies
      intervention. Specifically, the investigators will deliver the adapted intervention to 10
      women receiving prenatal care at Sidra Medicine. In Phase Three, the investigators will
      conduct a randomized controlled trial (n = 160) to determine the effectiveness of the adapted
      Mothers and Babies intervention on depressive symptoms, anxiety symptoms, and perceived
      stress among women receiving prenatal care at Sidra Medicine. As part of the randomized
      controlled trial, the investigators will recruit a sub-group of 40 women with diabetes, given
      the high prevalence of diabetes among women in Qatar and the negative outcomes associated
      with diabetes on mother and child. The investigators will explore whether the
      cognitive-behavioral techniques in Mothers and Babies are effective not only in promoting
      better mental health outcomes among this subgroup, but also better diabetes self-management.
    
  