
    
      The MoveMama Project includes two protocols: (1) Dance and (2) Pilates. Each session for each
      modality will last 60 minutes, three times a week, for 16 weeks.

      In both groups, a chart of patient evolution will be developed during the protocol, which
      should be updated every week by the researchers responsible for the intervention. In order to
      control the intensity and safety of the practice of physical activity, since they are about
      patients who are in period of clinical adjuvant treatment. In this way, the blood pressure
      (BP), through a sphygmomanometer, and the investigation of the heart rate (HR) will be
      performed in every first class of the week at the beginning and end of the session.

      The Subjective Effort Perception Scale - Borg Scale 6-20 points (BORG, 2000) will also be
      used to evaluate the intensity and / or discomfort during physical activity practice in both
      protocols. This 6 to 20-point scale can be used efficiently because of its relationship to
      heart rate. It should be applied to describe resting sensations to situations of maximum
      physical effort, considering number six equivalent to 60 bpm (beats per minute), as well as
      number 20 to 200 bpm (Table 2) (FOSS et al., 2000).

      In both modalities of intervention, the evolution of the movements of upper limbs will always
      be respecting the limit of each patient.

      The dance protocol (1) will be performed through the belly dance method. This type of
      methodology was selected, because it is a practice that involves an intimate relationship
      between movement and emotion, awakens a spontaneous body language that privileges movements
      that respect the individuality of each practitioner, for the recovery of the feminine
      identity, and for be a practice that proposes intense movements of the upper limbs,
      benefiting patients directly.

      Classes will proceed in the following order: (a) Initial stretching: The sequence of
      movements lesson will span wide to specific joint movements, including flexion, extension,
      abduction, adduction and rotation, initiated by the upper body until reaching the lower
      limbs, with an expected duration of 10 minutes. (b) Main part: brief explanations about the
      purpose of the lesson, that is, the theory of dance or the specific step to be worked,
      followed by the practical part of teaching the technique. The purpose of this moment will be
      to develop in the students the movements of the belly dance technique, stimulating the motor
      coordination, the rhythm and the corporal consciousness, improving aspects of the flexibility
      and the range of movement of the upper limb. The practice of the movements will be explored
      in individual dynamics, in double or in group, involving the movement according to the rhythm
      of the music, or also, by rhythms stipulated by the students. This class session will last an
      average of 40 minutes. (c) Relaxation: Developed from slow-moving practices. With
      normalization of cardiac frequency, this part will last 10 minutes. Finally, at the end of
      each class, a brief discussion will be carried out on each student's perception of the
      contents given, and in relation to the objectives discussed at the beginning of the lesson,
      whether they were reached or not.

      The Pilates protocol (2) will proceed in the following order: (a) Initial stretching: The
      breathig, imprint & release, hip release, spinal rotation, cat stretch, hip rolls, scapula
      isolation, arm circles, head nods and elevation & depression of scapulae exercises will be
      performed during warm-up in all sessions, then in the 10th session Added theraband, tonning
      ball and ball, intensifying the exercises. Duration of 10 minutes. (b) Main part: brief
      explanations about the purpose of the lesson, the theory of Pilates, the basic principles of
      Joseph Pilates: breathing, centering, control, precision, fluency and concentration. Clarify
      the positions: positioning of the pelvis, positioning of the rib cage, stabilization and
      movement of the shoulder girdle and positioning of the head and cervical spine. This part
      will include the specific exercises in Pilates. The practice of the movements will be
      explored in individual dynamics. This class session will last an average of 40 minutes. (c)
      Relaxation: The relaxation will consist of the exercises: sitting on the ball, sitting on the
      spine stretch forward ball, sitting on the self-stretching ball of the cervical muscles
      (Upper Trapezius and Muscle Scalene muscles) and active mobilization of the cervical spine
      during the 48 sessions. Duration of 10 minutes.
    
  