
    
      Objective: Diabetic retinopathy (DR) is one of the leading causes of blindness in the United
      States. A frequent manifestation of diabetic retinopathy is diabetic macular edema (DME) for
      which the only proven treatment is laser photocoagulation. In the retina, microglia are
      capable of migrating through the retina to sites of inflammation to associate closely with
      neurons and the vasculature, and are key cellular players in the mediation of processes of
      chronic inflammation implicated in DME. For these reasons, microglia represent a promising
      cellular target for forms of therapy that limit the deleterious inflammatory changes found in
      DR. The objective of this study is to investigate the safety and efficacy of minocycline as a
      microglia inhibitor in patients with DME.

      Study Population: Eligibility criteria include previous treatment with standard-of-care focal
      laser photocoagulation, or macular edema not amenable to focal laser treatment; retinal
      thickness in the central subfield > 250 microns as measured by optical coherence tomography
      (OCT); and visual acuity between 20/32 and 20/200 in the study eye.

      Design: Five participants will be initially enrolled in this open-label pilot study. However,
      up to an additional three participants may be enrolled to account for participants who
      withdraw from the study prior to receipt of six months of study treatment. Participants will
      take an oral dose of 100 mg of minocycline twice daily for 24 months. During each visit,
      participants will have their visual acuity measured and will undergo OCT testing to measure
      retinal thickness. Beginning at the Month 6 visit, participants will be eligible for focal
      laser therapy unless they show marked improvement in retinal thickness and/or visual acuity
      or if they are not amenable to focal laser treatment. Participants who do not meet the
      criteria for improvement will also be eligible for anti-vascular endothelial growth factor
      (VEGF) treatments such as bevacizumab (Avastin®) or ranibizumab (Lucentis®). Additionally,
      beginning at the Month 4 visit, participants will be assessed for worsening disease defined
      as loss of ≥ 15 Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) letters of vision compared
      to baseline or a ≥ 50% increase in total retinal thickness as measured by OCT. Participants
      deemed to have worsening disease will also be eligible for focal laser and/or anti-VEGF
      treatments.

      Outcome Measures: The primary outcome is the change in best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) in
      the study eye at 6 months compared to baseline. Secondary outcomes include the change in
      retinal thickness as measured by OCT at 6, 12, 18 and 24 months compared to baseline, change
      in BCVA at 12, 18 and 24 months compared to baseline, as well as changes in fluid leakage in
      the macula as demonstrated by fluorescein angiography at 6, 12, 18 and 24 months compared to
      baseline. Safety outcomes include the number and severity of systemic and ocular toxicities,
      and adverse events.
    
  