
    
      Context: It is often challenging to help families of children with autism spectrum disorder
      (ASD) manage disruptive behaviors. Family navigation and interprofessional care are promising
      care strategies that could be applied to care for these children.

      Objectives: Investigators aim to demonstrate that for children with ASD and disruptive
      behavior a family navigation-based intervention (autism behavioral health navigation; ABHN)
      will be feasible and more acceptable to families than brief social work consultation. For
      persistent disruptive behavior despite the social work or ABHN intervention we will evaluate
      the feasibility and acceptability of adding consultation with an interprofessional team of
      ASD experts (Complex Autism Program; CAP).

      Study Design: Investigators will conduct a Sequential Multiple Assignment Randomized Trial
      (SMART) of social work consultation, ABHN, and ABHN+CAP.

      Setting/Participants:Participants will be children age 5-12 years, diagnosed with an ASD,
      receiving care for ASD at the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia (CHOP) in the Division of
      Developmental and Behavioral Pediatrics (DBP), Division of Neurology, or in the Department of
      Child and Adolescent Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences (DCAPBS), and exhibiting high levels
      of disruptive behaviors (defined as an elevated score on the Aberrant Behavior Checklist
      (ABC) Irritability subscale and an elevated score on the Clinical Global Impression -
      Severity (CGI-S)). A parent of the child involved in coordinating the child's care will also
      be a participant in the study.

      Study Interventions and Measures: Interventions include brief social work consultation, ABHN,
      and an interprofessional evaluation. The primary outcome measure will be the Aberrant
      Behavior Checklist (ABC) Irritability subscale. Secondary measures include the Clinical
      Global Impression - Severity and Clinical Global Impression - Improvement (CGI-S and CGI-I),
      parent ratings of child behavior, parenting stress, and measures of feasibility and
      acceptability.
    
  