
    
      1. Risk and burden for patients

           Patients in the first part of this study have cancer that is no longer responding to
           standard anticancer drug treatments.The phase 1 nature of this study means that the
           trial intervention may not have any additional benefit for patients who take part in the
           study.

           The study itself carries a number of potential burdens:

             -  Study drug and radiotherapy:

           Although the study drug safety effects have previously been assessed in NSCLC the side
           effects caused by the addition of radiotherapy is unconfirmed. These risks will be
           managed as much as possible by cautious dose escalation: as with all phase 1 studies,
           the data from each cohort will be reviewed by a safety review committee before deciding
           whether to increase the dose for subsequent cohorts.

           Participants will be reviewed regularly by experienced clinicians while having the study
           treatment. Comprehensive assessments for safety will be carried out.

             -  Burden of frequent hospital visits and tests:

           Participants in this study must attend hospital frequently, particularly at the start of
           the study, for safety reasons to check for any toxicity of the study treatment. Blood
           tests, clinical examination, urine tests, haematology, bio chemistry and lung function
           tests are part of the safety assessment. Additionally, for research purposes some
           participants may be asked to have additional blood taken, these will not be mandatory
           for entry into the study.

        2. Recruitment

      Participants will be offered information about this study by their clinical teams if they are
      considered to meet the entry criteria (with regard to advanced disease without therapeutic
      option, suitable performance status) and express interest in taking part in an experimental
      study. It will be made clear that the study is experimental in nature and that there will not
      necessarily be a therapeutic benefit from taking part in the study. It will also be made
      clear that, should patients decide not to take part their future care will not be affected.
      Patients will be given sufficient time and information to make an informed decision about
      entering the trial, all patients entering the trial will give written informed consent.

      4. Confidentiality

      Patients will be linked to a unique identifier the code for which will be held on a password
      protected database held only by the study team. This study will run at the Royal Marsden
      Hospital Only. Research blood and tumour data will be analysed by a team at the Institute of
      cancer Research. Sample processing will take place using the trial ID only. No other patient
      identifiable information will be available on study samples. Investigators will have access
      to patient identifiable information on password protected NHS hospital notes and databases
      only.

      5. Conflict of Interest

      Patients may be recruited to the study by those involved in their prior clinical care. The
      investigators do not expect conflict of interest between research and healthcare duties for a
      number of reasons: patients must give their full informed consent before entering the study,
      specifically regarding the unknown efficacy of the study drug. Those patients who do not
      continue in the study will maintain a relationship with the clinical team if required for
      symptom control. At the end of the study, patients will be able to access the results if they
      wish, through the Royal Marsden Website. They will also be sent a written summary of the
      results if they indicate this.

      6. Use of tissue samples in future research

      If participants give their consent, any leftover blood or tissue samples which are not
      required for this study will be stored for future unspecified research in line with the human
      tissue act regulations. Access and use of samples for research purposes will require
      appropriate ethical approval. Future researchers will not be able to identify individual
      patients from their biobank data, demographic and clinical information will be available.
    
  