
    
      Fluid administration is the mainstay treatment for suspected hypovolemia during surgery, but
      the effects of different crystalloid and colloid solutions on outcome remain poorly explored
      in surgical patients.

      Two recent international multicenter studies (6S and CHEST studies) have shown that, compared
      to crystalloid solutions, the use of hydroxyethyl starch (HES) could be responsible for
      higher morbidity, especially renal failure, and mortality in ICU patients, thus leading to a
      recent restriction of their range of indications.

      In contrast, in surgical patients, recent meta-analyses have concluded on the absence of
      difference in terms of mortality and postoperative renal failure between crystalloids and
      latest generation HES. Excessive fluid administration during surgery is associated with
      increased risk of postoperative morbidity, including renal dysfunction and mortality. It has
      been suggested that, compared with the volume-restoring effects of colloids, crystalloid use
      may require the administration of higher fluid volumes, which may contribute to poorer
      outcomes. In the surgical context, clinical trials and meta-analyses have shown that
      individualized goal-direct fluid administration can reduce postoperative morbidity. Although
      most GDT studies have used colloid solutions for fluid loading, the effects of the type of
      fluids are currently unknown and crystalloids are proposed for first-line therapy.

      Moreover conflicting results on hemostatic effects of HES have been reported. HES have been
      associated with increased bleeding volume and transfusion requirements, especially in the ICU
      setting in septic patients. Perioperative use of HES was not associated with such findings.
      Biological effects of HES on hemostasis has barely been investigated and only by diluting
      plasma of healthy donors with HES.

      The proposed Haemo multicenter study will be conducted to assess if the use of HES or
      crystalloid solutions during an individualized GDT contribute to biological hemostatic
      differences in patients at moderate-to-high risk of postoperative complications after
      abdominal surgery. As these fluids are widely used during surgery and because of current
      concerns about the risks related to the use of HES-based products in ICU patients, the trial
      will provide important data to clinicians involved in perioperative care and hemostasis.
    
  