
    
      The main disorders of upper limb related to postoperative breast cancer, as functional
      limitations and muscle weakness, have already been studied. Three-dimensional scapula
      movement can be altered after surgical treatment of this condition, but the studies are
      inconclusive on this topic. Objective: To identify the possible changes of three-dimensional
      scapula kinematics during arm elevation in women after breast cancer surgery and subjected to
      a physical therapy intervention. Also to evaluate pain, upper limb function and quality of
      life. Methods: Will be evaluated 25 women with a clinical diagnosis of breast cancer and 25
      healthy controls women with no history of musculoskeletal disorders of upper limbs and
      matched with age and body mass index. There will be two pre-surgical evaluations in the month
      prior to surgical treatment of breast cancer (with an interval of one week between then) and
      two post-surgical assessments: the first, after 4 weeks after surgery, when patients have
      received 8 sessions (twice a week) of physical therapy in upper limb (passive mobilization in
      glenohumeral joint and scapular, scar massage, lymphatic drainage, stretching exercises); the
      second, after 8 weeks after surgery, when patients completed 16 sessions (twice a week) of
      physical therapy for shoulder complex (strengthening and stretching exercises). In each
      evaluation, bilateral scapular kinematics will be analyzed by an electromagnetic tracking
      device during arm lifting movement in scapula plane, in breast cancer group. For control
      group, the assessed side will be correspondent to dominant or non-dominant operated side.
      Flexion, abduction, external and internal rotation of each arm will be assessed by a digital
      inclinometer. Muscle strength of abductors and external rotators will be evaluated by a hand
      held dynamometer. Pain will be assessed by visual analog scale (VAS) and upper limb function
      will be assessed by Disabilities of the Arm and Shoulder and Hand (DASH) questionnaire.
      Quality of life, through the Medical Outcomes Study 36 questionnaire -item Short Form Health
      Survey (SF36). Statistical analysis will include analysis of qualitative and quantitative
      variables. Statistical tests will be applied according to the normality of the data and it
      will adopt a 5% of significance level for variables comparisons along evaluations. Expected
      results and clinical implications of the study: To provide information of shoulder and
      scapular biomechanics in women after surgery for breast cancer.
    
  