
    
      -  The study population will include 30 males and females with persistent post-concussive
           symptoms continuing up to 7 days after TBI. Participants will be military service
           members or civilians presenting as outpatients for clinical management of TBI or
           post-concussive symptoms at the Center for Neuroscience and Regenerative Medicine
           (CNRM)-affiliated hospitals. These include the Walter Reed National Military Medical
           Center (WRNMMC), Suburban Hospital (SH), and Washington Hospital Center (WHC).

        -  Design: Participants will be referred to the NIH Clinical Center (CC) from participating
           hospitals or will be recruited by advertisements through CNRM Recruitment core to
           receive EPO or placebo. Telephone screening will be carried out to determine tentative
           eligibility. At the baseline visit, participants will be screened, consented and
           randomized 2:1 to receive either EPO or placebo with a dose of 40,000 IU EPO
           subcutaneously (s.c.) (n=20) once weekly for 4 weeks or placebo (n=10). Each participant
           will have 6 outpatient visits (visits 1-6) performed at the NIH CC. Placebo or active
           drug will be administered s.c. based on the randomization at visits 1-4; blood will be
           collected for EPC assays and safety laboratory measurements during each visit. Brain MRI
           and neuropsychological tests will be performed during visit 1 (before administering EPO
           or placebo), and visit 5 (one week after final drug administration) and visit 6 (6
           months after study enrollment).

        -  Outcome Measures:

        -  Primary outcome:

           (1). Effect of 4 weeks of EPO administration on numbers of circulating EPCs in patients
           with persistent symptoms during the subacute period after TBI (within subject
           comparison).

        -  Secondary outcomes:

           (2). Comparison of the change of numbers of circulating EPC's between EPO and placebo
           groups.

           (3). Effect of 4 weeks of EPO administration on MRI biomarkers of TBI recovery (such as
           CVR on hypercapnia and global and regional brain volumes by MRI).

           (4). Effect of 4 weeks of EPO administration on plasma biomarkers of angiogenesis and
           inflammation, such as stem cell factor (SCF), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF),
           stromal-derived factor (SDF-1α); and matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9).

           (5). Effect of 4 weeks of placebo administration on numbers of circulating EPCs in
           patients with persistent symptoms during the subacute period after TBI.

        -  Tertiary outcome:

           (6). Relationship between EPC levels at baseline and after 4 weeks and
           neuropsychological performance following TBI.
    
  