
    
      Nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) is endemic in our region and is the 9th most common cancer in
      Hong Kong. Traditionally diagnosis has been through a nasoendoscopic examination of the
      nasopharynx with white light followed by a biopsy of suspicious lesions for a confirmatory
      diagnosis. However, given the geometry of the anatomy of the nasopharynx, with its inherent
      crevices and varying amounts of lymphoid tissues, lesions are not always easily identified
      leading to potential missed lesions. The non-specific aspect of white light also leads to
      excessive biopsies that are not without risk and of some discomfort to patients. Recent
      advances in liquid biopsies have also allowed for the detection of earlier and smaller
      lesions that are not always easily identified on nasoendoscopy but rather are seen on
      Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI).

      An alternative imaging technique is the use of Narrow Band Imaging (NBI) to view the
      vasculature of the mucosa to identify suspicious lesions for pre-malignancy and malignancy
      that has been popularized in the gastrointestinal tract. In NPC, NBI with the flexible
      nasoendoscopes has been used in the diagnosis of NPC with varying success. Researchers at
      Chinese University of Hong Kong has found that in NPC NBI has limitations arising from a lack
      of consensus on vascular findings on NBI that constitute malignancy, lack of magnification
      and long focal length of current nasoendoscopes1. Flexible endoscopy using conventional
      esophago-gastroscopy endoscope (OGD) with NBI and magnification power up to 80x overcome the
      limitations of current nasoendoscopes. The passage of the endoscope through the mouth and
      retroflexion at oropharynx could visualize the nasopharynx clearly and detailed assessment is
      feasible.

      Here in this study the investigators will seek to use a trans-oral magnifying endoscopy with
      NBI and retroflexion into the nasopharynx to view the nasopharynx to evaluate the feasibility
      in the diagnosis of occult nasopharyngeal carcinoma.

      The aim of this study is to investigate the clinical usefulness of trans-oral magnifying
      endoscopy with NBI as a screening tool for patients at increased risk of nasopharyngeal
      carcinoma (NPC).

      The investigators hypothesize that with the use of magnifying NBI trans-oral endoscopy, the
      nasopharynx could improve the diagnostic yield of NPC in high risk patients with negative
      test on conventional investigations. As a result, such endoscopic screening tool could be
      used routinely to identify early NPC in patients deemed at risk.

      Study Design

      This study is a prospective single arm study designed to evaluate the diagnostic yield of
      trans-oral magnifying NBI endoscopic assessment of nasopharynx in patients who are deemed
      elevated risk of NPC but with negative traditional endoscopic and radiological screening.

      In a previous study conducted by the Department of Chemical Pathology and
      Otorhinolaryngology, screening of 20000 asymptomatic individuals was performed using plasma
      Epstein Barr Virus DNA analysis. The presence of plasma EBV DNA consisting of short DNA
      fragments released by NPC cells helped identify NPC patients. In the published results, 34
      NPC was identified in 300-screened positive individuals. In the rest of the cohort, NPC was
      not identified with initial nasoendoscopy and biopsy. A few more cancers was subsequently
      identified on Magnetic Resonance Imaging upon follow-up at 3 years and was confirmed with
      repeated endoscopic biopsies. In the current study the investigators would invite patients
      with persistently positive screening on plasma EBV-DNA analysis and no cancer found on usual
      diagnostic tests to undergo the novel screening endoscopy.

      Individuals would be screened for eligibility at the clinic follow-up at the Department of
      Otorhinolaryngology. Study consent would be taken if they agree to participate in the current
      study.

      Endoscopic procedures would be performed by endoscopists with expertise on performing
      magnifying NBI endoscopy at the Combined Endoscopy Center, Prince of Wales Hospital. It would
      be conducted at the Combined Endoscopy Center, Prince of Wales Hospital. Topical local
      anaesthetic will be applied to the oropharynx and nasopharynx. In addition, intravenous
      sedation by use of Midazolam and Fentanyl would be given. Endoscopes with magnification and
      NBI function would be used (GF-H290Z, Olympus Medical Corporations, Tokyo, Japan). A soft
      black hood would be attached to the tip of the endoscope for better focal length adjustment.

      Upon insertion through a mouthpiece, the scope will then be retroflexed into the nasopharynx
      and the lateral walls into the Fossa of Rosenmuller and the posterior nasopharyngeal wall
      will be systematically examined with white light and NBI. Target suspicious areas would be
      examined by use of magnification with the power up to 80X. Biopsy would be taken if
      suspicious lesion is identified during the procedure.

      In addition, non-contrast Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) of the nasopharynx would be
      performed if the participants have not received a similar scan in recent 6 months and have no
      contra-indications to MRI. The MRI finding would be correlated with the endoscopic and
      histological findings.
    
  