
    
      Severe aplastic anemia (SAA) is a life-threatening bone marrow failure disorder characterized
      by pancytopenia and a hypocellular bone marrow. Allogeneic bone marrow transplantation offers
      the opportunity for cure in younger patients, but most are not suitable candidates for
      transplantation due to advanced age or lack of a histocompatible donor. Comparable long-term
      survival in SAA is attainable with immunosuppressive treatment with horse anti-thymocyte
      globulin (h-ATG) and cyclosporine (CsA). However, of those patients treated with h-ATG/CsA,
      one quarter to one third will not respond, and 30-40% of responders relapse. The majority of
      the hematologic responses observed following initial h-ATG/CsA are partial, with only a few
      patients achieving normal blood counts. Furthermore, analysis of our own extensive clinical
      data suggests that poor blood count responses to a single course of ATG (non-robust
      responders), even when transfusion-independence is achieved, predicts a worse prognosis than
      when robust hematologic improvement is achieved (protocol 90-H-0146). The explanation for
      partial recovery and relapse are not fully understood, but incomplete elimination of
      auto-reactive T cells and insufficient stem cell reserve are both possible. Furthermore,
      10-15% of SAA patients treated with standard immunosuppression will develop an abnormal
      karyotype in follow-up, with monosomy 7 being most common, which portends progression to
      myelodysplasia and leukemia. In contrast, malignant clonal evolution is rare in complete
      responders to immunosuppression. Although horse ATG/CsA represented a major advance in the
      treatment of SAA, refractoriness, incomplete responses, relapse, and clonal evolution limit
      the success of this modality. Thus, newer regimens are needed to address these limitations,
      and provide a better alternative to stem cell transplantation.

      One approach to augment the quality of hematologic responses is to improve underlying stem
      cell function. Previous attempts to improve responses in SAA with hematopoietic cytokines
      including erythropoietin, G-CSF, and stem cell factor, have failed. Thrombopoietin (TPO) is
      the principal endogenous regulator of platelet production. In addition, TPO also has
      stimulatory effects on more primitive multilineage progenitors and stem cells in vitro and in
      animal models. Eltrombopag (Promacta ), an oral 2nd generation small molecule TPO-agonist, is
      currently approved for treatment of chronic immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP), chronic
      hepatitis C-associated thrombocytopenia, and severe aplastic anemia who have had an
      insufficient response to immunosuppressive therapy. Eltrombopag increases platelets in
      healthy subjects and in thrombocytopenic patients with chronic ITP and hepatitis C virus
      (HCV) infection. Our Branch recently completed a pilot study of eltrombopag in refractory
      SAA. We saw encouraging clinical results in a cohort of patients who have failed on average
      two prior immunosuppressive regimens (Olnes et al. ASH Annual Meeting Abstracts, San Diego,
      CA, 2011, oral presentation and N Engl J Med 2012;367:11-9.1). Of the twenty-five SAA
      patients treated with eltrombopag by mouth for three months, eleven (44%) patients met
      protocol criteria of clinically meaningful hematologic responses, without significant
      toxicity. Nine patients demonstrated an improvement in thrombocytopenia (>20k/ L increase or
      transfusion independence), hemoglobin improved in two patients (>1.5g/dL or achieved
      transfusion independence, and four patients had a significant response in their neutrophil
      count. When responders continued the drug beyond three months, the hematologic response to
      eltrombopag increased; a trilineage response was observed in four patients, and a bilineage
      response occurred in another four, with median follow-up of 13 months. These results suggest
      that stem cell depletion, a major component of the pathophysiology of SAA, might be directly
      addressed by eltrombopag administration. The aim of the current study would be to improve the
      hematologic response rate and its quality, as well as prevent late complications such as
      relapse and clonal progression, by addition of eltrombopag to standard immunosuppressive
      therapy.

      This trial will evaluate the safety and efficacy of combining eltrombopag with standard
      hATG/CSA as first line therapy in patients with SAA. The primary endpoint will be the rate of
      complete hematologic response at six months. Secondary endpoints are relapse, robust
      hematologic blood count recovery at 3, 6, and 12 months, survival, clonal evolution to
      myelodysplasia and leukemia, marrow stem cell content and hematological response of relapse
      patients that re-start treatment.
    
  