
    
      Background. Persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn (PPHN), is a syndrome
      characterized by difficulty to provide normal pulmonary vasodilatation at birth or after
      birth, which may be related with right ventricular dysfunction, congenital diaphragmatic
      hernia, sepsis, and meconium aspiration. This condition is understudied. PPHN causes
      pulmonary vascular resistance (PVR) that decreases left pulmonary artery flow (LPA), meaning
      that blood cannot be oxygenated in the lungs, leading to low oxygen delivery to all organs.
      Expensive medication along with ventilator support may help, but the latter and PPHN increase
      the production of the inflammatory mediators such as pro-inflammatory cytokines and markers
      of oxidative stress, which cause cell toxicity. When patients have PPHN secondary to a
      diaphragmatic hernia, they undergo corrective surgery, which further increases the production
      of inflammatory markers and worsens oxidative stress. As a result, the pain of the surgery
      also worsens the hypoxemia and respiratory insufficiency in the newborn. PPHN is associated
      with bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD), a chronic lung disease. To date, there is no effective
      treatment for neonates with PPHN, and around one-third of patients may not respond to current
      management, leading to death up to 33% of the infants in developed countries. In Mexico, the
      mortality rate from PPHN reaches 80%, which is an unacceptable outcome at a high cost.
      Therefore, the prevention or reduction of the severity of PPHN is actively sought.

      Previous reports have shown that the n-3 long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (LC-PUFA),
      such as docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) improves the nutritional status and clinical outcomes in
      septic newborn reduce systemic inflammation and organ dysfunction in newborns who underwent
      cardiovascular surgery with a shorter stay in the neonatal intensive care unit. In addition,
      those babies received lower amounts of analgesics. Other authors have shown that n-3 LC-PUFA
      reduces oxidative stress. In experimental models of PPHN, the EPA and DHA from Omegaven (fish
      oil) increased pulmonary artery flow and decrease the pulmonary vascular resistance. In the
      current project, it is hypothesized that n-3 LC-PUFA improves clinical outcomes such as
      decreasing pulmonary vascular resistance and markers of inflammation and oxidative stress but
      increases LPA flow in neonates with PPHN. This hypothesis has not been evaluated in PPHN.

      Objective. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effect of a parenteral emulsion
      containing n-3 LC-PUFA in fish oil on clinical outcomes, markers of inflammation and
      oxidative stress, and pain in neonates with PPHN compared with those who receive an emulsion
      containing soy and medium-chain triglycerides (MCT) without n-3 LC-PUFA.

      Methodology. A double-blind clinical trial will be carried out in Mexican newborns diagnosed
      with PPHN. Control group will receive intravenous nutrition support including a lipid
      emulsion based on soy oil plus MCT (control group) and the intervention group will receive a
      lipid emulsion based on soy oil, MCT, olive oil and fish oil (n-3 LC-PUFA group); both groups
      will receive a dose of lipid between 3-4 g/kg/d, through total parenteral nutrition (TPN) for
      at least 14 days and a maximum of 21 days.

      The effect of n-3 LC-PUFA will be evaluated on:

        1. Clinical outcomes, nutritional status, perception od pain

        2. Markers of inflammation

        3. Oxidative stress markers

      To compare the groups, the Exact Fisher´s, Student's t or U-Mann-Whitney tests will be
      applied as appropriate. To adjust the effect of n-3 LC-PUFA for confounders such as fatty
      acid background and medication, Repeated Measures ANOVA and binary logistic regression will
      be performed.
    
  