
    
      Breast cancer surgery is one of the most frightening health events a woman can experience.
      Not only is there fear of cancer and mortality, but also fear of disfigurement and disability
      arising from the surgery and from the subsequent chemotherapy and radiotherapy. The
      pre-operative period is a time of great anxiety and in the post-operative period this anxiety
      is compounded by pain and discomfort associated with the breast and axillary wounds. Lack of
      knowledge about follow-up treatment leads to fear and anxiety post-surgery. All women
      experience loss of mobility and function of the arm on the operative side for a period of
      time ranging from days to months to years. This arm morbidity interferes with participation
      in usual activities, is an additional source of stress compounding the psychological distress
      associated with the cancer itself, and has a negative impact on the quality of life.

      The post-operative period may not be the most opportune time to introduce interventions to
      accelerate recovery. Many women will be concerned about perturbing the healing process and
      may be depressed and anxious as they await extra treatment for the tumor. The pre-operative
      period may be a more emotionally salient time to intervene in the factors that contribute to
      recovery.

      The process of enhancing functional capacity of the individual to enable him or her to
      withstand stressors is termed "prehabilitation". This project deals with the effectiveness of
      prehabilitation with or without post-operative exercise to reduce arm morbidity and increase
      quality of life following breast cancer surgery.

      The overall aim is to explore the feasibility of a randomized trial to test the effectiveness
      of physical therapy, provided both pre- and post-surgery, on reducing arm morbidity and
      increasing health-related quality of life (HRQL) post-surgery. The specific objectives of
      this pilot project are to:

        1. estimate recruitment rates for such a trial;

        2. estimate compliance to the protocols;

        3. pilot the randomization procedures;

        4. identify sub-groups of the population with different needs for pre-and post-surgical
           physical therapy;

        5. estimate effect sizes to be used for sample size calculations for the main project and
           for budget justification.
    
  