
    
      The goal of this research study is to determine if it is possible to obtain personalized
      genetic information from a subject's tumor to see if physicians can use that information to
      make a treatment suggestion. The investigators hope to identify genes important to cancer
      cells that could potentially identify a more educated way to recommend therapy. It is not
      known if our suggestion for treatment based on genetic information will be the correct
      treatment choice.

      Subjects and their treating doctor will have a choice about what treatment they will receive
      and do not have to decide to be treated with the suggestion from this study. In some cases it
      will not be possible to make a suggestion. For example, a suggestion for treatment will not
      be possible if there are technical issues, if the gene sequencing process takes longer than
      planned, or if no genes are identified that could help identify a treatment suggestion.

      The investigators also plan to collect information about the treatment subjects receive and
      how their cancer responds to the treatment. This may help us to understand if our
      personalized suggestion improves the amount of time before their disease progresses.

      In addition, blood samples will be collected for research studies. These samples are being
      collected to learn more about breast cancer by studying cells, genes, and gene products
      including their patterns and changes in the blood and tissue to help to learn how cancer
      develops and responds to therapy.

      Any man or woman being seen at Johns Hopkins for treatment of metastatic triple negative (or
      behaving as triple negative) breast cancer may be eligible.

      Upon conclusion of the tissue studies and in order to gain experience with and assess the
      feasibility of receiving blood-based results using blood sampling kits, we will enroll an
      additional cohort of patients with recent Foundation Medicine testing for clinical purposes
      and collect blood samples only for research testing. The primary objectives and analysis for
      this new cohort will proceed similarly as the original tissue-based cohort.
    
  