
    
      Cardiovascular diseases (hypertension, coronary heart disease, stroke and cardiac
      insufficiency) are the leading cause of death worldwide. They are a major cause of concern in
      public health worldwide as well. Their incidence is increasing especially in emerging
      countries. It has been shown through epidemiological and experimental studies that these
      cardiovascular diseases are influenced by environmental factors which can act early during
      different periods of the development. Preterm birth is an emerging risk factor of
      cardiovascular diseases. Preterm birth rate varies accordingly to countries from 6 % to 14 %
      and accounts for 80% of low birth weight. These past thirty years have shown an improvement
      in the management and survival rate of these babies. The number of preterm infants reaching
      adulthood is thus increasing. Long term effects of preterm birth on cardiovascular diseases
      are little known.

      However, emerging evidence suggest that preterm birth affects certain functions and
      structure. A significant increase in blood pressure and alterations on the vascular,
      metabolic, and renal systems have been reported in healthy young adult born preterm. And
      abnormal heart shape with left ventricular hypertrophy have been demonstrated in these
      population (Oxford) The aims of this study are to evaluate the effects of preterm birth on
      heart functions and in a cohort of healthy young adults born preterm. Early alterations could
      be observed, before the onset of disease. This study will include 60 young adults aged from
      18 to 30 years, 30 of them born preterm (Preterm group) and 30 born at term with normal birth
      weight (Control group). The groups will be matched for age and gender and tobacco exposition.

      Young adults born preterm who will be included in the study were born and followed-up in the
      Neonatal Unit, APHM, in Marseille. Data from the Control adult born at term are well known
      and available (Marseille DOHaD Study, D.Barker (University of Southampton, England) and
      K.Thornburg (OHSU Portland, USA)).

      This study addresses the mechanism underlying the association between cardiovascular diseases
      and preterm birth, and aims to identify early predictive markers in order to guide long term
      follow-up of these young adults. The results of this study will help to develop specific and
      accurate diagnostic tools and to implement preventive nutritional or pharmacological
      strategies.
    
  