
    
      Science demonstrates that the foundation of a person's ability to be innovative, creative,
      analytical and intellectual is established in the brain during the first few years of life.
      The brain controls every aspect of human life, from breathing to learning, behaving, adapting
      and thinking. Because the brain controls all aspects of human life, impaired brain function
      compromises physical, mental, and emotional health and overall productivity in society. The
      parent-child or caregiver-child relationship is one of the most important experiences for
      brain development and cognitive outcomes in young children. This relationship is vital for
      optimal brain development because of the dependency of neuronal connections on stimulating
      human interaction. Parental response to their child's verbal or nonverbal cues, frequently
      called "serve and return", influences whether neural connections are strengthened or
      eliminated. An example of a positive serve and return scenario is a caregiver or parent's
      attentive response to a young child's cries through eye contact, acknowledging the child, and
      meeting the child's need. This type of positive interaction fosters neural connections that
      are important for communication and social skills.

      Many parents do not know or understand the impact their responses have on their child's brain
      development. While there are many parenting programs that teach parenting skills and
      behaviors, there were no evidences of any programs that were culturally and economically
      sensitive to vulnerable families and also educated parents on the brain science as well as
      equip parents with the skills to be responsive parents Brain Builders Parenting Class will
      work with both inner city and rural WIC clinics with representative populations of pregnant
      women and women with children under 1 years old, to provide parenting programs, led by WIC
      staff focused on brain development.

      The study will evaluate the effectiveness of the parenting program in increasing positive
      parent-child interactions and increasing cognitive achievement in the children. The main goal
      of this evaluation study is to increase parents' self-efficacy by increasing their knowledge
      of brain development, improve their skills through observational learning and behavioral
      capability, provide reinforcement for positive interactions with baby and child, and increase
      their social support through the group parenting classes and shared experiences. The
      evaluation study will have two rounds. The first round will take place at recruitment in the
      WIC Centers. The second round will take place around the time that the child is between 22
      and 26 months old. This visit will take place at the WIC clinic.
    
  