
    
      Cerebral palsy (CP) is the most common cause of childhood physical disability, affecting
      2.0-2.5 in 1000 children. CP represents a group of disorders of movement and posture with
      impairments (e.g., muscle weakness, decreased selective motor control, alterations in muscle
      tone, and impairment of postural control) that collectively affect functional mobility. About
      65% of children/youth with CP use minimal or no assistive devices (leg braces, walkers,
      and/or wheelchairs) to walk (i.e., Gross Motor Function Classification System (GMFCS) Levels
      I and II) while children in GMFCS Levels III - V require varying degrees of bracing, walkers
      and other walking devices, wheelchairs, or assistance from others for mobility.

      Robotic Assisted Gait training devices are increasingly used with children with CP to improve
      their gait related motor skills. The Lokomat® (LOK) is a commercially available robot
      assisted gait training system that uses robotics to simulate walking. It facilitates
      inter-limb co-ordination and gait cycle timing and provides variable degrees of body weight
      support and guidance.

      This study represents the first adequately powered RCT to evaluate the effectiveness of robot
      assisted gait training for children with CP. The qualitative aspect will give contextual
      information to assist with interpretation of the RCT and provide valuable information about
      families' experiences with the interventions.

      The research questions for this study are:

      i) What is the comparative effectiveness of robot assisted gait training (LOK) and fPT
      program for improving gait related motor skills of ambulatory children and youth with CP? ii)
      Does combining LOK and fPT result in greater improvements in gait related motor skills of
      ambulatory children and youth with CP than robot assisted gait training or fPT alone? iii)
      What are families' experiences with trial participation and what implications do they have
      for interpretation of the quantitative results and the use of robot assisted gait training
      and fPT in clinical settings?

      Methods This trial is a concurrent, mixed methods study. Specifically, the quantitative arm
      is a multi-centre RCT with four groups (22 factorial design, i.e., LOK absent/present, fPT
      absent/present) with two periods of post-intervention assessments (immediate and 3 months
      later). The RCT is linked with an interpretive descriptive qualitative study arm. The three
      study sites are Holland Bloorview (Toronto, Ontario, Canada), Glenrose Rehabilitation
      Hospital (Edmonton, Alberta, Canada) and Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago (Chicago, IL).

      Participants - Children aged 5-18 with CP, GMFCS levels II and III. Inclusion/Exclusion
      criteria included in protocol in documents section.

      Randomization - Following the baseline assessment, participants will be randomly allocated to
      one of the four groups using computer-generated random sequence.

      Blinding Physical therapist assessors and data analysts will be blinded to group allocation.

      TreatmentThere are three intervention groups: 1) LOK, 2) LOK + fPT, 3) fPT, and 4) one
      maintenance therapy control (CONT) arm. All three intervention groups will receive two
      50-minute sessions per week, conducted over 8 -10 weeks. Children in all four groups can
      continue to participate in 'maintenance therapy'. Each child will be assigned to a treatment
      team of two trained PTs who will share responsibility for the 8 to 10 week intervention
      phase.

      LOK - two 50-minute sessions on the Lokomat® per week. The study manualized LOK walking
      protocol provides methods for progressing/tracking including a 5-minute over ground walking
      session after the LOK to facilitate transfer of motor learning from the Lokomat to usual
      walking devices.

      fPT Participants will Two 50-minute sessions per week. The manualized motor-learning based
      protocol forms the basis for this intervention. Its focus is on balance and multi-plane
      gait-based motor skills.

      LOK + fPT group protocol: Participants will alternate between LOK and one fPT session per
      week for the duration of the 8 to 10 week intervention phase.

      Monitoring co-interventionsMaintenance therapies such as home stretching and strengthening
      routines can be continued for all 4 groups throughout the study because these therapies have
      questionable efficacy, and will likely be equally used across all four groups as they are
      common PT recommendations.

      Outcomes - All study outcomes will be measured pre-/post-intervention (< 10 days
      pre-intervention and post-completion), and at 3m follow-up (+/- 10 day window) by trained
      physical therapists. Data will be entered into REDCap.

      Primary Outcome - The primary outcome measure is the Gross Motor Function Measure-66 (GMFM-66
      Dimensions D (Stand) and E (Walk/Run/Jump).

      Secondary Outcomes - Secondary outcomes are measures of walking capacity(6 minute walk test)
      fitness (adapted shuttle run test), balance (Pediatric Berg Balance Scale, Quality Function
      Measure (FM), and Activities Balance Confidence Scale), functional abilities (PEDI-CAT),
      physical activity levels (accelerometry), participation (Participation and Environment
      Measure for Children and Youth), physical activity self-efficacy (Self-Efficacy for Physical
      Activity), individualized goal attainment (Canadian Occupational Performance Measure (COPM)
      and Goal Attainment Scaling), and quality of life (KidScreen and Students' Life Satisfaction
      Scale).

      Statistical Analysis - Data will be described (e.g., means, standard deviations, frequencies)
      for each intervention group and each stratification variable. Mixed-effects multiple linear
      regression models will be developed for each outcome with centre as a random effect, centre
      by intervention as an interaction (to assess centre effect), and other important variables
      (e.g., age and GMFCS level) as covariates. All main analyses will be based on intent-to-treat
      with secondary analyses of those with >80% adherence to their intervention.

      Qualitative Component

      The three objectives of the concurrent qualitative component are to explicate:

        1. Child and parent experiences with the trial interventions and the values and previous
           experiences that shape their perceptions.

        2. The mobility related outcomes that are important to families and factors that influence
           these views.

        3. Child and family values, experiences and contextual factors that influenced
           participation in the trial, including the follow-up period.

      Design Interpretive description

      Sample selection- The investigators will invite a subset of child-parent dyads from each of
      the active interventions in the RCT. In addition, parents of children who were eligible but
      declined to participate in the RCT will be invited to participate in the qualitative
      component to address objective #3. The estimated sample size is (i.e., 6 child/parent dyads
      plus 3 parents from each site).

      Data Collection - Parents will participate in 45-60 minute semi-structured, individual
      interviews conducted by one member of the research team. Participating parents of children in
      the RCT will be interviewed at 2 points within the trial: i) after completion of the COPM and
      prior to receiving the intervention, and ii) within one month of intervention completion.

      Children from the RCT will participate in individual interviews at the end of their LOK/fPT
      intervention. A customizable "tool box" of age-appropriate child-friendly techniques
      including photographs and comic captioning, vignettes, and sentence starters will be used in
      a 30-45 minute semi-structured interview with the child without the parent present.

      Data Management and Analysis Interviews will be digitally audio-recorded, transcribed
      verbatim by a professional transcriptionist, de-identified and imported into NVivo for data
      management. Two researchers will collaboratively identify general coding categories. The
      researchers will meet to establish consensus on the coding.
    
  