
    
      Congestive heart failure carries a significant epidemiologic and economic burden in today's
      healthcare system and is associated with increased morbidity and mortality in those affected.

      There are approximately 5 million people in the United States with heart failure, and of
      those, nearly half have heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF). HFpEF, also
      referred to as diastolic heart failure, is a clinical syndrome characterized by prolonged
      relaxation of the myocardium resulting in symptoms including dyspnea, edema, fatigue, and
      decreased exercise tolerance, which are clinically indistinguishable from the presentation of
      heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF). The underlying mechanisms in diastolic
      dysfunction are not clearly elucidated, making targeted therapy a challenge. There are
      currently no FDA approved treatments for this syndrome, and multiple clinical trials have
      demonstrated that standard treatments for systolic heart failure are ineffective in treating
      diastolic dysfunction. One of the proposed underlying mechanisms of diastolic dysfunction is
      via the reduction of nitric oxide (NO), an endothelium-derived vasodilator that regulates
      blood pressure and regional blood flow. In 2010, Silberman et al. examined the effect of
      cardiac oxidation on nitric oxide and found that depletion of tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4), an
      essential cofactor in the production of nitric oxide, causes uncoupling of nitric oxide
      synthase, impaired relaxation of cardiac myocytes, and leads to subsequent diastolic
      dysfunction. The authors further went on to demonstrate that treatment with BH4 can improve
      diastolic dysfunction in a hypertensive mouse model as well as in isolated cardiac myocytes
      and may play a role in the treatment of HFpEF.

      To the investigators' knowledge, the role of BH4 in treating diastolic dysfunction in human
      subjects has not been studied.
    
  