
    
      Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most frequently encountered cardiac arrhythmia. Emerging data
      suggests that common genetic variants are associated with the development of AF. The main
      feature of the structural remodelling in AF is atrial fibrosis and is considered the
      substrate for AF perpetuation. Genome-wide association studies suggest that AF-susceptibility
      variants may modulate atrial fibrosis. However, the association between atrial fibrosis and
      genetic polymorphisms in humans has not yet been specifically investigated. In this study, we
      plan to investigate the relationship between genetic polymorphisms, atrial fibrosis and other
      components of thrombogenic substrate in patients with non-valvular AF. Primary objectives of
      this study are to assess associations between (i) polymorphic genetic variants and atrial
      fibrosis (detected by magnetic resonance imaging), (ii) polymorphic genetic variants and
      components of thrombogenic substrate (inflammation, endothelial function, prothrombotic
      state, atrial functions). Patients are planned to be recruited from four major cardiology
      departments: Memorial Ankara Hospital, Ministry of Health Subspecialty Training Hospital of
      Turkey, Ufuk University and Gazi University hospitals. Key variables that will be recorded
      include the clinical, contrast-enhanced MRI, biomarkers, echocardiographic and assessment of
      endothelial function. All statistical analyses will be conducted using Stata version 11.0
      (StataCorp, College Station, TX). Univariate and multivariate regression models will be used
      to determine the odds ratio of each variable to assess the association of the clinical and
      laboratory parameters, and genotype profiles with the presence of LA fibrosis. Furthermore,
      data mining methods like support vector machines and/or random forests are planned to be used
      for detecting the impact of each potential predictor on the risk of LA fibrosis.
      Additionally, to determine the effect of different alleles of the identified risk SNPs, 2-way
      and 3-way multi dimensionality reduction (MDR) analysis will be performed. Bioinformatics
      investigations to determine SNP-SNP, SNP-gene and SNP-Phenotype interactions will be
      performed by combined p-value and biological network analysis.
    
  