
    
      Introduction

      Background

      Current medical students prefer innovative and interactive education styles such as
      gamification. Gamification concerns the act of applying game mechanics to a non-gaming
      environment, e.g. by putting themes of a clinical situation in the frames of a game. This
      concept is being increasingly frequently used in the education of healthcare professionals,
      and studies have shown that it appears to be effective to reach the learning outcome. In the
      study "Priming healthcare students on the importance of non-technical skills in healthcare:
      How to set up a medical escape room game experience" by Rosenkrantz et al. 2019, a medical
      escape room was designed to raise awareness about non-technical skills (NTS) among healthcare
      professionals. The escape room was named Medical Escape Room Gaming Experience (MERGE). As
      with other common escape rooms, MERGE was designed as a game like exercise with puzzles,
      which in this room were medical-themed. However, the primary focus is not the medical
      technical skills, and thus the puzzles are mainly logic-based with a medical twist. This is
      to keep focus on developing NTS.

      Game-like exercises, like MERGE, tend to have a complexity that allows addressing many
      different learning goals, depending onto what the attention is guided by the educator. In the
      researchers' experience, often a broad learning goal is initiated by a rather general
      instruction to pay attention e.g. to the "non-technical skills" or to "communication". This
      enables many possible discussions, also taking the interest of participants into account. The
      downside can be that the discussion might be superficial and erratic, as conflicting
      interests in the group might lead to frequent changes in topics. Another approach is to
      specify some narrow learning objectives in more detail, e.g. "identify the different sources
      of information", directing the discussion on very specific aspects of the scenario. This
      entails that potentially a lot of interesting elements remain uncovered, and that
      participants might not get the chance to discuss what they think is most important for them.
      On the other hand, the discussion of the learning objectives can reach deeper reflection
      levels, as fewer topics need to be covered and as less time is used to coordinate what should
      be discussed.

      Rosenkrantz et al. and several others have proposed that the participants of an escape rooms
      experiences may achieve a greater learning outcome if they are debriefed by a trained
      professional after participating in the escape room. The trained debriefer can also be a peer
      to the learners. Peer-to-peer feedback is suggested to have a positive effect on learning
      outcome. Debriefing can be defined as the act of reviewing critical actions that unfolded
      during the course of a simulation scenario, and in its form, it is conversational,
      bidirectional, interactive, and reflective. Debriefing is known to enhance the learning
      outcome by allowing for reflection on educational experiences. Several experiments with
      debriefing after medical escape rooms have been carried out in the last few years. However,
      only the studies by Friedrich et al. and the two studies by Zhang et al. had the aspect of
      debriefing as a point of focus. In these three studies, the participants answered different
      questionnaires, where some of the questions regarded the debriefing. All three studies
      concluded that the participants appreciated the post-escape room debriefing. In addition, the
      studies by Zhang et al. concluded that the participants would have preferred a more
      structured debriefing session to help them analyse aspects of communication and
      problem-solving. All of the aforementioned studies with post-escape room debriefing had broad
      learning objectives primarily concerning communication. No studies concerning medical escape
      rooms have evaluated the use of narrow learning objectives in a medical escape room.

      Aims

      With this research project, the researchers aim to explore the participants' experiences and
      perceived learning outcome of narrow learning objectives in a medical escape room experience.
      The learning experience will be structured with a short lecture, focussed instructions, the
      MERGE scenario and a structured debriefing. The aim is that the study will create the
      foundation for general principles for the conduct of medical escape room experiences.

      Method

      This is an explorative qualitative intervention study. A qualitative, summarising approach is
      used to analyse responses to the intervention. We will achieve this by exploring
      participants' experiences shortly after they have undergone a structured post-escape room
      debriefing. The aforementioned escape room, MERGE, will be conducted with teams of medical
      students. The participants will before the escape room attend a brief lecture and afterwards
      be debriefed by a medical student with experience in peer-to-peer debriefing and thereafter
      interviewed about the experience and their learning outcome.

      Design

      Before the escape room begins, the participants will participate in a brief video recorded
      lecture by a medical student concerning the learning objectives. Afterwards, the facilitator
      will brief the participants about the voluntary nature of their participation in the study,
      and the learning objectives of the escape room. These measures are thought to establish a
      common ground for the discussion in the debriefing. When the participants have finished the
      escape room by completing all the riddles, they will be taken to an adjacent room. Here, an
      educator, a person other than the facilitator, will debrief them. The debriefing will follow
      a manual, but the educator will have observed the participants through the see-through mirror
      in order to guide the group in their individual debriefing. Afterwards, the educator will
      leave, and an interviewer will join the group and ask them a series of standardised questions
      regarding the escape room gaming experience and the following debriefing. Lastly, the
      participants will answer a questionnaire regarding, age, gender, and their experience related
      to simulation, debriefing, etc. As all the participants will be Danish speaking, the language
      for both the escape room, the debriefing, the interview and the questionnaire will be in
      Danish.

      Participants and sample size

      The participants of this study will be medical students who have completed the fourth year of
      their studies at the University of Copenhagen in Denmark (UCPH). At this point in their
      studies, they have completed four months of internship, experiencing the clinical practice of
      young doctors. As a group, they have little experience with simulation, but everyone will
      have tried it a few times. The recruitment of the participants will be executed by posting a
      notice on a social media platform, including the vast majority of medical students at UCPH.
      The participants are to apply as premade groups of four to five people, and the applicants
      will be chosen based on the order in which they apply.

      The goal is to conduct eight to ten sessions of the escape room with groups of four to five
      participants each, and participants will only be allowed to participate once. The study group
      estimates that this is the number of simulations required to receive sufficient qualitative
      data. The researchers will check for data saturation during the analysis, which they expect
      will be reached after about six sessions. In case saturation is not reached after all ten
      sessions, further sessions will be conducted until saturation is reached.

      The Intervention

      The intervention in this study is a structured experiential learning session including a
      short video lecture, focussed instructions, the MERGE scenario, and a structured standardized
      four-layered post session debriefing with narrow learning objectives. The video lecture will
      concern the learning objectives and will be developed within the research team and recorded
      with a medical student delivering it. Also the focussed instructions will be developed within
      the research team and delivered by the facilitator, who also conducts the MERGE session. The
      debriefing of the participants will be a semi-structured conversation lead by an educator.
      The educator will be a medical student practical experience in peer-to-peer debriefing of
      medical students after medical simulations. The debriefing will have a narrow focus, revolved
      around two learning objectives. Rosenkrantz et al. 2019 suggested that the NTS concerning
      information gathering and exchange are the most viable of being focus points in the MERGE.
      Therefore, the learning objectives of focus in the debriefing will be: "Recognising the
      different ways of exchanging information" and "Discussing the impact of exchanging
      information on problem-solving". These learning objectives are designed to explore the
      exchange of information on several of Bloom's taxonomical levels. The first learning
      objective concerns knowledge and comprehension, and the second concerns application and
      analysis. The educator will guide the conversation using the manual shown below. The manual
      follows the common four-phase debriefing model inspired by Steinwach 1992 and PEARLS. First,
      the educator sets the scene by explaining the course of the debriefing. The debriefing then
      starts with a reaction phase, where the participants are encouraged to express their feelings
      and ask any technical questions they may have regarding the escape room. This is followed by
      a focused description phase, where the participants discuss the first learning objective by
      describing the different ways they exchanged information during the escape room. Hereafter
      comes the analysis phase, during which the second learning objective concerning the impact of
      exchanging information is explored and discussed. Lastly, the debriefing is rounded off in
      the application phase, where the participants transfer the events of the simulation to
      clinical practice and sum up the key learning points. As the debriefing is a semi-structured
      conversation, the manual is not expected to be followed meticulously regarding the order of
      the points. However, all the points must be covered, and the overall structure with the four
      phases should be maintained in all concerns. The debriefing will be video and audio recorded
      as material for the following analysis.

      The manuscript for the educator

      0. Setting the scene (2 min)

      • "In this debriefing, we are going to reflect on your experiences. It will take about 45
      minutes. We will first discuss shortly, what happened in the escape room. Then we are all
      going to reflect on how you shared information. Lastly, we will look at what you can take
      with you."

        1. Reaction (8 min)

             -  "How are each of you feeling right now?"

             -  "Are you sitting with any technical questions about the riddles or the escape room
                in general at this moment?"

             -  "Now then, having answered your questions, I am going to continue with the
                debriefing."

        2. Description (10 min)

             -  "We are - in this debriefing - especially interested in how you shared information
                with each other. We could discuss many things, but we would like to focus on this
                aspect."

             -  "I want each of you to answer the question: 'What were the different ways you used
                to exchange information?' I want you to describe how you did it in as much detail
                as possible." Start with one and then ask the others for additions. Consider taking
                notes that all can see.

             -  If you noticed any additional examples of information exchange, lead their
                attention to it and make them describe it by saying something like: "I also noticed
                a point where … can you elaborate what happened there?"

        3. Analysis (15 min)

             -  "What went well in today's game in regards to the exchange of information, and how
                did it affect your performance in the escape room?"

             -  "How and why would the progression have been different if you had not been allowed
                to talk to each other?"

             -  "Were there phases of the escape room, where the exchange of information was more
                or less important? Please elaborate."

             -  "Did you experience any situations where you found it difficult to exchange
                information with a member of your team? When and why?"

             -  "How could you have optimised your exchange of information?"

        4. Application (10 min)

             -  "How can the things you learned today be applied in your clinical practice?"

             -  "Lastly, I want each of you to mention the most important thing that you learned
                from today's events."

      Assessment of the intervention: Structured interviews

      The interview of the participants will be a fully structured group interview concerning the
      participants' perceived value of medical escape rooms and the following debriefing, and their
      opinions about the narrow learning objectives. The interview will follow the questions shown
      below. The interview will be video and audio recorded as material for the following analysis.

      Questions

      The escape room

      • "How was your experience with the escape room? Is there anything you want to emphasise?"

      The debriefing

        -  "What do you think about the debriefing?"

        -  "What are the pros and cons of a structured debriefing like you had versus a different
           format, e.g. an unstructured conversation?"

        -  "Would you have preferred that the format had been less structured? Why/ why not?"

        -  "How do you feel about the very narrow focus of the debriefing, i.e. the exchange of
           information?"

        -  "Were there any topics that you wanted to discuss, but couldn't due to the narrow
           learning objective?"

        -  "Would you rather have had more time to discuss certain aspects?

        -  After your considerations in this interview, I ask again: what do you think about the
           debriefing?

      The learning outcome

        -  "When during the escape room and/or debriefing do you feel that you learned something
           concerning exchange of information?"

        -  "Did you learn anything besides exchange of information? What and when?"

        -  "Do you experience that the debriefing has affected your learning outcome today? How and
           why?"

      Analysis of debriefings and interviews

      The debriefings and interviews will provide data for analysis in the form of video and audio
      recordings. These data will be analysed using systematic text condensation. First, the
      recordings of the debriefings and interviews from the first weekend of escape rooms will be
      transcribed. These transcripts will then be coded in a condensating fashion and any relevant
      key points will be identified. Afterwards, the researchers will watch the recordings from the
      second weekend of escape rooms, focusing on whether they provide any new inputs or whether
      saturation has been achieved. Any of these will then be transcribed and coded as well, should
      they provide new inputs. The codes will be grouped in order to create categories, which will
      then be labelled by their common denominator. The categories and their connections will be
      described and discussed. Based on this discussion, the researchers will conclude how
      participants experience the learning setting and what kind of learning outcome they perceive.
      Based on the analysis of the participants' experiences, general principles for the conduct of
      medical escape room experiences will be derived.
    
  