
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To estimate the progression-free survival (PFS) of patients with advanced non-small cell
           lung cancer who are never or light smokers treated with carboplatin, pemetrexed
           disodium, and bevacizumab followed by pemetrexed disodium and bevacizumab maintenance
           therapy.

      Secondary

        -  To estimate the overall survival (OS) of patients treated with this regimen.

        -  To estimate the toxicity of treatment using the NCI CTCAE version 3.0.

        -  To conduct an exploratory analysis of molecular markers, e.g., Kirsten rat sarcoma
           (KRAS) and epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutations, in patients with a never
           or light smoking history and to analyze any potential association with response, PFS,
           and OS.

        -  To assess response to second-line erlotinib hydrochloride therapy according to RECIST
           criteria.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

        -  First-line therapy: Patients receive pemetrexed disodium IV over 10 minutes, carboplatin
           IV over 30 minutes, and bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats
           every 21 days for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
           toxicity. Patients who achieve partial or complete response or have stable disease
           progress to maintenance therapy.

        -  Maintenance therapy: Patients receive pemetrexed disodium IV over 10 minutes and
           bevacizumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days in the absence
           of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients who experience disease progression or unacceptable toxicity may receive second-line
      therapy with erlotinib hydrochloride as part of standard-of-care treatment.

      Tissue samples are collected at baseline for laboratory biomarker analysis.

      After completion of maintenance therapy, patients are followed every 4 weeks for 2 months.
    
  