
    
      Background:

        -  Human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2, also known as c-erbB2 or neu) is a
           proto-oncogene that encodes a 185-kd transmembrane tyrosine kinase receptor that
           participates in receptor-receptor interactions that regulate cell growth,
           differentiation and proliferation. Its over-expression contributes to neoplastic
           transformation.

        -  HER2 is over-expressed in up to 25-30% of node-positive or node-negative primary breast
           cancers and is associated with clinically aggressive breast cancer, a high recurrence
           rate and reduced survival.

        -  Trastuzumab (Herceptin (Registered trademark)) is a recombinant humanized mouse
           monoclonal antibody (MAb) that binds to the extracellular (EC) domain of the HER2
           receptor. Its clinical efficacy is limited to patients with 3+ HER2 tumor expression
           documented by immunohistochemistry (IHC) or a Vysis fluorescent in situ hybridization
           (FISH) ratio of greater than 2.2. IHC is a subjective measurement of HER2/neu protein
           while FISH is an objective measurement of amplification of the HER2 oncogene.

        -  Although the use of trastuzumab has been associated with improved clinical outcomes, a
           significant number of patients are unresponsive to therapy and most eventually
           experience clinical progression. At present no vaccine is available that induces
           patients to make their own anti-HER2 antibodies.

        -  We propose to investigate the use of an adenoviral vector (Ad5f35) expressing human
           HER2ECTM (Ad5f35HER2ECTM- AdHER2) to transduce autologous dendritic cells for
           therapeutic vaccination in patients with HER2 expressing solid tumors.

      Objectives:

      -To determine the safety and toxicity of autologous AdHER2 dendritic cell vaccination.

      Specifically, to determine if the fraction of patients with cancer therapeutics-related
      cardiac dysfunction (CTRCD), defined as a decrease in LVEF >=10 percentage points, to a value
      LVEF to less than or equal to 53% (normal reference value for two-dimensional (2-D)
      echocardiography), is sufficiently low to warrant further development in subsequent trials.

      -To determine the immunogenicity of autologous AdHER2 dendritic cell vaccination as measured
      by a 3-fold increase in anti-HER2/neu antibody concentration or a 4-fold increase in antibody
      dilution titers over baseline.

      Study Design:

      Open label, non-randomized, two-part, phase I study of 48 weeks duration for evaluation of
      primary endpoints with extended follow-up out to 30 months to monitor LVEF cardiac function.

      Part I involves vaccine dose escalation in a population with no prior exposure to trastuzumab
      or other HER2-targeted therapies to determine if there is a significant, adverse safety
      signal regarding cardiac toxicity, in addition to preliminary assessment of the vaccine s
      immunogenicity and clinical activity. Five doses of 5, 10, 20 or 40 x 10(6) viable
      cells/AdHER2 DC vaccine will be given intradermally at Weeks 0, 4, 8, 16 and 24 in patients
      with metastatic solid tumors or high risk bladder cancer in the adjuvant setting Response
      will be evaluated by a Modified Immune- Related Response Criteria (irRC) based on Response
      Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors

      (RECIST 1.1) (modified irRC) at Weeks 8, 16, 24, 36 and 48 with confirmatory scans obtained
      not less than 4 weeks following initial documentation of objective response. Adjuvant bladder
      cancer patients will undergo re-staging at Weeks 8, 16, 24, 36 and 48 with confirmatory scans
      obtained not less than 4 weeks following initial documentation of objective response.

      Part II is identical to part I, in the schedule of treatment and response evaluation,but is
      conducted in a population with prior exposure to trastuzumab and other HER2-targeted
      therapies.

      Eligibility:

      Part I:

        -  Adults >= 18 with recurrent, metastatic solid tumors for whom trastuzumab is not
           clinically indicated in standard of care OR who are naive to HER2 targeted therapies:

        -  Patients with ovarian, cervical, colon, non-small cell lung, renal cell, bladder and
           prostate cancer, and malignant soft tissue and bone tumor or other solid tumors that is
           HER2 1+, 2+ or 3+ by IHC OR have a Vysis FISH result greater than or equal to 1.8.

             -  Patients with breast cancer that is HER2 1+ or 2+ by IHC or with a Vysis FISH
                result less than or equal to 1.8 - less than or equal to 2.2.

             -  Measurable disease, with the exception of metastatic bladder cancer patients that
                have completed first line chemotherapy and may not have measurable disease.

        -  Adults greater than or equal to 18 with HER2+ bladder cancer in the adjuvant setting

             -  Tumor stage T3a, T3b, T4a and T4b or any node positive disease.

             -  Tumors that are HER2 1+, 2+ or 3+ by IHC or have a Vysis FISH result greater than
                or equal to 1.8.

             -  greater than or equal to 6 weeks status post primary surgery with curative intent.

             -  ECOG 0-1.

             -  Naive to trastuzumab, pertuzumab, lapatnib, ado-trastuzumab emtansine (TDM1) or
                other HER2-directed therapies.

      Part II:

        -  Adults >= 18 with breast, gastric or gastroesophageal junction or other cancers with 1+
           to 3+ HER2/neu expression by IHC or a Vysis FISH result > 2.2.

        -  Recurrent metastatic disease, ECOG 0-1. Disease progression following HER2-targeted
           therapies. i.e. trastuzumab, pertuzumab, lapatinib, ado-trastuzumab emtamsine or other
           HER2 agents.

        -  Measurable disease.
    
  