
    
      This is an open-label, multicenter, international study to evaluate the contraceptive
      efficacy, safety, cycle control, compliance, and subject satisfaction of the transdermal
      patch compared with Mercilon. Fourteen hundred healthy women will receive study medication
      for either 6 or 13 cycles. The first 265 transdermal patch subjects and the first 200
      Mercilon subjects will be expected to complete 13 cycles of medication. All subsequent
      subjects will be expected to complete 6 cycles. The ratio of subjects assigned to the
      transdermal patch arm of the study and to the Mercilon arm will be 4:3. At admission (Visit
      1) study drug, diary cards and subject instructions for Cycle 1 and replacement patches for
      Cycles 1 to 6 are dispensed. The first patch will be applied and Mercilon pill will be taken
      on the first day of menses. Study medication and diary cards will be issued on day 28 of
      Cycles 1 (Visit 2) and 3 (Visit 3), and those continuing for 13 cycles will receive study
      drug again on day 28 of Cycles 6 (Visit 4) and 9 (Visit 5). Diary cards and empty medication
      packages will be collected at every visit. Final visits are on day 28 of Cycles 6 and 9.
      Diary card information was used to record compliance and bleeding information (to assess
      cycle control). Contraceptive efficacy was assessed by means of the Pearl Index and life
      table analysis (gross cumulative probability of pregnancy). Safety evaluations were based on
      adverse events, which were collected throughout the study, and changes in gynecologic
      examinations, vital signs, and laboratory results from prestudy to final visit. A transdermal
      patch, containing 6 mg NGM and 0.75 mg EE, delivering 250 ug NGM and 25 ug EE over 24 hours
      for 7 days, is worn for 1 week and replaced for 3 consecutive weeks.The fourth week is
      patch-free. A Mercilon pill is taken for 21 consecutive days followed by a 7-day pill-free
      week.
    
  