
    
      Literature Review:

      Demoralization in palliative care Palliative care patients (PCP) and their family caregivers
      are always confronted with death and dying issues. The nature of terminal illness may lead to
      their experience of demoralization. The importance of addressing the demoralization syndrome
      among PCP was first proposed by Clarke and Kissane (2002). A systematic review reported that
      the prevalence of demoralization is about 13% to 18% among palliative care patients
      (Robinson, Kissane, Brooker & Burney, 2016). Only one study examined the prevalence of
      demoralization among family caregivers of PCP and that aro10% of them suffered from moderate
      to severe demoralization (Hudson, Thomas, Trauer, Remedios, & Clarke, 2011).

      PCP and family caregivers may find it difficult to cope with the challenges associated with
      the terminal illness, and that they may experience a form of existential distress, which is
      characterized by a sense of meaninglessness, hopelessness and helplessness (Figueriredo,
      2013; Robinson, et al., 2016). Demoralization was considered as a key cause of developing
      suicidal ideations (Julião, Nunes & Barbosa, 2016).

      Conceptualization and definition of demoralization Kissane (2000) conceptualized
      demoralization as a syndrome with the following diagnostic criteria: 1. The experience of
      emotional distress such as hopelessness and having meaning and purpose in life lost; 2.
      Attitudes of helplessness, failure, pessimism, and lack of a worthwhile future; 3. Reduced
      coping to respond differently; 4. Social isolation and deficiencies in social support;
      5.Persistence if the above-mentioned phenomena across 2 or more weeks; and 6. Features of
      major depression have not superseded as the primary disorder (Robinson et al., 2016, p.96).
      Demoralization should be differentiated from depression, e.g. demoralized patients may still
      enjoy the present moment but feel despair towards future (Clarke & Kissane, 2002; Kissane &
      Doolittle, 2015). Demoralization may exist independently but can also co-exist with
      depression. Previous studies showed that 14-27.4% of patients were demoralized but not
      depressive, while 21.7-33% patients experienced both demoralization and depression (Fang et
      al., 2014).

      Factors associated with demoralization Previous studies showed that demoralization was
      associated with various socio-economic, physical and psychosocial factors. High
      demoralization was associated with reduced quality of life, emotional and existential
      distress (e.g. depression, anxiety and desire for hastened death, hopelessness, helplessness
      and loss of meaning) and declining physiological functions (e.g. pain, fatigue and sleep
      disorders) (Robinson, Kissane, Brooker & Burney, 2015; Tang, Wang & Chou, 2015). A strong
      relationship was also found between demoralization and social functioning (Kissane and
      Doolittle, 2015; Robinson et al., 2015; Tang et. al, 2015). Furthermore, demoralization was
      found associated with sociodemographic, spiritual and familial factors, such as unemployment,
      sex, family dysfunction, spiritual problem and dimensions to a person's life (Lee et al.,
      2011; Li et al, 2017; Kissane and Doolittle, 2015; Robinson et al., 2015).

      Demoralization has been studied in the western societies in the past decade but little has
      been known about demoralization prevalence among palliative care patients and family
      caregivers in Hong Kong. As demoralization is a newly introduced concept, there is limited
      understanding on its epidemiology and how it can be minimized among PC patients and
      caregivers. It is thus important to conduct a pilot study in Hong Kong to explore the
      prevalence of demoralization and factors associated with demoralization.

      Objectives:

        1. To explore the prevalence of demoralization among palliative care patients and their
           family caregiver in Hong Kong;

        2. To examine the relationships of demoralization with different psychosocial factors (e.g.
           depression, perceived family support, caregiving strain) among palliative care patients
           and family caregivers in Hong Kong;

        3. To understand how the illness experience may lead to demoralization among palliative
           care patients and their family caregivers in Hong Kong;

        4. To understand how palliative care may reduce demoralization among palliative care
           patients and their family caregivers in Hong Kong;

        5. To understand how palliative care patients and family caregivers care may cope with the
           illness to avoid demoralization

      Methods:

      This study targets to recruit 200 palliative care patients (PCP) and family caregivers who
      are newly referred to the Medical Social work department of Bradbury Hospice. This study will
      employ a mixed method design to achieve the study objectives.

      For quantitative arm, patients and caregivers will be asked to complete a survey
      respectively, which include different validated instruments. Assistance will be given for
      completing the survey if necessary. For patient questionnaire, we will include the Chinese
      version of Demoralization Scale (Hung et al., 2010), the 10-item version of Center for
      Epidemiological Studies Depression (CES-D), and the Family subscale of the Chinese version of
      Multidimensional Scale of Perceived Social Support. For the caregiver's questionnaire,
      similar to the patient questionnaire, we plan to include the Demoralization Scale and CES-D,
      but we also include the Chinese version of Modified Caregivers' Strain Index and the Carer
      Support Needs Assessment tool (CSNAT). A total of 200 patients and caregivers will be
      recruited. Data will be entered into SPSS for analysis.

      For qualitative arm, individual interviews will be conducted with PCP and caregivers by a
      trained research assistant. 6 PCP and 6 family caregivers will be purposively selected for
      interview based on their demoralization level which was reflected from their demoralization
      scores in the quantitative data. (i.e. 3 patients and 3 family caregivers from each of the
      following groups: Low demoralization and high demoralization group).

      Data Management and analysis:

      All data will be stored confidentially in order to protect participant's privacy.
      Quantitative data will be entered to SPSS for data analysis. Descriptive, bivariate
      correlations bivariate correlations and regression analysis will be conducted and missing
      data will be handled by mean substitution. For interviews data, all the audio-recorded
      interviews will be transcribed to text for data analysis. Thematic analysis will be conducted
      to identify the key themes.
    
  