
    
      The therapeutic properties of prostanoids appear to be primarily due to its vasodilative
      effect. However, the inhibition of platelet aggregation with a limitation of thrombus
      formation and the inhibition of the adhesion of leucocytes to endothelial lesions also help
      to improve blood flow in the peripheral circulation .

      It is currently unclear which effects of prostanoids are predominant for diabetic patients.
      The present study was performed to assess potential differences of iloprost efficiency for
      patients with or without type II diabetes mellitus with or without peripheral neuropathy.

      The study was a single center, controlled, non- randomized interventional study. All patients
      provided their written consent. The study has been approved by the Ethics Committee of the
      city of Vienna in 2012 (EC nr: 11-144-0512) and was extended annually for the last two years.
      Performance of the study complied with the World Medical Association Declaration of Helsinki
      regarding ethical conduct of research involving human subjects.

      The study was designed to enroll 100 consecutive patients with peripheral arterial occlusive
      disease undergoing surgical reconstruction of the inguinal arteries and/or femorodistal
      bypass surgery. Indication for surgery included PAOD Fontaine stage IIb (waking distance less
      than 200 meters), III (rest pain) or IV (tissue loss). Surgical procedures were planned and
      the absence of inflow stenoses verified based on MRI or CT angiography. Exclusion criteria
      for participation in the study comprised contraindications for the application of iloprost as
      well as a planned spinal anesthesia. Patients were divided into two groups based on being
      diabetic type II or non-diabetic. Before surgery measurement of nerve conduction velocity was
      performed by a trained nurse at the Department of Physiotherapy in order to determine the
      presence of neuropathy.

      Surgery was performed under general anesthesia via a longitudinal skin incision. After
      systemic administration of 5000 IU of unfractionated Heparin, the peripheral vessels were
      clamped. After longitudinal arteriotomy, thrombendarterectomy of the common femoral artery
      was performed in all cases, extending into the deep femoral artery and superficial femoral
      artery when necessary. In some cases, this was followed by femoropopliteal bypass surgery.
      Provided the systolic blood pressure was equal to or above 100 mmHg at the end of the
      reconstruction, 3000 ng of iloprost (Ilomedin), diluted in 15ml saline solution, were
      injected into the common femoral artery. Distal to the injection site doppler flow
      measurement was performed at the common femoral artery prior to arteriotomy, prior to the
      intraarterial application of iloprost, 5 and 10 minutes afterwards, using the Sono TT FlowLab
      instrument (em-Tec GmbH, Munich). Transmission heads were selected to fit tightly around the
      reconstructed vessel without producing a stenosis. During the procedure, systemic arterial
      blood pressure was continuously documented using a pressure transducer connected to an
      intraarterial cannula placed in the radial artery of the forearm. The result of the arterial
      reconstruction was routinely checked by intraoperative on- table angiography. Before
      discharge from the hospital the surgical reconstruction was controlled by duplex ultrasound
      as well as an assessment of the ankle brachial index.

      Statistical analysis was performed with SPSS 15.0 for Windows (SPSS Inc, Chicago, Ill). To
      correct all measurements of flow volume for blood pressure, peripheral resistance units (PRU)
      were calculated as a function of mean systemic arterial pressure (MAP) and flow volume (VF):
      PRU = MAP (mmHg) / VF (ml/min).

      The patient population was stratified by the presence of diabetes and by the presence of
      peripheral neuropathy in the operated limb. Kolmogorov-Smirnov testing confirmed normal
      distribution of all continuous variables. Descriptive statistics (mean, standard deviation,
      range) were applied to acquired data, and tests for dependent or independent variables were
      used for comparison of continuous variables, as applicable. Categorical variables were
      expressed as frequencies and percentages, and differences between groups were investigated by
      the Pearson Chi -square and Fisher exact tests. Patient characteristics potentially
      modulating the effect of iloprost were investigated by linear regression analysis. P values <
      0.05 were considered significant.
    
  