
    
      Introduction, background and justification for the study

      Patients are traditionally kept Nulla-Per-Os/Nil-By-Mouth (NPO/NBM) for 4-6 hours prior to
      cardiac procedures including: diagnostic coronary angiograms, right heart catheters,
      percutaneous coronary interventions and device therapies to minimize the risk of vomiting and
      pulmonary aspiration during sedation or general anesthesia. The risk of developing pulmonary
      aspiration is 0.0015 % following emergency coronary artery bypass (CABG) surgery in patients
      without pre-procedural fasting. There is currently no data available regarding the risk of
      aspiration during cardiac angiographic interventions, but the risk is likely lower than that
      of emergency CABG. Currently no North-American or European guidelines require patients to be
      fasted before cardiac procedures.

      The incidence of emergency CABG following cardiac catheterization is between 0.15 % to 0.4 %,
      whilst that of cardiac arrest is about 1%. In the subset of patients who develop cardiac
      arrest during elective cardiac catheterization or PCI, the incidence of pulmonary aspiration
      is low and similar between survivors and non-survivors (8.9% of patients who developed
      cardiac arrest).

      Unsurprisingly, patients admitted with acute MI undergoing Primary PCI (PPCI) are not fasted
      beforehand and the need for emergency intubation/CABG remains rare in these patients.

      A study has shown a rare occurrence of pulmonary aspiration in general anesthesia with a risk
      of 0.02% for elective and 0.1% for emergency procedures. In two randomized controlled trials,
      no case of pulmonary aspiration was reported despite the absence of pre-procedure fasting and
      use of Midazolam/Diazepam/etomidate.

      Similarly, in an observational study no patient developed pulmonary aspiration. A Cochrane
      review did not show an increased risk of pulmonary aspiration with shorter fluid fast. A
      review article did not report an increased risk of pulmonary aspiration in non-fasted
      patients in the emergency department. However, a prospective multicenter emergency-department
      study of 2623 patients revealed only one patient developed aspiration pneumonia following the
      use of sedation. There is current consensus in the anesthesia literature that it is safe for
      healthy individuals to drink clear fluids up to 2 hours before induction of general
      anesthesia. It is recommended that 2 hours fasting for clear fluids, 6 hours for solids and
      supports the concept of pre-operative oral nutrition using a special carbohydrate-rich
      beverage. On the other hand, coronary procedures require the use of intravenous contrast,
      which can precipitate acute renal impairment. It has been shown that proper hydration can
      reduce the risk of contrast-induced nephropathy. A review study suggests that the oral route
      is as effective as the intravenous route for volume expansion and reduction of
      contrast-induced acute kidney injury. A prospective study demonstrated that lack of fasting
      was not associated with a higher incidence of adverse events in children undergoing
      pre-procedural sedation in the emergency department. A recent clinical policy published by
      the American College of Emergency Physicians; has recommended (Level B), that procedural
      sedations in emergency departments should not be delayed based on fasting status.

      Similarly, a recent retrospective study of 1900 patients in UK, demonstrated that patients do
      not need to be NPO prior to Percutaneous Coronary Intervention (PCI). Another study has
      demonstrated that reduced gastric pH (<2.0) and increased gastric volumes predisposed to
      pulmonary aspiration. Invasive procedures such as angiography and angioplasty both are
      associated with a small risk of adverse events. One such adverse event is vasovagal reaction
      which occurs in 3-4% of patients and may be exacerbated by depletion of volume as seen in the
      fasted state .

      Current status at the University Health Network UHN policy requires patients to fast for both
      solids and liquids for a minimum of 4 hours before cardiac catheterization.

      The investigators explore a fasting protocol that is different from current UHN policy

      Introduction, background and justification for the study:

      UHN policy requires patients to fast for both solids and liquids for a minimum of 4 hours
      before cardiac catheterization.

      The investigators explore a fasting protocol that is different from current UHN policy and
      have involved staff from both the cardiothoracic surgery and anesthesiology teams, who will
      also act as a safety monitor and be part of the Data Safety Monitoring Board to ensure that
      participants are safe from harm or adverse effects.

      Currently there is no published data on the association between fasting state and
      peri-procedural vasovagal symptom reduction or procedural satisfaction.

      Hypothesis:

      A more liberal fasting protocol (fasting > 4 hours for solid, but encouraging oral clear
      fluids up to 1 hour prior to the procedure) is associated with a lower incidence of
      peri-procedural vasovagal complications than current standard fasting protocol (> 4 hours for
      both solids and fluids)

      Methods and experimental design:

      This is a prospective single-blind randomized pilot study. The Cardiac Interventionists
      involved in the procedure will be blinded to randomization. All patients undergoing cardiac
      invasive procedures will be screened for eligibility. The participants will be randomised to
      2 groups (eligibility criteria and outcome measures are mentioned in a different section).

      Study Groups Group 1 - Control Group: Participants will be fasted according to current
      standard practice at UHN (a minimum of 4 hours of fasting period for both liquids and solid
      food).

      Group 2 - Intervention group: Participants will be allowed (and encouraged) to drink clear
      fluids up to 1 hour before the procedure. Solid foods will be allowed up to 4 hours before
      the procedure which is current standard practice at UHN.

      Enrolment and randomization:

      Participants who qualify for the study will be approached in person prior to (if in-patient)
      or on the day of the procedure (if ambulatory) to obtain written informed consent prior to
      randomization.

      A verbal explanation and written information in the form of the patient information sheet
      will be given to participants. They will be approached by co-investigators who are not
      involved in their care and given at least 4-24 hours to consent for the study. They will have
      as much time as they need to consider the study. They will also have the opportunity to
      discuss it with their family, friends and family doctor.

      They will be given contact details of the on-site research team including the study doctors
      and nurses who will be able to answer any of their queries at any point during the study.
      They will be notified that they are not obliged to participate in the study and if they do
      decide to take part and change their mind at any point they can withdraw from the study
      unconditionally and their withdrawal will not affect their future care.

      Vulnerable groups will not be participating in this research hence no special measures will
      be taken for their recruitment. Participants will also be informed of any potential safety
      concern that may arise during the study and will be advised about further treatment options.
      Wherever possible the Hospitals translation service will be used to offer translation of the
      consent form to patients who do not have English as their first language. Other individuals,
      who require specialist communication such as the visually impaired or those who suffer from
      deafness will wherever possible, be accommodated with the hospitals on-site services.

      Throughout the study the participant's identity will be protected and will not be disclosed
      outside the Hospital in keeping with the University Hospital Network (UHN) Patient Health
      Information (PHI) policy. At the beginning of the study the investigators will receive an
      identification log to enable them to record patient study pseudonymised identification
      numbers. This record will remain at the central research offices at the participating centers
      and will act as a reference document for the PI. Data from the case report forms (CRFs) will
      be stored on an onsite computer. The hard copy CRFs will be kept in the research doctor's
      office -the persons able to access the case report forms will be the PI and the cardiology
      research doctors and nurses delegated for this study purpose.

      Follow up:

      Participants will be requested to return for one blood test between day 3 and day 5 post-
      procedure. To and from public transport cost will be provided to the patient and one
      accompanying person if needed. A telephonic follow up will also be undertaken at one week to
      ensure no adverse events have occurred.

      Baseline investigations/Information:

      At the time of the procedure , the investigators will obtain and record the following:

      Pre-procedural Information

        1. Pre-procedure investigations (Hemoglobin, Urea, Creatinine, eGFR)

        2. Patient demographics (Diabetes Mellitus {DM}, hypertension {HTN}, renal impairment,
           peripheral vascular disease {PVD})

        3. Index admission diagnosis (NSTEMI, Chronic stable angina)

        4. Weight, height and Body Mass Index (BMI)

        5. Medications on admission

      Procedural and post-procedural information will be recorded, including:

        1. Type of procedure

        2. Route (access site-femoral or radial) of procedure

        3. Intra-procedural details (sedation, analgesia, complications, devices-used)

        4. Procedural and post-procedural outcomes(Success, in-hospital complications, discharge
           time and date, complications including mortality and aspiration pneumonia)

        5. Patient satisfaction survey

        6. Post-procedural creatinine

        7. Post-procedural telephonic call one week from date of procedure Statistical analysis
           Demographic and procedural variables will be presented as percentage (categorical
           variable) or mean ± SD (continuous variable). Comparison of demographic and procedural
           variables between the two groups will be performed by chi-square or Fisher's exact test
           for categorical variables and student's t test for continuous variables. Statistical
           analysis will be performed using SPSS version 22. Randomization will be performed by
           systematic random sampling by utilizing an online computer generated random number
           assignment tool.

      Sample size calculation:

      Sample size was calculated based on proportion and effect size. A total sample size of 240
      patients (120 patients in each arm) would have an 80 % power to detect a 1.0% incidence of
      vasovagal reaction in the intervention arm (for an α of 0.05).

      Funding:

      This study is being funded by the UHN Innovation Committee. Once the outcomes of the pilot
      study are available and if safety endpoints are accomplished, , the investigators will
      consider conducting a similar multicentre study.

      Ethics:

      All aspects of Good Clinical Practice will be adhered to. Patient confidentiality will be
      maintained as per the data protection policy including anonymising data. Ethical approval has
      been obtained from the REB through routine channels (CAPCR).
    
  