
    
      High blood pressure, high cholesterol, and diabetes are all conditions that increase a
      person's risk of developing heart disease. Many people with these conditions are also
      overweight, and it is recommended that such people lose weight to reduce their risk of heart
      disease. Previous weight loss studies have mainly examined in-person weight loss programs and
      not Web- or e-mail-based weight loss programs. In addition, the primary care providers of
      participants in these previous studies typically had no direct involvement in the programs.
      This study will compare two weight loss programs-an In-Person Directed (IPD) program, which
      is primarily comprised of in-person visits with health counselors, and a Call-Center Directed
      (CCD) program, which uses only telephone, Web sites, and e-mail to contact and counsel
      participants. These two programs will also be compared against a self-directed weight loss
      program, which will act as a control group. The ultimate purpose of this study is to evaluate
      the effectiveness of the IPD, CCD, and self-directed programs at increasing weight loss and
      reducing risk factors in obese people at risk of developing heart disease.

      This study will enroll overweight adults who have high blood pressure, high cholesterol, or
      diabetes. Participants will attend a baseline study visit for weight and blood pressure
      measurements. They will then be randomly assigned to participate in one of the following
      three programs for 2 years.

        1. IPD Program: This program will be directed by health counselors from Johns Hopkins
           University. For Months 1 to 3, participants will attend a group or individual meeting
           with a counselor each week. For Months 4 to 6, meetings will be held three times a
           month; after Month 6, meetings will occur twice a month. Some of these meetings may be
           held over the phone or by e-mail. Participants will keep a food and exercise diary and
           they will enter their weight and calorie consumption on the study Web site. Study
           researchers will provide participants' doctors with relevant information on
           participants' weight loss.

        2. CCD Program: This program will be directed by counselors from Healthways, Inc., a
           company that assists individuals in managing their medical problems. All contacts will
           occur by phone, e-mail, or the Web; there will be no in-person visits. Participants will
           be able to review weight loss information on the study Web site. For Months 1 to 3,
           participants will contact their counselors each week. For Months 4 to 6, contact with
           study counselors will occur at least once a month; after Month 6, contact with study
           counselors will occur every other month. Participants will keep a food and exercise
           diary and they will enter their weight and calorie consumption on the study Web site.
           Study researchers will provide participants' doctors with relevant information on
           participants' weight loss.

        3. Self-Directed Program: In this program, study staff will meet with participants once at
           the beginning of the study, at which time participants will receive written information
           about losing weight. Participants will also receive access to a study Web site that has
           information about weight loss.

      All participants will attend study visits at Months 6, 12, and 24 and at the end of the
      study, which is anticipated to be in February 2011. Study researchers will also collect
      information by phone at Month 18. At each study visit, participants will complete
      questionnaires; provide blood samples; and undergo measurements of weight, waist, and blood
      pressure. A portion of blood may be stored for future studies; this will be optional.
    
  