
    
      Context - Review of Literature

      Depression and anxiety are common in older adults affecting 300,000-600,000 Canadian seniors
      annually1. About 30% of patients aged ≥60 suffering from these conditions have cognitive
      dysfunction across several domains 2,3, and an episode of depression or anxiety in this
      population increases the odds of developing dementia by two-fold4-6. Cognitive impairment and
      dementia are major causes of disability and dependency among older people worldwide. These
      conditions confer poor quality of life and place people in an extremely vulnerable
      condition7.

      Adequate treatment of a depressive/anxiety episode can improve short- and longer-term
      cognition in executive, language, memory, and processing speed domains8. Because depression
      and anxiety in late-life are reversible to a certain extent and they are important risk
      factors for subsequent cognitive decline; improving these conditions can ultimately improve
      quality of life, lengthen the independent living of vulnerable people, reduces stress and
      caregiver burden. Unfortunately, existing pharmacotherapy treatments for late-life depression
      and anxiety have limited effectiveness (50-60% of patients are treatment-resistant), are
      poorly tolerated, and access is difficult due to the absence of trained personnel.
      Additionally, there are long waiting lists (up to 12 months) in most Canadian provinces and
      interventions are administered one-on-one, which is costly for the health system9. Thus,
      there is an urgent need for novel treatments for late-life depression and anxiety that can
      also improve cognition and even potentially prevent dementia in the longer-term.

      Mindfulness-based cognitive therapy (MBCT) is a group intervention that teaches mindfulness
      meditation (non-judgemental awareness of the present moment)10. MBCT is scalable, accessible,
      cost efficient, and has been shown to decrease symptoms of depression, anxiety and other
      psychiatric disorders11. Additionally, MBCT is associated with improved quality of life 12,
      disability, caregiver burden and stress13. Studies conducted by our own group have found that
      mindfulness meditation is feasible and well-tolerated in older patients suffering from
      depression and anxiety14. While the neural mechanisms of MBCT are not fully understood,
      previous work in younger adults has shown that this intervention increases grey matter
      density in the brain's hippocampus, known to be involved in learning, memory and stress15.
      Moreover, long-term meditation practitioners displayed decreased age-related degeneration of
      the hippocampus16 These findings are relevant because decreased hippocampal volume17,18 and
      brain functional connectivity (default mode network)19 are commonly found in depressed
      patients. Additionally, these findings are also observed early in Alzheimer's disease and are
      associated with cognitive decline20.

      Study Purpose and Rationale

      Despite all this evidence, it remains unknown whether MBCT can strengthen brain networks,
      increase brain volume, and bolster cognition in depressed and anxious older adults. To our
      knowledge, previous mindfulness studies assessing cognition in older adults have not used
      MBCT nor have used neuroimaging techniques in depressed and anxious participants. Cognitive
      assessments in previous studies were not sensitive enough and did not use an appropriate
      active control group.

      Thus, to address these issues, Investigators will conduct a randomized controlled trial (RCT)
      in late-life depression and anxiety using a standardized MBCT intervention, an appropriate
      active control group, a more sensitive neurocognitive test battery and the use of
      neuroimaging methods. In this pilot neuroimaging study, Investigators wish to assess the
      effects of a standard Mindfulness-Based Cognitive Therapy (MBCT) compared to an active
      control, Health Enhancement Program (HEP), on a number of clinical and biologically relevant
      outcomes, with a focus on structural and functional integrity of the default-mode network.
    
  