
    
      Moringa Oleifera (M. Oleifera) is a tropical plant native to northern India, Pakistan,
      Himalayan regions, Africa, Central America, and Arabia that has been used for centuries in
      ethnic cultures all over the world. M. Oleifera is exceptionally rich in a variety of
      nutrients and medicinal phytochemicals, including those that promote bone density, such as
      vitamin D, calcium, phosphorus, magnesium and others. M. Oleifera also contains
      micronutrients that play a critical role in bone health and in calcium absorption, such as
      boron, vitamin C, magnesium, potassium, phosphorous and others. For instance, boron
      stabilizes and extends the half-life of vitamin D; magnesium (Mg) affects the activities of
      osteoblasts and osteoclasts, as well as bone homeostasis by modulating the concentration of
      parathormone and the activated form of vitamin D. Magnesium also contributes to bone
      structural development; vitamin K reduces bone turn over, improves bone strength and plays an
      essential role in osteocalcin carboxylation and vitamin C increases bone density and strength
      by increasing collagen formation and promotes healing during fracture. Collectively, these
      micronutrients in M. Oleifera are expected to significantly impact bone health. Given this
      knowledge, the purpose of the present study is to determine the effects of M. Oleifera on the
      structure and function of bone in post-menopausal women ingesting 1 gram of M. Oleifera daily
      for 12 weeks using DEXA scans.

      The fresh young leaves of Moringa oleifera (about 2 years old) were collected by Dr. Joshua
      Idassi, from a field and high tunnel plots at the North Carolina Agriculture and Technical
      State University farm in July, 2014. Botanical identification and authentication were
      performed by Dr. Joshua Idassi, Natural Resources Specialist, from the Cooperative Extension
      Program, North Carolina A & T. A voucher specimen (LUH 2923) was deposited in the herbarium
      of the University of Lagos, Akoka, Yaba, Lagos. Fresh leaves of M. Oleifera were air-dried
      for about 7 days at 30 ◦C and macerated into a fine powder.

      Twenty-four untrained post-menopausal women (60-70 years old) were randomly assigned to
      either the control or placebo group (no program) or the experimental /treatment group (M.
      Oleifera supplement group). Both groups orally ingested 1 gram (1000 mg) daily of cabbage
      (placebo) or M. Oleifera (treatment group) leaf powder in capsules for 12 weeks. The bone
      scans were then taken pre-supplementation and after 12 weeks to determine the effects of M.
      Oleifera on various bone parameters, including bone mass density, bone mineral content, and
      select anthropomorphic results including weight, body fat percentage, and lean mass
      percentage.

      The first visit to the laboratory by participants was utilized for providing them with
      general information and as a testing session. Specifically, the information session consisted
      of educating them on and obtaining signatures for informed consent, and conducting health
      history and physical activity questionnaire. The first testing session consisted of obtaining
      the pre-supplementation DEXA scans. The participants were then given six weeks' worth of
      their supplement. The subjects came back to the testing site again at six weeks (midway of
      supplementation) to pick up their supplement for the last six weeks and were then instructed
      on how to fill out a three-day diet log. The diet log was analyzed and averaged using the
      USDA Super Tracker online program. The third and last visit was 12 weeks after the start of
      supplementation and during this visit the second set of DEXA scans were obtained and the diet
      records were obtained. These records were used to determine the normal diet nutrients as well
      as caffeine intake of the participants.

      DEXA scanning allows for the measurement of whole body bone density, as well as the specific
      density of the hip and femoral head. The subjects were laid on the DEXA machine scanner
      motionless for 6-10 minutes while the scan was performed. The first scan measured total body
      bone density, as well as the basic body composition. The subject were then asked to lay
      motionless for another 6-10 minutes while another DEXA scan was completed, which measured the
      bone density and characteristics of the hip and femoral head.The BMD, t-score and z-scores of
      the whole body were recorded, as well as the BMD, t-score, and z-scores of the right and left
      total hip and femoral necks. These data points were used to determine whether there were any
      significant differences between the two groups after the intervention period.

      The supplementation of the M. Oleifera was began after the first visit which included the
      signing of the consent form, the performance of the pQCT and the DEXA scans. Once the
      subjects were scanned they (subjects) were randomly assigned to either the placebo or the M.
      Oleifera group. The M. Oleifera group was given the whole leaf M. Oleifera powder in capsule
      form at 1000mg daily for 12 weeks and similarly the control group was given the same amount
      of cabbage powder in capsule form and route. However, the placebo capsule consisting of
      cabbage had significantly lower levels of vitamins and nutrients compared to M. Oleifera. M.
      Oleifera was harvested and processed under optimal conditions and was carefully weighed on a
      scale and packed into capsules under sterile conditions. Each capsule for both groups
      contained 500 mg of the supplement, implying that each participant regardless of their weight
      took two capsules daily orally for 12 weeks. If they missed a day they were instructed not to
      double the dosage the next day. The placebo group was given the exact same instructions for
      consumption as the M. Oleifera group, and the study was conducted in a double blind manner.
      The dietary records were collected and analyzed to determine any significant differences
      between the two groups based on normal daily consumed nutrients.
    
  