
    
      Many stroke survivors experience impairment in upper limb function, reducing independence in
      activities of daily living. These impairments are associated with atypical brain activity
      patterns. Real-time neurofeedback aims to alter brain activation patterns through online
      feedback of ongoing brain activity using magnetic resonance imagining (MRI). Patterns of
      brain activity are displayed to a participant while a task is being performed. The
      participant is instructed to try to alter the patterns in a particular way, promoting
      specific brain activity patterns. Previous studies have found that people with and without
      stroke are capable of utilising the feedback to alter their brain activity. This study aims
      to investigate whether:

        1. stroke survivors can maintain alterations in brain activity after the feedback is
           removed

        2. neurofeedback training leads to improvements in movement of the hand and arm

        3. neurofeedback training leads to changes in brain structure and function

        4. variability in response across people can be understood.

      30 stroke survivors (> 6 months after stroke), with residual upper limb impairment, will be
      recruited between February 2018 and December 2020. Participants will be randomised to receive
      3 sessions of real or sham neurofeedback over one week, taking place at the Wellcome Centre
      for Integrative Neuroimaging, University of Oxford. Changes in brain activity during affected
      hand movements will be assessed with and without feedback using functional MRI and after
      feedback sessions using electroencephalography (EEG). Brain connectivity and structure will
      also be assessed using MRI at baseline and at a follow-up one week later. Clinical measures
      of upper limb function and impairment will be performed at baseline and at follow up sessions
      one week and one month later (Action Research Arm Test, Fugl-Meyer upper limb assessment,
      Jebsen Taylor hand function test), and in each session following neurofeedback (Jebsen taylor
      test).
    
  