
    
      Among the many survival adaptations developed by mammals is a defense against the cold and
      hypothermia; one of these adaptations is the ability to uncouple oxidative phosphorylation
      and generate heat, rather than adenosine triphosphate (ATP), from lipid substrate in
      specialized tissues, and there has been much interest in exploiting this inefficient
      metabolism for the treatment of obesity and insulin resistance. Brown adipose tissue (BAT)
      protects against obesity in mice, and studies have documented cold-induced BAT in humans
      using positron emission tomography (PET-CT) scanning. Additional studies have demonstrated
      that white adipose tissue (WAT) can upregulate its thermogenic capacity and become "beige",
      and this beiging of SC WAT likely provides an additional defense against the cold.

      Brown and beige fat can be activated by cold temperatures, or through catecholamines. The
      catecholamines epinephrine and norepinephrine have undesirable side effects. However,
      adipocytes are among the few cells that contain ß3 adrenergic receptors (ß3AR), whereas the
      heart is dominated by ß1 and ß2 receptors. Therefore, a drug that could target the ß3AR could
      activate brown/beige fat without cardiovascular side effects. We have recently performed
      human studies and treated obese human subjects with the ß3AR agonist mirabegron. This
      resulted in improved glucose homeostasis by increasing insulin sensitivity and insulin
      secretion. We found that mirabegron treatment of obese adults did not increase BAT or induce
      weight loss, but instead induced beige fat, along with increased insulin sensitivity, which
      was accompanied by an increase in type I fibers in skeletal muscle. Mirabegron treatment
      stimulated subcutaneous (SC) WAT beiging, lipolysis, and remodeling. However, unlike WAT,
      insulin-producing ß-cells and muscle do not express the ß3AR; therefore, it is thought that
      the beneficial effects of mirabegron treatment occurred by an indirect mechanism.

      Currently, mirabegron (Myrbetriq®, Astellas) is a highly specific and well-tolerated ß3
      agonist marketed for overactive bladder. It is hypothesized that mirabegron treatment of
      prediabetic subjects will improve glucose homeostasis through improved insulin sensitivity
      and ß-cell function, in addition to other changes in adipose tissue. Additionally, mirabegron
      treatment may change the plasma composition of proteins, lipids, metabolites, short-chain
      fatty acids, or exosomal miRNAs that are known to affect peripheral tissue function.

      This trial will quantify the effects of the ß3 agonist mirabegron on glucose metabolism and
      adipose tissue in a placebo-controlled trial and determine some of the mechanistic
      underpinnings of these effects.
    
  