
    
      Computerized Physician Order Entry (CPOE) systems have been shown to prevent medical errors,
      and have become a major component of the patient safety movement. To accelerate the adoption
      of clinical information technology including CPOE systems, the American Recovery and
      Reinvestment Act of 2009 allocated approximately $17 billion as incentive payments to
      providers and hospitals who implement health information technology. With the increased
      adoption of CPOE systems, however, it is important to recognize that design flaws have
      resulted in the creation of new types of iatrogenic medical errors. In addition, CPOE systems
      developed with suboptimal and onerous user interfaces have contributed to entire systems
      being rejected by physicians. The ideal CPOE system maximizes medical error reduction,
      minimizes medical error creation, and has a user friendly interface that is accepted by
      nurses, physicians, and pharmacists.

      An example of a new type of iatrogenic medical error introduced by CPOE systems has been
      named "juxtaposition errors" . Juxtaposition errors, as defined by Ash, et al. are "errors
      that can result when something is close to something else on the screen, and the wrong option
      is too easily clicked in error." Juxtaposition errors can lead to a patient receiving a
      medication, a test, or a treatment intended for another patient, sometimes with dire
      consequences.

      Juxtaposition errors are likely a subclass of a broader group of wrong-patient CPOE errors
      that have multiple etiologies. Other possible causes of wrong-patient CPOE orders include
      interruption errors, or double-interruption errors.

      Primary Objectives:

        -  Specific Aim 1: Investigate the prevalence of wrong-patient near miss CPOE errors.

        -  Specific Aim 2: Investigate the root cause of wrong-patient near miss CPOE errors.

        -  Specific Aim 3: Investigate and compare the efficacy and workflow impact of two distinct
           interventions to prevent wrong-patient near miss CPOE errors against a control.
    
  