
    
      In an attempt to elucidate the mechanism(s) of immune-mediated restriction of HIV viral
      replication, we aim to study four groups of individuals: 1) HIV-infected long-term
      nonprogressors (LTNP), who appear to control HIV primarily through virus-specific cellular
      immunity; 2) HIV-infected patients who have broadly cross neutralizing antibody activity
      against HIV; 3) HIV-infected patients receiving antiretroviral therapy who will undergo a
      treatment interruption; and 4) the family members of patients exhibiting immunologic control
      of HIV infection. Although most of our previous efforts have focused on investigating the
      virus-specific immune responses in a unique group of patients termed LTNP who control HIV by
      cellular immune-mediated mechanisms, more recently, another group of rare individuals who
      naturally develop broadly cross neutralizing antibody activity against HIV isolates have also
      been identified in our laboratory. Passive transfer studies in nonhuman primates have
      demonstrated that neutralizing antibodies detectable in a subject at the time of challenge
      can protect from infection. We aim to recruit more of these patients in an effort to further
      characterize and compare their virus-specific cellular and humoral immune responses with
      those in individuals experiencing progressive infection. In addition, it is necessary to
      define whether putative correlates of immune mediated restriction of viral replication are a
      cause or an effect of HIV viremia. To this end, we are enrolling patients who will be
      discontinuing their antiretroviral regimen and examine virologic and immunologic parameters
      during the treatment interruption. Through this arm of the study, we will attempt to further
      characterize the mechanisms by which HIV evades and/or suppresses an effective anti-viral
      immune response and to identify features of the virus or the patients immune responses that
      are associated with virologic control following treatment interruption. As we attain greater
      insight into differences between these patient groups, we hope to perform genetic studies
      that would enable us to more precisely identify susceptibility or protective genes, which
      could be potentially used to construct a familial pedigree. We anticipate that all of these
      findings will contribute to an enhanced understanding of the nature of effective HIV-specific
      humoral and cellular immunity, which will help focus future vaccine design efforts. For our
      studies, it will be necessary to obtain larger quantities of plasma or mononuclear cells than
      can be safely obtained by simple phlebotomy. These components can be easily and safely
      obtained using apheresis procedures in the Clinical Center Apheresis Unit. This protocol is
      designed to conform to the requirements of the Apheresis Unit for donors to have
      leukapheresis or plasmapheresis procedures.
    
  