
    
      Aims

      The investigators plan a 2 year pilot observational study to:

        -  Identify and quantify circulating cell-fee DNA (cfDNA) in cases of Soft Tissue Sarcoma
           (STS)

        -  Investigate Telomere Maintenance Mechanisms (TMM) in STSs.

        -  Use TMM associated genetic mutations to identify and quantify tumour-derived cfDNA in
           STSs at time of tumour resection and throughout follow up

        -  Track the tumour derived cfDNA characteristics above over time and correlate with
           clinical outcome to identify potential STS biomarkers Hypotheses Based on findings in
           other cancers it is hypothesised that plasma cfDNA will be detectable in cases of STS.
           Given the key role telomere length maintenance plays in cancer cell development the
           investigators also hypothesise that TMM associated mutations will be present in tumour
           derived cfDNA, act as stable markers of STS tissue, and therefore increase in
           concentration as local recurrence or metastatic disease occurs.

      Tumour derived cfDNA identification In months 0-3 sensitive assays to target known
      tumour-specific mutations will be developed. Using these on retrospectively collected tissues
      the investigators will verify that cfDNA can be detected (and quantified) in the plasma of
      patients with STSs.

      Analysis of TMMs in STS tissue In months 3-12 tumour samples from every prospectively
      recruited sample will be analysed to establish which TMM is activated in STSs. Telomerase and
      ALT activity will each be assessed by published laboratory techniques.

      Quantification and characterisation of TMM associated mutations / tumour derived cfDNA In
      months 10-12 quantitative Polymerase Chain Reaction based assays will be developed to
      identify the TMM associated mutations found to be most prevalent in STSs. In months 12-22
      these assays will be used to identify and quantify these TMM associated mutations (and
      therefore also tumour-derived cfDNA) in the plasma samples taken from every prospectively
      recruited patient at time of surgery and throughout follow up.

      Correlation of cfDNA characteristics with clinical outcome In months 22-24 cfDNA
      concentration, tumour-derived cfDNA concentration and the genetic characteristics of both
      will be correlated with clinical outcome measure including local recurrence, metastatic
      recurrence and death to determine these characteristics' potential as future biomarkers.

      Patient recruitment / sample collection Patients will be recruited through the East Midlands
      Sarcoma Service. Samples already available will be collected from 2 sources to verify that
      cfDNA can be detected in STSs: Firstly 20 patients with metastatic disease will be asked to
      give consent for retrospective analysis of their tumour tissue already archived following
      histological analysis. One blood sample will also be collected from these patients for
      analysis. Secondly every STS sample already stored in the Nottingham Health Science Biobank,
      (Nottingham City Hospital) with an accompanying plasma sample also stored (15 at time of
      writing) will be analysed.

      For the investigators remaining analysis between months 0-22 patients with non-metastatic
      high-grade STSs undergoing a planned resection locally will be approached to participate.
      2013 figures suggest over 100 patients will be eligible for inclusion. Tumour tissue, blood,
      and unaffected muscle and saliva (2 sources of control DNA) will be collected at time of
      resection. Repeat blood samples will be collected 3 monthly until the end of recruitment.
    
  