
    
      Background: Survival for neuroendocrine tumors is linked to early and accurate diagnoses or
      to the effective detection of disease recurrence and/or treatment failure. Non-invasive
      biomarkers have been identified that can improve diagnosis and prognosis of patients. Little,
      however, is known about the utility of these markers in clinical practice.

      Objective: To systematically and prospectively collect clinical information and blood samples
      from neuroendocrine tumors in the USA based a histologically confirmed diagnosis.

      Methods: All neuroendocrine tumors (gastroenteropancreatic and pulmonary) are following
      informed consent. Data will be entered prospectively and anonymized. Patient history
      including a quality of life survey are completed by contributing physicians and blood sample
      is collected for analysis. All information will be transferred to the database. Evaluation of
      treatment modalities and patient outcomes (e.g. disease recurrence) will be assessed at
      follow-up times.

      The primary objectives of the project are to:

        -  monitor patients with neuroendocrine tumors

        -  provide descriptive statistical analyses

        -  assessment of diagnostic accuracy of molecular-based blood tests

      The secondary objectives of the project include:

        -  assessment of disease recurrence

        -  analysis of patient survival

      Analyses will include:

        1. Descriptive statistical analyses including demographics, site, treatment, QoL
           assessment.

        2. Clinical follow-up and blood chemistry results.

        3. Correlation analyses between blood results and clinical data. This will include
           assessment of the time at which the blood chemistry results significantly (and
           consistently) increases and the time of tumor recurrence and an evaluation whether the
           change in blood results is predictive of disease recurrence.
    
  