
    
      The patient population will be molecularly defined and include adult patients with newly
      diagnosed K27M-mutant histone-3.1 (H3.1K27M) or histone-3.3 (H3.3K27M) diffuse midline
      gliomas (DMG).

      Within this trial, a long peptide vaccine containing a K27M-mutated histone-3 sequence, will
      be administered subcutaneously in addition to standard radiotherapy and thereafter in
      combination with the human anti-PD-L1 antibody Atezolizumab.

      Fifteen patients (pts. 1-15) will receive 11 doses of H3K27M peptide vaccine in total
      starting with standard radiotherapy (RT) and 14 doses of the human anti-PD-L1 antibody
      Atezolizumab (every three weeks, q3w) starting four weeks after completion of RT. The first 3
      vaccines will be given bi-weekly (q2w) in combination with RT. One dose of vaccination will
      be given at the beginning of recovery (RE) period following RT. Vaccines 5-11 (q6w) will be
      initiated with Atezolizumab after completion of RE. In a safety lead-in, the first three
      patients (pts. 1-3) will be enrolled sequentially.

      Following the last IMP administration, a safety / immunogenicity follow-up is planned for 24
      weeks until end of study (EOS). To be able to assess safety, tolerability and immunogenicity
      of the peptide vaccine in combination with Atezolizumab 15 evaluable patients will be
      enrolled.

      Diffuse gliomas of the thalamus, brain stem, spinal cord or other midline structures
      represent 3-4% of high-grade glioma and harbor H3.1K27M or H3.3K27M mutations as a
      characteristic founder mutation in > 70% of cases. H3K27M-mutant gliomas typically occur in
      children and adolescents but also in adult patients. After biopsy or resection, the standard
      of care consists of involved-field radiotherapy. Adding alkylating chemotherapy to
      radiotherapy does not offer additional benefit in retrospective case series and prospective
      clinical trials in children with pontine gliomas, probably as hypermethylation of the MGMT
      promoter in DMG is typically lacking. After radiotherapy gliomas frequently recur with a
      median 12-month progression-free survival of 20 %. Importantly, at recurrence particularly in
      the adult patient population, there is frequent distant progression and leptomeningeal
      dissemination, arguing for the necessity of systemic therapy upfront.

      From an immunological point of view H3K27M represents an attractive tumor antigen
      specifically expressed in tumor but not normal cells. Patients with H3K27M-mutant gliomas may
      harbor mutation-specific T cells, indicating that H3K27M is specifically presented to and
      recognized by the immune system in a mutation-specific manner. Vaccination of humanized mice
      with a long H3K27M vaccine results in an anti-tumor immune response effective in controlling
      H3K27M-expressing tumors in a preventive and a therapeutic manner without causing toxicity.
      In addition, eight adult patients with H3.3K27M-mutated gliomas were treated with an H3K27M
      27 amino acid long peptide vaccine on a compassionate-use basis. None of the patients treated
      either with the peptide vaccine alone or in combination with an anti-human PD(L)-1 antibody
      showed any clinical or laboratory sign of treatment-related toxicity except for grade 1
      injection site reactions. Importantly, all patients developed H3K27M-specific T cell
      responses with one patient of the combination treatment group showing long-term response with
      no sign of tumor progression for >24 months after vaccination and one patient experiencing
      complete response after pseudoprogression (unpublished observations). Based on these
      observations we hypothesize that checkpoint inhibition targeting PD-L1 is required for
      optimal amplification of a vaccine-induced H3K27M-specific T cell response.

      The aim of this phase I trial is to evaluate the safety and immune response to the H3K27M
      peptide vaccine in combination with Atezolizumab in patients with H3K27M-mutant diffuse
      midline gliomas.
    
  