
    
      Background:

        -  Disorders under investigation are: Autosomal dominant inherited urologic malignant
           disorders including: von Hippel-Lindau (VHL), hereditary papillary renal cancer (HPRC),
           Birt Hogg Dube (BHD) and hereditary leiomyomatosis and renal cell acarcinoma (HLRCC) as
           well as familial renal cancer.

        -  Studies have led to the identification and characterization of the VHL, HPRC, FLCN and
           HLRCC genes.

        -  The genetic etiology of the most common type of inherited kidney cancer, familial renal
           cancer (FRC), remains to be determined.

      Objectives:

        -  To characterize the natural and clinical histories of inherited urologic malignant
           disorders.

        -  To determine the genetic etiology of hereditary urologic malignant disorders in which
           the gene variation is unknown, by linkage analysis, positional cloning and evaluation of
           candidate genes.

        -  To correlate specific mutations and their associated protein domains with disease
           phenotypic expression based on parameters including presenting age, clinical
           manifestations, histopathology and rate of recurrence.

        -  To identify and describe as yet unknown or uncharacterized inherited urologic malignant
           disorders.

      Eligibility:

        -  Individuals and biologic family members with a suspected or an established diagnosis of
           an inherited urologic malignancy in which the disease gene is known, including von
           Hippel-Lindau (VHL) and hereditary papillary renal carcinoma (HPRC).

        -  Individuals and biologic family members with a suspected or an established diagnosis of
           an inherited urologic malignancy in which the disease gene is not yet known,
           specifically hereditary forms of Type II papillary renal cancer, clear cell renal
           carcinoma, renal oncocytoma, chromophobe renal carcinoma or Birt Hogg Dube.

        -  Individuals and biologic family members who have urologic malignant diseases of
           suspected, but not proven genetic etiology, including families with more than one
           individual affected by the same or related cancers.

      Design:

        -  These rare families will be recruited to genetically confirm diagnosis, determine size
           and location of renal tumors, size at presentation, growth rate and metastatic potential
           of renal tumors.

        -  Genetic testing will be offered to gain appreciation of the effect of mutations on the
           relative activity of various germline and somatic mutations.

        -  We will determine if there is a relationship between mutation and disease manifestations
           and phenotype.
    
  