
    
      A total of 250 healthcare workers are currently off sick with symptoms of SARS-CoV-2
      infection (COVID-19) while 99 additional members of staff have been diagnosed with confirmed
      SARS-CoV-2 at Great Ormond Street Hospital. As a consequence, all routine surgery,
      out-patient activity and day cases have been postponed or cancelled altogether. It is
      therefore critical for us to understand whether or not this disease will continue to threaten
      staff health or whether natural infection will give rise to long lasting immunity.

      This is a 2-arm prospective cohort study recruiting at least 1000 healthcare workers at GOSH
      over 6 years.Staff will be recruited and coordinated from each department to be
      representative of the full diversity of healthcare workers at the Trust. The age distribution
      of the participants will be monitored on a weekly, basis against the known age distribution
      of the hospital to ensure that the sample is representative.

      Trust communications team will send an all staff email to inform them about this research
      project asking them to get in touch with the study team if they wish to participate and they
      meet the basic eligibility criteria. Potential participants will be asked voluntarily to
      attend a face to face appointment in person (or if preferred by telephone or 1:1 video
      teleconference meeting) to enable trained study staff to seek informed consent before they
      enter the study. Informed consent will be undertaken by study staff who are Good Clinical
      Practice trained, Human Tissue Act trained, study trained, GOSH consent trained and
      registered in the study log.

      The consent process will specifically cover the reason for the study, the storage of samples
      and agreement for future samples to be tested once improved testing is made available. Once
      the member of staff has provided informed consent, they will be asked to undertake an online
      questionnaire in which they will record demographic details including age, sex, email address
      and telephone contact for results and coordinating follow up. The questionnaire will also
      record details of SARS-CoV-2 like symptoms, contact with SARS-CoV-2, pre-existing
      co-morbidities and medication or treatments that may interfere with serological testing.

      After providing informed consent, the staff members then be asked attend the study phlebotomy
      testing clinic. Appointments will be 20 minutes in length but actual blood sampling for
      serological testing will be 5-10 minutes to allow plenty of time and space for staff members
      to be tested to maintain social distancing. A total of 8ml of blood will be stored for
      testing.

      Follow up sampling and questionnaires of approximately 200 staff members with PCR confirmed
      SARS-CoV-2 infected staff will take place monthly. While follow up of all ~800 asymptomatic
      staff members will take place 6 monthly. All staff will continue to have access to the GOSH
      PCR COVID19 testing program (as they do at present). This will enable us to confirm with PCR
      testing any new (or reinfected) positive staff member with COVID-19 over the duration of the
      study.

      When initially asymptomatic seronegative staff become serologically positive during the
      course of the study, they will remain under active surveillance but they will switch arms of
      the study and they will contribute to the active follow up of serologically positive
      patients.

      If staff leave the GOSH NHS trust during the study they will still be eligible to remain in
      the study and be followed up and we will update their contact details on the follow-up
      questionnaire.

      After the initial intensive phase, all approximately 1000 recruits will be followed 6 monthly
      for the 6 year duration of the study. Follow-up visits will be arranged following the
      baseline assessment. The same blood tests 4ml EDTA and 4ml serum will be taken at each follow
      up appointment as well as the same symptom questionnaire.
    
  