
    
      Patients with young onset diabetes (YOD) are one of the most challenging groups of patients
      due to their long disease duration, complex causes, delayed interventions, psychosocial
      stress, poor adherence and frequent default. The investigator's previous studies indicate
      that provision of biogenetic information improved satisfaction, reduced ambiguity and
      improved self-efficacy in patients with T2D. Provision of personalized information using the
      web-based Joint Asia Diabetes Evaluation (JADE) Technology with risk stratification and
      decision support empowers better self care and medical intervention with improved control of
      risk factors. To further improve the precision of diagnosis for individualizing care, the use
      of CP, GADA, genetic risk scores (GRS) or rare genetic variants of maturity onset of diabetes
      (MODY) can help doctors select the most appropriate therapy in a timely manner. While
      patients with low CP, GADA and high GRS will benefit from early insulin therapy, some MODY
      variants are associated with good response to insulin-releasing oral drugs (e.g.
      sulphonylurea) which may spare the use of insulin with reduced patient distress and
      over-insulinization. By contrast, patients with high CP often due to obesity-associated
      insulin resistance should undergo intensive lifestyle modification and use of drugs with
      weight-reducing or neutral effects to avoid weight gain due to excessive dose of insulin.

      PART 1:

      Objective: To characterize Chinese patients diabetes classified by fasting CP and GADA
      positivity and their prognostic significance.

      Methods: Fasting CP levels and GADA in stored biosamples of 4000 patients in the Hong Kong
      Diabetes Register (HKDR) followed up since 1995.

      PART 2:

      Objective: To uncover genetic variants/sequences associated with familial YOD. Methods: Whole
      genome sequencing (WGS) in stored DNA of 100-120 sibpairs of YOD after 13 years of follow-up
      for imputation with exome data of case-control cohort of YOD and genome wide association
      studies (GWAS) data of 200 YOD families and 6000 T2D patients.

      PART 3:

      Objectives: To examine the impacts of precision medicine augmented by information technology
      and biogenetic markers (JADEPRISM) on attainment of cardiometabolic targets at 1 year and
      clinical outcomes at 3 year (n=440), compared with JADE-augmented care (n=440) in YOD.

      Deliverables A catalogue of biogenetic markers to guide precision medicine augmented by the
      JADE-Technology to optimize clinical outcomes in YOD.
    
  