
    
      The Investigator's global hypothesis, to be tested eventually in an NIH-funded phase III
      controlled trial, is that hydroxyurea at a fixed moderate dose of 20 mg/kg is safe and
      effective for primary and secondary stroke prevention in young adults with SCA. Prior to
      testing this global hypothesis, the Investigators must develop a multi-disciplinary team that
      provides medical care for young adults with SCD and establish the clinical epidemiology of
      neurological morbidity in this distinct age group. Building upon the existing research
      platforms of ongoing NINDS-funded primary stroke prevention trials in Nigeria, the
      Investigators are uniquely positioned to extend their stroke assessment and treatment to the
      next sequential age group, young adults with SCA.

      The immediate goals of this project are 1) to estimate the prevalence of neurological
      morbidity in young adults with SCA (R21 application to NIH); 2) to establish a prospective
      cohort of young adults to determine the incidence of neurological morbidity, and 3) to
      determine the safety and feasibility of fixed moderate dose of hydroxyurea therapy for
      prevention of further neurological disease in young adults with SCA in Nigeria.

      The leadership of the current pediatric primary and secondary stroke prevention trials
      (NCT01801423, NCT02560935, NCT02675790) in Nigeria will apply a similar effective strategy
      used in the Investigator's previous pediatric NINDS-R21 and current pediatric NINDS-R01 to
      estimate the prevalence and incidence of neurological morbidity in young adults with SCA.
      Young adults with SCA have different stroke risk factors than children less than 16 years of
      age with SCA, including risk factors for stroke seen in the general population resulting in
      the need for age and disease-specific evidence-based management for primary and secondary
      stroke prevention strategies.

      the Investigators propose to enroll 350 participants with SCA between 16-25 years of age. The
      Investigators believe this sample size is sufficient to estimate the prevalence of stroke and
      SCI. This cohort will be followed for 12-18 months to determine the short-term incidence of
      strokes and SCI. The Investigators do not intend to calculate a precise incidence of these
      neurological injuries due to the short duration of the follow-up.

      For young adults with SCIs, strokes, and elevated TCD measurements (based on the pediatric
      threshold of abnormal ≥200 cm/s in the middle cerebral artery or terminal portion of the
      internal carotid) the Investigators will initially offer regular blood transfusion therapy as
      standard care. If they refuse, the Investigators will offer a dose of 20 mg/kg/day of
      hydroxyurea for at least one year of therapy. The hydroxyurea will be supplied free of charge
      with monthly follow-up.
    
  