
    
      Purpose :Anthracycline based chemotherapy regimen is the milestone on the treatment of breast
      cancer . A sequential protocol, using docetaxel or Paclitaxel after an anthracycline-based
      combination is primary treatment for high-risk breast cancer .Despite its efficient antitumor
      activity profile, the use of conventional anthracycline in clinical practice is limited due
      to it's the risk of cardiac toxicity. The meta analysis show that subclinical cardiotoxicity
      was 17.9% whereas the incidence of clinically overt cardiotoxicity was 6.3%. Overall
      cardiovascular events occurred in 10.6%(Lotrisone , Am J Cardiol. 2013).Many patients have
      healed from breast cancer while they are snatched lives because of heart issue from
      chemotherapy using anthracycline. There are a lot of clinical trials exploring the
      possibilities of chemotherapy regimen without anthracycline ,however the recent result has
      shown anthracycline is indispensible for the patients whose axillary nodes are involved or
      triple negative breast cancer (ASCO 2016 ).So our target is to find a kind of anthracycline
      which is of equal efficiency with conventional anthracycline while less cardiac toxicity.
      Pegylated Liposomal Doxorubicin(PLD) is a novel kind of anthracycline. It distributes into
      cardiac cells lowly and releases Doxorubicin (DOX) slower to avoid peak plasma concentration,
      so it is of significant less cardiotoxicity compared to free DOX. It also achieve
      non-inferior efficacy at 50mg/m2 to conventional anthracycline in Metastatic Breast Cancer
      (MBC).( M. E. R. O'Brien, ,Annals of Oncology,2004;).

      PLD 35mg/m2 in combination with paclitaxel showed an overall response rate of 71% ,tolerating
      toxicity of the skin(3% hand-foot syndrome)and rare cardiac event( H. Gogas1, Annals of
      Oncology, 2002;Gil-Gil , Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2015)However, There are a crucial question
      is to know if 35mg/m2 PLD has equivalent efficacy with less cardiac toxicity compared with 60
      mg/m2 DOX in adjuvant chemotherapy for all patients.

      The regimen PLD plus cyclophosphamide 4 cycles followed by paclitaxel or docetaxel 4
      cycles(noted in phase II CAPRICE)will be used as experimental group. The regimen will be
      compared to the standard treatment of doxorubicin plus cyclophosphamide (AC)4 cycles followed
      by paclitaxel or docetaxel 4 cycles(noted in NCCN guideline).

      Condition Intervention Phase

      Individualized Chemotherapy Drug: Pegylated Liposomal Doxorubicin(PLD) Drug: Doxorubicin(DOX)

      Drug: Cyclophosphamide Drug: docetaxel or Paclitaxel Phase 2

      Study Type: Interventional Study Design: Allocation: assignment based on patients desire
      Endpoint Classification: Safety/Efficacy Study Intervention Model: Marched pair Parallel
      Assignment Masking: Open Label Primary Purpose: Treatment
    
  