
    
      Chronic graft-versus-host-disease (GVHD) is a major complication of allogeneic hematopoietic
      cell transplant that impairs quality of life, and is associated with significant morbidity
      and mortality. Management of chronic GVHD with prednisone is associated with an overall
      response rate of approximately 60%, and a complete response rate of approximately 30% but
      sclerotic features do not respond as well. Based on the biology of chronic GVHD and available
      preliminary evidence, the investigators hypothesize that ruxolitinib will be effective in the
      management of sclerotic chronic GVHD. The study is an open label, phase II multicenter trial
      designed to evaluate the efficacy of ruxolitinib as a salvage treatment for patients with
      sclerotic GVHD (sclerosis or fasciitis). The primary objective is to determine the proportion
      of patients with response rate (complete and partial responses) in skin and/or joint, as
      determined by 2014 NIH (National Institutes of Health) consensus criteria, at 6 months of
      therapy with ruxolitinib. Eligibility criteria includes adult patients with chronic GVHD and
      skin, joint and/or fascia sclerosis, who have received systemic corticosteroids for >12
      months and at least one additional line of therapy OR systemic corticosteroids and at least
      two additional lines of therapy for chronic GVHD. A sample size of 47 patients (43 evaluable
      patients and estimated 10% dropout) will allow an α of 0.044 and a power of 84% to test the
      null hypothesis response rate of 25% compared to an alternative of 45%. Subjects will receive
      ruxolitinib for 6 months for the treatment of sclerotic chronic GVHD. Subjects will be
      evaluated for GVHD status as well as non-relapse mortality, relapse of underlying malignancy
      and quality of life/functional status. Plasma cytokine levels and T/Natural Killer (NK) cell
      subset in peripheral blood will be measured at various time points. The response rate will be
      reported as a proportion and 95% exact confidence interval. If positive, the trial results
      will support other ongoing studies to establish the role of ruxolitinib in chronic GVHD in
      general and specifically in sclerotic chronic GVHD.
    
  