
    
      Morbidity and mortality attributable to COVID-19 is devastating global health systems and
      economies. Bacillus Calmette Guérin (BCG) vaccination has been in use for many decades to
      prevent severe forms of tuberculosis in children. Studies have also shown a combination of
      improved long-term innate or trained immunity (through epigenetic reprogramming of myeloid
      cells) and adaptive responses after BCG vaccination, which leads to non-specific protective
      effects in adults. Observational studies have shown that countries with routine BCG
      vaccination programs have significantly less reported cases and deaths of COVID-19, but such
      studies are prone to significant bias and need confirmation. To date, in the absence of
      direct evidence, WHO does not recommend BCG for the prevention of COVID-19.

      This project aims to investigate in a timely manner whether and why BCG-revaccination can
      reduce infection rate and/or disease severity in health care workers during the SARS-CoV-2
      outbreak in South Africa. These objectives will be achieved with a blinded, randomised
      controlled trial of BCG revaccination versus placebo in exposed front-line staff in hospitals
      in Cape Town. Observations will include the rate of infection with COVID-19 as well as the
      occurrence of mild, moderate or severe ambulatory respiratory tract infections,
      hospitalisation, need for oxygen, mechanical ventilation or death. HIV-positive individuals
      will be excluded. Safety of the vaccines will be monitored. A secondary endpoint is the
      occurrence of latent or active tuberculosis. Initial sample size and follow-up duration is at
      least 500 workers and 52 weeks. Statistical analysis will be model-based and ongoing in real
      time with frequent interim analyses and optional increases of both sample size or observation
      time, based on the unforeseeable trajectory of the South African COVID-19 epidemic, available
      funds and recommendations of an independent data and safety monitoring board.

      Given the immediate threat of the SARS-CoV-2 epidemic the trial has been designed as a
      pragmatic study with highly feasible endpoints that can be continuously measured. This allows
      for the most rapid identification of a beneficial outcome that would lead to immediate
      dissemination of the results, vaccination of the control group and outreach to the health
      authorities to consider BCG vaccination for all qualifying health care workers.
    
  