
    
      There is an urgent need to engage more low-income smokers in activities that lead to
      quitting. The current standard of practice for population-level tobacco treatment is
      phone-based cessation counseling delivered by state tobacco quitlines. But quitline services
      are restricted to smokers who are ready to quit in the next 30 days, a criterion met by only
      20-30% of low-income smokers. Thus, current population level tobacco treatment has nothing to
      offer 70-80% of low-income U.S. smokers. Based on extensive preliminary research by our study
      team, the investigators assert that offering a pre-cessation intervention - Smoke Free Homes
      - to low-income smokers who are not yet ready to quit will: (1) engage more smokers in using
      proven interventions; (2) increase their readiness to quit and quit attempts; (3) reduce the
      number of cigarettes they smoke per day; and (4) increase cessation. These benefits will
      accrue in addition to reducing exposure to harmful secondhand smoke for non-smokers in the
      home. In a Hybrid Type 2 randomized trial, 1,980 low-income smokers from nine states with
      high smoking prevalence will be recruited from 2-1-1 helplines to receive either current
      standard practice (Quitline) or expanded services (Quitline + Smoke Free Homes). In the
      latter condition, smokers will be offered cessation counseling first, just like current
      standard practice, but those who decline will then be offered Smoke Free Homes. At 3-month
      followup, those in the latter condition who accepted quitline services but did not quit will
      be offered Smoke Free Homes, and those that accepted Smoke Free Homes but did not quit will
      be offered quitline services. The effectiveness portion of the Hybrid Type 2 design (Aim 1)
      will use intent-to-treat analyses to compare group differences at 3- and 6-month follow-up in
      7- and 30-day point prevalence abstinence with biochemical verification, as well as 24-hour
      quit attempts and cigarettes smoked per day. The implementation portion of the Hybrid Type 2
      design (Aims 2-3) will measure smokers' acceptance and use of the interventions, as well as
      cost-effectiveness and cost-benefits of adding Smoke Free Homes to quitline services. With
      rates of smoking and smoking-related cancers much higher in low-income populations and
      treatment costs exceeding tens of billions of dollars annually in Medicaid alone, this
      large-scale practical trial will provide strong evidence with high external validity to
      answer an important policy question: Will changing the standard practice for population-level
      treatment of smoking result in increased cessation in low-income populations?
    
  