
    
      This study is a prospective phase II trial which is designed to evaluate the efficacy and
      safety of IMRT combined with concurrent chemotherapy and anti-EGFR monoclonal antibody in
      locally advanced oropharyngeal carcinoma (OPC) with induced chemotherapy resistance.

      Eligibility criteria include histologically confirmed locally advanced OPC with induced
      chemotherapy resistance according to the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) Staging
      System (the eighth edition); Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status of
      0 or 1; at least one measurable lesion based on the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid
      Tumors (RECIST) criteria 1.1; normal complete blood count (white blood cell counts ≥4×1012/L,
      hemoglobin level ≥100g/L and platelet counts ≥100×1012/L), normal hepatic function (total
      bilirubin level ≤1.5 mg/dl, alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase levels
      ≤1.5 times the upper limit of normal) and normal renal function (creatinine ≤ 1.5 times the
      upper limit of normal). Prior induction chemotherapy with platinum was allowed.

      Exclusion criteria include previous radiotherapy, a history of any other type of malignancy;
      pregnancy or lactation; allergy to anti-EGFR monoclonal antibody; obvious dysfunction of
      liver, renal, cardiac or lung function; uncontrolled infection; systemic metastasis or
      distant metastasis; patients with severe gastrointestinal diseases, and patients with mental
      disorders affecting patient participation in trial judgement.

      The full-set pretreatment evaluation will be performed to every patient.All patients in this
      study will receive intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT). In the induction
      chemotherapy phase, TP regimen (Docetaxel 75mg/m2, D1 + DDP 25mg/m2, D1-3, repeat every 3
      weeks) or TPF regimen (Docetaxel 75mg/m2, D1 + DDP 25mg/m2, D1-3+5-FU 750mg/m2, CIV, 120h,
      repeat every 3 weeks) will be used. Cetuximab 400mg/m2 will be used one week before
      radiotherapy and 250mg/m2/week during IMRT, or nimotuzumab 200mg/week; meanwhile, cisplatin
      80mg/m2 will be used every 3 weeks.

      Adverse events (AEs) will be evaluated every week during CCRT based on the evaluation
      criteria of adverse reactions of CTCAE V4.0. Tumor response is assessed at the end of CCRT
      according to the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria 1.1.
      Radiation-related acute and late toxicities are graded according to the Radiation Therapy
      Oncology Group (RTOG). Late toxicities are evaluated beyond three months from the end of
      radiotherapy.

      After the completion of CCRT, all patients will be followed up every 3 months during the
      first years, every 6 months for the following 2-5 years, and annually thereafter. Local
      recurrence is confirmed by oropharyngeal MRI or histological biopsy. Regional recurrence is
      confirmed by fine needle aspiration or surgical biopsy. Distant metastases is detected by
      imaging examinations including PETCT, bone Emission Computed Tomography (ECT), CT, MRI or
      confirmed by histological confirmation of biopsy.

      The primary endpoints of this study is adverse events (AE) rate and progression-free survival
      (PFS). PFS is calculated from the date of enrollment to the date of disease progression or
      the date of death for any cause.
    
  