
    
      The main purpose of my research is to explore the benefits of a 10 week Tai Chi and
      compensatory stepping training program on balance control among older adults by examining
      static and dynamic postural responses to perturbations before (0 weeks), at midpoint (5
      weeks) and after the intervention (10 weeks). This Tai Chi and compensatory stepping program
      will be compared to a control group that will not participate in any physical activity for 10
      weeks, but will be offered the chance to partake in a fall prevention program after the 10
      weeks of testing has been completed. The program will be administered twice weekly for thirty
      minutes each by experienced instructors at a community location (Lab at WLU). The Tai
      Chi/compensatory stepping group will engage in 50 minutes of Tai Chi exercise followed by 10
      minutes of controlled manual perturbations administered for compensatory stepping training.
      The control group will not be participating in the Tai Chi and compensatory stepping training
      during the initial 10 weeks of testing, but will be offered the chance to participate in
      either the SMART fall prevention program, or given other resources for participation in a
      fall prevention exercise program. Testing for both groups will take place at baseline (week
      0), midpoint (week 5) and post-intervention (week 10). We will be assessing balance control
      by administering the Berg Balance Scale (attached), the Timed-Up-and-Go Test and tracking the
      variability, minimum and maximum displacements of the centre of pressure (COP), centre of
      mass (COM) and maximum and minimum displacement between the COM and COP as an indication of
      instability. The Activities-Specific Balance Confidence Scale questionnaire (attached) will
      also be administered as an indication of balance confidence. Tighter regulation of COP and
      COM and as well as a small displacement between the 2 values indicates greater balance
      control. COP, COM and COP/COM relationship will be measured during three balance tasks.
      Participants will have pressure insoles directly inserted into their shoes, markers attached
      with tape to record movement velocity and change in position. For testing, participants will
      be required to complete 3 tasks. The first is made up of two parts that measure static
      balance. Participants will stand in one place with their eyes open for 3 trials for 30
      seconds each and then they will be asked to repeat the same standing with their eyes closed.
      The second task is a measure of static balance in response to a self -perturbation, where
      participants will raise their arms at a high velocity to the sky to offset balance in
      response to an unexpected auditory cue. The third task will require participants to walk in a
      circle around a set of chairs and perturb their balance by terminating gait upon an
      unexpected auditory cue.
    
  