
    
      The Study Drug:

      CC-4047 is a drug that may also affect the growth of blood vessels that support tumor growth.
      If these blood vessels stop growing, it may stop cancer cell growth.

      Prednisone is a corticosteroid that is similar to a natural hormone made by your body.
      Prednisone is often given in combination with other chemotherapy to treat cancer.

      Study Drug Administration:

      On Days 1- 28 of every 28-day study "cycle," you will take CC-4047 capsule(s) by mouth. You
      should take the capsule(s), about the same time every day. The capsule(s) should not be
      opened, broken, or chewed. CC-4047 should be taken without food, at least 2 hours before or 2
      hours after a meal. If a dose of CC-4047 is missed, it should be taken as soon as possible on
      the same day. If it is missed for the entire day, it should not be made up, rather it should
      be taken at the next scheduled time point.

      In order to take part in this study, you must register into and follow the requirements of
      the POMALYST REMS™ program of Celgene Corporation. This program provides education and
      counseling on the risks of exposing unborn children to the study drug, and the risks of blood
      clots and reduced blood counts. You will be required to receive counseling, follow the
      pregnancy testing and birth control requirements of the program that are appropriate for you,
      and take surveys regarding how well you are following with the POMALYST REMS™ program.

      You will receive prednisone by mouth during the first 3 cycles of therapy. You will take it 1
      time a day during Cycle 1. During Cycle 2, you will take a smaller dose 1 time a day. During
      Cycle 3, you will take the same dose as in Cycle 2, but only 1 time every other day.

      On Days 1-28, you will also take low-dose aspirin. This should be taken at the same time as
      CC-4047. Aspirin is take to help prevent blood clots, which may occur from taking CC-4047. If
      you are unable to take aspirin, your study doctor will have you take another drug.

      You will be given a study "diary". In this diary, you will record when you take each dose of
      the study drug. You will return any unused study drug and empty bottles at each visit.

      Study Visits:

      On Day 1 of Cycles 1 and 2, the following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurements of your vital signs (blood
           pressure, temperature, and heart rate) and weight.

        -  You will be asked about any drugs you are taking and about recent blood transfusions you
           may have had.

        -  You will have a performance status evaluation.

        -  Blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn for routine tests.

      On Days 1, 8, 15, and 22 of Cycles 1 and 2, blood (about 4 teaspoons) will be drawn for
      routine tests.

      On Day 28 of each cycle, the following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  You will be asked about any drugs you are taking and about recent blood transfusions you
           may have had.

        -  You will be asked about any birth control methods you are using.

        -  Blood (about 4 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  You will be asked about any new side effects or medical conditions you may have
           experienced.

        -  You will complete a questionnaire about your quality-of-life as well as an assessment of
           possible pain in your spleen. (Cycles 1 and 2 only)

      On Day 28 of cycles 1,2,3 and every third cycle (Cycle 6, 9, and so on), the following tests
      and procedures will be performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of yur vital signs and weight.

        -  Measurements of your spleen and/or liver will be taken.

        -  You will have a performance status evaluation.

      On Day 28 of every sixth cycle (Cycle 6, 12 and so on)the following tests and procedures will
      be performed:

        -  Blood (about 4 teaspoons) will be drawn to test your thyroid function.

        -  You will have an ECG.

        -  Response of disease to therapy will be assessed. Bone marrow biopsy and aspirate will be
           done to confirm a complete response if your doctor thinks it is needed.

      Pregnancy Testing:

      Women who are able to have children will have a pregnancy test every week during Cycle 1, and
      then every 28 days after that if your menstrual cycle is regular (If your menstrual cycle is
      not regular, you will have a blood pregnancy test every 2 weeks). These pregnancy tests will
      be part of a routine blood draw.

      Length of Study:

      You will remain on study treatment as long as the therapy is beneficial to you. You will be
      taken off study early if the disease gets worse or intolerable side effects occur.

      End-of-Treatment Visit:

      Once you are off study, you will have an end-of-study visit. At this visit, the following
      tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurements of your vital signs and
           measurements of your spleen and/or liver.

        -  You will have an ECG.

        -  You will be asked about any drugs you are taking and about any blood transfusions you
           may have had.

        -  Blood (about 4 tablespoons) and urine will be collected for routine tests and thyroid
           function tests. This routine blood draw will include a pregnancy test for women who are
           able to have children.

        -  You will be asked about any side effects you may have experienced.

      Follow-Up Visit:

      Women who are able to have children will have a blood (about 1 tablespoon) pregnancy test 28
      days after the last dose of study drug. If your periods are irregular you will have 2 blood
      (about 1 tablespoon each time) pregnancy tests, one 14 days after the last dose of study drug
      and another 28 days after the last dose of study drug. Response of disease to therapy will be
      assessed at follow-up 28 days after last dose of study drug.

      This is an investigational study. CC-4047 (pomalidomide) is FDA approved and commercially
      available for the treatment of certain types of MM. Its use in this study is investigational.

      Prednisone is FDA approved and commercially available.

      Up to 70 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  