
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Identify the overall survival of low-risk adult patients with supratentorial low-grade
           glioma who are observed postoperatively.

        -  Compare the overall survival of high-risk adult patients with supratentorial low-grade
           glioma who receive postoperative external beam radiotherapy with or without
           procarbazine, lomustine, and vincristine (PCV) chemotherapy.

        -  Compare the toxic effects of postoperative radiotherapy with or without PCV chemotherapy
           in patients with unfavorable low-grade glioma.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are stratified according to tumor subtype
      (astrocytoma [mixed-astro dominant or equal astro/oligo mix] vs oligodendroglioma
      [mixed-oligo dominant]), age (younger than 40 vs at least 40), Karnofsky performance status
      (60-80% vs 90-100%), and contrast enhancement on preoperative scan (present vs absent).
      Patients with low-risk disease (younger than 40 years old whose tumors have been surgically
      removed) are assigned to arm I. Patients with high-risk disease (at least 40 years old or who
      have had incomplete tumor removal) are randomized to arm II or III.

        -  Arm I (low-risk patients): Patients are observed. Patients may receive treatment if
           tumor recurs.

        -  Arm II (high-risk patients): Patients receive daily external beam radiotherapy 5 days a
           week for 6 weeks.

        -  Arm III (high-risk patients): Patients receive radiotherapy as in arm II followed by
           chemotherapy 1 month later. Chemotherapy consists of oral lomustine on day 1,
           vincristine IV on days 8 and 29, and oral procarbazine on days 8-21. Each course of
           chemotherapy lasts 8 weeks. Patients may receive up to 6 courses of chemotherapy.

      Patients are followed every 4 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 2 years, and then
      annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 252 patients will be accrued within 5.25 years.
    
  