
    
      This study will investigate the effect of tiotropium on gas exchange during exercise. In
      addition, we hypothesize that bronchodilation by tiotropium will open functional lung units
      improving gas exchange in subjects with COPD. While other studies have shown that tiotropium
      improves exertional dyspnea and exercise tolerance, and reduces resistive and elastic work in
      subjects with COPD, there have been no investigations of the effects of anti-cholinergic
      bronchodilation on gas exchange. This study will confirm and extend earlier observations on
      exertional dyspnea and exercise tolerance.

      Efficiency of gas exchange will be evaluated through assessments of metabolic demand (VO2)
      cardiac output (Q), ventilation (V) in overall terms i.e. Q/VO2, V/VO2.

      Improved efficiency of gas exchange will reduce the ventilatory demand for a given workload,
      providing an alternate mechanism for the observed improvement in exertional dyspnea and
      exercise tolerance in subjects with COPD. The overall ventilation required to meet metabolic
      demands is dependent on the alveolar volume which can be easily measured using inert gases.
      This is conveniently measured during the DLco maneuver which will be measured. In general,
      ventilation increases with metabolic demand but increases progressively as the VA and KCO
      decline in patients with COPD. These factors may be amenable to improvement using
      anticholinergic agents. In addition the recruitment of additional alveolar volume provides an
      additional pathway for blood flow through the lung increasing overall cardiac output and
      enhancing the responsiveness of peripheral muscle in these patients. These have not been
      considered and exploited as potential therapeutic goals.

      Study Evaluations:

      Treatment Period: Visits 2, 3, 5 and 6

        -  Vital signs (seated)

        -  12 lead ECG

        -  Medication washout compliance.

        -  Stage one exercise test (refer to section 11.1.7)

        -  Randomization will occur at Visit 2.

        -  At visit two the subject will be trained in the use of a HandiHaler

        -  Study medication will be dispensed at Visit 2 and 5

        -  Administer study medication (Visits 2,3,4,5 and 6)

      Treatment Period: Visits 4 and 7

        -  Vital signs (seated)

        -  Administer study medication

        -  Constant load exercise test (refer to section 11.1.8)

        -  Collect study medication

        -  Medication accountability

        -  Adverse event (A follow up visit must be scheduled if there are any ongoing AEs at visit
           7)

      Follow up Visit (within 30 days of visit 7):

      This visit will take place only if clinically significant abnormalities are seen after all
      results from Visit 7 are obtained and reviewed by the Investigator and Medical Monitor.

      After informed consent, patients will attend an initial screening visit (Visit 1) for review
      of medical history, clinical assessment, complete pulmonary function testing (plethysmography
      and spirometry). A symptom-limited incremental cycle exercise test, with measurement of
      incremental and peak VO2, carbon dioxide output (VCO2), minute ventilation (Ve), Vt,
      respiratory frequency, heart rate (HR), oxyhemoglobin saturation by pulse oximeter (SpO2) and
      modified Borg score for breathlessness will also be performed at screening, as well as
      measurements of airway responses to salbutamol.

      Patients who meet the eligibility requirements will be randomized to treatment with
      tiotropium or placebo. Double-blind medication will be dispensed in HandiHalers to be taken
      once daily in the morning for 22 days. Patients will report to the laboratory for two
      separate treatment periods with a washout of 4-6 weeks between treatment periods. A patient
      diary card will be kept to document morning doses of study medication for calculation of
      compliance. The patient will return used medication capsules for confirmation of medication
      compliance. Safety will be assessed by examining adverse events (AEs), resting and exercise
      electro cardio grams (ECG's), routine laboratory tests and vital signs.

      In the event of treatment of an exacerbation with oral corticosteroids, any scheduled visit
      will be delayed for 1 week following the last dose of steroid treatment.
    
  