
    
      The frequent failure of CRT in non-Left Bundle Branch Block (non-LBBB) patients is suspected
      to be due to more complex and heterogeneous forms of electrical/mechanical dyssynchronies
      needing more complex and individualized pacing configurations to be corrected.

      Acute studies during implant show that standard biventricular pacing provides optimal
      mechanical improvement only in a minority of patients. In a peri-operative echo-guided leads
      placement procedure most of non-improved patients could be successfully mechanically
      resynchronized. A significant number of patients required optimized placement of right
      ventricular (RV) lead and/or triple-site configurations.

      These studies led to the hypothesis that more complex and individualized pacing
      configurations (Triple-site biventricular) might increase the number of responders to CRT.

      To assess this hypothesis, this study will be conducted in Class II-ambulatory IV patients
      indicated for CRT with wide QRS (≥ 140 ms) and non-LBBB. Patients will be randomized in a 1:1
      configuration:

        -  Standard biventricular pacing (1 right ventricular/1 left ventricular (1RV/1LV)) through
           classical implantation procedure without peri-operative optimization

        -  Triple-site biventricular pacing with individual optimization of the placement of the
           third lead by peri-operative echo guidance.

      The objective of the optimization process is to improve LV efficiency and to decrease the
      left pre-ejection interval (LPEI, defined as the time interval between the onset of QRS and
      the onset of LV ejection) as much as possible compared with a standard biventricular
      configuration by moving a second right ventricular lead at different locations.

      LPEI is simple to measure, with good inter- and intra-observer reproducibility and its
      utility has previously been strongly suggested.

      Reduction in LPEI results in decreased duration of ventricular systole and is associated with
      improved LV filling and reduced interventricular delay.

      The primary objective of this study is to demonstrate that individually optimized,
      triple-site biventricular pacing is superior to standard biventricular pacing in reverse
      ventricular modeling as demonstrated by Echo Left Ventricle End-Systolic Volume (LVESV) at 1
      year in patients with non-LBBB morphology without increasing the risk of serious procedure
      and/or device related adverse events at 30 days.
    
  