
    
      Although the prevalence of "family-friendly" policies in US workplaces has increased
      dramatically in recent years, few have been studied using scientifically sound designs. To
      address this critical gap, the NIH and CDC formed the Work, Family, and Health Network
      (WFHN). During Phase 1, the WFHN designed and conducted multiple pilot and feasibility
      studies.

      For Phase 2, the WFHN implemented an innovative intervention based on Phase 1 pilot studies
      that is designed to increase family-supportive supervisor behaviors and employee control over
      work, and to evaluate the intervention using a group randomized experimental design. The goal
      of the study is to assess the effects of a workplace intervention designed to reduce
      work-family conflict, and thereby improve the health and well being of employees. The study
      intervention is grounded in theory from multiple disciplines and supported by findings from
      pilot/feasibility studies. The study seeks to inform the implementation of evidence-based,
      family-friendly policies, and thereby improving the health and well-being of employees and
      their families nationwide.

      The investigators assess the efficacy of the intervention via two independent,
      group-randomized field experiments, one at each of two employers representing different
      industries, referred to by alias as "LEEF" and "TOMO". LEEF is an extended care (nursing
      home) company and facilities were excluded if they were in very isolated settings, if there
      were fewer than 30 direct patient-care employees, or if facilities were recently acquired.
      TOMO is an Information Technology company. Within each industry partner, worksites of 50-120
      employees each were randomly assigned to intervention or usual practice conditions. All
      employee and supervisor participants were assessed at baseline and at 6-, 12-, and 18-months
      post baseline, including survey interviews and health assessments.

      Primary health outcomes were comprised of a cardiometabolic risk score using selected
      biomarkers and sleep duration and quality objectively measured using wrist actigraphy. These
      primary health outcomes were independently assessed as change from baseline to the 12-month
      wave, and separately in the two industries.
    
  