
    
      The beneficial effects of inhaled HS in CF patients (cystic fibrosis) have been well
      established. Concerns over safety and intolerability in patients with COPD/CB, based in part
      upon experiences with ultrasonic delivery devices, have limited interest in further exploring
      this therapeutic option. Although our clinical data suggests that HS delivered via jet
      nebulizer is generally well tolerated in patients with COPD/CB, our pre-clinical data
      suggests that cell shrinkage, the release of proinflammatory cytokines (i.e. IL-8), and
      transient cilia stasis is dependent upon the rate of aerosol delivery.

      Slow/continuous delivery may avoid most/all of these detrimental effects while promoting an
      even greater cumulative ASL (airway surface liquid) volume increase. To translate these data
      into a feasible treatment strategy, a comfortable, quiet delivery device that can be used for
      long time periods (i.e. overnight) was developed to slowly deliver HS via a nasal cannula
      device while avoiding aerosol rain-out in the device's tubing. Use of a computational model
      (MPPD: Multiple-Path Particle Dosimetry V2.0) predicts that this device, which generates a 2
      um MMAD aerosol particle, will achieve -5-8% lung deposition. When tuned to an output of
      ~0.033 ml/min, 8 hours of use is predicted to deposit a minimum of 140 mg of NaCI onto airway
      surfaces. This compares favorably to the estimated mass delivered via jet nebulizer in the
      clinically successful study of HS in CF (110 mg/day, assuming 19.75% deposition fraction with
      the Pari LC PLUS).

      The proposed study is a single site, randomized, open label, cross-over trial designed to
      measure the tolerability and effect on mucociliary clearance following 7% HS delivered via
      tPAD for eight hours overnight to COPD/CB subjects. Comparison will be to measurements made
      following no treatment during an overnight stay. COPD/CB subjects meeting inclusion and
      exclusion criteria will be enrolled in the study. All study procedures will be conducted in
      the Clinical Translational Research Center (CTRC) at UNC Hospitals and the EPA building on
      Mason Farm Rd on the UNC Hospitals campus.
    
  