
    
      Research Question: What is the effect of the paclitaxel eluting TAXUS® Liberté® stent
      compared with the bare-metal Liberté® stent (both Boston Scientific Corporation, Natick, MA)
      in saphenous vein graft (SVG) percutaneous coronary interventions (PCI) when used in
      conjunction with a glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitor, e.g., abciximab (ReoPro®, Eli Lilly &
      Co., Indianapolis, IN), and a distal filter system? Design: Prospective, multicenter,
      controlled randomized trial. Subjects: Inclusion criteria: Patients undergoing SVG PCI with a
      target vessel reference diameter ≤ 5.5 mm (visual estimate); documented silent ischemia,
      stable angina pectoris Canadian Cardiovascular Society (CCS) class I to IV, or acute coronary
      syndrome. Exclusion criteria: Previous stent implantation anywhere in the target SVG;
      concomitant native vessel PCI; SVG age <6 months; arterial grafts; oral anticoagulation;
      platelet count <100x109/L or >700x109/L; any major non-cardiac condition with a life
      expectancy <12 months; known allergies against the components tested; white blood cell count
      <3000 cell/mm3; enrolled in other study; no consent; patients unlikely to comply to the study
      treatment and the follow-up visits. Recruitment: Consecutive sample of all patients who
      qualify Variables: Predictor: Randomization will be single-blinded 1:1 to the TAXUS® Liberté®
      vs. the Liberté® stent (both Boston Scientific Corporation, Natick, MA). In all patients, a
      distal filter system will be used during PCI. The use of a glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitor,
      e.g., abciximab (ReoPro®, Eli Lilly & Co., Indianapolis, IN), will be strongly recommended
      (bolus prior to PCI and 12 h infusion post PCI). Outcome: Primary: MACE after 12 months. MACE
      will be defined as the composite of cardiac death (all deaths not clearly non-cardiac),
      non-fatal myocardial infarction, and TVR. Secondary: Non-fatal myocardial infarction and
      cardiac death at 30 days and 6, 12, 36, and 60 months; MACE at 30 days and 6, 36, and 60
      months; quality of life; individual components of the primary endpoint; non-cardiac death;
      major bleeding, defined as need for surgery, need for blood transfusions, and cerebral
      hemorrhage during antiplatelet therapy; minor bleeding, defined as a drop in hematocrit of >2
      mg/dL.
    
  