
    
      Almost half of Veterans with localized prostate cancer (the most common non-cutaneous
      malignancy among US men) receive inappropriate, wasteful imaging. The VHA Blueprint for
      Excellence prioritizes increasing operational effectiveness. Prior studies seeking to limit
      inappropriate imaging did not assess barriers and achieved mixed results. The investigators'
      team has explored the causes of guideline-discordant prostate cancer imaging and found that
      1) patients with newly diagnosed prostate cancer have little concern for radiographic staging
      but rather focus on treatment, 2) physician trust imaging guidelines but are apt to follow
      their own intuition, fear medico-legal consequences, and succumb to influence from colleagues
      who image frequently. In spite of such discrepant views, most VHA physicians suggested or
      supported a large-scale effort to improve imaging use across VHA.

      The investigators propose a multi-site, stepped wedge, cluster-randomized trial to determine
      the effect of a physician-focused behavioral intervention on VHA prostate cancer imaging use.
      The multi-level intervention, developed according to the Theoretical Determinants Framework,
      combines traditional physician behavior change methods with novel methods of communication
      and data collection. The intervention consists of three components: 1) a system of audit and
      feedback to clinicians informing individual clinicians and their sites about how their
      behavior compares to their peers' and to published guidelines 2) a program of academic
      detailing with the goal to educate providers about prostate cancer imaging, and 3) a CPRS
      Clinical Order Check for potentially inappropriate imaging. The intervention will be
      introduced to 10 participating geographically-distributed study sites.

      The investigators will assess imaging rates 6 months prior to the intervention and 3 months
      following the intervention. The study's specific aims seek to understand the effects of the
      intervention on 1) facility-level prostate cancer imaging rates, 2) physician experience with
      and perceptions of the intervention and its implementation, and 3) the costs of both
      implementing the intervention and affecting change in imaging use. These aims will support a
      subsequent intervention to improve guideline-concordant imaging across VHA. Experience gained
      through this project will be leveraged to improve guideline-concordant care and increase
      operational effectiveness in other domains.
    
  