
    
      1. The acupuncture treatment will start after patients have received at least 3 weeks of
           Gabapentin or Pregabalin at adequate dose without improvement in PN

        2. Two sessions of acupuncture per week, each of 30minutes duration, will be administered
           for a total of 10 sessions over 5 weeks. The needling will be done by the designated
           acupuncturist for all patients, delivered with electrical stimulation at a defined
           frequency.

        3. A fixed set of acupoints will be applied which include both local and distant points,
           based on both symptoms of PN and classification of TCM syndrome. Some degree of
           flexibility with addition or reduction of acupoints is allowed based on clinical
           indication. The acupoints needled each session will be recorded.

        4. Assessment of efficacy 4.1 Objective response : A complete neurological examination will
           be done at commencement of acupuncture and at end of acupuncture.

      In addition, a full nerve conduction test will be done at beginning of acupuncture and at the
      end of 10 sessions of acupuncture.

      4.2 Subjective assessment A quality of life questionnaire (FACT/GOG-NTX v4) will be filled in
      by patients at enrolment, commencement, at the 6th session and at the end of 10 sessions of
      acupuncture.

      4.3 Scoring With both objective and subjective assessment, a Total Neuropathy Score can be
      calculated at each time point as a quantitative measurement of the severity of PN

      5. Statistical considerations The statistical analysis specifies that a lower limit of the
      two-sided 90 percent confidence interval for the overall positive response that exceeded 10
      percent would be considered to be evidence of significant efficacy of acupuncture in
      retarding Bortezomib or thalidomide induced PN. Allowing a confidence interval width of 30%,
      the sample size needed will be 34 patients. To allow for a 10% drop-out, we plan to recruit a
      total of 40 patients
    
  