
    
      Current effective lifestyle behavior intervention studies aimed to prevent excessive
      gestational weight gain (EGWG) in overweight or obese pregnant women have limited
      practicality, scalability, and sustainability because of high participant burden and
      excessive cost for clinical practice. Also, prior studies paid little or no attention to
      motivation, emotion and cognition, all of which are critical to motivate and enable
      individuals to engage in healthy lifestyle behaviors and achieve positive health outcomes. A
      promising approach to prevent EGWG in overweight or obese pregnant women is through
      goal-oriented episodic future thinking (GOEFT). This pilot randomized controlled trial, aims
      to prevent EGWG in overweight or obese pregnant women. The proposed self-directed, web-based
      GOEFT intervention will focus on increasing motivation (autonomous motivation and
      self-efficacy) and improving emotion (emotion control and stress) and cognition (executive
      function, ExF), thus promoting healthy lifestyle behaviors. This will lead to prevention of
      EGWG and a reduced rate of gestational diabetes, gestational hypertension, cesarean delivery
      and fetal macrosomia. Our intervention will last 20 weeks (starting at 17 week-gestation).
      Participants (N = 90; 50% White, 50% minority) will be recruited and enrolled from prenatal
      care clinics at The Ohio State University Wexner Medical Center and be randomly assigned to
      our GOEFT intervention (n = 45) or usual care (n = 45). All participants will be assessed at
      baseline (<17 week-gestation, T1), 24-27 week-gestation (T2) and 35-37 week-gestation (T3).
      Specific aims are (1) to determine feasibility of the GOEFT intervention: recruitment,
      randomization, retention and intervention implementation, (2) to investigate the potential
      efficacy of the intervention on gestational weight gain and maternal and birth outcomes, (3)
      to investigate the potential impact of the intervention on lifestyle behaviors and (4) to
      investigate the potential impact of the intervention on motivation, emotion and cognition.
    
  