
    
      Patients will either be pre-screened prior to their pre-operative appointment for
      eligibility, or screening will occur on the day of surgery. Informed Consent will be obtained
      from amenable, eligible patients prior to their operation by a member of the research team. A
      study number will be assigned, and the patient will be randomized to a treatment group. The
      patients will not be aware to which treatment group they have been randomized.

      After consent is obtained and randomization has been completed, the operating room registered
      nurse will calculate maximum dose of allowable bupivacaine per patient based on body weight.
      Anesthesia will provide the intravenous lidocaine bolus on induction to all patients without
      a contraindication to the medication. The port placement will occur using a needle to raise
      skin/preperitoneal wheal*. Up to 20cc of 1% lidocaine/epinephrine will be divided among all
      ports and stab incisions. At end of case, no further skin or port-specific preperitoneal
      anesthetic will be injected unless a skin incision was extended.

      For patients randomized to port site injection (Control): 60 cc of sterile,
      preservative-free, injectable saline will be given as a placebo per the protocol in item 6.

      For patients randomized to bupivacaine plain LAPB (Treatment Arm 1): The maximum weight-based
      dose of plain bupivacaine will be diluted with sterile, injectable, preservative-free saline
      to a total of 60cc with a maximum of 250mg bupivacaine (regardless of weight) and loaded into
      a 30cc syringe with a 22g spinal needle (one 30cc syringe used for each side).

      For patients randomized to liposomal bupivacaine LAPB (Treatment Arm 2): The maximum dose for
      adult patients is 266mg (20mL) of liposomal bupivacaine. This will be diluted with 40cc of
      preservative-free normal saline for injection, per manufacturer recommendations. The solution
      will then be loaded into a 30cc syringe with a 22g spinal needle and injected in the same
      fashion as the bupivacaine plain LAPB.

      Data collection will include total doses of IV and skin and block anesthetic used, patient
      weight, number and size of ports, if fascial closure of port site was conducted, and
      post-operative narcotic medication used up to 48 hours with timing and doses marked, and use
      of any pain adjuncts (nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs [NSAIDs], acetaminophen,
      gabapentin, tricyclic antidepressants [TCA], pregabalin, clonidine, etc.) although doses of
      these medications are not to be recorded.

      Provision of home narcotic prescription will be based on a standardized protocol developed by
      Dartmouth. Based on the past 24 hours of pain medication usage, patients will receive either
      15 or 30 tablets of hydrocodone/acetaminophen 5/325mg (or liquid equivalent for bariatric
      patients). Use of narcotic medications at home will be evaluated at 1 week post-procedure by
      a member of the research team through a phone survey.
    
  