
    
      This study is a case-control observational study to be done at Clinical pathology department,
      Assiut University hospital, Assiut University, Egypt.

      Patients with inherited qualitative platelets defect with clinical manifestations in the form
      of mucocutaneous bleeding or hemorrhage will be included in the study. Individuals with
      similar age and sex distribution to the patient group will act as controls. Control group
      shouldn't take medications or anti-platelet drugs for the preceding two weeks. They should
      have normal platelet count and morphology. Bleeding patients with acquired bleeding,
      coagulation defects, and those on anti-platelet drugs will be excluded from the study.

      All Patients with inherited platelets function disorders will be subjected to:-

      I - Careful history and clinical examination data collecting including:

      Clinical history of bleeding such as (Sites, Severity and frequency of bleeding, trauma
      related events, history of surgical procedures, history of menorrhagia in females, history of
      packed red cell/ platelets transfusion.

      II - Family history such as consanguinity, bleeding complications in any parents/ siblings.

      III - Grading of bleeding severity: according to World Health Organization (WHO) bleeding
      assessment scale from grade 1 to grade 4.

      The following routine investigations will be done:-

        1. Complete blood count (CBC) analysis.

        2. Prothrombin time, concentration and international normalized ratio (INR) assay.

        3. Activated partial thromboplastin time assay.

        4. Fibrinogen level and thrombin time assay.

      The following specific investigations:-

        1. Platelets aggregation tests by aggregometer using four different agonists (ADP,
           Collagen, Arachidonic acid and ristocetin) on Bio/Data PAP-8E.

        2. Flowcytometry analysis of platelets receptors (CD 41, CD 61 and CD 42b) on BD
           FACSCalibur flowcytometry instrument.

      Data collection and analysis will be done by computer program SPSS version 21 Chicago USA.
      Data expressed as mean ±SD, mean±SE, number and percentage. Using Manwhitny test to determine
      the significance for numeric variable and chisquare to determine the significance for
      non-parametric variable. ROC curve was done to determine the area under curve (AUC),
      sensitivity and specificity for each marker.
    
  