
    
      This is a randomized, single-center double-blinded study.

      Donor Pre-treatment Strategy:

      The main objective is to identify the lowest dose that will allow an at least 80% decrease in
      the activity of classic pathway and Mannose-Binding Lectin (MBL) pathway of complement. The
      main objectives parallel observations in non-human primates in which animals receiving
      kidneys from donors in which activity of both classic and MBL pathways of complement were
      reduced by at least 50% with the use of C1 inhibitors displayed very mild or no delayed graft
      function after transplantation.

      This trial has specifically been designed to evaluate the beneficial effect of C1INH in
      kidneys from deceased donors which have a high rate of delayed graft function. The selection
      of potential donors to be part of this study will be limited to the population of donors with
      a KDPI over 60%.

      A total of 36 brain dead donors and 72 kidney recipients will be included in the study.

      Most of the donors with a Kidney Donor Profile Index (KDPI) >60%, due to the fact that they
      are considered "extreme" donors, are not likely to be able to donate organs other than
      kidneys. They would certainly not be pancreas donors, and it is unlikely they would be lung
      donors. There is a small possibility that donors with a KDPI >60% could be potential liver
      donors. In the event that a donor liver is available for transplant, we will obtain written
      consent from the liver recipient, as we will from the kidney recipient(s) before the donor is
      dosed with the CINRYZE/placebo.

      For this study:

      All donors will come from within our service area. All kidney and livers will be allocated to
      be transplanted at the UW.

      Stage 1: Collection of initial safety data prior to expanding the study to a broad cohort of
      patients.

      3 non-randomized donors: Step 1: Two kidney only donors treated with 200 units/kg C1INH and
      heparin at 20 units/kg/h IV maintenance until organ recovery Step 2: Two donors of both liver
      and kidneys, treated with 200 units/kg C1INH and heparin at 20 units/kg/h IV maintenance
      until organ recovery The 8 kidneys and 2 livers in Stage 1 will be allocated to be
      transplanted only at UW.

      Stage 2: PK Study, Safety and Outcome Data

      36 donors will be randomized into 3 groups:

      Group 1: Control group: standard donor management + vehicle treatment (n=12) Group 2:
      Standard donor management + C1INH at a dose of 200 U/Kg IV single dose (n=12) Group 3:
      Standard donor management + C1INH at a dose of 200 units/kg IV single dose and heparin at 20
      units/kg/h IV maintenance until organ recovery (n=12)
    
  