
    
      Tuberculosis (TB) remains one of the most important infectious diseases worldwide. According
      to the World Health Organization (WHO) estimates, there were 9 million new TB cases and 1.5
      million related deaths in 2013. Future control strategies include early treatment for
      preventing transmission and treatment of latent TB infection (LTBI) for reducing
      reactivation. Patients with renal failure undergoing dialysis have increased risk of TB due
      to attenuated cellular immunity. For instance, their risk of developing active TB in the
      dialysis population is 7.8-25 times higher than that of the general population. However, TB
      diagnosis is usually delayed because of frequent extra-pulmonary manifestations. Thus, LTBI
      detection in this specific group is important.

      Positive results of interferon-gamma release assays (IGRAs) and the exclusion of active TB
      are the current diagnostic bases of LTBI, which is a precursor of tuberculosis reactivation.
      However, recent reports show a high negative reversion rate of quantiFERON Gold In-tube
      (QFT-GIT), a kind of IGRA, in cohorts of health care workers (33% after 18 weeks) close TB
      contacts (35% after six months), and patients receiving long-term dialysis (46% after six
      months). This phenomenon questions the clinical significance of a single positive IGRA
      result. Increasing the IGRA threshold or doing serial follow-up to improve specificity have
      both been suggested but there is no comparison by the risk of TB development.

      Therefore, increasing the accuracy and stability and then improving the rate of negative
      conversion from positive IGRA results are very important. Currently, new generation of
      QuantiFERON-TB Gold Plus includes two tubes for CD4 and CD8 T cells response, which can
      indicate TB immune response more specifically. The investigators applied this project to
      compare the performance of diagnosing LTBI by QuantiFERON-TB Gold Plus in comparing
      QuantiFERON-TB Gold In-tube.
    
  