
    
      Background

      A brain injury (e.g. stroke, traumatic brain injury) occurs all of a sudden and is often
      followed by complex neurological and psychological consequences. These consequences do not
      only affect the patients with the brain injury as Muriel Lezak already stated in 1988: "Brain
      damage is a family affair". Symptoms of depression and anxiety as well as an increased
      caregiver burden are common, but there is still a lack in randomized controlled trials that
      investigate the efficacy of multicomponent interventions for informal caregivers. The main
      aim of the current study is to close this scientific gap with an innovative method for this
      special population. OSCAR (the Internet-based supportive coaching) uses the Internet as a
      communication- and information brokering medium and is designed as a "guided-self-help tool"
      where a qualified therapist individually supports every participant. The key objective is to
      investigate the feasibility, acceptance and efficacy of an Internet-based supportive coaching
      (OSCAR) for informal caregivers of adult individuals with an acquired brain injury. It is
      expected that the Internet-based supportive coaching (OSCAR) leads to a better coping of
      emotional distress reactions and caregiver burden.

      Objective

      A key objective is to investigate the feasibility, acceptance and efficacy of an
      Internet-based supportive coaching (OSCAR) for informal caregivers of adult individuals with
      an acquired brain injury.

      Methods

      To one part, OSCAR is part of a randomized controlled intervention study where a standard
      neuropsychological therapy is compared with an integrative neuro-psychotherapy. The
      Internet-based supportive coaching (OSCAR) for the caregivers is part of the integrative
      neuro-psychotherapy arm.

      Additionally a randomized controlled intervention study with a waiting list-control-group
      design is realised.

      Assessments will be made at baseline, after 4 months (progress), after ending with the
      training (termination) and at 6 months post treatment (follow-up).
    
  