
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the response rate and toxicity profile of concurrent and
      consolidative chimeric anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody IDEC-C2B8 (rituximab) therapy compared
      to consolidative rituximab therapy in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia treated with
      fludarabine. II. Assess the complete response (CR) rate in patients receiving concurrent
      therapy with rituximab and fludarabine. III. Assess the frequency of conversion of a partial
      response (PR) to a CR or stable disease to either PR or CR in patients receiving
      consolidative therapy with rituximab. IV. Follow the effects of rituximab and fludarabine on
      the immunologic markers CD4, CD8, IgG, IgA, and IgM. V. Assess the progression-free and
      overall survival of these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are stratified according to stage (I and II vs
      III and IV). Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 treatment arms. Arm I consists of fludarabine
      and chimeric anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody IDEC-C2B8 (rituximab) induction, and arm II
      consists of fludarabine induction. Arm I: Rituximab is administered IV over 4 hours on day 1,
      on day 3, and over 1 hour on day 5 of week 1. Subsequent doses are given over 1 hour on day 1
      every 4 weeks for a total of 6 courses. Fludarabine IV is administered over 10-30 minutes
      daily for 5 days during weeks 1, 5, 9, 13, 17, and 21 for a total of 6 courses. Following the
      sixth course of fludarabine, patients undergo clinical staging and are then observed for an
      additional 2 months, after which they undergo repeat clinical staging, including bone marrow
      aspiration. Patients achieving a complete or partial response or stable disease then proceed
      to consolidation therapy consisting of weekly intravenous infusions of rituximab once weekly
      for 4 weeks. Arm II (Fludarabine Induction): Patients receive fludarabine IV over 10-30
      minutes daily for 5 days during weeks 1, 5, 9, 13, 17, and 21 for a total of 6 courses.
      Patients then proceed as in arm I. Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year, and then
      every 6 months thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A maximum of 100 patients will be accrued for this study within 12 months.
    
  