
    
      Major depressive disorder (MDD) has a lifetime prevalence of over 16%1 and is associated with
      reduced work productivity,2 disability,3 increased mortality,4 and increased rates of suicide
      attempts5 and completed suicides.6 Unfortunately, ~34% fail to respond to standard ADs
      (ADs).7 Environmental and patient-level factors that increase the risk of MDD could pinpoint
      novel mechanisms underlying the disorder. One such factor may be relative hypoxia. Persons
      with hypoxic medical conditions, such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease,
      are at higher risk of depression and suicide compared to those with other chronic medical
      conditions.8-12 Smoking also promotes hypoxia13 and is linked to increased risks of suicide
      and depression.14-16 Of special relevance to this study, living at high altitude produces
      relative hypoxia even after months,17 and is linked to increased risks of suicide18-22 and
      depression.23,24 Hypoxia could contribute to MDD in at least two ways. First, brain
      bioenergetics are altered in both hypoxia and MDD. Hypoxia reduces several neurochemical
      markers of brain activity, including phosphocreatine (PCr) and n-acetylaspartate (NAA),25 and
      alters mitochondrial dynamics in the hippocampus.26,27 Proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy
      (1H-MRS) shows that high-altitude residents have altered whole brain pH and reduced inorganic
      phosphate to total phosphate (tP) ratios compared to persons dwelling at sea-level.28 In
      depressed patients, phosphorus MRS (31P-MRS) shows reduced nucleotide triphosphate (NTP)
      concentrations and decreased PCr concentrations; AD response is associated with increases in
      PCr and NTP.29 Hypoxia could also promote MDD by altering serotonin (5-HT) production.
      Chronic hypoxia reduces 5-HT in the forebrain and brainstem in rodents.30 The conversion of
      tryptophan to 5-hydroxytryptophan (5-HTP) by tryptophan hydroxylase is oxygen-dependent and
      slowed by hypoxia.31,32 Animal studies have shown that selective serotonin reuptake
      inhibitors (SSRIs) are not as effective at altitude,33 possibly because of inadequate 5-HT
      production. Reductions in 5-HT synthesis and inefficiencies in bioenergetics could both
      contribute to altered brain functional connectivity. MDD may disrupt cortical emotion
      regulation,34 and resting state functional connectivity (fcMRI) studies suggest that
      depression involves reduced connectivity between frontal cortical regions and the amygdala,35
      while AD response correlates with normalization of those connections.36 Alterations in
      connectivity associated with AD response are correlated with changes in brain metabolites,37
      suggesting a link to brain bioenergetics.

      This suggests two natural supplements as interventions for depression. Oral creatine
      monohydrate (Cr) could improve bioenergetics in MDD, as Cr alters brain tCr, PCr, and NTP
      levels.38 Moreover, Cr produces improvements in mood39 correlated with normalization of PCr
      levels40 and structural connectivity.41 Alterations in 5-HT synthesis due to hypoxia could be
      rectified by 5-HTP, as its conversion to 5-HT is not oxygen-dependent. 5-HTP elevates brain
      5-HT levels and has AD efficacy in clinical trials.42 The proposed study is a two-phase,
      three-armed trial to evaluate whether SSRI/SNRI augmentation with the supplements Cr, 5-HTP,
      or their combination (5-HTP+Cr) can enhance AD response in treatment-resistant MDD. In the
      R61 phase, the study will assess the ability of the interventions to alter biological
      signatures associated with depression, as measured by 31P-MRS, fcMRI, and changes in whole
      blood 5-HT. In the R33 phase, the study will attempt to replicate the above findings and
      evaluate their correlation with clinical outcomes. The study will have the following aims:

        -  Aim 1 (R61+R33): To identify 31P-MRS correlates of AD response in subjects with MDD
           receiving Cr, 5-HTP, or 5-HTP+Cr. It is hypothesized that subjects' frontal cortical
           metabolism will normalize compared to controls over 8 weeks in those receiving Cr or
           5-HTP+Cr but not those receiving only 5-HTP.

        -  Aim 2 (R61+R33): To identify resting state fcMRI correlates of AD response in subjects
           with MDD receiving Cr, 5-HTP, or 5-HTP+Cr. It is hypothesized that resting functional
           connectivity in prefrontal regions will normalize (with improvement in hypoconnectivity
           between subgenual cingulate cortex and the remaining brain) over 8 weeks in all
           treatment groups compared to controls, with the greatest changes in the 5-HTP+Cr group.

        -  Aim 3 (R61+R33: To characterize changes in whole blood 5-HT levels in study
           participants. It is hypothesized that whole blood 5-HT will increase over 8 weeks in
           subjects receiving 5-HTP or 5-HTP+Cr, but not those receiving only Cr.

        -  Aim 4 (R33): To describe changes in HAM-D scores in study participants randomized
           between SSRI/SNRI augmentation with 5-HTP, Cr, or 5-HTP+Cr. It is hypothesized that
           HAM-D scores will improve over 8 weeks in all treatment groups, with the greatest
           changes in the 5-HTP+Cr group.

      Study results will help elucidate the potential efficacy of a novel combination of
      nutritional supplements in persons with MDD, given strong epidemiologic and physiologic
      evidence suggesting that relative hypoxia can contribute to depression through alterations in
      brain bioenergetics and 5-HT synthesis. Target engagement will be indicated by improvements
      in functional connectivity and frontal cortical energy metabolism.
    
  