
    
      I. To conduct a clinical imaging study utilizing three novel in-room imaging systems: Oblique
      Brainlab ExacTrac images, Orthogonal Varian kilovoltage (kV) On-board Imaging (OBI) image,
      and Varian cone-beam computed tomography (CBCT) imaging to assess their performance in
      reducing inter- and intrafractional setup errors, relative to weekly megavoltage (MV)
      electronic portal imaging device (EPID) images, using both bony landmarks and soft tissue
      changes for head and neck cancer (HNC) patients undergoing external beam radiation therapy
      (RT).

      II. To assess the accuracy of CBCT imaging for measuring systematic soft tissue changes in
      the head and neck (HN) area relative to conventional high resolution contrast enhanced
      fan-beam computed tomography (CT) (FBCT) as a standard.

      III. To assess the systematic and random soft tissue motion errors using daily CBCT imaging
      relative to bony-landmark alignment to evaluate the benefit of soft tissue imaging during
      radiotherapy.

      IV. To quantify soft tissue changes during an entire course of radiotherapy (e.g. tumor
      shrinkage) using daily CBCT imaging.

      V. To determine the feasibility of using measured set up and soft-tissue motion uncertainties
      in conjunction with volume changes observed on serial CBCT images, for offline adaptive
      replanning of HNC patients using available planning tools.

      VI. To quantify the benefits of adaptive image-guided radiotherapy (IGRT) in HN patients in
      terms of target coverage and normal tissue avoidance.

      VII. To determine the feasibility of mounting a phase I/II trial to assess the clinical
      benefits of image-guided adaptive radiotherapy (IGART) in terms of acute and late toxicities
      and tumor control.

      VIII. To build a HNC patient database for future validation of IGART processes using
      deformable image registration and Virtual Clinical Trials (VCTs).

      OUTLINE:

      Patients undergo FBCT once before treatment and once weekly for a total of 6-7 scans, dual
      CBCT up to 5 times weekly for a total of 33-35 scans, 2-dimensional (2-D) x-ray with Varian
      kV OBI 5 times weekly for a total of 33-35 scans, 2-D x-ray with Brain Lab ExacTrac 5 times
      weekly for a total of 33-35 scans, 2-D x-ray with Varian MV OBI once weekly for a total of
      6-7 scans, and EPID imaging up to 5 times weekly for a total of 33-35 scans while undergoing
      IGART.
    
  