
    
      Background: Brace treatment is the most effective non-surgical method for the treatment of
      AIS. The goal of bracing is to stop the curve progression during the high risk period of the
      adolescent growth spurt. A spinal brace is a hard plastic shell with pressure pads installed
      inside the liner to provide mechanical support to the curvature of the spine. It is a big
      commitment for adolescents to wear a brace because it is physically restrictive,
      uncomfortable and draws unwanted attention. Therefore, it is very important to make the brace
      treatment as effective as possible to get patient buy-in to compromise their lifestyle by
      wearing a brace. Patients' belief in the treatment outcomes is also a factor to attain their
      compliance.

      Study Objective: This randomized clinical study will investigate if the effectiveness of
      brace treatment can be maximized by combining ultrasound imaging assistance during brace
      design with the smart brace to automatically maintain corrective brace pressures at the
      optimum level during the whole treatment period.

      Methodology:

      Subject Selection: One hundred and twenty-eight brace candidates with AIS will be recruited
      over the next 5 years. During the scoliosis clinic, the attending orthopaedic surgeon
      identifies a potential candidate. He will ask the potential patient if he/she is interested
      in speaking with the research coordinator about research projects that he/she is eligible.
      The inclusion criteria are patients 1) age 10 - 16 years, 2) diagnosis of AIS, 3) require
      full-time brace wear, 4) Cobb angle between 20° - 40°, 5) Risser sign ≤3 and 6) premenarchal
      or less than 1 year postmenarchal. Subjects will be randomly selected to 1 of the 2 groups:
      a) An ultrasound assisted designed brace and a brace monitor, and b) An ultrasound assisted
      designed brace and a smart brace device. Figure 1 shows the flow chart of the study. Each
      subject will have 50% chance of being in any one of the groups. An extra 15 minutes will be
      needed for both groups during the brace fitting clinic to install the brace monitor or smart
      brace device. An extra 30 minutes will be added to your casting. Participants will be
      monitored until the brace treatment is finished.

      Detailed description: The brace monitor is a small electronic device which will be embedded
      inside the brace. It is a very low power system operating at 3.3 V and 2 milliampere (mA) (on
      average). It is able to store 12 months of data and the battery can last for 9 months. It
      will record how much time and how tightly the subject wears the brace. The brace with the
      monitor looks exactly the same as a standard brace. The subject won't feel any different and
      don't need to do anything beyond. We will replace the monitor with a new one at every
      standard follow up clinic.

      A smart brace device is a small electronic device. It will have a small air bag embedded at
      the major pad area covered with stretchable leather. It will record how much time and how
      tightly the brace is worn. The air bag will inflate if the contact pressure between the brace
      and the body is lower than expected. The air bag will deflate if the contact pressure between
      the brace and the body is higher than expected. This automatic pressure adjustment will only
      be activated during daytime which is individualized based on the patient's sleep pattern. The
      system will also be activated only if breathing motion is detected (which means brace is
      worn). The smart brace monitor is able to store 6 months of data but requiring to recharge
      every day for 30 minutes. The smart brace monitor is a low power system (operating at 4.2 V
      and 150 mA max). It has an on-off switch and a pressure enable-disable regulation switch
      safety functions. Switching enable-disable regulation to off will make the smart brace device
      becomes a standard brace monitor. Turing off the on-off switch will disable all the functions
      and this brace will become a standard brace. We will replace the monitor with a new one at
      every standard follow up clinic.

      The ultrasound assisted design requires to get 4 ultrasound images: normal standing, normal
      supine, bending left supine and bending right supine. Each scan takes approximately 1 minute.
      These 4 scans will provide spine flexibility information. After this, the subject will be
      asked to stand in a wooden positioning frame with pressure pads allow to move
      3-dimensionally. Multiple adjustable brace pads will be applied to the patients' body
      according to orthotist suggestion. An ultrasound scan will be performed after the pads are
      applied. The orthotist will use the ultrasound image to decide if the pads are at the optimum
      locations and applied proper pressures. If the orthotist is satisfied with the correction,
      he/ she will use this setup to build the brace. Otherwise, he/she will adjust the position
      and orientation of the pads and repeated the ultrasound scan.
    
  