
    
      Study Design:

      This is an observational study of tenofovir/emtricitabine (TFV/FTC) concentrations in the
      genital and lower gastrointestinal tracts. Participants will be selected on the basis of
      receiving TFV/FTC as part of their ongoing HIV care. After participant education, informed
      consent, and screening for study eligibility, participants will be evaluated at baseline. All
      samples will be collected over the course of an outpatient sampling visit.

      Study Sampling:

        1. A blood sample will be collected to measure the concentration of TFV/FTC in the blood
           plasma, the concentration of TFV/FTC active metabolite concentrations (TFVdp/FTCtp) in
           the PBMCs, and the concentration of sex hormones in the blood stream.

        2. Vaginal and cervical tissue will be collected (for cisgender women) to measure for
           concentrations of TFVdp/FTCtp, HIV RNA, and estrogen/progesterone.

        3. Rectal tissue samples will be collected to measure for concentrations of TFVdp/FTCtp,
           HIV RNA, estrogen/progesterone (for cisgender and transgender women), and testosterone
           (for cisgender men).

        4. A semen sample will be collected (for cisgender men) to measure the concentrations of
           TFV/FTC, HIV RNA and testosterone.

      Pharmacokinetic Analysis:

      All blood, cervical, vaginal, semen and rectal tissue samples will be analyzed by the
      Clinical Pharmacology and Analytical Chemistry Laboratory (CPAC) at the UNC School of
      Pharmacy. TFV/FTC will be measured in blood and seminal plasma and TFVdp/FTCtp will be
      measured in PBMCs, SMCs using validated LC-MS/MS methods. HIV RNA will be measured in blood
      and seminal plasma using the Abbott Real Time HIV-1 quantitative assay. HIV RNA within the
      cervical and seminal cells and rectal tissues will be measured using an established Droplet
      Digital PCR method. Estradiol and progesterone will be measured in serum using validated
      florescent immunoassays.
    
  