
    
      Clinical and pathological data will be prospectively collected to obtain 2 subgroups: PDAC
      and non-PDAC according to the final biopsy diagnosis. A combined quantitative analysis of the
      proteins and their peptides contained in CytoLyt® will be performed. ROC curves, AUC,
      sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value and negative predictive value associated
      to biomarkers will be calculated to isolate combinations of diagnostic biomarkers. Candidate
      biomarkers will be validated by immunohistochemistry and multiple reaction monitoring.
      Prognostic biomarkers will be evaluated by generating 1-year overall survival curves and Cox
      regression.

      The present research, modeled on current practice, employs novel and holistic approach -
      PANEXPEL methodology - to establish a new repertoire of biomarkers for pancreatic cancer. We
      intent to provide a comprehensive proteomic and metabolomics biomarker signature that will be
      measurable in the patient blood using common clinical methods. The potential for translation
      "from benchside to bedside" is especially high due to the involvement of clinical teams. We
      expect to propose a combined, robust protein/metabolite biomarker signature that can be
      rapidly tested in the clinics.

      Necessary biological resources: Biological resources will include Cytolyt® and Blood Samples,
      accompanied by a signed Free and Informed Consent for each included patient.

        1. CytoLyt® fluid will be first processed by Pathology Dept. of the CHU for routine PDAC
           diagnosis. In essence, the samples are filtered, tissue fragments and cells are kept for
           analysis while flow-through is kept until the diagnosis is confirmed. Once this is
           completed, the samples will be transferred to the lab where the proteins found in the
           CytoLytR fluid will be precipitated and then solubilized. The protein extracts are
           stored at -80°C pending proteomic analysis. The remaining CytoLytR fluid supernatant is
           also stored at - 80°C to be used for metabolomics.

        2. Blood sample will be collected from each patient that underwent diagnostic biopsy. Dry
           tube for serum analysis 5 ml will be collected at the time of inclusion during the
           routine blood test (mandatory assessment pre-operative or pre-chemotherapy). The blood
           sample is centrifuged at 1500xg for 15 minutes while the resulting sera are aliquoted
           (500μl/aliquot; 4-5 aliquots per patient) and stored at -80°C. These samples will be
           stored at Biologic Resources Center (CRB Montpellier) that is labelled NF-S-96900
           (AFNOR). The serum samples are intended for the validation phase (WP4) and will be
           exclusively dedicated to this study.
    
  