
    
      Low back pain is an extremely common health problem that most people suffers at any point in
      their life. Low back pain is the leading cause of activity limitation and work absence
      throughout much of the world and it causes some economic problems for just not only
      individuals but also governments. Low back pain is a symptom rather than a disease.
      Non-specific low back pain term is used when the pathoanatomical cause of the pain cannot be
      determined. Most patients had pain that caused interference with daily function. Low back
      pain can be triggered by physical factors (eg, lifting awkwardly) or psychosocial factors
      (eg, being fatigued or tired), or by a combination of the two (eg, being distracted while
      lifting). There are several nonpharmacologic treatment options that include analgesics,
      muscle relaxants, physical therapy modalities, spinal manipulative therapy, psychological
      therapies and others for back pain. Unfortunately, none of the therapies has been established
      as superior to others. Controversly some of the investigators suggest individuals with
      chronic LBP can more benefit from exercise therapy interventions but still evidence on the
      effectiveness of nonpharmacologic therapies was very limited. The purpose of the study was to
      investigate the effects of different physical therapy techniques on pain, function and core
      stability in patients with low back pain.

      Female patients with chronic, nonspecific LBP who were either undergoing or initiating
      physical therapy treatment at the Baskent University Ankara Hospital Physical Therapy and
      Rehabilitation outpatient clinic participated in the study.

      Before the study began patients were randomized into four groups: Relaxation, Proprioceptive
      Neuromuscular Facilitation (PNF), core stability and control groups.

      Descriptive characteristic of patients was evaluated at the beginning of the study. Pain,
      functionality, kinesiophobia and core stability was evaluated before and after the
      treatments. Pain and functionality were the primer outcome measures of this study,
      kinesiophobia, core stability and satisfaction were seconder. Patient satisfaction was
      assessed after the treatments.

      A hot pack and conventional transcutaneous electrical stimulation (TENS) will be applied with
      a Chattanoga Intelect® stimulator for 20 minutes at a frequency of 100 Hz and a transition
      time of 60 μs. The duration of application was 3 days per week and six weeks for each of the
      four groups. These practices were also applied to individuals in all four groups.

      The program was involved one of the following techniques of relaxation: proprioceptive
      neuromuscular facilitation: core stability or control. At the end of the treatments, the
      individuals in each group were given exercise as home brochure.
    
  