
    
      The present clinical study was designed as a controlled, randomised split-mouth design.
      Twenty patients will be selected by an experienced periodontist responsible for the study at
      the Clinic of Periodontology, School of Dentistry of Ribeirão Preto - University of São Paulo
      (USP). The subjects should have bilateral large, Miller (1985) Class I or II, ≥ 3 mm
      maxillary or mandibular gingival recession in non-molar teeth of different quadrants and in
      the same dental arch. Radiographs will take to evaluate the interproximal alveolar bone
      level.

      Before beginning the active therapy, each patient will be randomised to a single treatment
      group (test or control) by using the method of randomly allocating by simple draw to reduce
      bias and equalize groups. The allocation was implemented by a senior investigator who will be
      not directly involved in the examination or treatment procedures. Using a split-mouth design,
      twenty patients with a total of 40 class I or II recession defects will be randomly allotted
      and treated either with acellular dermal matrix graft (ADMG) + enamel matrix derivative (EMD)
      (test group - TG) and the other side received only ADMG (control group - CG).

      The clinical parameters will be recorded at the selected and adjacent teeth, on both sides,
      with computerized periodontal probe two weeks after basic periodontal therapy (baseline) and
      twelve months after surgery by one-blinded experienced periodontist. A calibration exercise
      will be performed to achieve acceptable intraexaminer reproducibility (≥ 90%).

      The patients initially will complete a pre-surgical therapy - a program of plaque control was
      performed before and after surgery and scaling and root planning with curettes. The plaque
      and bleeding indices should be less than 20% at baseline. All risks and benefits involved in
      the surgical procedures will be explained to the patients before they signed a consent form
      in agreement. The methodology was approved by the Human Ethics Research Committee of the
      School of Dentistry of Ribeirão Preto - USP (process 2009.1.590.58.4/ 004.0.138.000-09).

      A modified surgical technique will be used in both groups, the flap is extended to adjacent
      teeth as a modification of the current subepithelial connective tissue graft technique
      (Langer & Langer, 1985). In the test group, an additional EMD layer will be inserted between
      the ADMG and the flap, and between the ADMG and the root surface by using a sterile brush.
      The prescribed medication will include 0.12% chlorhexidine digluconate solution to rinse
      twice a day for the first fifteen days, amoxicillin for seven days, starting 24 hours before
      surgery, and an analgesic for three days. Patients will continue to smoke as usual and will
      be instructed to avoid trauma and to discontinue tooth brushing at the surgical sites during
      fourteen days.

      The sutures will be removed after fourteen days. The patients will be recalled for control
      and prophylaxis after two and four weeks and, subsequently, once a month until the final
      examination.
    
  