
    
      Background and Specific Aim/Hypothesis Obese, insulin resistant children are at increased
      risk of future cardiovascular disease due to elevated systolic blood pressure, fasting
      insulin, triglycerides, inflammation, oxidative stress, and reduced HDL cholesterol.
      Behavioral/lifestyle therapy should be the foundational approach to treating obesity and
      insulin resistance in all individuals, especially children. However, some children may need
      concomitant medical therapy in order to adequately address their severe risk factor profile
      and early vascular abnormalities. Although not approved by the FDA, metformin has been used
      with mixed success to treat obesity-associated cardiometabolic risk factors in children with
      evidence of insulin resistance. Clearly, other drug therapies should be explored to treat
      cardiovascular risk factors in obese, insulin resistant children.

      Thiazolidinediones have been used to improve glucose control in adult patients with type 2
      diabetes mellitus for approximately 10 years. These peroxisome proliferator activated
      receptor agonists are unique among anti-diabetic agents in that they regulate gene
      transcription to improve insulin sensitivity in peripheral tissues (predominately skeletal
      muscle and adipose tissue). In addition to improving glycemic control, these drugs also
      improve multiple cardiometabolic risk factors such as lipoprotein profile, blood pressure,
      inflammatory markers, adipokines, and endothelial function. Despite the substantial body of
      data showing benefit in adults, pioglitazone has never been evaluated as a therapy to improve
      the cardiometabolic risk factor profile in obese children with evidence of insulin
      resistance.

      Specific Aim: To examine the effects of four months of pioglitazone vs. metformin treatment
      on HDL cholesterol, triglycerides, blood pressure, insulin resistance, endothelial function,
      arterial stiffness, adipokines, oxidative stress, and blood biomarkers of endothelial
      activation in obese, insulin resistant children.

      Hypothesis: In the context of background behavioral therapy, four months of pioglitazone vs.
      metformin treatment will significantly improve HDL cholesterol, triglycerides, blood
      pressure, insulin resistance, endothelial function, arterial stiffness, adipokines, oxidative
      stress, and blood biomarkers of endothelial activation in obese insulin resistant children.

      Significance There is a substantial lack of data in the literature concerning potential drug
      therapies for reducing risk factors in children at high risk of developing future
      cardiovascular disease. Since the prevalence of obesity and insulin resistance in children
      has increased dramatically in the last several decades, there is an urgent need for data from
      randomized, controlled trials to guide treatment approaches for high risk children. This
      pilot study will result in the acquisition of valuable preliminary data which will be used to
      seek funding for and conduct a larger scale clinical trial evaluating the efficacy of
      pioglitazone for treating cardiometabolic risk factors in obese, insulin resistant children.

      Methods Patient Population: 30 obese, hyperinsulinemic children and adolescents entering a
      Pediatric Weight Management Program at the University of Minnesota will be enrolled. In this
      program, children and their families work with a team of trained professionals including
      physicians, dieticians, and psychologists to reduce weight by making healthier eating choices
      and increasing physical activity.

      Study Design: This will be a randomized, double-blind, active-comparator clinical trial.
      Variables will be assessed at baseline (prior to randomization) and after four months of
      therapy.

      Data Collection: The screening visit will take place in the Pediatric Weight Management
      Clinic and will include a complete medical history and physical examination. All research
      testing will take place in the University of Minnesota General Clinical Research Center
      (GCRC).

      Statistical Analysis and Power Considerations: Randomization will be stratified by gender and
      Tanner stage. Changes between groups over time will be compared with a 2X2 (group by time)
      repeated measures ANOVA with Bonferroni post-hoc tests. The main analysis of interest will be
      the ANOVA interaction term, which compares the change in variables over time (pre vs. post)
      between groups. The purpose of this study will be to obtain preliminary data to design and
      seek funding for a larger clinical trial.
    
  