
    
      Androgenetic alopecia (AGA) is a non-scarring patterned alopecia, multifactorial and a
      genetic determined skin condition. This pathology is one of the most common forms of
      progressive hair loss. It's an increasingly frequent complaint of dermatology clinic patients
      and has a high impact psychologically.

      The onset of AGA is gradual and when this pathology progresses, the anagen phase shortens and
      the telogen phase remains constant. As a result, more hairs are in the telogen phase, and the
      patient may notice an increase in hair shedding. This area varies from patient to patient and
      is usually most marked at the vertex in men while women with androgenetic alopecia generally
      lose hair diffusely over the crown. The incidence and prevalence of AGA increases with age.

      Topical minoxidil and oral finasteride are the gold standard therapies for AGA and the only
      two drugs currently that have US Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved indications for
      the treatment of androgenetic alopecia. Minoxidil and finasteride are known to be effective
      medical treatments in AGA, especially during the initial grades.

      PRP is a plasma concentrate reaped from the patient's whole blood that comprises
      predominantly platelets. Numerous growth factors (GFs) are present within platelet α
      granules. Some of the most important of these include platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF),
      transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-β), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), epidermal
      growth factor (EGF), and insulin-like growth factor (IGF). This GFs stimulate cell
      proliferation and differentiation.

      PRP was identified as having a beneficial effect on bone grafting with applications in oral
      and maxillofacial surgery, orthopedic and cardiac surgery. More recently, increasing interest
      is seen in the application of PRP in dermatology, for example, tissue regeneration, wound
      healing such and fat grafting. It has also been shown to promote hair survival and growth,
      both in vitro and in vivo.

      The production of autologous PRP involves extraction of a specific volume of the patient's
      whole blood, which is then placed in an automated centrifuge to separate the layers of whole
      blood by their specific weight into 3 separate layers: (1) platelet-poor plasma, (2)
      platelet-rich plasma and (3) red blood cells.

      The patients were divided into two groups (A and B): group A received treatment with PRP on
      the right half-head and the placebo on the left half-head, whereas group B received treatment
      with PRP on the left half-head and the placebo on the right half-head.
    
  