
    
      In the present study we proposed to examine neo-aortic properties in a cohort of children
      with single ventricle heart defects who have undergone the bi-directional Glenn procedure
      (with or without Norwood palliation) and compare them to a cohort of patients with single
      ventricle who have had no aortic arch interventions. Patients in both groups typically
      undergo the Fontan operation between 18-48 months of age. After arrival to the operating
      suite and the placement of routine instrumentation, a transesophageal echocardiography (TEE)
      is routinely obtained. All data needed for this protocol is obtained during this TEE.

      The stiffness of the aorta will be determined by calculating the pressure-strain elastic
      modulus (Ep) and the stiffness index beta (β). They are calculated from the formula
      Ep=[Ps-Pd]/[Ds-Dd/Dd] and β = [ln Ps/Pd[Ds-Dd]. Pressure-strain elastic modulus measurements
      have been utilized to measure the stiffness of the aorta and carotid arteries in both adults
      and children with a high reproducibility and low interobserver variability. The stiffness
      index beta has been proposed as a better measure of aortic stiffness because of its
      independence from measured blood pressure. The ability of a vessel to distend to store extra
      volume due to pressure effects is known as its compliance. A vessel with a higher compliance
      will be more "stretchy" and will therefore be more favorable to holding a greater volume of
      blood rather than storing a lot of pressure energy. Conversely, a vessel with a lower
      compliance will be less "stretchy" and therefore be more favorable to storing a lot of
      pressure energy rather than holding a greater volume of blood. Essentially, if two vessels
      are of equal size (cross-sectional flow area and volume), but one vessel has a lower
      compliance, then a 1 milliliter change in volume of the lower compliance (less stretchy)
      vessel will result in a greater pressure increase than a 1 milliliter change in volume of the
      higher compliance (more stretchy) vessel. Compliance will be assessed by the use of automatic
      border detection. This provides a continuous measure of the vessel cross-sectional area over
      time. Compliance is calculated by (Areamax-Areamean/mean blood pressure).

      Blood pressure data will be recorded simultaneously with an arterial catheter that is used
      routinely during the operation.
    
  