
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the progression-free survival in patients with newly diagnosed metastatic
      colorectal cancer treated with modified fluorouracil, leucovorin calcium, and oxaliplatin 6
      (mFOLFOX6)/bevacizumab and PRI-724 vs. mFOLFOX6/bevacizumab alone.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Overall survival, defined as period from time of randomization to death. II. Response
      rate. III. Determine the incidence and severity of adverse events of PRI-724 administered as
      a 7-day continuous infusion in patients treated with mFOLFOX6/bevacizumab and PRI-724.

      IV. Determine messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) expression levels of genes involved in the
      Wnt pathway (i.e. survivin) by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) in
      patients treated with mFOLFOX6/bevacizumab and PRI-724 vs. mFOLFOX6/bevacizumab alone both in
      circulating tumor cells (CTCs) and tumor biopsy specimens.

      V. Determine if CTC survivin and stem cell marker expression is consistent and congruent with
      expression in tumor specimens.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine if a correlation exists between Kirsten rat sarcoma viral oncogene homolog
      (KRAS)/ B-Raf proto-oncogene, serine/threonine kinase (BRAF) mutation status and intratumoral
      gene expression of the following Wnt related biomarkers: survivin, vascular endothelial
      growth factor (VEGF), epidermal growth factor (EGF), epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR),
      S100 calcium binding protein A4 (S100A4), EPH receptor B2 (EphB2), connexin43, cyclinD1 in
      patients treated with mFOLFOX6/bevacizumab and PRI-724 vs. mFOLFOX6/bevacizumab alone.

      II. Determine the mutational spectrum in colon cancer tissues. III. Determine single
      nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) profiles in normal and colon cancer tissues.

      IV. Determine and describe tumor heterogeneity in colon cancer tissue prior to and during
      treatment with PRI-724.

      V. Determine gene expression signatures, micro RNA (miRNA) signatures, and deoxyribonucleic
      acid (DNA) methylation signatures as potential predictive and prognostic markers.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive CBP/beta-catenin antagonist PRI-724 intravenously (IV) continuously
      on days 1-7, bevacizumab IV over 30 minutes, leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours, oxaliplatin
      IV over 2 hours, and fluorouracil IV over 46 hours on day 8. Courses repeat every 14 days in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive bevacizumab, leucovorin calcium, oxaliplatin, and fluorouracil as in
      Arm I. Courses repeat every 14 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 3
      months.
    
  