
    
      More than 33% of U.S. adults over the age of 20 are obese (BMI ≥30 kg/m2), and 6% are
      severely obese (BMI ≥40 kg/m2). As the prevalence and severity of obesity has increased, so
      has the number of women who have obesity-related abnormalities in reproductive function,
      including anovulation and infertility. Specifically, obesity contributes to ovulatory
      problems and compromises ovarian response to ovulation induction agents such as clomiphene.

      Women seeking assistance from specialists for reproductive concerns are both anxious to
      achieve pregnancy and highly motivated. We propose to assess the relative efficacy of very
      low energy diet (VLED) using liquid meal replacement vs. standard of care dietary counseling
      and education (DCE) on the metabolic effects of weight reduction in the obese, subfertile
      population and assess ovulation and time to conception in these women. We hypothesize that
      use of a very low energy diet with resultant rapid and profound weight loss and marked
      improvement in metabolic state, will increase the rate of spontaneous cycling, improve
      unassisted and clomiphene-assisted ovulation and significantly improve conception and
      pregnancy rates. Because of the direct relationship between obesity and anovulation, we will
      test whether evaluation of both habitual dietary intake and plasma metabolomic profiles can
      be used to identify specific dietary components and metabolites that predict successful or
      unsuccessful induction of ovulation and pregnancy in response to weight loss with or without
      clomiphene citrate.

      32 reproductive age women with a BMI ≥35≤45 kg/m2 will be randomized to 12 weeks of VLED or
      DCE and ovulation rates and time to conception between groups will be assessed over a 6 month
      period. We will also evaluate between group differences in rate of weight loss, absolute
      weight lost, BMI, waist and hip circumferences as well as reproductive and metabolic hormone
      levels. Luteinizing hormone (LH), follicle stimulating hormone (FSH), androgens, leptin,
      glucose and insulin (HOMA), and β-cell function (Matsuda Index).

      We will assess if clinical, hormonal, dietary or metabolomic profiles, can predict response
      to weight loss or clomiphene citrate in improving ovulation. Women will be assessed for
      clinical and molecular phenotypes, including plasma metabolomic profiles. Metabolomic
      profiles will be adjusted for chronic dietary intake. An initial assessment of the levels of
      dietary components, metabolites or metabolic pathways that predict response will be
      investigated.

      We will determine program acceptability and differences in the change in co-morbid health
      conditions, quality-of-life, and psychological well-being in standard of care and VLED-based
      weight loss participants. Important physiological benefits arise from weight loss and the
      magnitude of these changes will be assessed in the group of patients seeking reproductive
      assistance.

      This pilot study will provide the first information on the relative success of aggressive,
      short-term weight loss in the treatment of infertility as defined by improvement in ovulation
      and conception and provide data for larger, definitive trials of this approach. The study
      will allow assessment of the feasibility and acceptability of translating VLED
      treatment-based clinical care and research developed by the University of Michigan
      Investigational Weight Management Clinic to a specialized population seeking reproductive
      assistance. Finally, this study will provide important preliminary data for a larger trial to
      assess the health effects on the mother and the offspring as a result of aggressive
      intervention to alter the pre-pregnancy metabolic environment in reproductive age women.
    
  