
    
      Intermittent caloric restriction (ICR) can effectively reduce weight and facilitate blood
      glucose control, but whether it can be applied for clinical treatment to non-alcoholic fatty
      liver disease (NAFLD) patients remains unclear. What's more, in order to investigate whether
      the mechanism of glucose-lowering effect of ICR is related to the decrease of liver fat
      content, we intend to carry out this study in NAFLD patients with abnormal glucose
      metabolism. It is an open-labeled randomized trial designed to observe the effect of 5:2
      intermittent calorie restriction (fasting 2 days each week) on liver fat content in NAFLD
      patients with abnormal blood glucose. 50 patients will be randomly divided into ICR group and
      control group for 12 weeks of intervention. ICR group: during the 2-day fasting-mimicking
      period each week, the food based on plant ingredients will be served (4 pieces of nutrition
      bars / day, 1:2:1 for breakfast, lunch and dinner, 124.4kcal / piece, 497.2kcal / day in
      total). In the rest 5 days each week, subjects are allowed ad libitum to their usual food.
      Control group: under the guidance of nutritionist, subjects have to learn the method of food
      calories calculation. The daily calories intake for control group should be: 25 kcal / kg ×
      standard weight [kg, male: height (cm) - 105, female: height (cm) - 100]. Daily food diary is
      required in both groups. During the experiment, all subjects should maintain their exercise
      routine. The use of drugs affecting blood glucose and fatty liver should be avoided. After 12
      weeks of intervention, the changes of liver fat content were evaluated by magnetic resonance
      spectroscopy (MRS), magnetic resonance imaging-proton density fat fraction (MRI-PDFF) and
      quantitative ultrasound method. The effects of ICR on body weight, blood glucose, body fat
      distribution and appetite will also be evaluated. Both groups will be followed up on their
      changes of weight 4 weeks after intervention.
    
  