
    
      Patients will be enrolled and consented for this study in our Urology Clinic at Dartmouth
      Hitchcock Memorial Hospital and randomized prospectively to fluoroscopic versus ultrasound
      guided groups. A computer randomization program will be used to randomize the patient to the
      test or control group. Randomization will take place after they have consented to participate
      in the study, and the case will be booked accordingly. Consent to participate in this study
      will be obtained at the patient's followup appointment. At the time of the initial clinical
      encounter they will be provided with the consent form and information regarding the study.
      Once they have had the chance to look this over they will be contacted about whether they
      would consent to be in the study. If so, they will be randomized and the consent form signed
      on the morning of the procedure. Each group will consist of 25 patients. This pilot group
      size was determined based on feasibility of recruitment in the study period and funding
      availability.

      All patients will receive preoperative antibiotics selected in accordance to their previous
      urine culture sensitivities and their respective allergies where applicable.
      Intraoperatively, all patients will be placed in the dorsal lithotomy position. All patients
      will be under general anesthesia, in both treatment arms, this is standard of care. All
      procedures will begin with standard cystourethroscopy, removal of the previous ureteral
      stent, and passage of a wire proximally into the renal pelvis. The ultrasound group will
      undergo intraoperative transabdominal ultrasonography by a designated ultrasonographer, and
      the presence of the wire, and later the ureteral stent, within the renal pelvis will be
      confirmed via ultrasound in all patients. The control group will undergo standard
      verification of wire and stent placement via fluoroscopy. Operative time as well as radiation
      fluoroscopy time will be recorded and compared between the two groups. At our institution,
      this procedure is scheduled for 140 minutes of OR time based on previous experience by our
      group and this individual surgeon. Stone free rate will be determined at one month post
      operatively with a KUB and renal ultrasound and compared between groups.

      Intraoperatively, if there is concern for poor visualization, lack of progress, or technical
      difficulty related to the use of intraoperative ultrasound, or any other safety concerns,
      then this technique will be abandoned and conventional fluoroscopy will be used for this
      patient group. This will be apparent in the first 15 - 30 minutes of the procedure.
    
  