
    
      breast cancer is the most common cancer diagnosed in women .Breast cancer can occur in both
      men and women, but it's far more common in women.

      The etiology of breast cancer possesses a multifactorial origin , showing as risk factors
      reproductive age, early menarche, late menopause, nulli parity, exogenous hormones ,smoking,
      obesity, diet, alcohol consumption, physical inactivity, and genetic and environmental
      factors(1).

      Chemotherapy combination usually used in treat breast cancer specially cyclophosphamide which
      is alkylating agent and doxorubicin which is cytotoxic drug.

      Doxorubicin entry to the cell is facilitated by the solute importer SLC22A16,the efflux of AC
      drugs uses several ATP-binding cassette transporters (ABC),( ABCB1, ABCC1, ABCC2,
      ABCG2)(2),(7).

      Most chemotherapeutic agents are not specific against neoplastic cells , also affecting
      normal cells. Which result in a wide range of adverse reactions in virtually all tissue of
      body. Unfortunately, chemotherapy-induced toxicities are commonly affecting cancer patients
      with various intensity, and could be the reason for treatment delays and significantly
      lowered quality of life. Hematological and gastrointestinal toxicities are common in patients
      treated with cyclophosphamide and doxorubicin(3).

      Extremely high proliferative capacity of hematopoietic system makes it the collateral target
      for chemotherapeutic agents. Chemotherapy-induced neutropenia are , because of the high
      susceptibility of neutrophil lineage to cytotoxic effects of cancer treatment. The
      drug-induced destruction of neutrophil precursors in bone marrow is the main cause of those
      symptoms. Decrease in neutrophil count is managed by the dose reduction and delays that
      decrease the dose intensity, where is maintaining the dose is important for favorable
      response to treatment(3). Another frequent and serious myelotoxic symptom in breast cancer
      chemotherapy is anemia. This condition may emerge from the disease itself, but the effect of
      concomitant administration of cytotoxic drugs is also the cause of drop in the hemoglobin
      level. Anemia has deleterious effect on patients' quality of life as well as on the treatment
      response. The suspected causes include blood loss, reduced or impaired erythrocytes
      production and high rate of red blood cells destruction or their reduced survival(4).

      Chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting (CINV) is a common severe side effect for cancer
      patients undergoing emetic chemotherapy. The complete pathophysiology of CINV is not known
      but gastrointestinal (GI) side effects associated with anticancer chemotherapy are
      traditionally thought to be attributable to mucosal damage.

      Nausea is complex in nature and probably depending on more than one etiological factor .
      Different pathways have been identified for acute and delayed CINV Also, nausea and vomiting
      can result in anorexia, decreased performance status, metabolic imbalance, wound dehiscence,
      esophageal tears and nutritional deficiency(5).

      In the study we will focuse on the analysis of the relations between the polymorphic variants
      in some drug transporter genes with known or potential role in the AC-induced toxicity.
      Single nucleotide polymorphisms will analyzed in genes encoding proteins Involved in AC drug
      transport
    
  