
    
      This project is about developing and evaluating a novel work rehabilitation program,
      Redesigning Daily Occupations (ReDO), for women with stress-related disorders. It is a
      co-operation project between Lund University, the Social Insurance Office, and the health
      care services of the County of Halland. The ReDO intervention focuses on how people compose
      their everyday lives. Supporting people in how to change and modify their patterns of daily
      occupations is a new intervention method for people with stress-related disorders, but it has
      been shown to be effective in improving quality of life and self-rated health in other target
      groups. The basic idea is that re-structuring of an individual's lifestyle and pattern of
      daily occupations will lead to a healthier balance between the occupations of everyday life,
      and that this balance will promote wellness and increased work capacity. The program is group
      based and comprises 16 weeks, with sessions 2 x 2 hours per week, followed by 3-4 booster
      sessions.

      The aim of the research project is to evaluate the outcomes of ReDO for women with
      stress-related disorders. The hypothesis is that the ReDO group will improve more than a
      comparison group receiving "care-as-usual" (CAU) regarding return to work, sick leave, and
      different aspects of health and well-being. group in all these respects.

      The project is a quasi-experimental study. It covers the time period from entering the
      program to a 12-month follow-up. According to initial plans, the first 50 women who entered
      the ReDO program and fitted the selection criteria would be included. A power analysis
      indicated that 40 individuals in each group were needed to detect a medium effect size (of
      0.6) with 80% power at p<.05. Forty-two women were actually recruited to the ReDO
      intervention. A matched comparison group was selected among those clients at the Social
      Insurance Office who get (CAU). The match was made on specific diagnosis, age, family
      situation (civil status and number of children), type of occupation and duration of sick
      leave. Thus, in all 84 women take part in the project. The data consist of registry
      information from the Social Insurance Office (SIO) and questionnaires targeting
      socio-demographics, perceived stress, and different aspects of health and well-being.
    
  