
    
      One of the most important barriers to achieve durable responses in advanced lung cancer is
      intra- and inter-tumor heterogeneity, a common feature of human solid cancers. Tumor
      heterogeneity is thought to be driven by a subpopulation of tumor cells termed lung cancer
      initiating cells or lung cancer stem cells that reflect the 'cell or origin" and maintain
      self-renewaland multipotent properties of these cells but that are transformed. Organoid
      technology has enabled the culturing of normal and transformed 'stem cells" directly from
      patients without any genetic manipulation (i.e.IPS). Such normal and cancer organoids
      maintain many of the properties of the tumors and are thought to be an excellent in vitro 3D
      model system. In a lab, investigators have successfully established primary 2D and 3D cell
      culture systems including organoids from the proximal bronchus coming from lobectomies. They
      are using these systems to predict normal tissue complication to combination treatments. It
      has been demonstrated that lung stem cell pathways such as the NOTCH signaling pathway are
      frequently deregulated in lung cancers and is associated with a worse outcome. In vitro and
      in preclinical models deregulation of the NOTCH pathway is associated with resistance to
      radiotherapy and first-line chemotherapy. Thus blocking the NOTCH pathway may improve
      treatment response. Checkpoint inhibitors have changed the outcome of patients with
      metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) in first and in second line, with improved
      progression-free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS) and quality of life. Radiotherapy has
      consistently been shown to activate key elements of the immune system that are responsible
      for resistance for immune therapy. Radiation upregulates MHC-class I molecules that many
      cancer cells lack or only poorly express, tumor-associated antigens, provokes immunogenic
      cell death, activates dendritic cells, decreases regulatory T-cells (Tregs) in the tumor,
      broadens the T-cell repertoire and increases T-cell trafficking, amongst many other effects.
      Radiation may convert a completely or partly poorly or non-immunogenic tumor immunogenic.
      Radiotherapy in combination with different forms of immune therapy such as anti-PD-(L)1,
      anti-CTLA4, immunocytokines, dendritic cell vaccination and Toll-like receptor agonists
      improved consistently local tumor control and very interestingly, lead to better systemic
      tumor control (the "abscopal" effect) and the induction of specific anti-cancer immunity with
      a memory effect. Moreover, as PD1/PD-L1 is upregulated by radiation and radiation can
      overcome resistance for PD-(L)1 blockage, their combination is logical. The best timing,
      sequencing and dosing of all modalities is a matter of intense research. Radiotherapy may
      well become an integral part of immune therapy against cancer. Nevertheless, as with all
      treatments, optimal biomarkers for response are lacking. They would not only allow patient
      selection, but would also give insight in resistance mechanisms and the identification of new
      targets or the optimal use of current medications and radiation, such as dosing and
      sequencing. Moreover, not only biomarkers for tumor response, but also for side effects are
      needed, for the latter may be dose-limiting and result in the omission of therapy in the more
      frail and older patient population. Putative biomarkers for immune response are those
      associated with immunogenic cell death (ICD). Organoids are generated from tissue biopsies,
      and are a collection of organ-specific cell types that are able to self-organize in-vitro in
      a manner similar to the in-vivo situation (3D). They have the capability to facilitate
      in-depth analysis of patient's own tumor material at point of diagnosis and during
      progressive/recurrent disease. There is currently no published protocol to establish
      long-term lung cancer organoids from lung cancer patients. Such a methodology would enable
      the prospective identification of 'patient tailored optimal treatments" as well as the
      derivation of predictive biomarkers for response and relapse. Apart from organoids, xenograft
      models also still have their merits. In xenografts, human tumor cells or pieces are injected
      in immunocompromised mice. Especially xenografts derived from fresh human cancer specimen
      have gained much attention for the same tumor as in an individual patient can be grown in a
      mice allowing to study the response to therapy and the mechanisms of resistance.
      Patient-derived tumor xenograft (PDX) models are more reflective of patient population in
      terms of the parental tumors' histomorphological characteristics, the effect of clonal
      selection and evolution on maintaining genomic integrity in low-passage PDXs compared to the
      donor tissue. While organoids can give many insights into molecular biology of the response
      to various anti-cancer therapies, in vivo models allow testing novel anti-cancer therapeutic
      approaches taking complex tumor microenvironment into account reflecting at least in part
      clinical situation. As a clinically representative tool that best recapitulates the
      biological properties of their respective tumor type, PDX models could serve as an important
      aid in personalized medicine studies as well. The tumor can be transplanted subcutaneously,
      but more recently also orthotopically (e.g. a breast cancer is transplanted in the breast of
      a mouse) to investigate the interaction between the tumor and the environment. In Maastro
      lab, we have experience with a variety of these models including orthotopic lung tumor
      models. To generate PDX, tumor material will be retrieved from surgical specimens, cut in
      small pieces, transplanted in the recipient immune deficient animals either subcutaneously or
      implanted directly into the lung. A tumor with the median growth rate will be serially
      transplanted in vivo for further therapeutic experiments. Dedicated small animal irradiator
      in the investigators facility enables precise local irradiation of lung tumors with minimal
      radiation exposure of the surrounding normal tissues. Integrated cone beam computed
      tomography imaging system allows longitudinal monitoring of tumor response to novel
      treatments.
    
  