
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The study was part of a demonstration and education initiative "Interventions for Control of
      Asthma Among Black and Hispanic Children" which was released by the NHLBI in June 1989.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      To develop this comprehensive care system, the investigators provided training for Health
      Department physicians and nurses in up-to-date methods of diagnosing asthma, and providing
      clinical care and health education to patients and families as part of a series of regular 20
      minute patient visits. Nurses and public health assistants were also trained to supplement
      this by teaching the Open Airways self-management program to groups of families. A 24-hour
      telephone advice service for families of asthma patients was staffed by trained Health
      Department physicians.

      The intervention was based on social cognitive theory, especially self-regulation. In Phase
      I, the Health Department medical and nursing staffs were taught by Columbia University
      faculty with reinforcement by Health Department physician and nurse supervisors.
      Self-regulation was fostered in physicians by use of an Asthma Visit Record and in families
      by use of an Asthma Diary. Seven pairs of matched clinics were randomized to be controls or
      receive the intervention. The following hypotheses were tested: that a comprehensive system
      of continuity of care, including medical care, family health education and community outreach
      would (1) increase staff confidence to diagnose and treat childhood asthma; (2) attract and
      retain families who had children with asthma in continuing care relationships in the Health
      Department clinics; and (3) improve the health status of patients and the quality of life of
      their families. Phase II tested whether this comprehensive system could be made
      self-sustaining within the Health Department by having physician and nurse super-visors who
      took part in Phase I teach the program to staff from a second set of matched clinics. This
      program had the potential to reach more than 5000 minority children with asthma. If
      successful it could be generalized to other health departments in the country.
    
  