
    
      The purpose of this study is to clinically validate the sole use of a low-dose computed
      tomography (CT) protocol to reduce the cumulative radiation dose in patients with
      inflammatory bowel disease. In an earlier study using the same CT parameters, the efficacy of
      the low dose technique was confirmed in the setting of a blinded retrospective review
      comparing the findings of the low dose and the conventional dose scan. The purpose of this
      study is to determine the reliability of the using low dose scan in a prospective clinical
      setting

      This is to be achieved using Model Based Iterative Reconstruction (MBIR) which has been shown
      to result in diagnostically acceptable low-dose CT imaging while providing a significant
      reduction of ionising radiation dose to the patient. The authors aim to apply MBIR to their
      low dose protocol, and to facilitate diagnostic quality CT scanning of the abdomen and pelvis
      at an effective dose approximately four times less than what would normally occur with an
      abdominopelvic CT in patients with suspected active Crohn's disease (CD).

      The authors plan to assess the diagnostic efficacy, safety and patient outcome of low dose CT
      reconstructed with MBIR in CD patients presenting to hospital with suspected acute mural and
      extramural complications.

      Patients with inflammatory bowel disease referred to Cork University Hospital (CUH) will
      undergo two series of the abdomen and pelvis: a modified low dose protocol designed to impart
      a radiation exposure of 10-20% that of a routine abdominal and pelvic CT and a conventional
      dose protocol designed to impart an effective dose of 80-90% that of a routine abdominal and
      pelvic CT. Using this strategy, the image quality and diagnostic yield of the low dose CT can
      be compared with that of the conventional dose CT and no patient will incur additional
      radiation exposure as a result of recruitment into the study.

      The low dose scan will be read alone initially by one of two experienced radiologists and the
      diagnostic report will come from this data set only. This report will be placed on the
      Picture Archiving and Communication System (PACS) to be used by the referring clinician who
      will then use the report/low dose scan images for patient management. This methodology is
      used to ascertain the clinical efficacy in a real world setting.

      One month after the initial low dose read, the two Radiologists will read the conventional
      dose CT scans. Note will be made on the PACS report of either agreement or discrepancy with
      the original low dose report. Any important discrepancy will be highlighted to the referring
      clinician by either phone and/or a radiological alert email.
    
  