
    
      Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) is frequently used as a supportive tool in the
      settings of acute severe respiratory and/or circulatory failure. The presence of the
      extracorporeal circuit and oxygenator bring along the need to anticoagulate the patients in
      order to prevent activation of the coagulation cascade that can lead to thrombosis of the
      artificial surfaces and losses of coagulation factors, fibrinogen and platelets. Despite
      tight monitoring with different anticoagulation essays bleeding remain the main threat for
      the patients on ECMO, leaving thrombosis as an anecdotic event.

      In our institution, anticoagulation during ECMO is monitored mainly with aPTT ratio in a
      range of 1.5 to 2 (patient to normal). Recently, the investigators started to match
      Thromboelastography (TEG) assays to activated Partial Thromboplastin Time (aPTT) and
      Activated Clotting Time (ACT) routine measurements during ECMO. Data from a preliminary
      analysis of thirty-two patients show that in nearly half of TEG assays, the R (reaction time)
      parameter which is sensitive to inhibition of fibrin formation by heparin, was consistently
      prolonged despite aPTT and ACT were in the normal range. In the same patients the
      investigators registered high rate of bleeding (nearly 40% of patients suffered from
      clinically significant bleeding, i.e. bleeding that required heparin dose reduction, blood
      transfusions or interruption of the extracorporeal support). These findings suggests the
      possibility that the actual target of aPTT ratio might be overrated.

      The purpose of this study is to test safety and feasibility of standardized protocol based on
      TEG versus current practice (aPTT) to manage anticoagulation during ECMO.

      40 consecutive adults patients undergoing ECMO will be randomized in either the TEG-driven
      anticoagulation group or the aPTT-driven group. Written informed consent will be obtained
      according to national legislation.

      In both groups, when the patient is connected to ECMO, an heparin bolus of 50-70 UI/kg
      (depending on baseline aPTT value) will be administered followed by a continuous infusion of
      18 UI/kg/h started; for the first 12 hours thereafter proper anticoagulation level will be
      monitored with Activated Clotting Time (ACT, therapeutic range 180-210 seconds, performed
      every 1 or 2 hours according to the standardized protocol). From the thirteenth hour onwards
      each group will follow either aPTT monitoring or TEG according to randomization. Every
      morning in both groups aPTT, TEG, Antithrombin and anti-Factor Xa activity will be assessed.

        -  aPTT-driven group: aPTT ratio target is 1.5 - 2.0 as for actual clinical practice;
           frequency of aPTT measurements may vary from a minimum of 3 times per day to a maximum
           of 6 depending on the standardized protocol. When aPTT value falls well below the
           desired range an heparin bolus will be administered. When too high, infusion will be
           stopped for either 30 or 60 minutes.

        -  TEG-driven group: target range of R parameter at Kaolin activated-TEG (R K-TEG) is 16 -
           24 minutes; frequency of TEG assays may vary from a minimum of 3 times per day to a
           maximum of 6 depending on the standardized protocol. When TEG value falls well below the
           desired range an heparin bolus will be administered, when is too high infusion will be
           stopped for either 30 or 60 minutes.

      Daily management requires haemoglobin, platelets, PT ratio, D-dimer and fibrinogen to be
      checked 2 to 3 times daily, and maintained at specific values (Hb > 10 g/dl; PLT >
      45.000/mm3; Fibrinogen > 150 mg/dl; Antithrombin activity > 70%; PT ratio > 1.5) with
      haemocomponents transfusion.

      Data from each patient will be collected on a daily basis: laboratory exams, hemodynamic
      status, transfusions, surgery or invasive interventions, extracorporeal lung performance.

      End of the study will be at ECMO discontinuation, after that deep vein thrombosis on
      patients' cannulation sites will be assessed with doppler ultrasound.
    
  