
    
      Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) constitutes 3 percent of all malignancies and
      is the sixth most common malignancy worldwide. There will be an estimated 38,000 new cases
      and 11,000 deaths in the United States in 2004 and approximately 500,000 cases worldwide
      yearly [1]. Squamous cell carcinoma accounts for at least 95 percent of all head and neck
      cancers. Surgical treatment remains the standard of therapy for patients with resectable
      HNSCC. For patients with high risk of local or distant relapse, radiation therapy (RT) alone,
      or in combination with chemotherapy, is given after surgery to improve loco-regional control
      and overall survival.

      Neoadjuvant chemotherapy for patients with respectable HNSCC remains an experimental option
      for these patients. A two-week delay in definitive surgical resection in patients with
      operable HNSCC is not thought to impact the clinical outcome of these patients and in many
      cases may be needed to complete all of the preoperative work-up. As a result, a study design
      involving a two-week preoperative course of therapy in patients with operable HNSCC should
      not be a concern.

      EGFR as a therapeutic target in HNSCC

      Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) is a 170-Kda transmembrane protein that is thought to
      be important in the proliferation and survival of cancer cells [2]. Overexpression of EGFR
      has been found in several malignancies, including head and neck, lung, breast, prostate,
      bladder, and pancreatic cancer [3-7]. In HNSCC, EGFR and its ligand TGF are overexpressed in
      80-90% of tumors compared to normal mucosa; [8] the coexpression of receptor and ligand
      implicates an autocrine regulatory pathway in HNSCC carcinogenesis. The clinical relevance of
      EGFR overexpression as an independent prognostic factor in HNSCC has been well demonstrated.
      High tumor EGFR levels are correlated with advanced stage,[9] increased tumor size, [9]
      decreased survival,[10-13] increased recurrence,[10] and decreased sensitivity to radiation
      treatment [14]. A recent study suggests that high serum EGFR levels may even correlate with
      higher head and neck tumor grade [15]. The overexpression of EGFR and ligand in partially and
      fully transformed HNSCC tissue, its correlation with poor clinical outcome, and the aberrant
      function of the EGFR network in HNSCC provide compelling evidence of a relationship between
      EGFR and the development and progression of HNSCC, and suggest a role for EGFR as a target
      for cancer therapy.

      EGFR has been targeted at the extracellular domain by blocking ligand binding, at the
      intracellular domain by inhibiting tyrosine kinase activity, and at the genetic level by
      targeting production of the receptor itself. EGFR-specific monoclonal antibodies interfere
      with ligand binding, while conjugation of an EGFR ligand or antibody to a bacterially derived
      toxin enables the delivery of a cytotoxic agent to the cell surface. Many of the
      EGFR-targeting agents are undergoing clinical evaluation in HNSCC. In general, clinical
      responses in HNSCC patients with advanced disease have only been observed when these agents
      have been combined with cytotoxic chemotherapy or radiation therapy. Clinical trials using
      EGFR inhibitors as adjuvant therapy for HNSCC are currently underway.
    
  