
    
      Obesity is a global public health problem of epidemic proportions. It is the source of
      considerable morbidity and early mortality in the U.S. and is associated with increased risk
      of diabetes, hypertension, cardiovascular disease, and cancer.

      In recent years, new and evolving concepts have emerged regarding obesity as a chronic
      endocrine disorder of inflammation. Moreover, a growing body of evidence indicates that
      obesity alters the profile of a constellation of genes and that some changes in biomarkers of
      inflammation and gene expression can be reversed by weight loss.

      In this clinical protocol, we propose to test the idea that a particular set of genes is
      activated (or deactivated) in Overweight Subjects using standard microarray techniques on
      samples of subcutaneous adipose tissue derived from biopsies. In addition, we will study the
      local adipose tissue microenvironment by means of microdialysis. The role of a number of
      adipokines, inflammatory mediators/cytokines, and novel lipid products will be analyzed using
      sensitive Liquid Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry and ELISA methods.

      The study design incorporates two basic objectives:

        1. Comparison of Non-Overweight Controls vs. Overweight Subjects at Baseline and

        2. Correlation of changes in Overweight patients over time as they lose weight through a
           calorie-restricted diet.

      To these ends, 30 Non-Overweight Controls (BMI 19.0 24.9) and 80 Overweight Subjects (BMI
      25.0 45.0) will be enrolled. Baseline studies, to be obtained on all participants include:
      blood tests, anthropometric indices, body composition by air-displacement plethysmography,
      indirect calorimetry, intravenous glucose tolerance test as an index of insulin sensitivity,
      subcutaneous adipose tissue microdialysis, and subcutaneous adipose tissue biopsy. These
      procedures will require an overnight hospital admission to the Clinical Center. Overweight
      Subjects will then be prescribed a calorie-restricted diet and followed for one year. They
      will undergo repeat studies at regular, 3-month intervals to assess serial changes in the
      various parameters and to provide correlative data with the degree and rate of weight loss
      achieved.

      Taken together, these studies should shed light and provide fundamental insights into the
      nature of the altered gene expression and release of inflammatory cytokines and other
      mediators that characterize the overweight state and the dynamic series of events that take
      place when dietary intervention leads to weight loss. It is anticipated that a number of
      these changes will relate to macrophages and known inflammatory markers though doubtless
      there are other important leads yet to be discovered. Thus, our hope is that such studies
      will ultimately lead to the identification of novel genes that underlie the important
      metabolic derangements associated with obesity and their response to different treatment
      modalities.
    
  