
    
      The study design is a prospective, randomized, open-label study. Forty consecutive patients
      undergoing cardiac surgery requiring the placement of a central venous catheter and of a
      Swan-Ganz catheter, and then admitted to Cardiac Surgery ICU of "A.Gemelli" University
      Hospital will be included in the study. Patients will be randomized to two groups: A group,
      in which the catheter tip will be positioned in right atrium, and C (control) group, in which
      the catheter tip will be positioned in the superior vena cava, at the junction with the
      atrium.

      Arrow catheters (3 lumen, 8,5 Fr, 20 cm long) will be used. Catheters will be placed in right
      internal jugular or subclavian vein with Seldinger technique. In group A, the catheter will
      be advanced for its entire length unless arrhythmias develop; in group C the catheter will be
      inserted for 15 cm. Catheter position will be controlled by transesophageal echocardiography
      and/or by chest radiography. In order to avoid risk of damage to the atrial wall, ECG and
      central venous pressure will be monitored during the entire observation period, and the
      catheter will be repositioned, withdrawing it, in presence of extrasystoles or other
      arrhythmias potentially triggered by contact between the catheter tip and the heart wall, in
      case of flattening of the curve of the central venous pressure (caused by contact with the
      atrial wall) or in presence of a ventricular type of curve (migration of the catheter in the
      right ventricle through the tricuspid valve). The catheter tip will be removed or
      repositioned in superior vena cava at the time of mobilization of the patient or of his
      transfer to another unit.

      A sample of arterial blood from an arterial line, one of mixed venous blood from the
      pulmonary catheter and two samples from the CVC, one from the distal lumen and a proximal
      lumen, will be taken at different times: time 1, at CVC placement; time 2, after sternotomy;
      time 3, after after discontinuation of CBP; time 4, at admission to ICU; time 5, 6,7 8,
      respectively 6, 18, 30 and 42 hours after the end of surgery. Samples volume of 1 mL will be
      collected in heparinized syringes and immediately analyzed by a stat analyzer (Stat Profile
      Critical Care Xpress by Nova Biomedical) with integrated on-board CO-Oximetry, allowing
      direct measurement of oxygen saturation.

      The values of pH, pO2, pCO2 and saturation of venous samples will be compared and the
      difference will be analyzed by Bland-Altman method. The observed difference will also be
      correlated with indexes of tissue perfusion (arterial base excess, arterial plasma lactate)
      and with the presence and dose of vasoactive drugs infusion.
    
  