
    
      -  The cause of temporomandibular joint (TMJ) disorders (TMD) remains unknown and therapy
           is usually empirical. Systematic reviews have concluded that currently there is no
           evidence that occlusal adjustment has any therapeutic or preventive effect on
           temporomandibular disorders. However, these reviews also indicate that evidence to the
           contrary has not been provided and that more research is needed to elucidate whether
           there is any benefit of occlusal adjustment treatment for TMD. The risk factors for
           chronic unilateral TMD include a steeper condylar path, flatter lateral anterior
           guidance, and habitual chewing on the affected side. Consequently, a new occlusal
           therapy is proposed to restore the physiological jaw closure and masticatory function.

        -  The primary end point of the trial is to assess the efficacy of the new occlusal therapy
           on the affected side TMD pain, and the maximum mouth opening. Efficacy is demonstrated
           by showing significantly superior pain relief and increasing maximum mouth opening (when
           it was limited) with the active treatment compared with placebo.

      Phase III, single center, randomized, parallel-group, single-blind with blinded assessment,
      placebo-controlled clinical trial.

        -  A linear mixed model will be performed for comparisons of most variables and a logistic
           regression model will be used to measure the probability/risk of change on the chewing
           side between baseline and six months; in addition, McNemar's test may be used.

        -  Interim analysis plan and stopping rules. The study will employ an interim analysis plan
           with a single interim analysis after 70% of participants have completed the six-month
           follow-up visit. Using the Lan-DeMets version of the O'Brien-Fleming stopping rule, the
           critical value for statistical significance at the interim analysis (under
           intention-to-treat approach) will be +2.438, corresponding to a nominal two-sided P
           value of 0.0146.

      Participants remaining with significant pain (and/or limited mouth opening) after the study
      will be invited to follow the conventional treatment, or to "complete" occlusal adjustment
      (rescue therapy): the full adjustment (if they were placebos), or a refining (if they
      received real therapy); the kind of received therapy will not be disclosed to participants.
      It based on the researchers' conviction, participants are encouraged to receive electively
      "complete" occlusal adjustment. All participants will be reevaluated between 3 to 6 months
      after study (12-Mo follow-up). Although no pain was reported at the 6-Mo follow-up, if pain
      returns, same approach will be carried out. Two sessions occlusal adjustment will be carried
      out and, if the pain remains, the patient will be treated following the Hospital approaches.
      The evolution of patients during post-MAP period, until writing of the manuscript, will be
      reported in the same manuscript, even if MAP result early stopped.

      Additional patient's monitoring until next five years after treatment is expected.
    
  