
    
      Background In recent decades, local healthcare services have undergone dramatic changes. The
      World Health Organization (WHO) refers to a shift from specialized hospital to local
      healthcare services to meet the growing expectations for better performance and outcomes in
      health care and better value for money. In line with the WHO statements a structural reform
      reorganised the entire public sector in Denmark in 2007. The local healthcare services were
      given the responsibility for the more generalised rehabilitation of patients with chronic
      diseases, and hospitals were to carry out more specialised rehabilitation for patients with
      chronic diseases admitted to a hospital. Today, several local healthcare services provide
      non-pharmacological phase II cardiac rehabilitation (CR); this phase encompasses the
      immediate post discharged period. Central Denmark Region has - as the only region in Denmark
      - assigned phase II CR as a local healthcare task. This unique reform became effective on 1
      January, 2017. However, there is sparse knowledge about how this reform may influence
      processes of care and outcomes in CR.

      CR programmes do not meet the required evidence-based standard Several countries have
      developed clinical practice guidelines for CR, including Denmark in 2013. The guidelines
      incorporate the best available evidence for the management of CR to assist health
      professionals and patient decisions about appropriate rehabilitation. However, it is unclear
      to what extent local healthcare services CR is performed in accordance with the clinical
      practice guidelines for CR. Doherty P et al. studied the extent to which programmes meet
      national minimum standards for the delivery of CR as prescribed by the National Certification
      Programme for CR in UK. The authors found that 31% out of 170 unique CR programmes were
      delivered with high performance, 46% as mid-level performance, 18% were lower-level, while 5%
      failed to meet any of the minimum criteria. We have not been able to find other similar
      studies for performance of CR programmes in Denmark or elsewhere. Therefore, it is unclear
      whether the performance varies in local healthcare services CR programmes in Denmark, and
      whether there is a need for improvement to provide all patients a high-quality evidence-based
      service.

      Patient education using learning and coping improves adherence Patient education is
      recommended in the clinical practice guidelines for CR and is defined as: "The process by
      which health professionals and others impact information to patients who will change their
      health behaviors or improve their health status". In the guidelines several educational
      topics are listed as important for patient education. However, the rationale for the specific
      areas is not completely explained in the guidelines. Furthermore, the guidelines only advice
      on what to teach, not how it should be done e.g. educational models, material, provider and
      setting. A systematic review shows that the delivery of patient education programmes can vary
      substantially, but common topics include nutrition, exercise, risk factor modification,
      psychosocial well-being and medications. Also duration, frequency and ongoing maintenance or
      re-inforcement vary between programmes. However, the Danish Health Authority recommend using
      evidence-based methods in patient education including Learning and Coping, Motivational
      interview.

      In Central Denmark Region, six out of 19 local healthcare services have decided to use
      Learning and Coping in CR while remaining local healthcare services use different approaches.
      Learning and Coping is a health pedagogical strategy that builds on inductive teaching with
      high involvement of the participants. Characteristics of Learning and Coping are that
      'experienced patients' plan, teach and evaluate, in cooperation with health professionals. In
      a hospital setting, Learning and Coping has shown an increase inpatient adherence in CR
      including training and patient education, especially for those with low socioeconomic status.
      However, it is unclear whether using Learning and Coping in local healthcare services
      performs similar results. These results are needed because low socioeconomic status is a
      common barrier to attending CR programmes.

      Patient education using Learning and Coping to overcome barriers to CR System-, physical- and
      personal-level barriers in CR are well-described in the literature. Studies show that 13% to
      20% of eligible patients are not referred to CR, and 19% to 45% do not attend CR. Also, long
      wait time to CR after referral entail low attendance. Health-related factors such as anxiety,
      depression, pain, or other illnesses are reported curtail the uptake. Like exercise-limiting
      comorbidities predict fewer sessions. Older adults, women, people who belong to ethnic
      minority groups, are young, have low socioeconomic status, live alone and receive limited
      social support are low attenders. Other studies show that family obligations and the distance
      from home to the programme setting entail low attendance. Few studies found that self-payment
      is a barrier to attend CR. This may not be an issue in Denmark as the Danish healthcare
      system provides tax-funded healthcare to the country's 5.7 million residents, including free
      access to hospital care, general practitioners and primary healthcare services including CR.
      Patients should be encouraged to attend patient education as literature reviews show that
      educational interventions with cardiac care increase patients' knowledge and facilitate
      behavior change. Furthermore, education interventions increase physical activity and lead to
      healthier dietary habits, smoking cessation and a higher quality of life.

      It is unique that Central Denmark Region has assigned phase II CR as a local healthcare
      services. Thus, it is crucial to know more about performance in local healthcare services CR
      and whether all patients receive high-quality evidence-based services regardless of where
      they live. To our knowledge, no studies have examined the association between performance in
      different health pedagogical strategies and outcomes. This association is important to
      investigate when dramatic organisational changes in settings of evidence based interventions
      is implemented, as well as in relation to helping people with heart disease return to an
      active and satisfying everyday life. This study is unique and may inform and affect the way
      CR is organised and performed on a national and an international level to improve quality of
      care.
    
  