
    
      The study will include children living in the 23223 zip code of the City of Richmond, who
      attend Martin Luther King Middle School, and who are between the ages 10-15. The study will
      recruit from two sites. These sites include the Pediatric Emergency Department at VCU Medical
      Center and the Boys and Girls Club of Metro Richmond, Martin Luther King Middle School site.
      Upon recruitment, consent, and assessment, the children will receive either 1) a BVP only, 2)
      a BVA only or 3) a BVP as well as participation in a semester-long positive youth development
      program called Emerging Leaders: East End. The randomization process among all three groups
      will be done through sequential selection. Youth will be assigned to one of the three groups
      on a rotating, sequential basis as they enroll.

      The study will assess behaviors, attitudes, family function, violence exposure, mental
      health, medical needs and service needs. The study will compare within group differences
      between a group that receives the BVP intervention and attends the Emerging Leaders: East End
      program, one that only receives the BVP intervention, one that receives a BVA intervention
      package only and one that receives the BVA or BVP and attends the Boys and Girls club but
      does not participate in the Emerging Leaders: East End program.

      All groups will take an assessment every nine weeks through Grade 12 or until youth end their
      participation in this study. The assessment tool includes topics such as exposure to
      violence, family functioning and mental health. Case managers will administer the assessment.

      Within the overall goal of reducing subsequent health risk for young victims of intentional
      injuries and their families, the violence reduction effort will address the following
      objectives:

        -  Develop detailed profiles of participants treated at the Pediatric Emergency Department
           through a detailed behavior and attitude assessment battery given in an interview
           format. Additionally, this information will be used to increase understanding of the
           needs of this at-risk population for the purpose of developing preventive services. Data
           from these assessments will also be used in the preparation of scholarly papers on this
           patient population and the impact of this program on their recidivism.

        -  Provide brief violence prevention (BVP) intervention to youth to review
           conflict-resolution strategies, increase their awareness of youth's risk factors for
           recidivism, explore coping skills, and develop safety plan services and supports that
           may be responsive to their needs and reduce the likelihood of future risk of intentional
           injury.

        -  Provide brief violence awareness (BVA) intervention to provide basic information on the
           prevalence, impact of violence and the available community resources.

        -  Provide comprehensive case management to participants in order to maintain program
           involvement.

        -  Provide a curriculum consisting of skill building, educational development, increased
           exposure to health careers and internship opportunities.
    
  