
    
      During the first visit, study participants would follow the clinical investigation
      (anthropometry, physical examination, blood tests (hormonal and biochemical state),
      bioimpedance, ultrasound evaluation) and be attributed into 4 groups (matched for age,
      gender, pubertal stage and BMI), 100 subjects in each group.

        1. st group - control: during the first visit patients get standardized information on
           healthy lifestyle, diet and exercise. Next visit (control) will be scheduled for the
           clinical and laboratory evaluation after 12 months of intervention.

        2. nd group - intensive diet and physical activity group: Children will be seen

             1. by a dietician once a month for diet re-evaluation;

             2. physical therapist, who will give physical activity course twice a week (1 h each).

             3. pediatric endocrinologist every 3 months. Clinical and laboratory evaluation after
                12 months of intervention.

        3. rd group - intensive diet and physical activity group plus insulin sensitization:
           Metformin will be prescribed for this group of study children in the doses of 1000
           mg/day Children will be seen by

             1. a dietician once a month for diet re-evaluation;

             2. physical therapist, who will give physical activity course twice a week (1 h each);

             3. pediatric endocrinologist every 3 month. Clinical and laboratory evaluation after
                12 months of intervention.

        4. th group- insulin sensitization without intensive diet and physical activity. Metformin
           will be prescribed in the doses of 1000 mg/day after standardized information on healthy
           lifestyle, diet and exercise during the first visit only. This group of children will be
           seen by pediatric endocrinologist every 3 months.

      Intervention duration - 12 months. In the case of Metformin intolerance, children will
      continue the study in 2nd group.

      Clinical and laboratory evaluation after 12 months of intervention.
    
  