
    
      Background and Rationale:

      The present study aims to add evidence for best practice in gait recovery interventions for
      individuals with incomplete SCI (iSCI). In contrast to post-stroke rehabilitation, the
      evidence on best practice for gait recovery for individuals with iSCI is less well-founded. A
      recent Cochrane review and the guidelines from the Deutsche Gesellschaft für
      Neurorehabilitation suggests that in post-stroke rehabilitation the combination of
      conventional gait training (walking overground) and robotic-assisted gait training is most
      successful to improve gait capacity (Mehrholz et al., 2014; Dohle et al., S2e Leitlinie
      ReMoS, 2015); Furthermore, guidelines suggest according to the high level of evidence, that
      the use of robotic-assisted training is advantageous to improve walking speed and endurance
      in individuals with post-stroke.

      Such recent guidelines for spinal cord injury do not yet exist to knowledge of the
      investigators. In 2014 a Cochrane Review was published indicating that there is insufficient
      evidence about the best practice for gait recovery in incomplete SCI individuals (Mehrholz,
      Pohl, Elsener, 2014). Recently, a systematic review points out the critical assumption that
      according to the present evidence robotic-assisted gait training is not superior to
      conventional gait training (walking overground) (Mehrholz et al, 2017).

      Since these studies suggest a high frequency of training and systematic intervention over
      several weeks (ex.: 4-5x / week; over 3 weeks) the present investigators would like to
      conduct a randomized-controlled trial with a two-fold aim: 1. Adding evidence to existing
      knowledge on gait rehabilitation best practice in individuals with iSCI. And 2) assessing the
      feasibility of such a protocol in a clinical setting in daily clinical practice. The latter
      is a very important aspect considering that the transfer from research knowledge into
      clinical practice is a large challenge (Maher et al, 2004). Among the most frequent barriers
      to implement evidence into practice are methodological problems (66%), a lack of replication
      (54%) and poor generalisability (53%) according to the analysis by Metcalf and colleagues on
      715 clinicians (physio-, occupational, speech and language therapists) (Metcalfe et al,
      2001).

      Study design:

      randomized, pre-post design, pilot-study to test the superiority of conventional gait
      training to mechanical-assisted gait training in individuals with motor incomplete spinal
      cord injury at a sub-acute stage.

      Outcomes for patients' characteristics:

      Additionally, to the outcomes measures of gait ability participants will be assessed for
      clinical parameters on structural and activity level to characterize participants level of
      impairment and deficits. The assessments in question quantify lower limb spasticity and motor
      function.

      Spasticity will be assessed with the composite spasticity index (CSI) will be used to test
      spasticity in the lower extremities. The CSI is a 16-point scale measuring the reflex
      response for example after a tap on the Achilles or patellar tendon (4 points), resistance to
      full-range passive ankle dorsiflexion at a moderate speed (8 points), and duration of the
      clonus at the ankle (4 points). Value intervals of 1-5, 6-9, 10-12 and 13-16 correspond to
      absent, mild, moderate and severe spasticity, respectively (Levin and Hui-Chan, 1993).

      The motor function will be quantified using the International Standards for Neurological
      Classification of Spinal Cord Injury, revised 2011, published by the American Spinal Injury
      Association (ASIA) (Kirshblum and Waring, 2014).

      Safety Outcomes: For safety purpose, a 16-point Borg Scale will be assessed immediately
      prior, during (2-3x) and immediately after the training session. The cut-off for training
      cessation is set at a Borg score of 15-16 (hard) (Swain et al, ACSM 2014). According to
      literature in healthy a score of 15-16 indicates that the anaerobic threshold has been
      exceeded. Since the training should in a submaximal level the aim is to train participants in
      an aerobic range of energy supply.

      Furthermore, potential safety outcomes are muscle soreness or pain induced by skin irritation
      of the harness used with the end-effector device. Skin irritation will be inspected and
      controlled by the nurses responsible for participants as it is conducted regularly and
      systematically as an in-house practice.

      Methods

      Recruitment:

      Participants will be recruited at the local inpatient rehabilitation of the REHAB Basel,
      Switzerland. Once participant accepted participation, they will be randomly assigned to one
      of the three groups with the use of the randomization process for block randomization on
      www.randomization.com (Dallal E.G.; last access 6.05.19). The allocation is conducted from
      externally. Assessors are blinded during the process. Participants and Physiotherapists
      cannot be blinded due to the training location.

      Screening:

      At admission to the REHAB Basel in the ward for individuals with spinal cord injury, each
      patient was screened by the assessors from the rehabilitation centre. Medical Doctors
      responsible for the ward are informed about the in- and exclusion criteria and can report a
      potential participant for screening. Screening includes the consultation of the medical
      history (digital) checking for in- and exclusion criteria particularly lesion location and
      onset. If potential participants pass the screening of medical dossier the assessors
      communicate with the responsible therapist about the inclusion criteria on the capacity to
      perform sit-to-stand and step initiation.

      The pre-selected participants are then invited for a first visit to give the patient
      information and explain and hand-out the informed consent. In case of the incapacity to sign,
      secondary to the lesion, participants are asked to a legal relative (mature) signing the
      paper.

      Once the informed consent is signed the participants were planned for a pre-evaluation to
      test the final eligibility with the gait assessments and clinical evaluation. In case the
      participant does not meet inclusion criteria or stop the participation there will be no
      consequences on participants' treatment. Study participants do not receive any compensation
      or payment.

      Assignment to study groups:

      Randomization is conducted by the principal investigator. The investigator is not involved in
      the pre- and post-evaluation of the participant and not on site. Before the study, the
      subject numbers have been assigned to the groups using the online calculating system for
      block randomization www.randomization.com. With the subject's number assessor obtain the
      information about the group assignment via E-mail.

      Concealing of group assignment: The group assignment is registered in an xls file where the
      ID of the participants is encoded and some demographics are registered. The folder with the
      xls file is registered in a personnel file of the assessors called RCGTSCI_18
      (robotic-conventional gait training spinal cord injury 2018).

      Blinding:

      The physiotherapists conducting the treatment cannot be blinded since they have to know all
      of the three treatment types since they can be assigned to every patient. The assignment of
      physiotherapist (PT) to patients is based on the availability in the PT team.

      Participants have to be informed a priori about all the potential treatments they can be
      assigned to. Based on treatment nature participants cannot be blinded.

      The assessors are blinded. They are not involved in the training of participants or the prior
      randomization.

      Criteria for withdrawal: Should a participant be expelled prematurely due to a particular
      reason for the cancellation criteria or by the withdrawal of their consent before the end of
      their participation, this participant will be replaced by a new participant. The data of the
      expelled participant will not be used for any analysis.

      Study procedures:

      As mentioned above, the patients are personally informed about the study. Afterwards, they
      are neutrally asked about their willingness to participate. They will receive an information
      sheet and a declaration of consent. Patients are informed that they have time for
      consideration and that they will be contacted again in 2 days.

      When patients give consent to the study, they are randomly assigned to a group by an
      uninvolved person. The central therapy planning is informed about the study participation of
      the person concerned and then plans the study procedure.

      The first baseline measurement is planned 2 days before the start of the intervention. Main
      outcome parameters (FAC, CSI, MFW, TUG and 10mWT) are recorded during the measurement. After
      the measurement, the further procedure depends on group allocation.

      Pre-evaluation Screening Visit (Day 0): The possible participants are visited by one of the
      authorized assessors. Participants will be informed verbally about the study project and
      receive the information sheet and the declaration of consent. The potential participants are
      informed that they have time to decide and that they will be visited again in the next 2 days
      for clinical evaluation.

      After the participant gave the consent to the study, the participants get randomly assigned
      to one of the three groups; Appointment 1 Pre-evaluation (Day 2): The authorized examiners
      test the composite spasticity. They evaluate the motor score of the lower extremity, the
      functional ambulation categories, 10-meter walking test and the timed up and go test
      (described in 9.2.) Post- and Follow-up evaluation Appointment 12 (day 1-2 after the last
      training session): During post-evaluation the main outcome parameters for gait ability, gait
      speed and safety are assessed by the authorized assessors. The outcomes are quantified with
      the functional ambulation categories, 10-meter walking test and the timed up and go test
      (described in 9.2.) in the same manner as during pre-evaluation. Clinical evaluation of
      spasticity and motor function is not conducted since these parameters do not count as outcome
      parameters. These assessments serve to characterize the participants.

      There is no follow-up survey planned. The records of participants who prematurely stop the
      study are not used for analysis.

      All clinical evaluation measurements are carried out by 3 trained physiotherapists. The
      intervention units are carried out by certified, experienced physiotherapists. The therapists
      record the content and the distance as well as all values to be documented.

      Statistical considerations:

      Hypothesis:

      This pilot study aims at first to test if conventional gait rehabilitation (CT) is superior
      to robotic-assisted therapy (EET) or the combination of both (CETcomb), conventional and
      robotic-assisted therapy as suggested by recent literature. In line with that, time-effect of
      training (pre- post-training) for all three interventions on gait ability (FAC), gait speed
      (10MWT) and safety (TUG) will be analysed.

      In line with these objectives the hypotheses are formulated as follows:

      H0: Group A = Group B = Group C; Group A (EET), Group B (CT), and Group C (CETcomb) will all
      result in significant improvements in gait ability, speed and safety.

      H1: Group C (CETcomb) > Group B (CT) > Group A (EET); The combination group (Group C) will
      result in significantly higher improvements in gait ability, speed and safety from pre- to
      post-testing when compared to Group B and Group A. The time effect in Group B will be
      significantly higher when compared to Group A.

      Determination of Sample Size:

      For the present pilot study, a participant number of at least 12 was defined for each group
      based on a sample size calculation (Noordzij et al, 2010) using the mean and standard
      deviation of walking speed found in individuals with motor incomplete spinal cord injury. The
      number of 12 participants in each group was necessary to achieve a power of 0.80. The power
      was set at 0.80 which is considered as an optimal power to avoid false rejection of the H0
      hypotheses.

      For the formula 0.05-0.06 m/s was used as SD2 since this range was considered as minimal
      clinical relevant change (Field-Fote and Roach, 2011; Musselman, Fouad, Misiaszek, and Yang,
      2009; Street and Singleton, 2018) Consequently, the target difference for the present study
      was set at 0.06 m/s.

      Planned Analyses:

      The planned analysis consists of a hypothesis testing for time-effect and group comparison in
      line with standard treatments in gait rehabilitation. The data set consist of clinical data
      obtained with standardized assessments in physiotherapy (i.e. gait assessments and evaluation
      of clinical parameters such as muscle strength and spasticity). The values obtained are on an
      ordinal, interval and ratio level. The analysis will be conducted after the completion of
      data collection of the aimed 36 participants (12 per group).

      Statistical analysis:

      For primary outcomes, time effect on gait parameters for each group will be analysed at
      two-time points: pre to post-training. Furthermore, the difference between pre- and
      post-evaluation at the end of data collection for each participant respectively. These values
      will be used for statistical comparison. These differences will be tested for the normality
      of data distribution. Therefore, the Shapiro-Wilk test will be applied to the difference
      between pre- and post-evaluation.

      The level of significance is set at an alpha level of ≤0.05. The secondary outcome is the
      feasibility of the training protocols in a clinical setting. Feasibility will be quantified
      with the number of drop-outs and number of completed training sessions (total of 10 sessions
      per participants). The Study is considered feasible if 80% of the participants completed >8
      sessions of training (80% of total sessions).

      The analysis will be conducted by the investigator, Martina Betschart, using the current
      version of SPSS (23.).
    
  