
    
      Background:

        -  Parents face numerous stressors when their child is diagnosed with cancer or NF1, each
           of which can strain a marriage/partnership.

        -  Marital/partner relationship dynamics are often not assessed or addressed when providing
           health care for children with cancer or NF1. Many parents struggle to effectively cope
           with the changes in parenting roles that frequently accompany treatment of childhood
           cancer or NF1.

        -  How parents cope with these stressors can strengthen or weaken the relationship, and can
           impact the entire family, including the care to the child undergoing cancer or NF1
           treatments.

        -  Limited studies have examined relationship stress or satisfaction during a child s
           illness trajectory for cancer or NF1 or the critical time points and events during the
           child s illness trajectory when the relationship becomes most stressed and/or
           strengthened.

      Objectives:

        -  To explore whether the stress associated with having a child with cancer or NF1 is
           perceived to impact the communication between partners.

        -  To explore whether positive dyadic coping (joint decision making, joint problem solving,
           sharing responsibilities) is perceived to have strengthened the marital
           relationship/partnership following the child s diagnosis with cancer or NF1.

        -  To describe the time points and events during the child s illness trajectory when the
           parents relationship becomes most stressed and/or strengthened.

        -  To compare the perceptions of various subgroups in the sample, (e.g. parents who score
           either high or low on a marital stress scale, mothers versus fathers) statistically or
           qualitatively as the distribution of the characteristics of the sample allow.

      Eligibility:

        -  Participants must have been in a partnership at the time the child was diagnosed with
           cancer or NF1. At least one of the participating parents must be a biological or legal
           parent of the child. If a divorce/separation occurred with a previous partner
           during/after the child s diagnosis, the other partner will be invited to participate.

        -  The participant s child must be between 1-24 years of age.

        -  There are 3 groups of participants being recruited: 1) those who have a child who has
           been diagnosed with cancer at least 3 months prior to enrolling on this study and are
           currently undergoing cancer treatment, 2) those who have completed treatment at age 21
           or younger (without evidence of disease) within the previous 3 years, and 3) those who
           have a child who has been diagnosed with NF1 at least 3 months prior to enrolling on
           this study.

        -  Participants must be fluent in the English language

        -  The participant s child must have been diagnosed with cancer or NF1 at least 3 months
           prior to enrollment on this study.

        -  Participants must verbalize willingness to discuss the impact of their child s cancer or
           NF1 diagnosis on their relationship.

      Design:

        -  Cross-sectional, multi-center, exploratory study utilizing a convenience sample to
           explore the parents perception of how the child s cancer or NF1 diagnosis, treatment,
           decision making and other aspects of care are addressed and impact the martial
           relationship/partnership.

        -  Subjects will complete a self-administered measure that addresses potential stresses
           experienced in the partnership since the child s diagnosis and how each are either
           resolved or create a divide in the relationship.

        -  Subjects who experience a high or low degree of relationship stress on a standardized
           marital stress form (a score greater than one standard deviation from the norm) will be
           invited to participate in a qualitative interview, that further explores which
           components of parenting a child with cancer is most challenging on the relationship.

        -  Up to 360 participants will be enrolled onto this study (up to 180 couples). Subjects
           may be offered a gift card ($20 Target gift card at NIH) upon completion of the
           questionnaire for their time and inconvenience, where available. Due to limitations with
           funding, participants enrolled after July 2016 will not receive a gift card.
    
  