
    
      Median sternotomy is the most common approach for cardiac surgery in adults and children.
      While the initial sternotomy is rarely associated with adverse events, the risks associated
      with repeated sternotomies for subsequent reoperations may be higher. This increased risk is
      primarily due to adhesions securing cardiac structures to the sternum, thus placing those
      structures at risk for injury during sternal re-entry. There have been several large studies
      examining the frequency and impact of adverse events during repeat sternotomy in adults.
      Roselli and colleagues from the Cleveland Clinic reviewed 1853 consecutive repeat
      sternotomies and found a 6.8% incidence of serious adverse events. 1 This study can be
      contrasted against the report of O'Brien and colleagues which reviewed the results of 546
      repeat sternotomies performed over 21 years in Brisbane, Australia with only 9 (1.6%) minor
      cardiac injuries and no major adverse events. 2

      The pediatric cardiac surgical field is somewhat different from the adult realm in that
      re-operations are more common, either due to planned, staged palliation requiring multiple
      operations or the expected failure of implanted conduits and valves which subsequently
      require replacement. However, while the incidence of repeat sternotomy is higher in the
      pediatric population, the overall number of patients is considerably smaller, so there has
      been a relative dearth of information in the literature regarding the risks and outcomes
      associated with repeat sternotomy. The largest series reported was published by Russell and
      colleagues in 1998 and included only 192 repeat sternotomies performed on 165 patients. 3 The
      authors reported a 5.2% incidence of cardiac laceration with selective utilization of
      femoro-femoral bypass to decompress the heart during repeat sternotomy for "higher risk"
      patients.
    
  