
    
      I. OVERALL STUDY OBJECTIVE The Evaluating the Efficacy of E-Cigarette use for Smoking
      Cessation (E3) Trial is a 5-year, multi-centre, randomized controlled trial (RCT) that seeks
      to assess the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of nicotine and non-nicotine electronic
      cigarettes (e-cigarettes) for smoking cessation in the general population.

      II. SPECIFIC OBJECTIVES

        1. To compare the efficacy of nicotine and non-nicotine e-cigarettes used with individual
           counselling for smoking cessation, to that of individual counselling alone, in terms of
           biochemically-validated 7-day point prevalence smoking abstinence at 52 weeks.

        2. To examine the effect of nicotine and non-nicotine e-cigarettes on other measures of
           smoking reduction and cessation, including continuous abstinence and daily cigarette
           consumption at 4, 12, 24, and 52 weeks.

        3. To describe the safety and tolerability of nicotine and non-nicotine e-cigarettes in
           terms of serious adverse events (SAEs), adverse events (AEs), drop-out rates due to side
           effects, and therapy adherence over the 12 week treatment period.

      I. RATIONALE Smoking-related diseases contribute to the death of more than 37,000 Canadians
      annually. Of that number, almost one-third die of cardiovascular-related causes. Smoking
      cessation can decrease the additional risk of heart disease by 50% after one year of
      abstinence. However, even using traditional smoking cessation therapies, only 10-20% of
      smokers will be able to successfully quit smoking long-term. Therefore, new and alternative
      treatments are needed. The e-cigarette is a battery-powered device approximately the size and
      shape of a cigarette that creates a smoke-free vapour that is inhaled by the user, and is
      available in nicotine and non-nicotine varieties. Its mimicry of the act of smoking gives it
      the potential to target the habit-forming mechanism of smoking, and to mitigate withdrawal
      symptoms with nicotine replacement (in the case of nicotine e-cigarettes). However,
      e-cigarettes have not been approved for use for smoking cessation by Health Canada or the US
      Food and Drug Administration. Despite this, these devices are rising in popularity. A recent
      survey found that of smokers motivated to within 6 months, 48.5% had tried e-cigarettes. The
      E3 Trial will be the first conducted in the general population of Canadian smokers motivated
      to quit. It will also provide the longest-term (52 weeks) follow-up data on smoking reduction
      and cessation in smokers motivated to quit with the e-cigarette.

      II. METHODS The investigators will conduct a multi-centre RCT with a treatment period of 12
      weeks and follow-up of 52 weeks. A total of 486 participants will be randomized to one of
      three treatment arms: (1) nicotine e-cigarettes with individual counselling, (2) non-nicotine
      e-cigarettes with individual counselling, or (3) individual counselling alone. Eligible
      participants will be recruited from the general population, be at least 18 years of age, will
      self-identify as regular smokers (≥10 cigarettes per day for at least one year), and be
      motivated to quit. Participants will complete telephone follow-ups at weeks 1, 2, and 8. The
      participants will also return for clinic visits at weeks 4, 12, 24, and 52.
      Biochemically-validated smoking abstinence will be measured at all clinic visits using
      exhaled carbon monoxide. At follow-up calls and visits, the investigators will collect
      information about self-reported smoking, e-cigarette use, withdrawal symptoms, and side
      effects. The primary analysis will compare point-prevalence abstinence at 52 weeks between
      participants randomized to nicotine e-cigarettes versus individual counselling alone. Similar
      analyses will be conducted to compare abstinence across other trial arms. In secondary
      analyses, the investigators will examine point-prevalence abstinence at other follow-ups, as
      well as the effect of treatment group on continuous abstinence, daily cigarette consumption,
      and the occurrence of clinical events and side effects. A sample size of 486 was identified
      through power calculation, based on a 52-week point prevalence abstinence rate of 10% among
      participants randomized to counselling, with >80% power to detect a ≥12% absolute difference
      in the prevalence of smoking abstinence at 52 weeks (e.g., a prevalence of abstinence in the
      nicotine e-cigarette group of 22%) with a two-tailed α of 0.05.

      III. SIGNIFICANCE E-cigarettes are popular devices that may have the potential to facilitate
      smoking cessation. The E3 Trial will provide regulators, health care professionals, and
      smokers with important information about the efficacy and safety of e-cigarettes for smoking
      cessation.

      IV. ADDENDUM The primary endpoint was changed from 52 weeks to 12 weeks following the early
      termination of enrollment (77% of target enrollment) due to a delay in product manufacturing.
    
  