
    
      Participants recruited from the university community in the Southeast U.S. will participate
      in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled interventional study for approximately 9
      weeks following obtainment of informed consent. Two weeks prior to randomization participants
      will begin the pre-baseline period and complete daily and weekly questionnaires (physical
      activity and muscle soreness, bowel movements and gastrointestinal health, flu and cold
      symptoms). Visit 2 will occur during the pre-baseline period and participants will complete a
      VO2 max fitness assessment, which will be used during the endurance testing. Participants
      will also receive the SenseWear Armdand Mini®, a wearable device that will record their
      physical activity, sleeping patterns and energy expenditure for one week prior to visits 3
      and 4.

      Participants will be randomized at visit 3. Prior to this visit, participants will consume a
      standardized breakfast, collect a stool sample and a saliva sample that will be brought to
      site. During this visit participants will have a body composition and perform the Submaximal
      Treadmill Test. During the treadmill test, participants will provide finger prick samples for
      subsequent analysis of blood metabolites (glucose and lactate) and perceived exhaustion
      subjectively. Lastly, participants will complete several nutrition and motivation-related
      questionnaires.

      One week prior to the final visit (V4), participants will be asked to wear the SenseWear
      Armband Mini® again for one week, which they will return at the final visit. Participants
      will eat another standardized breakfast prior to the final visit, visit 4. They will bring a
      stool and saliva sample to the site. During visit 4, participants will complete the
      submaximal treadmill test, while providing finger prick samples for analysis of blood and
      lactate levels. In addition, body composition will be assessed, as well as nutrition and
      motivation (subjectively). Visit 4 will be followed by a washout week, during which
      participants will not intake the study supplement but they will complete daily, weekly, and
      the final questionnaire.
    
  