
    
      PUMA (Prevalence StUdy and Regular Practice, Diagnosis and TreatMent, Among General
      Practitioners in Populations at Risk of COPD in Latin America) study, a multicenter,
      multinational, cross-sectional, non-interventionist study, explored COPD prevalence among
      high risk patients assisted in primary care centers in 4 Latin American countries High risk
      condition was defined if the patient was older than 40 years and current or former smokers
      (≥10 pack-years, ≥50 pipes/year, or ≥50 cigars/year), and/or reported exposure to biomass
      smoke, such as wood or coal, for cooking or heating (exposure ≥100h/year). Patients were
      enrolled during routine, spontaneous or scheduled visits to their medical appointment neither
      related with the study nor respiratory services or specialists as well. COPD was defined as
      post-bronchodilator (post-BD) forced expiratory volume in 1 second/forced vital capacity
      (FEV1/FVC) <0.70 and the lower limit of normal (LLN) of FEV1/FVC.

      Based on PUMA study data, a simple and a weighted score was constructed with seven variables:
      sex, age, pack-years smoking, dyspnea, sputum, cough and previous spirometry selected from
      the PLATINO questionnaire. The score had a mean accuracy for detecting COPD (post-BD FEV1/FVC
      <0.70) for high risk population of 76% and 79% for the simple and weighted scores,
      respectively.

      This study is a prospective case finding study based on PUMA score as screening tool in
      unselected high risk patients attending to a primary care health care venue in real world
      scenario (e.g. community hospital, university institutions or other primary care settings).
      Patients older than 40 years of age and ever smoker of at least 10 pack year will be asked to
      complete the PUMA questionnaire through an specially designed application and electronic
      database (RedCap). All patients who with PUMA score ≥ 5, will be referred to perform
      spirometry at the institution.

      Recruitment will be done by primary care physicians during regular consultations for any
      reason and spirometry will be performed by qualified technicians using the EasyOne® (nnd)
      spirometer. The quality of the spirometry will be evaluated by the central team that may
      request a second measurement to satisfy quality.

      COPD will be diagnosed with fixed FEV1/FVC ratio (forced expiratory volume in the first
      second or FEV1 divided by forced vital capacity or FVC) less than 0.7.

      Results will be reported to the primary care doctor and the patient
    
  