
    
      Randomized controlled trial. The trial will be performed in accordance with the SPIRIT 2013
      Statement. The protocol was registered in the Clinical Trials-gov (PROCENDIAS study).
      Information about the study protocol, including the objectives, procedures, possible benefits
      and risks will be provided at the beginning of the study and written informed consent,
      according to the general recommendations of the Declaration of Helsinki(31), will be obtained
      from each study participant.

      Study Population:

      The study will be conducted in the municipality of Salamanca based on a list of people who
      attend an ADCC and whose relatives agree to participate voluntarily in the study. The
      reference population will be people attending ADCC and the relatives who participate in their
      care and who identify themselves as principal caregivers for this task.

      Variables and measurement instruments The data will be collected in an interview, using the
      questionnaire designed for the study.

        1. Outcome variables:

           Behavioral problems. The frequency and distress associated with disruptive behaviors
           will be measured with the Spanish version of the disruptive behaviors sub-scale of the
           Revised Memory and Behavior Problems Checklist (RMBPC), an 8-item scale with answers
           ranging from 0 (never occurred) to 4 (occurs daily or more often), for the frequency
           score, and from 0 (not at all) to 4 (extremely), for the distress score.

           Likewise, the neuropsychiatric inventory (NPI) will also be used to assess behavioral
           problems. Caregivers' mental health as self-perceived by caregivers will be measured
           using the 12-item version of the GHQ-12. Depressive symptomatology will be measured
           through the Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale (CES-D), a 20-item scale
           .Anxiety will be assessed using the Tension Subscale from the Profile of Mood States
           (POMS; McNair & et al., 1971),

        2. Sociodemographic information and secondary measures:

        3. ADCC Users: Sociodemographic variables: age, gender, marital status and years of
           schooling. Neuropsychological and clinical variables: cognitive status (MMSE; Reisberg's
           Global Deterioration Scale (GDS); comorbidity (Charlson's comorbidity index). Functional
           capacity: basic activities of daily life (Barthel index); instrumental activities of
           daily living (Lawton-Brody index);

        4. ADCC staff: Sociodemographic variables of ADCC professionals; Perception of BPSD among
           transport service staff: Questionnaire on problems and perception of BPSD among
           transport service staff created ad hoc for the present study.

      Baseline Evaluation and Follow-Up:

      All ADCCs in the city will be invited to participate. Those centers agreeing to participate
      in the study will send an information letter about the project to the home of each of their
      users inviting them to participate in the study. Those who accept will notify the ADCC, and
      the ADCC will refer them to the research group. After about 10-15 days the participants will
      receive a telephone call from the research team to arrange an appointment and conduct the
      first interview. Assessments will be done either at the ADCC or at the relevant health
      center. After carrying out an initial assessment of the relatives who agreed to participate,
      those who meet the study's inclusion criteria will be selected. It will be confirmed to the
      Principal Investigator that the initial information is complete and the caregiver will be
      assigned to the corresponding group (intervention (IG) or control (CG), 1:1) in accordance
      with a previously randomized sequence. Those selected for the IG will be invited to
      participate in the weekly sessions in different groups of six people each and offered two
      different days of the week and the possibility of participating in morning or afternoon
      slots. Participants in the intervention group will be divided into groups of six of different
      ages and gender. Similarly, caregivers of relatives with different pathologies are included.
      The assessment will be repeated six months from the baseline evaluation, in a follow-up
      assessment. All the evaluations will be repeated for both CG and IG groups in similar time
      points.
    
  