
    
      Heroin and injection drug use (IDU) are highly prevalent and driving the HIV epidemic in
      Malaysia and other countries in the region. In our original RCT, buprenorphine (BUP) was
      superior to naltrexone and placebo in treatment retention, weeks of consecutive abstinence
      and time to heroin use. However, there is room for improvement, since only 50% of subjects
      assigned to BUP remained in treatment for 6 months; only 28% avoided relapse to heroin; and
      BUP reduced drug- but not sex-related HIV risk behaviors. In actual clinical practice in
      Malaysia and the U.S., Standard BUP is provided with relatively minimal psychosocial services
      (brief physician management (PM) and weekly or less frequent medication pick-up) and may be
      even less effective. Hence, we propose a follow up study to evaluate whether Standard BUP is
      sufficient or whether one or a combination of two enhanced behavioral treatments--behavioral
      drug and HIV risk reduction counseling (BDRC) or abstinence-contingent take-home
      buprenorphine (ACB)-improve its efficacy and are cost-effective, with regard to the direct
      economic costs of providing the treatments. BDRC utilizes short-term behavioral contracts to
      promote abstinence and reduce drug- and sex-related HIV risk behaviors and can be provided by
      nurses and medical assistants available in medical settings in Malaysia. ACB, a low cost and
      feasible alternative to non-contingent take-home buprenorphine, retains many of its
      advantages--abstinent patients manage their medication supplies outside of the clinic--but
      ACB also provides positive incentives for abstinence and directly observed buprenorphine for
      those with continuing heroin use. In the proposed 2X2 study, heroin dependent patients
      (N=240) will be inducted onto buprenorphine (weeks 1-2) and then randomized to Standard BUP,
      Standard BUP with ACB, Standard BUP with BDRC, or Standard BUP with both (weeks 3-26).
      Primary outcome measures include reductions in heroin use (percent days abstinent, proportion
      of opiate-negative urine tests, and maximum consecutive weeks abstinent) and reductions in
      drug- and sex-related HIV risk behaviors. Secondary outcomes include retention; reductions in
      other drug use, hospitalizations, criminal behavior and arrests; and improvements in
      vocational and family functioning. Data analyses will focus on the intention-to treat sample.
      The study results will inform practice guidelines and policies regarding buprenorphine
      treatment.
    
  