
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the efficacy of radiation therapy with concurrent cisplatin combined with
      concurrent cetuximab in KRAS-variant oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma (OPSCC) patients
      in terms of overall survival (OS) at 2 years.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the efficacy of radiation therapy with concurrent cisplatin combined with
      concurrent cetuximab in KRAS-variant OPSCC patients in terms of patterns of failure at 6
      months and 2 years.

      II. To determine the efficacy of radiation therapy with concurrent cisplatin combined with
      concurrent cetuximab in KRAS-variant OPSCC patients in terms of progression-free survival
      (PFS) at 2 years.

      III. To determine the efficacy of radiation therapy with concurrent cisplatin combined with
      concurrent cetuximab in KRAS-variant OPSCC patients in terms of locoregional control (LRC) at
      2 years.

      IV. To determine the efficacy of radiation therapy with concurrent cisplatin combined with
      concurrent cetuximab in KRAS-variant OPSCC patients in terms of distant metastasis-free
      survival (DMFS) at 2 and 5 years.

      V. To determine the efficacy of radiation therapy with concurrent cisplatin combined with
      concurrent cetuximab in KRAS-variant OPSCC patients in terms of OS at 5 years.

      VI. To determine the safety of radiation therapy with concurrent cisplatin combined with
      concurrent cetuximab in KRAS-variant OPSCC patients in terms of acute toxicity profiles at
      the end of radiation, at 1 month, and at 6 months.

      VII. To determine the safety of radiation therapy with concurrent cisplatin combined with
      concurrent cetuximab in KRAS-variant OPSCC patients in terms of late toxicity profiles at 1
      and 2 years.

      VIII. To determine the safety of radiation therapy with concurrent cisplatin combined with
      concurrent cetuximab in KRAS-variant OPSCC patients in terms of patient-reported swallowing
      outcomes at 6 months and 1 and 2 years.

      IX. To assess the predictive value of fludeoxyglucose (FDG)-positron emission tomography
      (PET) at 10-14 weeks post-treatment.

      X. To assess the predictive value of additional blood and tissue biomarkers for disease
      outcomes at 2 years.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the impact of cetuximab on the immune response as well as treatment outcome
      and toxicity.

      II. To evaluate biomarkers for immune response in HPV-associated OPSCC through saliva and
      blood samples to be collected prior to treatment and at each follow-up visit.

      III. To evaluate for additional checkpoint targets through tumor tissue taken at the time of
      initial biopsy and profiled for tumor infiltrating lymphocytes, activation markers, and
      antigen-specific T-cell receptor (TCR) utilization/diversity.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Beginning on day 0, patients undergo radiation therapy over 6 weeks for a total of 35
      fractions. Patients also receive cisplatin intravenously (IV) over 1-2 hours on days 0 and
      21.

      ARM II: Patients receive cetuximab IV over 120 minutes 5-7 days prior to start of radiation
      therapy and then IV over 60 minutes weekly on Monday or Tuesday for 7 weeks. Patients also
      undergo radiation therapy and receive cisplatin as in Arm I.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 2-4 weeks, every 12 weeks
      for 2 years, and then every 3-12 months for up to 5 years.
    
  