
    
      The primary objective of this clinical study is to examine the role of cross-reactive
      antibodies in modulating immune responses to vaccines.

        1. Hypothesis: Antibody response to YF vaccination is influenced by the heterologous
           antibody titer at the point of YF vaccination.

        2. Hypothesis : Heterologous antibody to YF affect magnitude of vaccine uptake through the
           Fc receptors and alters the quality and magnitude of the innate immune response
           following YF vaccination, which has been previously shown to predictive of immune
           response to YF vaccination.

      Secondary objectives

        1. To determine neutralizing antibody response to YF vaccination in human volunteers at
           different time intervals following a prior JE vaccination.

        2. To characterize the innate immune response to YF vaccination at different time intervals
           after a prior JE vaccination.

      A total of 100 healthy adults, pre-screened to be negative for anti-dengue antibodies will be
      enrolled upon written informed consent. 75 subjects in the test arm will received 2 doses of
      inactivated JE vaccine(Ixiaro), while 25 subjects in the control arm has no JE vaccination.

      Subjects in the test arm will be sub-divided into 3 groups who receive YF17D:

      Group1.YF vaccination 1-month post-JE vaccination Group 2.YF vaccination 4-months post-JE
      vaccination Group 3.YF vaccination 9-months post-JE vaccination Subjects in the control arm
      (group 4) will receive YF vaccination at the same time as group 1.

      Blood sampling in relation to YF17D vaccination:

        1. Pre-dose

        2. 1-day after

        3. 3-days after (+ 1 day)

        4. 1-week after (± 2 days)

        5. 1-month after (± 5 days)

        6. 1-year after (± 14 days)

      Primary end-point: Difference in geometric mean titre of YF17D neutralizing antibody.
    
  