
    
      Two smoker groups matched for age and sex will be assessed:

        1. a group of 30 current smokers with no diagnosed cardiovascular disease as the control
           group for chronic phase

        2. a group of 30 current smokers with no diagnosed cardiovascular disease who will be using
           the electronic cigarette with nicotine for 1 month

      In the acute phase all 60 smokers will undergo a "sham" smoking for 7 minutes. Afterwards 30
      out of 60 smokers will be randomized to smoke either a normal cigarette or an electronic
      cigarette with nicotine and after a 60 minute washout period these subjects will be crossed
      over to the alternate mode of smoking (electronic with nicotine or normal cigarette
      respectively).

      The remaining 30 smokers will be randomized to smoke either a normal cigarette or an
      electronic cigarette without nicotine and after a 60 minute washout period these subjects
      will be crossed over to the alternate mode of smoking (electronic without nicotine or normal
      cigarette respectively.

      After the completion of the acute phase all 60 smokers will start the use of an electronic
      cigarette for one month.

      In the acute phase, measurements will be performed at baseline, after sham smoking and after
      smoking of the normal or electronic cigarette (with or without nicotine). The chronic phase
      measurements will be performed 1 month after use electronic cigarette with nicotine. Thirty
      current smokers of similar age and sex will serve as controls and will have measurements at
      baseline and 1 month after baseline assessment. The nicotine concentration of the electronic
      cigarette fluid used during both phases will be 12 mg/dL, while the participants will be
      allowed to use their cigarette of preference in the acute phase. In both phases we will
      assess a) the aortic pulse wave velocity (PWV) and augmentation index (AIx) by Arteriograph
      and Complior; b) the perfusion boundary region of the sublingual arterial microvessels using
      Sideview, Darkfield imaging (Microscan, Glycocheck); c) the exhaled carbon monoxide (CO)
      level (parts per million -ppm) as a smoking status marker; d) the vital signs; e) an
      electrocardiogram; and f) plasma levels of C- reactive protein (CRP), transforming growth
      factor-b (TGF-b), lipoprotein associated phospholipase A2 (LP- LPA2), tumor necrosis factor-
      α (TNF-α), interleukins 6 and 10 (IL-6 and -10), procollagen propeptide type III (PIIINP),
      matrix metalloproteinase 2 and 9 (MMP-2 and -9), and macrophage-colony stimulating factor
      (MCSF), malondialdehyde (MDA) and protein carbonyls (PC) and platelet function tests using
      the novel Platelet Function Analyzer PFA-100 and the traditional Light Transmission
      Aggregometry (LTA)
    
  