
    
      This prospective randomized interventional study was done in Obstetrics and Gynecology
      Department , Benha University Hospital, Alkalubia, Egypt from August 2013 to August 2015.

      The study protocol was approved by the Local Ethics Committee and written informed consents
      were taken from patients entering the study. The study included 100 women aged 18-35 years
      with singleton pregnancy about 28-36 weeks gestation, with diagnosed isolated oligohydramnios
      (AFI less than 5 cm).

      Initially, all the participants were subjected to through routine antenatal history taking
      and examination and by routine ultrasound scan using (Voluson, 730 Pro V, GE Medical System),
      AFI was assessed. All participants were instructed to take regularly the daily water
      requirement, especially in the two days before starting the study and throughout the study.
      Participants were randomly scheduled into two equal groups by computer-generated blocks into
      a control group received placebo vaginal tablets and a study group received 20 mg isosorbide
      mononitrate (IMN) vaginally once daily until delivery (Effox, Mina Pharma Co, Egypt; under
      license of Schwartz Pharma, Germany). Treatment allocation was concealed by using
      sequentially numbered opaque sealed envelopes, opened sequentially by a third person (study
      nurse). Amniotic fluid index was rechecked after two days and followed up weekly till
      delivery by one person to avoid interobserver variability. Drug treatment continues until the
      volume of the fluid reach the normal value or until delivery. Antenatal vitamins were
      continued.

      Primary outcome measure was the change in AFI.

      Secondary outcome measures were the side effect of isosorbide mononitrate if any, indications
      and mode of delivery, and neonatal outcomes as regard birth weight, still birth or neonatal
      death, Apgar score and the need for neonatal admission.
    
  