
    
      The Compensation examination that determines if a Veteran is entitled to any disability
      payments related to military service is a crucial gateway to accessing VA care for returning
      OEF/OIF Veterans. However, researchers and oversight agencies have noted that examiners
      typically do not have guidelines for evaluating comorbid conditions like substance abuse and
      for referring patients to treatment.

      In the Evaluative Component of this study, OEF/OIF Veterans presenting for Compensation
      evaluations for PTSD will be approached to undergo a paid battery of confidential substance
      use, PTSD, service use and attitude assessments prior to their scheduled Compensation
      examinations. The batteries will be collected again twice, four and twelve weeks after the
      Compensation examinations. Long-term follow-up data will be extracted from VA databases
      including diagnoses, the results of the Veterans' Compensation evaluations, award
      determination, use of VA services and attendance at mental health and/or substance abuse
      treatment.

      In the Clinical Trial Component of this study, one hundred sixty Veterans identified during
      the baseline evaluation as having a substance use disorder will be randomly assigned to a
      session of Screening, Brief Intervention and Referral to Treatment (SBIRT) or to
      No-Additional-Treatment. SBIRT is an approach to identifying and treating patients with
      substance abuse issues who are presenting for purposes other than substance abuse treatment.
      It involves Motivational Interviewing, which has been a consistently effective approach to
      facilitating engagement in substance abuse treatment in Veterans (Davis, Baer et al. 2003)
      and other populations. The study will examine factors associated with attendance at treatment
      including substance use, Veterans' beliefs about benefits, and compensation award. Group
      comparisons will be conducted on rates of treatment attendance, alcohol use, and PTSD
      symptoms.
    
  