
    
      BACKGROUND:- Phacochop techniques have been categorized as either horizontal or vertical.
      These approaches are thought to be among the best techniques for managing hard cataracts. In
      vertical chop technique proper placement of the phaco tip is crucial. It must be embedded
      deeply into the centre of the nucleus , pointing toward the optic nerve , with high vacuum
      and burst mode.Inadequate penetration of phacotip may result in partial thickness nuclear
      crack with residual posterior plate and overzealous penetration may result in posterior
      capsular rupture.This may be avoided if some estimate can be made preoperatively of the depth
      of penetration required to achieve full thickness crack. With this in mind the study intends
      to make a preoperative assessment of the depth required to reach the centre of the nuclei and
      observe the actual depth of penetration required for a safe and effective vertical chop.

      MATHEMATICAL BASIS :- The cross section of a lens nucleus is ellipsoidal . A geometrical
      estimate of the radius of the ellipse (x )traversed by the phacotip to reach the centre can
      be made preoperatively.The calculation would depend largely on three parameters.

      The major axis of the ellipse ( namely the lens diameter[b] ) The minor axis of the ellipse
      (namely lens thickness[a] ) The point of entry on the surface of the lens.This defines an
      angle Ø which this radius makes with the vertical axis and in turn can be approximated by the
      length of the arc from centre of lens surface to entry point[y].

      Adult human crystalline lens varies in thickness from 4.2+/-0.5 mm and has a diameter of
      9.6+/- 0.4mm. Assuming the lens diameter (b) to be from 9.2 mm to 10.0mm , the lens thickness
      ( a) varying from 3.7mm to 4.7mm and the point of entry of phacotip 2.0mm to 3.0mm from
      centre of anterior lens surface ( y ) , this distance (x) would vary from 2.59mm to
      3.2mm.(using Online Wolfram calculator) in thinnest to thickest nuclei. This would be
      increased with increase in ( a ) as well as ( y ) .In cataractous lens the harder a nucleus
      the deeper it may be required to penetrate to achieve a full thickness crack.

      If the investigators make a note of all three variables i.e lens thickness , nuclear hardness
      and point of entry at the time of surgery and correlate with the actual depth required at the
      time of surgery the investigators may be able to recommend an effective and safe phacodepth
      for achieving full thickness nuclear crack in various grades of hard cataract.

      Till now it was not possible to measure the length of penetration of phacotip during surgery.
      The investigators have designed a calibrated phacotip with visible markings on 0.2mm scale
      from 2 to 3. 4mm to enable measurements and recordings.

      Thus the investigators aim to identify a safe and effective phacodepth required in each grade
      of cataract {3.0 - 6.9 according to Lens Opacities Classification System( LOCS-III )}to
      achieve successful nuclear crack . At the same time any correlation between different nuclear
      grades and the effective phacodepth would be analysed to find any association between them.
    
  