
    
      Percutaneous nephrolithotomy is a renal lithiasis endoscopic treatment. It is usually two
      staged: it begins in the lithotomy position for ureteral catheter placement and retrograde
      pyelography and, subsequently, an optimal renal access is obtained in the prone position. The
      PNL is usually two staged. It begins in the lithotomy position for cystoscopic placement of
      ureteral catheter and retrograde pyelography and, subsequently, a patient is placed mainly in
      the prone position for percutaneous access and stone removal. This position offers more
      options for puncture.

      In most of the centers, the PNL is done under GA, that is associated with a risk of
      complications due to putting an intubated, muscle-relaxed, unconscious patient in a prone
      position. Other complications, including blood transfusion, nausea and vomiting or fever, are
      more often observed after the general then after the regional anesthesia; the cost of general
      anesthesia is also higher. The regional anesthesia that can be performed independently for
      the PNL includes spinal, epidural or combined spinal-epidural blocks. A segmental epidural
      block is better than spinal anesthesia in terms of hemodynamic stability, postoperative
      analgesia, patient's satisfaction and reduced incidence of postoperative nausea and vomiting.
      For epidural anesthesia it takes longer to act than for spinal one but it allows avoiding the
      motor block so the patient can change the position from lithotomy into prone himself with a
      little assistance. The position of a patient should not be changed rapidly right after the
      spinal anesthesia has been performed, due to the risk of too high anesthesia level and
      hemodynamic complications.

      The aim of the study was to evaluate the epidural anesthesia performed for PNL over the last
      decade in the Medical University of Warsaw Urology Department.
    
  