
    
      Since 1997, breast cancer has been the most common cancer in the UK, accounting for 31% of
      all new cancers in women. According to the latest statistics published by Cancer Research UK,
      approximately 50,000 women were diagnosed with breast cancer in 2010(1). In the UK, 53% of
      women with symptomatic breast cancer and 27% of those with screen-detected breast cancer are
      treated surgically with mastectomy; therefore approximately 21,500 undergo a therapeutic
      mastectomy each year (2). Guidelines from the National Institute for Health and Clinical
      Excellence (NICE) recommend that immediate breast reconstruction is offered to women during
      the same operation as their mastectomy (3). The UK National Mastectomy and Breast
      Reconstruction Audit Second Report 2009 (4) states that 21% of their cohort underwent
      immediate breast reconstruction, thus one would expect approximately 4500 women to undergo
      immediate reconstruction each year in the UK.

      A breast reconstruction should mimic the natural appearance of the breast in shape, volume
      and compliance, together giving a symmetrical result. Breast reconstruction ranges from
      implant-based methods to autologous free flap reconstruction, such as the deep inferior
      epigastric perforator (DIEP) flap, which was first popularised by Allen in 1994(5). In our
      unit, the DIEP flap has become one of the most reliable and popular methods of breast
      reconstruction, with flap failure rate of less than 1%. We, like others, view it as the
      current "gold standard" in breast reconstruction(6)(7)(8).

      Adjuvant post-mastectomy radiotherapy (PMRT) is offered to women at high risk of chest wall
      recurrence. The perceived detrimental effect of radiotherapy on an immediate breast
      reconstruction and the "one-off" nature of autologous reconstruction leads some surgeons to
      recommend delayed reconstruction after mastectomy or to use a temporising implant with a view
      to planned exchange to autologous reconstruction after radiotherapy. However, there remains
      significant uncertainty in the literature about the impact of radiotherapy on autologous
      reconstructions . Initially, small case series supported the clinical bias that radiotherapy
      is detrimental to the autologous reconstruction but, more recently, larger series have
      challenged this view. Each study has flaws, such as being underpowered, having insufficient
      duration of follow up, not reporting patient satisfaction or not measuring volume objectively
      such that residual questions remain. A recent systematic review by Kelley et al attempted to
      address questions related to complications and flap compromise as a result of radiation
      delivery before or after autologous breast reconstruction. The review analysed 20 articles
      with over 1,500 flap reconstructions. No significant differences in measurable postoperative
      complications including total flap loss, wound healing complications, infection, haematoma,
      seroma, and fat necrosis were found in comparing patients who underwent PMRT before or after
      autologous reconstruction. However, differences in cosmetic outcome and patient satisfaction
      in the irradiated and unirradiated flap reconstruction groups were not adequately addressed.

      The heterogeneity of opinion in the literature on the impact of radiotherapy makes patient
      information and decision-making difficult. It may be that the detrimental effect of
      radiotherapy is outweighed in terms of patient satisfaction by the benefit of immediate
      reconstruction with a definitive reconstruction and that surgeons' concerns are overvalued,
      yet it is upon this anecdotal surgeon-reported outcome that patient decision making is based.

      In an era when breast cancer patients are more likely to survive their disease (85% for 5
      year survival), the physical and psychological effects of treatment, especially long term
      effects, are very relevant. A woman with residual dissatisfaction with her reconstructed
      breast has a constant reminder of her disease and treatment. Optimising reconstructive
      outcomes is a major issue in survivorship.

      Rationale

      Surgeons strive to attain the best possible reconstructive outcomes and are aware of the
      effects of radiotherapy on an autologous flap. They therefore often advise against any
      procedure which may have a detrimental impact on "their" flap. However, from a patient
      perspective, by having a delayed reconstruction the treatment pathway is prolonged by several
      months, if not years, and requires an additional operation(s) compared to those who undergo
      immediate reconstruction and PMRT. There remains significant uncertainty in the literature
      about the magnitude of the impact of radiotherapy from a surgeon's perspective and very
      little is known about the patients' preferences in terms of detrimental impact on flap vs
      effect of the prolonged pathway on their lives.

      By objectively assessing irradiated autologous flap reconstructions and comparing with
      unirradiated patients we will understand further the impact of radiotherapy on an autologous
      flap. By quantifying the difference in patient satisfaction, and understanding the
      perspective of patients who have PMRT to an immediate or delayed reconstruction we will
      understand further the impact of both pathways on their lives, the reconstruction and their
      satisfaction with the result. This, we believe, will enable clinicians to better inform
      patients, empowering them in their decision-making about the best timing for breast
      reconstruction and potentially enabling more women to undergo immediate definitive breast
      reconstruction with DIEP flap.

      We intend to enrol patients who have undergone unilateral mastectomy and DIEP reconstruction.
      Patients will fall into one of four possible groups depending on the decision made by the
      surgeon and patient pre-operatively.

      Patient groups:

        1. Unilateral skin sparing mastectomy (SSM) with immediate DIEP flap reconstruction and
           PMRT (cases)

        2. Unilateral SSM with immediate DIEP flap reconstruction and no PMRT (controls)

        3. Unilateral simple mastectomy, PMRT, and subsequent delayed DIEP flap reconstruction
           (controls)

        4. Unilateral SSM with temporizing implant, PMRT and subsequent conversion to DIEP
           (controls)

      The study will be conducted as a mixed methods case control study using both quantitative and
      qualitative research methods. Initially a prospective study was planned, however for those
      patients who undergo a delayed reconstruction the whole oncological and reconstructive
      process can take several years. Secondly the number of patients who are currently undergoing
      radiotherapy to their DIEP breast reconstruction is relatively small. For these reasons it
      was decided that a truly prospective study would not be practical but prospective data
      collection from a recent cohort of patients would yield a greater study population.
    
  