
    
      Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) is characterized by chronic airflow limitation,
      a qualification of impairment of respiratory muscle function, including hyperinflation and
      muscle weakness. Thus, pulmonary rehabilitation is indicated for patients and is recommended
      for even the most severe cases. However some patients do not conclude conventional
      rehabilitation protocols, due to exercise intolerance, are then an electrical estimation and
      muscle training respiratory adjuvant treatments for patients. and little has been explored
      about the effects and methodologies of using TEDS in healthy subjects. The objective of this
      study on stage I is to evaluate the acute effect of transcutaneous electrical diaphragmatic
      stimulation on respiratory muscle strength, cardiac variability, thickness, resistance,
      mobility and diaphragmatic activation comparing different frequencies of electrical
      stimulation in healthy individuals.The objective of this study on stage II is to evaluate the
      effects of transcutaneous electrical diaphragmatic stimulation, compared to inspiratory
      muscle training on respiratory muscle strength, lung function, thickness and diaphragmatic
      function in patients with exacerbated chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Methods: The
      Stage I is a cross-over Randomized Controlled Trial (RCT) in the first stage of this
      research, which will be performed at the Exercise Research Laboratory (LAPEX) of the School
      of Physical Education, Physiotherapy and Dance of the Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do
      Sul, the Stage II and is a randomized crossover clinical trial, to be performed at the
      Exercise Physiology Laboratory (LAFIEX) of Hospital de Clínicas de Porto Alegre (HCPA).
      Healthy individuals aged between 20 and 60 years, fully aware and cooperative, randomized
      into two groups will be included: one group that will perform TEDS and another that will
      perform IMT in a single session. TEDS will be applied with symmetrical biphasic pulsed
      current, frequency 30 Hertz (Hz), pulse width 0.5 ms, rise time of 1 second, sustain of 1s,
      descent of 2 s, maintaining respiratory rate of 15 rpm, intensity necessary to obtain muscle
      contraction visible, for 30 minutes or until muscle fatigue, daily. The IMT will be performed
      with the PowerBreath device with a charge of 50-60% of the PImax, for 30 breaths and Stage
      III will be an RCT, which will be performed at the Hospitalization Units of Hospital de
      Clinicas de Porto Alegre (HCPA). In the first stage only healthy individuals will be
      included, who will be randomized to TEDS, in the first day (group 1) the parameters will be
      with 30 hertz (Hz) frequency and the second day (group 2) will be with 80 Hz, with one-day
      interval between interventions. The TEDS will be applied with symmetrical biphasic pulsed
      current, pulse width 0.4 ms, rise time of 1 second (s), 1s lift, 2 s descent, maintaining
      respiratory rate of 15 breaths per minute, intensity required to obtain visible muscle
      contraction, for 20 minutes or until muscle fatigue. In this stage, heart rate variability,
      thickness and diaphragmatic mobility by ultrasonography, diaphragmatic activation by
      electromyography, inspiratory muscle endurance with powerbreath, and respiratory muscle
      strength by manovacuometry, before and at the end of treatment, the following variables will
      be measured. In the second stage patients with COPD (GOLD III and IV) hospitalized for
      exacerbation of the disease, who will be randomized into three groups: one group that will
      perform TEDS, another will perform IMT and a third group that will only perform conventional
      physiotherapy. The TEDS will be applied with symmetrical biphasic pulsed current, frequency
      30 Hz, pulse width 0.4 ms, rise time of 1 second, sustain of 1s, decrease of 2 s, maintaining
      respiratory rate (RR) of 15 breaths per minute (rpm), intensity required to obtain visible
      muscle contraction for 20 minutes or even muscle fatigue daily. The IMT will be performed
      with the Power Breath device with load referring to 30-60% of PImax, during 30 breaths daily.
      Conventional physical therapy will be HCPA standard. In this stage, before and at the end of
      treatment, the following variables will be measured: respiratory muscle strength through
      manovacuometry, pulmonary function through spirometry, diaphragmatic thickness through
      echocardiography, diaphragmatic function through respiratory electroneuromyography, Body
      Mass-Index, Airflow Obstruction, Dyspnea and Exercise Capacity (BODE) Index with mass index
      (BMI), functional capacity through the six-minute walk test, dyspnoea by the Borg Scale and
      Medical Research Council (MRC) Scale, cardiovascular variables and time of hospitalization
      through the electronic medical record. The interventions will be carried out from the
      patient's hospitalization to the hospital discharge.
    
  