
    
      The purpose of this protocol is to compare the health-related quality of life (visual
      function) reported by participants when using web-based questionnaires versus their responses
      obtained when using standard paper versions of the questionnaires. This comparison will be
      performed in a population of patients diagnosed with ocular surface disease (OSD) and in age-
      and gender-matched controls by using a randomized, cross-over study design. This type of
      comparative study of patient-reported outcomes has been reported for rheumatology,
      cardiology, psychiatry, asthma, alcoholism, pain assessment, gastrointestinal disease,
      diabetes, and allergy populations; however, to our knowledge there have been no reports of
      such a study from patients with ocular disease. The study will evaluate the agreement between
      scores reported via two modes of administration: a web-based version and a paper-and-pencil
      version. Components of three questionnaires commonly used to evaluate visual function,
      symptoms, and vision-related quality of life in OSD will be included: the initial 5 questions
      of the Ocular Surface Index (OSDI), question #15 of the National Eye Institute Visual
      Functioning Questionnaire - 25 (VFQ-25), and specified domains of the National Eye Institute
      Refractive Error Quality Of Life Instrument-42 (RQL-42) (clarity of vision, near vision, far
      vision, glare, symptoms, worry, and satisfaction with correction).

      The study will also evaluate whether there are differences in mean overall score by age,
      gender, order of administration, or disease severity.

      Ocular surface disease, which includes dry eye disease secondary to a variety of etiologies,
      is an ophthalmic condition which places a burden not just on functional vision, but also on
      overall health related quality of life (HRQoL), with an impact similar to that of moderate
      angina3. This study will add to the body of knowledge in the field of patient-reported
      outcome measures (PROs), and will be the first to compare the computerized, web-based and
      paper-based versions of previously validated questionnaires used to assess QoL in subjects
      with ocular disease.

      There has been an increasing interest in assessing PROs in many fields of medicine,
      especially in the context of clinical trials where HRQoL is an important component of the
      overall evaluation of an intervention or treatment. As the use of computers increases and
      accessibility to the internet broadens, there is a tremendous potential in harnessing this
      technology in the future as a cost-effective, efficient way to gather clinical data on PROs
      for future ophthalmic clinical trials and studies.
    
  