
    
      Understanding that older people living with HIV are facing uniques challenges as they age
      (lack of peer set due to extreme loss during the AIDS epidemic, ongoing HIV and age stigma,
      high rates of multi-morbidity) this study explores the acceptability and feasibility of
      implementing the Village Model in Central San Diego.

      The Village Model started when several older members of Boston's Beacon Hill realized they
      were aging and may need more help as they aged to thrive in their own homes. The Village
      Model involves members of a community paying annual fees to support a village administrator
      that organizes regular socialization events and helps coordinate needs of individual members
      using the skill sets of other members within the community. From that first experience a few
      decades ago, today over 200 Villages exist across the country to enhance the ability of older
      adults to age in place.

      However limitations of this model exists that may threaten the long term implementation and
      sustainability of the Village Model. Specifically the requirement to pay annual fees for an
      administrator, the lack of diversity (in age, race, sexuality etc), and difficulty in meeting
      member's needs in real-time.

      This project proposes to pilot the Village Model in Central San Diego and will implement the
      following adaptions to address limitations. Members will not be required to pay annual fees
      but instead depend on a well-funded, long-established diverse organization (The San Diego
      LGBT Center) to serve as the administrator. This Village will allow participation of persons
      within the community at all ages, race, economic status. Lastly, the project proposes to
      pilot the acceptability of using a hyperlocal social app to display and respond to community
      needs in real time.

      To achieve this, the investigators will 1) perform questionnaires to understand the needs in
      the community by collecting needs assessments. 2) The investigators will explore the meaning
      of community and explore barriers and facilitators of Village Model implementation. 3) Lastly
      the investigators will pilot the Village model using a hyperlocal social app.
    
  