
    
      Evaluating Cancer Survivorship Care Models Study Overview and Research Design

      Cancer is a complex disease requiring complex treatments that can cause lasting impacts after
      treatment ends. Some patients face lasting physical, psychosocial, spiritual and/or practical
      challenges as they adjust to life after cancer. Fortunately, health care clinicians have
      begun to focus on the consequences of cancer and its treatment and are more actively working
      with cancer survivors to manage post-treatment needs and care.

      The Evaluating Cancer Survivorship Care Models project is a groundbreaking 3-year comparative
      effectiveness research (CER) study that examines how to best deliver follow-up care to cancer
      survivors. This project is led by the George Washington University and funded by the
      Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute. A key component of the project is the use of a
      stakeholder Advisory Board chaired by a cancer survivor who serves as a senior advisor to the
      research team. The Advisory Board includes survivors, survivor advocates, clinicians, health
      care professionals and advisors from stakeholders across myriad facets of cancer care,
      including the Cancer Support Community, LIVESTRONG, the Commission on Cancer, and the
      American Cancer Society. These organizations are critical to the success of the project.

      The study is innovative in its focus on patient-centered outcomes. The first phase of the
      project employed a mixed methods approach including a secondary analysis of existing data
      from 4 national surveys, focus groups with cancer survivors, an environmental scan of
      existing survivorship programs and a national survey of cancer survivors to develop an
      outcomes tool and a prospective observational CER study. Based on results from the first
      phase, the study team at the George Washington University (GW) developed a
      patient-prioritized index to identify services and components of care that patients equate
      with high quality survivorship care.

      Three models of survivorship care at Commission on Cancer-accredited institutions were
      identified through the environmental scan. In the CER phase of the study, each survivorship
      care model will serve as a comparator for the other two models. Patients in the CER study
      population will be adults who have been diagnosed with non-metastatic breast, prostate or
      colorectal cancer and completed active treatment. Patient-reported outcomes will be assessed
      at three points in the project: at baseline (immediately prior to and immediately following a
      post-treatment survivorship visit), 3 months post-visit and 6 months post-visit.
      Multivariable analyses including repeated measures and mixed-effect regression modeling will
      be used to control for systematic differences across the groups, which would further increase
      the validity of our results. Using the newly-developed index, the comparative effectiveness
      study will measure the quality of programs according to what patients have identified as most
      important to them.

      The investigators have launched the CER phase of the study and are enrolling high-performing
      survivorship programs. Our pool of invited participants consists of Commission on
      Cancer-accredited sites with clinical survivorship care programs that meet the following
      eligibility criteria:

        -  Provide services to survivors of breast, prostate or colorectal cancer

        -  Have demonstrated a high performance level on incorporating elements of survivorship
           care into clinical care delivery

        -  See at least 60 new survivors yearly

        -  Includes the most common characteristics related to delivery of survivorship care

      During the CER study, data will be gathered from survivorship program administrators,
      patients and survivorship care clinicians. Survivorship program administrators will complete
      an interview and survey to examine how survivorship programs are organized and identify key
      characteristics of programs to determine which factors are most influential in delivering
      high quality post-treatment survivorship care. Patients will complete surveys measuring
      patient-centered outcomes: health-related quality of life; self-efficacy; satisfaction;
      health care utilization and a newly developed measure of quality of survivorship care as
      prioritized by patients. Clinicians will complete surveys on the services offered during
      participating patients' initial post-treatment survivorship visit. Together, this data will
      allow the GW study team to understand successful strategies for transforming the care
      delivery system to be more responsive to patient needs.

      In the third and final phase, this project will generate critical data for a variety of
      decision-makers related to care for post-treatment cancer survivors and will result in
      evidence-based guidance for how to organize and deliver post-treatment care. The GW study
      team seeks to provide recommendations on survivorship care delivery best practices; develop
      tools for improving survivorship programs and care delivery from both clinician and patient
      perspectives; and to widely disseminate findings to a variety of stakeholders, including
      survivors and their families, clinicians, survivorship care program leaders, payers,
      policymakers and others.
    
  