
    
      This study seeks to deploy several forms of 129Xe MRI contrast as well as emerging
      conventional proton MRI technqiues for imaging lung structure and perfusion. Specifically,
      the 129Xe MRI scans will provide 3D images of ventilation and gas exchange, and spectroscopic
      indices will be evaluated to test gas exchange dynamics with high temporal resolution. The
      conventional 1H MRI scans will include a free-breathing ultra-short echo time (UTE) scan that
      provides images similar to that of a CT scan. In addition, to characterize perfusion and
      vascular dimensions directly, patients will undergo a gadolinium-enhanced perfusion scan. The
      overall aims of the study are as follows:

      Aim 1. Perform 129Xe MRI scans in cohorts of patients with PVD, isolated left sided heart
      failure and isolated lung disease:

      1.1 Deploy and optimize 129Xe gas exchange MR spectroscopy and imaging, 129Xe ventilation
      MRI, structural 1H UTE MRI, and breath-hold 1H perfusion MRI.

      1.2 Conduct comprehensive 1H-129Xe MRI in 10 patients with pure pulmonary arterial
      hypertension (PAH) 1.3 Conduct comprehensive MRI in 10 patients with pure left heart failure
      1.4 Conduct comprehensive MRI in 10 patients with pure lung disease but no pulmonary
      hypertension 1.5 Conduct comprehensive MRI in 5 patients with Chronic thromboembolic
      pulmonary hypertension (CTEPH) pre and post PTE surgery.

      Aim 2. Develop diagnostic criteria for optimizing the sensitivity and specificity of 129Xe
      MRI for the diagnosis of PVD:

      2.1 Develop quantification/scoring methods based on PAH, left heart disease, and lung disease
      MRI 2.2 Develop reader training materials and train 3 expert readers 2.3 Begin prospective
      recruitment of 92 patients being evaluated for PAH for MRI scans. These patients may be asked
      to return for a second scan in the study, at a time no earlier than 48hr after their last
      xenon dose.

      Aim 3. Perform a larger, single-blind study testing the diagnostic accuracy of 129Xe MRI for
      diagnosis of PVD:

      3.1 Trained readers will evaluate 129Xe MRI, while blinded to the subject's disease state and
      will determine the presence and severity of PVD 3.2 Diagnostic accuracy of 129Xe MRI will be
      compared to the gold standard of hemodynamic and clinical criteria of PAH

        1. For this PFTs are not necessary, so they are ancillary

        2. However, they are a standard way to characterize patients for publications, etc, so we
           would like to get them if we can. Getting them from the medical record is perfectly
           adequate for this pur-pose.

      i. If PFTs are not available from the medical record, they are not so critical as to pre-vent
      us from enrolling the subject. In publications we will simply acknowledge the realities of
      COVID for this missing data.

      This will be an single-blinded, open-label study enrolling volunteers and patients with pure
      PAH (10 subjects), pure left heart disease (10 subjects) and pure lung disease (10 subjects)
      [Aim 1] followed by a larger cohort of 92 subjects being evaluated for PAH [Aim 2]. The
      investigators plan to consent to 127 subjects.

      The sample size calculation is based on testing whether the proposed diagnostic test based on
      Xe MRI has accuracy comparable to imaging diagnostic procedures in clinical practice, such as
      mammography. To this end, the investigator proposes to test the hypotheses H0: AUC = 0.72 vs.
      H1: AUC > 0.85, where area under the curve (AUC) is a summary measure of diagnostic accuracy
      obtained as the the area under the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve which
      displays the tradeoff between sensitivity and specificity for our proposed Xe MRI based
      diagnostic test. Here AUC = 0.72 represents a moderately accurate test while AUC = 0.85
      represents accuracy comparable to clinical mammography. Based on a one sided, one sample test
      with variances approximated using the binormal model, the investigator estimates a minimum
      sample size of 46 normals and 46 with disease will be required to test the above hypotheses
      at a significance level of 5% with 80% power.
    
  