
    
      R306465, a histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitor, is a new drug in development for cancer. In
      this study, the safety (the effect on the body) of R306465 in patients with advanced cancer
      will be studied and the maximum dose that can be tolerated by these patients will be
      determined. The absorption, break down, and elimination of the drug will be studied.
      Antitumor activity of R306465 will be evaluated.

      R306465 will be administered in a continuous regimen for 21 days followed by a 1-week rest
      period, which constitutes a 28-day treatment cycle. The dose of R306465 will start low and
      will be increased during the study in groups of 3 to 6 patients. If a group of patients does
      not have severe side effects, the next group of patients will get a higher dose. The dose
      will increase until some patients have severe side effects. The dose will then be decreased
      to a dose level where severe side effects are observed in less than 1/3 of patients. The
      amount of R306465 in the blood will be measured and the effect on the disease will be
      evaluated in all patients.

      Patients will be screened for eligibility within 4 weeks before study treatment is given. The
      duration of treatment will depend on adverse effects and whether there is benefit from the
      treatment.

      The design of a cycle may be adjusted during the course of the study as guided by clinical
      observations. The dosing regimen may be adjusted as guided by information on how rapidly your
      body breaks down and eliminates the study drug. Patients will be informed if there are
      changes in the design of a cycle or the dosing regimen.

      During the first treatment cycle, patients are required to stay in the hospital for at least
      3 nights. In addition there are 6 daytime visits during Cycles 1 and 2 (combined) that may
      take up to 4 hours after the morning dose. From Cycle 3 onwards, there are only 2 daytime
      visits per treatment cycle, and these visits usually take up less time.

      Throughout the study, especially during Cycles 1 and 2, patients will undergo frequent blood
      and urine tests, procedures to assess safety including heart function, and tests to assess
      the course of the patient's illness. Two weeks after the last dose of the study drug,
      patients are required to return to the study site for follow-up assessments. R306465 will be
      administered orally once daily for 21 consecutive days followed by a 1-week rest period.
      These 4 weeks will constitute 1 treatment cycle. The starting dose level will be 100mg. The
      dose for each patient will be assigned at enrollment. On the basis of assessment by the
      investigator, the patient may continue to receive study drug as long as there is clinical
      benefit and in absence of intolerable side effects.
    
  