
    
      The coronavirus disease of 2019 (COVID-19) is an international public health challenge with
      far-reaching social, economic and health impacts. Older adults and those with chronic
      underlying health conditions are the most susceptible to COVID-19 and its complications. Of
      the 15,381 reported cases of COVID-19 in Ontario to date, approximately 22.2% (n=3,420) are
      aged 60-79 and 22.4% (n=3,443) are 80 and over. Although there has been a rapid and
      coordinated response to studying the effects of COVID-19 in the acute stages, little is known
      about recovery over the longer-term. Anecdotally, we are seeing severe declines in function,
      persistent symptoms, and new and worsening chronic conditions among older survivors of
      COVID-19. It is known that older adults who survive acute respiratory distress syndrome and
      associated diseases are at risk of developing persistent mobility limitations due to
      extensive bed rest and/or long stays in the intensive care unit (ICU) during hospitalization.
      Recent studies have shown that many older patients spend only 4% of their hospital stay out
      of bed, and each day in bed is associated with a 1-5% loss in muscle strength. For older
      patients and those with underlying frailty recovering from COVID-19, this could rapidly lead
      to significant physical deconditioning and rapid declines in mobility; with further losses in
      physiological reserve and resilience. Understanding the trajectory of functional recovery of
      older hospitalised patients with COVID-19 in the short- and long-term is critical to
      improving patient outcomes and informing health and rehabilitative interventions for
      survivors.

      Our study is an extension of the Coronavirus (COVID-19) Registry (COREG) platform (PI Andrew
      Costa)- a unique Kitchener-Waterloo-Hamilton registry of suspected and confirmed COVID-19
      hospital admissions based on (and in collaboration with) the WHO International Severe Acute
      Respiratory and Emerging Infection Consortium (ISARIC). The addition of a prospective cohort
      study extension to COREG will allow us to follow-older hospitalised COVID-19 patients over
      the longer-term in order to gain an understanding of the trajectory of functional recovery of
      the disease. Combining the primary data collection with COREG will also allow us to identify
      determinants of long-term outcomes for at-risk older adults. These data are necessary to
      guide the clinical care and optimal management of older patients who survive serious COVID-19
      illness.
    
  