
    
      Primary Objectives (Feasibility Phase) To determine the feasibility of non-invasive
      collection of continuous physiological data in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia
      during outpatient treatment.

      (Completion Phase) To develop competing sepsis prediction algorithms using continuous
      physiological data during outpatient treatment in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia
      during high-risk periods of induction therapy.

      Secondary Objectives To estimate the PPV and NPV of competing sepsis prediction algorithms
      using continuous physiological data for prediction of fever and sepsis in children with acute
      lymphoblastic leukemia during high-risk periods of induction therapy.

      To estimate the frequency of undocumented fever episodes in children with acute lymphoblastic
      leukemia during high-risk periods of induction therapy.

      To estimate the time from detection of fever or sepsis by a wearable device to identification
      by standard practice in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia during high-risk periods
      of induction therapy.

      This study aims to determine whether continuous analysis of those biosignals in children
      treated for ALL can predict early onset of sepsis. To collect those biosignals, we combine
      two wearable sensors, namely TempTraq, an adhesive temperature sensor, and Empatica E4, a
      wearable physiological monitoring device.

      Data will be collected during two selected high-risk 5-day periods of induction therapy for
      acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Statistical models will be applied and a series of validation
      methodologies will be developed to arrive at an optimal predictive model for subsequent
      external validation .

      This study will use a two-stage design. The initial stage (the feasibility phase) will
      evaluate the feasibility of data collection, and the second stage (the completion phase) will
      provide sufficient data for the development of predictive models and the estimation of the
      sensitivity and specificity of these models .

      Feasibility Phase

      The feasibility phase of the study will comprise the first 10 study participants, including
      at least 3 in each age group (5 to <10 years, and >/= 10 years). The aim of this stage is to
      estimate the proportion of time that continuous monitoring data are available, and these
      results will determine whether the study progresses to the completion phase

      Completion Phase

      The Completion Phase will comprise approximately 55 participants. Enrollment will continue
      until:

        1. A total of 15 participants have experienced a fever or sepsis event for the prediction
           model, and

        2. At least 15 participants have completed the study without experiencing a fever or sepsis
           event.
    
  