
    
      Myocarditis/ inflammatory cardiomyopathy, which often leads to HF, is still an under-studied
      disease with various clinical manifestations. The active myocarditis is found post-mortem
      even in 42% of sudden deaths of young people and in 9-16% of adults and 46% of children with
      idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. Moreover, an increase in morbidity and mortality from
      myocarditis was recorded in the years 1990-2015. Myocarditis significantly increases the risk
      of HF, serious arrhythmias and conduction abnormalities, sudden death, anxiety, depression
      and it reduces quality of life. Myocarditis affects mainly young people (18-40 years old, and
      children) who lead active family life and work. Therefore, the disease causes deterioration
      of entire family life, it reduces individual productivity, creates high and long-term
      treatment costs. There is an urgent need to improve myocarditis therapy. Current guidelines
      recommendations in myocarditis consists of standard treatment of already developed HF and
      long-term avoidance of physical activity. Due to the lack of good quality scientific data,
      there is no clear recommendation for the targeted treatment - thus patients' prognosis may be
      poor. The pathogenesis of myocarditis and limited reports suggest the reasonable chance of
      significant improvement of patients' survival due to immunosuppressive therapy.

      Aim: Aim of the IMPROVE-MC study is to assess the efficacy and safety of 12-month
      immunosuppressive treatment with prednisone and azathioprine compared with placebo on the
      guideline-recommended medical therapy in patients with biopsy-proven virus-negative
      myocarditis or inflammatory cardiomyopathy. Secondary aim is to create ready-to-use
      diagnostic and therapeutic scheme in polish and international healthcare systems, which can
      lead to myocarditis guidelines change.

      Population and methods: In this multicenter (7 recruitment centers), prospective, randomized,
      double-blind placebo-controlled trial we are going to include 100 patients aged 18-75 years
      old, with biopsy-proven virus-negative myocarditis in stable or worsening course of the
      disease despite standard medical treatment, with left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF)
      ≤45% and/or significant cardiac arrhythmias refractory to antiarrhythmic treatment. Exclusion
      criteria consist of ie.: another specific etiology of HF different from myocarditis; already
      implanted ventricular assist device; a heart transplant recipient; contraindications to
      immunosuppressive treatment; suspected sarcoidosis or giant cell myocarditis. Intervention:
      azathioprine for 12 months and prednisone for the first 6 months versus placebo for 12 months
      Study course: after randomization patients will undergo one-year double-blind treatment and
      then one-year follow-up to assess the long-term effects of the treatment.

      The efficacy and safety of the treatment will be assessed during study visits:
      investigational products/ placebo will be provided and additional tests will be performed -
      48-hour Holter monitoring, echocardiography, cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (MRI),
      laboratory tests and follow-up endomyocardial biopsy after one-year of treatment. In order to
      broaden knowledge about myocarditis pathogenesis additional genetic, immunology and proteomic
      tests will be performed. All echo, MRI, Holter and biopsy tests will be evaluated centrally.
      Study endpoints: primary endpoint is change from baseline in mean LVEF at 12-months.
      Secondary endpoints (assessed after 3, 6, 12, 18, 24 months since the treatment start)
      consist of: the percentage of patients with ≥10% increase of LVEF; occurrence of
      hospitalization; death; heart transplantation; cardiac device implantation; ablation of heart
      rhythm disorders; change of arrhythmia burden; HF symptoms assessed in New York Heart
      Association (NYHA) class; distance in 6-minute walk test; quality of life; echocardiographic
      parameters; cardiac MRI; histopathological exam; biomarkers of fibrosis and myocardial
      necrosis; concentration of anti-heart auto-antibodies. Summary: Myocarditis can result in
      numerous complications, but there is paucity of data regarding optimal therapy, short- and
      long-term effects of possibly effective immunosuppressive therapy. The IMPROVE-MC study will
      provide high-quality scientific data about efficacy and safety of immunosuppressive therapy,
      non-invasive (MRI, biomarkers) and invasive diagnostics tests (endomyocardial biopsy), and
      prognosis of myocarditis patients. This nationwide project will help in creation
    
  