
    
      This pilot study evaluates two principal components of a community-based intervention to
      improve dietary habits and access to healthy foods: a school-based healthy snacking campaign
      and a series of community cooking classes for adults. The primary outcome assessed within
      each intervention component is dietary intake as measured by self-reported beverage and food
      consumption in pre-post surveys. Secondary outcome variables include attitudes, preferences,
      confidence, self-efficacy and other psychosocial variables related to healthy eating
      behaviors, perceptions of healthy food availability, food purchasing and preparation habits,
      and perceived barriers to healthy eating.

      The school-based intervention component employs a nonequivalent control group research
      design. A subset of middle- and high-schools within a single county in eastern KY will
      receive a healthy snacking campaign intervention, and students from randomly selected
      classrooms within these schools will be invited to enroll in the study. Students from middle-
      and high-school classrooms in a comparison county that receives no intervention will serve as
      nonequivalent controls. The investigators specific aims for this component are to improve the
      availability of healthy snack foods that students may purchase at school, increase student
      consumption of healthy snacks over unhealthy snacks, and increase the consumption of water
      over sugar-sweetened beverages. Following baseline, posttest surveys will be administered at
      3, 6 and 14 months.

      Community cooking classes will be delivered to a non-random sample of adults who will
      complete pretest-posttest measures at baseline and 8 weeks. The specific aims of this
      component are to increase the consumption of healthy foods at home, and increase participant
      knowledge, skills, and self-efficacy around healthy home cooking.
    
  