
    
      The primary care physicians in the memory disorder clinics at the participating hospitals
      (Chang-Gung Memorial Hospital at Lin-Kuo, Chang-Gung Memorial Hospital-Taoyuan branch,
      Catholic Mercy Hospital at Hukou, Hsinchu county) will receive a written letter to explain
      the purpose of this project and the eligible criteria of PWDs and their FCGs. Debriefing can
      be provided upon request. Then the participating physicians will help to identify eligible
      dyads; while one trained research assistant (RA) is responsible for CM implementation (RA I),
      and the second RA (graduate students, RA II) will be responsible for data collection in each
      time point.

      To increase the feasibility of this project, the inclusion criteria of PWDs are made to
      reflect the recruiting site reality, including: (1) age being older than 60 years old; (2)
      having a primary FCG or a secondary FCG who can provides sufficient information and assistant
      for the PWD; co-residence is not required; (3) PWDs are those with cognitive impairment
      confirmed by the primary or secondary FCG or participating neurologists. The exclusion
      criteria of PWDs include: (1) acute illnesses, impaired sensory symptoms (hearing loss and
      severe visual problems); (2) acute agitation which requires emergency treatment; (3) chronic
      alcohol abuse or use of drugs which possibly affect central nervous system functions; (4)
      presence of major psychiatric disorders within the last 2 years; (5) neurological or systemic
      illness (e.g. delirium, hypoxia, or unstable thyroid dysfunction); (6) no primary FCG or
      secondary FCG.

      Investigator will screen for FCGs who report and meet the criteria of moderate levels of
      severity in the following risk areas (Table 1): depressive symptoms, burden, distress to
      problematic behaviors of PWDs and healthy behaviors. The definition of primary FCG include:
      (1) age 18 years old or greater; (2) at least providing the most assistance (4 hours a day)
      to their relatives with dementia for the past three months or those who conduct secondary
      care to their relatives, meaning that these FCGs supervise the hired care assistants or
      foreign helpers who actually take care of the patients; co-residency is not required for
      family caregivers. Exclusion criteria of family caregivers include: (1) documented cognitive
      or mental disorder, such as severe memory problems or major affective disorders; (2) hearing
      or visual impairments which are not properly corrected; (3) prescribed drugs known to impair
      or enhance attention, e.g., antidepressants, barbiturates, or other depressants,
      amphetamines; (4) insufficient command of Mandarin, Taiwanese; (5) participation in other
      interventions which may contaminate the results of this study.

      In previous project, the satisfactory level of our case management training course was high.
      All the trainees had the highest regard toward the professional quality of the content and
      the instructors (Chiu et al, 2013). One of the case managers served as research assistant in
      the previous project and will continue to work with us as interventionist upon funded.
      Investigator will conduct a three-year RCT involving repeated measures at four time points:
      baseline screening (T0), 4th month (the end of the intervention, T1), 6th month
      (post-treatment follow up, T2), 12th month (T3).

      Randomization Randomization takes place after baseline assessment. An external independent
      person establishes the random order using random number tables.

      CM Intervention Protocol The 4-month CM intervention on FCGs of PWDs involves 2 home visits,
      2 phone calls from the case manager to the dyads, and receiving telephone calls from FCGs
      during the working hours (Monday through Friday, 9-5). The case manager will target the
      prioritized risk from the 4 risk areas of FCG problems: depressive symptoms, burden, distress
      to problematic behaviors of PWDs, and healthy behaviors (Table 1). The intervention mainly
      consists of 1. needs assessment and nursing education on home environment modification and
      safety, behavioral management and communication skills(Belle et al., 2006); 2. home-based
      cognitive stimulation on PWD with simple mathematical practice (Cheng et al., 2013), patient
      preferred leisure activities (Chiu et al., 2015) and reminiscence by old time photos, stories
      and toys (Chiu et al., 2013); 3. brief consultation on 4 risk areas related to FCG stress
      (Belle et al., 2006) and 4. case management to refer the dyads to the hospital-based dementia
      centers and community resources (Chien et al., 2010). The case manager will assess the
      recruited dyads at the beginning of the intervention (T0), develop a tailored care plan based
      on the prioritized risk area of the FCGs and conduct the first home visit in the 1st month to
      build up a partnership with FCGs, discuss the care plan with the FCGs (and PWDs if possible).
      Each risk area of each FCG will be dealt with CM components such as education, brief
      counseling, problem solving and evidence based strategies derived from the Pearlin's
      theoretical principles. The case manager will teach the FCGs how to implement the home-based
      cognitive stimulation and cognitive training for PWDs and provide them the daily log for
      recording these activities and any leisure-time physical activities as well as medical cost.
      There will be two telephone calls in the 2nd and 3rd months to reinforce the dyads about the
      taught strategies, collect the log data and remind them the date of the next home visit (4th
      month). If the problems in each risk area persist until the first phone call, the case
      manager will discuss this case in a multidisciplinary conference in the participating
      dementia centers with nurses, social workers, clinical psychologists and neurologists. Then a
      revised care plan will be developed and additional home visit will be conducted in the 3rd
      month. If it is necessary, the case manager will refer the dyads to the hospital-based
      dementia centers, memory clinics or governmental resources. The frequent contacts are to
      ensure the CM strategies can reflect the changing needs of the FCGs. The definition of
      compliance is 80% of CM strategies completed by the dyads. The outcome data will be collected
      after the recruitment in the 4th month (T1), 6th month (T2) and 12th moth (T3) either by home
      visits or dementia center or memory clinic visits.

      To ensure the quality of medical care, both group participants will be followed up at three
      monthly intervals in the dementia centers. PWDs of the experimental and control groups will
      receive standard medical treatment as clinically indicated.

      For the control group, after the initial assessment, the case manager will give the dyads
      written information about dementia and its progress as well as home safety during the first
      home visit. Then case manager will make 2 phone calls in the 2nd and 3rt months for social
      interactions with the control group and collect the cost data. These phone calls do not
      involve in active education, consultation or cognitive stimulation and training. The control
      dyads will remain their usual care, i.e., visiting their primary care physicians or special
      neurologists for treatments or related consultation as well as education. The participating
      physicians will be unaware of the dyads allocation to either intervention or control
      condition. The dyads in the control group have no access to most of the structured and
      tailored activities. The outcome data will be collected at the 4th month (T1), 6th month (T2)
      and 12th month (T3)
    
  