
    
      An increasing amount of antibiotics are being consumed and along with the increased
      resistance they carry along, they pose an increasing problem for the health sector. A method
      to decrease the use of antibiotics is highly desirable and of great importance in order to
      halt the spread of multi-resistant bacteria that is becoming an increasing problem in
      Denmark.

      Lower respiratory tract infections such as pneumonia and acute exacerbations of chronic
      obstructive pulmonary disease (AECOPD) are frequent reasons for patient contact in both the
      primary and secondary sectors. Identifying which patients that could benefit from treatment
      with antibiotics is a great challenge to the health sector. This is why patients often are
      treated with antibiotics if there is a mere suspicion of the above-mentioned disorders, even
      if they are not proved for certain.

      An increasing amount of data suggests that procalcitonin (PCT) could serve as a possible
      marker of respiratory tract infections caused by bacteria. Alongside the conventional
      clinical parameters, the level of PCT is regarded as a promising means to decide whether to
      treat with antibiotics and how long such a treatment should endure. When an infection is
      under control by the immune system of the individual or by treatment with antibiotics, the
      level of PCT will diminish by 50% on a daily basis. Accordingly, a decline in the PCT levels
      should indicate a favorable response to antibiotic treatment. Therefore there is a need to
      further investigate if the PCT levels can be used, in the everyday clinic, to diagnose
      patients with pneumonia or AECOPD caused by bacteria and if this could have an effect on the
      use of antibiotics, thus optimizing the treatment of the patients.

      The purpose of this research project is to compare the amount of antibiotics consumed using
      standard treatment and treatment based on the PCT levels of patients with lower respiratory
      tract infections, respectively.

      With the research at hand, a clarification of whether a measurement of PCT can serve as a
      diagnostic tool to distinguish between bacterial and non-bacterial infections in patients
      that are suspected of having pneumonia or AECOPD is desirable. In extension, this study wants
      to clarify if the PCT levels can indicate when a potential antibiotic treatment should be
      initiated and if the use of a PCT-based treatment in the daily clinical work could lower the
      consumption of antibiotics.

      The hypothesis is that PCT will be increased (≥0.25 µg/l and ≥0.10 µg/l for pneumonia and
      AECOPD respectively) in lower respiratory tract infections caused by bacteria, whereas PCT
      should only be slightly increased in non-bacterial lower respiratory tract infections if at
      all. It is expected that using a PCT-based treatment in lower respiratory tract infections
      could lower the consumption of antibiotics, while at the same time it should not prove a
      greater health risk to patients than by using a standard treatment.
    
  