
    
      1.0 Introduction: Overactive bladder syndrome (OAB) is a prevalent disorder that affects
      about 10% of the adult population and > 40% of elderly. It is defined by the presence of
      urgency, with or without urge incontinence, in the absence of infection or other pathology.
      In 1997 through 1999, sacral nerve stimulation SNS (InterStim, Medtronic Inc., Minneapolis,
      Minnesota) was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for treating urge
      urinary incontinence, urinary urgency, and frequency. Despite the large numbers of SNS
      performed, the only objective clinical evaluation of OAB is urodynamic detrusor instability
      (UDI) with some evidence suggesting a correlation with outcomes after sacral neuromodulation.

      Interestingly, the mechanism of action of SNS is not fully understood. Theories include
      direct activation of efferent fibers to the striated urethral sphincter causing reflex
      relaxation of the detrusor or potential activation of afferent fibers selectively which can
      lead to inhibition at spinal and supraspinal levels. Somatic sacral afferent inflow
      activation at sacral level affects the storage and emptying reflexes in the bladder and
      central nervous system, explaining the beneficial effects of neuromodulation on both storage
      and emptying functions of the bladder. Malaguti and his colleagues detected somatosensory
      evoked potentials during sacral neuromodulation, revealing that sacral neuromodulation works
      by both sacral afferent activity and somatosensory cortex activation. As sacral
      neuromodulation is clinically proven for both storage and emptying bladder dysfunctions, it
      is difficult to isolate its action to either sacral afferent or efferent circuits in the
      micturition reflex pathway. In our study, we are going to study sacral neuromodulation
      outcome predictors from the clinical and urodynamic perspectives in order to help identifying
      the right candidates for sacral neuromodulation procedure.

      2.0 Specific Aims:

        -  Specific aim#1: Using the medical reporting systems, we will identify all patients who,
           underwent sacral neuromodulation at University Hospitals of Cleveland from January 1,
           2012 through February, 2017.

        -  Specific aim#2: Reporting on the efficacy outcomes including: rate of successful
           placement, rate of reported patient improvement after peripheral nerve (PNE) stage 1 and
           stage 2 procedure. The proportion of patients who undergo stage 2 compared to patients
           who had PNE. Rate of removal after full implantation and rate of battery change.
           Finally, will report on patient satisfaction, change in disease-specific severity scores
           and change in health-related quality of life

        -  Specific aim #3: Will identify preoperative clinical and urodynamic factors that can
           predict successful outcome and or/ failure.

        -  Specific aim #4: to identify predictors in subgroups of patients with OAB including:

             1. Wet versus dry subgroups.

             2. With urodynamic detrusor instability (UDI) versus no UDI subgroups.

             3. Neurogenic versus non-neurogenic.

             4. Staged versus non-staged procedure.

        -  Specific aim #5: Validating the identified predictors in a different established set of
           patients from Cleveland Clinic.

        -  Specific aim#6: Reporting on safety outcomes including intraoperative complications,
           early postoperative complications (within 30 days) and later postoperative
           complications. A modified Dindo classification will be utilized.

      3.0 Data management and analysis: Data collection: Data will be collected from the medical
      reporting systems (Ambulatory medical reporting system and physician portal), University
      Hospitals Cleveland Medical Center and affiliated Hospitals, Cleveland, OH.

      Data storage: REDCap software will be used for data storage. Computer software: SPSS 24 will
      be used for statistical analysis. Statistical tests: Continuous characteristics will be
      summarized with mean, median, and range; categorical characteristics will be summarized with
      number and percentage. For specific aim#2 and #3, #4, #5: associations of baseline
      characteristics with outcomes will be further evaluated using univariate, and multivariate
      logistic regression models and summarized with odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals
      (CIs). Model calibration will be evaluated using the Hosmer and Lemeshow goodness-of-fit test
      to identify the best model. The comparison will be performed using independent sample T -test
      for normally disturbed continuous variables and Wilcoxon test for skewed data. Chi-square
      tests will be used for comparing categorical variables. For specific aim#6, Cox proportional
      hazard models will be used to evaluate the predictors of failure after device implantation,
      we will be using Hosmer and Lemeshow goodness-of-fit test. All tests will be 2 sided; P
      values less than .05 were considered statistically significant. Statistical analyses will be
      performed using SAS software (SAS Institute, Inc, Cary, North Carolina).
    
  