
    
      Bladder Cancer is the ninth cause of cancer worldwide, and it is still developing, due to
      growing risk factors such as Tobacco consumption. It has a high level of recurrence, which
      imposes regular screening and permanent treatment to the patient that has developed a bladder
      tumor.

      Bladder cancer main symptom is blood in the urine, which has low specificity and sensibility.
      Other screening methods include cytology and image through cystoscopy. Conclusive diagnostic
      is performed by biopsy of the suspicious lesions. The latter methods are highly invasive.

      Hence, it is necessary to develop non invasive technique for bladder cancer screening and
      follow up, as there is no reliable prognostic factor available. The investigators expect to
      improve the detection level in the urine by measuring and analyzing its absorption spectrum
      in the mid infrared, spectrum which provides a comprehensive image of metabolic situation.

      Hence, the main objective of the study is to assess infrared spectroscopy ability to
      discriminate urine of a patient affected by bladder cancer from urine of reference patient.
      Success will be evaluated upon the discrimination level of cancer affected patient urine
      infrared spectrum vs. standard patient ones.

      Secondary objective will be to assess the capability to detect different affection levels and
      tumors grade through the infrared spectrum analysis, as well as the predictive potential of
      the technique. The investigators may also assess the test intrinsic sensibility and
      specificity.

      The study is planned over an 18 month period of time, to collect urine from 100 patients
      followed up at Rennes Hospital center for bladder cancer treatment and from a reference pool
      of 100 patients cured for kidney stones. All donors will be cognizant volunteers, adult from
      both genders. Minors, pregnant or breast feeding women, protected adults, patients also
      treated for other cancers, or the ones treat with a "double J" probe will not be included
      into the study.

      Clinical data will be extracted out of patient file (sex, age, weight, size and resected
      tumor characteristics).

      Collected urines will be submitted to the standard cytologic analysis. Resected tumors will
      be analyzed by Rennes hospital anatomic pathology laboratory according to standard procedure.

      Collected urine sample will be stored at -80°C for further infrared analysis.

      As this is a preliminary study, there is no existing data to calculate the size of a
      statistically relevant sample.

      Hence, the investigators chose to include 100 patients of each category to fit with Rennes
      hospital capacities during the time of the study.

      Spectra will be analyzed by visual inspection, and statistical method such as Principal
      Components Analysis and logistic regressions methods.

      This model will allow to determine spectral area with discriminating values between both
      populations. The wavelength of these spectral areas will be eventually correlated to
      biological elements absorption to confirm their relevance.
    
  