
    
      Dental caries and periodontal diseases contribute greatly to the global burden of oral
      diseases. Unfortunately, this is more observed in the developing countries. This is mainly
      attributed to the shortage of oral health personnel that Africa suffers from, which results
      in oral health services being offered mostly to central and urban areas of Africa.

      Women, in particular, suffer from health inequalities. Those inequalities are mainly related
      to socioeconomic status and the geographic region in which they reside.

      A study conducted in Egypt in 2014 underlined the oral health inequalities present within the
      country. This study emphasized the need for oral health promotion plans which are specially
      directed towards individuals with low-income. That is to provide health equity in terms of
      access to oral health-care services and quality treatment for all the Egyptian population.

      One way to address this problem is the use of Electronic health or "eHealth". mHealth, which
      is a subset of eHealth, is the use of mobile phones to deliver health-care services through
      short messaging services (SMS), smart phone applications and voice calls. Several studies
      highlighted that mHealth can be an effective tool in delivering public health services in a
      cost effective way and without any geographic barriers.

      The multitasking capabilities of mobile phones provide a great chance for chronic disease
      prevention and improvement as it offers remote health education. Moreover, it provides the
      patients with increased care and allows for self-management. Mobile phones can also be used
      as reminders for medications and appointments and allow for immediate contact between the
      doctor and the patient. This way, mHealth offers uninterrupted care, close monitoring to the
      patients and rapid response from the doctors' side, this is of course regarded as a more
      comfortable approach to the patients.

      The challenge still lies in the adoption and acceptance of mHealth by the patients, which is
      controlled by the user's willingness to utilize this new technology. This problem is even
      more observed in the developing countries. Although mHealth interventions were previously
      attempted to improve oral health, none were implemented in Egypt. This is the first study to
      explore the potential use of mHealth for oral health promotion in Egypt.

      Study procedure:

        -  After a comprehensive literature review using electronic databases (PubMed and Web of
           Science), studies assessing the accessibility to mobile phones, ability to use mobile
           phones, willingness to utilize mHealth interventions, usage patterns of mobile phones,
           preferences regarding mHealth, barriers and motivators for participating in mHealth were
           identified.

        -  Using nine similar studies, a structured English language interviewer-administered
           questionnaire was developed after modifying their original questionnaires to serve the
           aim of our study and ensure culture appropriateness.

        -  Forward translation of the English questionnaire into Arabic language was done .

        -  One well-trained investigator will conduct all interviews.
    
  