
    
      In this study, 80 patients with American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) I-II-III who
      accepted retrobulbar anesthesia before cataract surgery and who were over 18 years of age and
      under 90 years of age were included in the study. Not accepting local anesthesia, being under
      18 years of age, having problems in communication, having eyelid or eye anomaly, having
      Parkinson's disease, myopia with axial length ≥ 26 mm, hypersensitivity to local anesthetics
      or other drugs, and bleeding or other drug-induced clotting problem were determined as
      exclusion criteria for the investigator's study.

      Written informed consent will be obtained from patients eligible for the study according to
      the above criteria. While obtaining informed consent, it will also be verbally stated that
      this study does not include any risks other than the risks of standard cataract surgery and
      retrobulbar block.

      Patients taken to the operating room before the operation will be monitored and baseline
      blood pressure, pulse and peripheral capillary oxygen saturation (SpO2) values will be
      recorded. 2lt / min oxygen will be administered to patients with a nasal cannula. The normal
      ocular and valve movements of the patient will be checked and recorded before the procedure.
      Patients will receive a 20 gauge intravenous (IV) cannula. Before the retrobulbar block is
      applied, topical anesthesia is provided with 0.5% proparacaine drops and field cleaning with
      povidone iodine will be performed. The patient will be instructed to look at the finger held
      by the assistant personnel to bring the eyeball to the neutral position and the local
      anesthetic mixture will be slowly injected into the retrobulbar area with a 25 gauge
      ophthalmic needle. For retrobulbar anesthesia, 1.5-3 ml of local anesthetic solution (2%
      lidocaine, 5% bupivacaine) will be administered to the patients. The maximum treatment
      duration is 1 day and single dose. Gently massage the eye to disperse the local anesthetic
      solution and reduce bleeding. After block 1, 3, 5 and 10 minutes ocular movements and valve
      movements will be evaluated. To do this, patients will be told to look up, down, right and
      left and be asked to squeeze and open their eyelids. Ocular movements will be scored for each
      direction separately if normal, 2 if slightly restricted, and 0 if there is no movement
      (total score 0-8) [1]. In the evaluation of eye lid movements, complete immobility will be
      scored as 0, partial movement as 1 and normal movement as 2 [2]. The patient's blood
      pressure, pulse and SpO2 values will be recorded at 5 min intervals throughout the operation.
      During the operation, the pain of the patients will be assessed by a 3-point scale (0: no
      pain; 1: uncomfortable; 3: pain). Postoperative ocular and eye lid akinesia scores of the
      patients will be recorded at 30-minute intervals. Ocular and eye lid akinesia times will be
      recorded. Any side effects that occur during and after the procedure will be recorded. One
      day later, patients' responses will be recorded by asking for the first time and the number
      of times they need analgesics.
    
  