
    
      This study aims to determine the effect of a group care model, which incorporates both group
      care antenatal (ANC) and postnatal care (PNC), on the following:

        1. Gestational age (GA) at birth;

        2. Adherence to the recommended four ANC and one facility-based PNC visits; and

        3. Mortality at 42 days among preterm and low birth weight infants.

      In this cluster RCT at the health center level, facilities will be pair-matched based on
      factors affecting GA at delivery such as monthly ANC enrollment, quality of ANC and PNC
      delivery, potential lost-to-follow-up (LTFU) rate, and additional criteria pertaining to
      facility capacity. Within each pair, a facility will be randomly chosen to implement the
      intervention, group ANC and PNC, while the control facility will continue to provide standard
      ANC and PNC. Pairs will then be further matched with other pairs into quadruples (to the
      extent possible), within which one pair will be assigned to additionally implement ultrasound
      at the health center level and early pregnancy testing at the community level. Overall, each
      facility will have one of the following assignments:

        -  Arm 1: Standard ANC and PNC care only

        -  Arm 2: Standard ANC and PNC care, with the addition of early pregnancy testing and
           ultrasound

        -  Arm 3: Group ANC and PNC only

        -  Arm 4: Group ANC and PNC care, with the addition of early pregnancy testing and
           ultrasound

      This design will allow a primary analysis on the difference between group care and standard
      care and will also make it possible to assess the effect of early pregnancy testing in the
      community and obstetric ultrasound at the health center on early entry into ANC and number of
      visits attended.

      The Rwanda group ANC/PNC model was developed by a Technical Working Group of representatives
      from maternal-child health stakeholders in Rwanda. Key characteristics:

        1. Women sit in a circle in a group space where confidentiality and mutual respect are
           prioritized. Key messages consistent with Rwanda's ANC/PNC packages are delivered
           through facilitated discussion; women speak more than the facilitators.

        2. Women and newborns receive the routine assessments, screening, and treatments described
           in the Rwanda guidelines, as well as treatments indicated for special conditions. Health
           assessments are conducted at the start of the visit, and women participate as much as
           possible in their own self-assessments. Individual consultations with facilitators are
           conducted in a semi-private area.

        3. Two co-facilitators lead each group visit (one midwife/nurse and one CHW).
           Co-facilitators "debrief" after every group visit in a continuous learning and quality
           improvement process. The group care co-facilitators are trained and supported by 6
           Rwandan Master Trainers.

        4. Women can return to the health facility at any time for evaluation of danger signs or
           other concerns. Referrals to the district hospital are done per current national
           guidelines.

      Both control and intervention sites, as well as district hospitals that may receive referrals
      from our study sites, will receive the initial intervention of data strengthening and
      training around data use activities so as to improve the quality of data being collected and
      strengthen outcome measurement within all facilities involved in the study

      Additionally, in order to evaluate other secondary outcomes, data will also be collected
      through: (1) questionnaires administered to a random sample of ANC and PNC participants and
      all providers at baseline and different time points throughout the study; (2) observations
      and debriefs of group care sessions; (3) qualitative research around acceptability of the
      group model from participants and providers; (4) cost-effectiveness analysis of the group
      care model.
    
  