
    
      BACKGROUND

      Brachytherapy, the placement of a radioactive source close to a tumor, is rapidly becoming an
      important modality for patients with prostate cancer because higher and more conformal doses
      can be safely delivered compared with external beam radiotherapy.

      High dose rate (HDR) temporary implants offer several treatment and research based advantages
      over permanent seeds, including exceptionally complex and accurate dosimetry in reference to
      anatomic images.

      Needle placement in brachytherapy procedures requires detailed image guidance, traditionally
      obtained with trans-rectal ultrasound (TRUS). MRI offers a 3D dataset, arbitrary imaging
      planes, and unparalleled soft tissue resolution of the anatomy, making it the modality of
      choice for imaging the prostate gland.

      A real-time MR-guided prostate permanent seed implant technique that utilizes both real-time
      MRI and real-time dosimetry has been designed, implemented and reported. Results confirm that
      TRUS-guided implants may be improved upon by using MRI. To our knowledge, HDR implants have
      not yet been performed under MR guidance in a closed bore magnet.

      OBJECTIVES

      The primary objective is to determine the quality of prostate HDR brachytherapy implants
      performed under MR-guidance.

      Quality is defined by the percentage of the planning target volume (PTV) encompassed by a
      given percentage of the prescribed dose. In this study an implant will be of "acceptable"
      quality if 80% of the PTV is encompassed by the 100% isodose (V100 80%), in accordance with
      RTOG guidelines.

      ELIGIBILITY

      Pathologically confirmed prostate cancer with the following features:

        -  Gleason score greater than 6, or greater than T2a, or

        -  PSA greater than or equal to 10, and no evidence of bone metastases;

      Age greater than or equal to 18 years;

      ECOG performance status of 0 or 1

      DESIGN

      The study is designed with a "run-in" pilot phase with the objective of refining the
      technique.

      The evaluation phase is a two-stage optimal design to evaluate the quality of the implant
      with an early look for futility.

      This study has the potential to enroll a maximum of 27 patients.

      Radiation treatment parameters will be patterned after established guidelines in the
      literature such as those reported by the American Brachytherapy Society and the
      William-Beaumont Hospital. There will be no attempted dose escalation or attempts to
      prescribe the dose to unconventional target volumes in this phase of the project.
    
  