
    
      This is an open-label, randomized, prospective, phase III, multicenter study carried out in
      the Nordic countries and in Germany. Following macroscopically complete surgery, the study
      participants will be allocated to receive imatinib either for 12 or for 36 months. At
      randomization, the patients are stratified into 2 strata: 1) local disease (1 GIST tumor); 2)
      intra-abdominal implants or resectable intra-abdominal/hepatic metastases, or intra-abdominal
      spillage is present, or R1 surgery has been carried out (microscopic disease has been left
      behind). The imatinib dose is 400 mg/day administered with food. Imatinib dose adjustments
      are made as per protocol.

      Medical history, current medication, weight, height, and ECOG performance status are recorded
      prior to study entry. Physical examination, blood cell counts, blood biochemistry, pregnancy
      test, chest X-ray or CT, and CT or MRI of the abdomen and pelvis are carried out/measured
      prior to study entry. FDG-PET is an optional staging examination. Research serum samples are
      collected for banking prior to initiating imatinib and at 6-month intervals during the study.
      Tumor tissue is reviewed centrally to confirm the histological diagnosis of GIST, and KIT and
      PDGFRA gene mutation analyses will be performed from stored GIST tissue.

      The study participants are monitored during adjuvant treatment and following adjuvant
      treatment. Physical examination, weight and ECOG performance status are assessed at 4- to
      26-week intervals. Adverse events are collected using structured forms at the times of the
      evaluation visits. Blood cell counts and blood biochemistry are measured at 2- to 6-week
      intervals during imatinib therapy, and at 6-month intervals following completion of adjuvant
      therapy. CT or MRI examinations of the abdomen and pelvis are performed at 6-month intervals
      during the study.
    
  