
    
      The Bernese periacetabular osteotomy (PAO) is currently performed at this institution as a
      non-arthroplasty option to treat developmental hip dysplasia in symptomatic adolescents and
      young adults. Extensive orthopedic surgical procedures of the hip such as this are associated
      with severe postoperative pain and benefit from regional anesthesia which provides dense,
      targeted analgesia to selected dermatomes. These blocks have the potential to decrease opioid
      exposure intraoperatively and postoperatively, thus avoiding opioid-related side effects such
      as nausea and vomiting. Other well-known benefits of regional anesthesia in other surgeries
      include earlier extubation, shorter ICU admissions, shortened post anesthesia care unit
      (PACU) stays, earlier mobilization, facilitation of physical therapy, improving patient
      satisfaction, and improved comfort during recovery process. The opioid sparing advantages of
      regional anesthesia are particularly relevant given the current concerns over the opioid
      epidemic and data relating opioid administration around surgery recovery and long-term opioid
      use.

      Innervation of the hip is very complex with contributions from various neural structures
      arising from the lumbar plexus, including branches of the femoral nerve (L2-L4) innervating
      the anterolateral capsule and obturator nerve (L2-L4) innervating the anteromedial capsule.
      The posterior and inferior part of the hip joint are innervated by the sacral plexus
      consisting of the superior gluteal nerve (L4-S1) and branches of the sciatic (L4-S3)
      including the nerve to rectus femoris (L4-S1).

      The skin areas involved in the two most common hip PAO surgery incisions (ilioinguinal
      incision or the iliofemoral incision) include territories that are innervated by subcostal
      nerve (T12) and ilioinguinal and iliohypogastric nerves (L1), 4 neural structures not
      reliably covered with the lumbar plexus block given their origin far more superior from the
      point of injection which is usually between L2 and L4. For this reason, supplemental blocks
      such as the ESB and QLB have been employed to improve nerve block coverage and pain control.
      The lateral femoral cutaneous nerve (L1) which is a sensory branch of the lumbar plexus that
      supplies skin of the lateral thigh, has a less important role in this context given that the
      surgical incisions are far more anterior to its territory of innervation.

      Surgical osteotomies commonly associated with the Bernese procedure are performed on the
      anterior portion of the ischium, superior pubic ramus, posterior; partial osteotomies of the
      ischium below the acetabulum are common as well. Arthrotomy is only performed in selected
      cases if there is concern for intraarticular pathology, such as a torn labrum, lesions of the
      femoral neck, or loose bodies. The pelvic bone with its respective osteotome (i.e. bone)
      innervation includes territories ranging from L2 to S1.7 Some evidence suggest that the iliac
      crest receives its main sensory innervation from femoral nerve while the gluteal surface of
      the ilium comes from the sciatic nerve.

      Given the many dermatomes and osteotomes that are involved, various regional anesthetic
      techniques have been described, including LPB, fascia iliaca block, femoral nerve block,
      obturator nerve block, sacral plexus block, paravertebral blocks, and also interfascial plane
      blocks like QLB and ESB.

      The lumbar plexus block has been shown to provide prolonged analgesia and reduced analgesic
      requirements in postoperative period for pediatric patients undergoing hip surgery. This
      block targets mainly femoral, obturator, and lateral femoral cutaneous nerves. At this
      institution, ultrasound-guided lumbar plexus block using the "shamrock method" has been
      performed as standard of care for PAO surgery.

      Skin incisions include dermatomes T12 to L1 that are not usually covered by the lumbar plexus
      block. For full coverage, it is necessary to add a supplementary block to cover these
      dermatomes. The options for this coverage are the QLB, the ESB, or paravertebral block (PVB).
      Due to the lack of evidence of superiority for any one of these additional blocks over
      another, the choice of the block is most often made based on the preference of the regional
      anesthesia team. All three blocks have been reported as effectively covering the cutaneous
      incision areas. A retrospective preliminary analysis of local data comparing these
      supplementary blocks suggested a potential difference favoring ESB in terms of opioid
      consumption when compared to PV or QL.

      The QLB blocks the anterior branches of thoracoabdominal nerves and may extend to the upper
      branches of the lumbar plexus and lateral cutaneous branches of the thoracoabdominal nerves
      with possible spread to the paravertebral space. There are at least four different variants
      described in literature based on the site of injection in relation to the quadratus lumborum
      muscle: type 1 (lateral), type 2 (posterior), type 3 (anterior or transmuscular) and type 4
      (intramuscular) - each causing different spread patterns of injectate with affected
      dermatomes ranging from thoracic T6 to lumbar L2. There is no literature evidence suggesting
      that one specific QLB approach is superior than the others in terms of clinical outcomes or
      duration in this setting.

      The ESB is a novel block developed in 2016. A rapidly growing body of literature suggests it
      is efficacious in relieving back, chest wall, abdominal wall and flank pain in both acute and
      chronic settings. It has been shown to be a viable option for breast, spine, thoracic and
      abdominal surgical procedures. Recently it has also been reported as an alternative for hip
      surgery analgesia. Depending on the level of application, this block permits an extensive
      craniocaudal spread of the local anesthetic along the fascial plane underlying erector spinae
      muscle allowing multiple dermatomal coverage from a single injection. At lumbar level it can
      spread from the T12 to S1 vertebrae.

      The aim of our study is to compare the efficacy of the QL vs. ESB blocks as supplements to
      the lumbar plexus block with respect to pain control outcomes after hip PAO surgery. Both
      blocks are safe and easy to perform. There is currently no comparative, prospective data
      concerning the use of these two blocks for hip surgery. The investigational hypothesis is
      that there will be no clinical difference in the amount of opioid consumed or the overall
      pain control offered by these two block options.

      The investigators propose a randomized, controlled, non-inferiority trial to compare the
      effectiveness of QLBs versus ESBs as supplementary blocks to continuous LPB for patients
      undergoing primary periacetabular osteotomies. They will compare rescue analgesic
      requirements, rendered as opiate equivalents, at 24, 48 and 72 hours postoperatively as the
      primary endpoint. Patients aged 15 years - 30 years of age will be recruited from the home
      insitution.
    
  