
    
      Shock is a common occurrence in the intensive care unit (ICU), and the management of this
      condition frequently requires the administration of intravenous fluids (IVF). Multiple
      studies have shown that only about 50% of these patients will respond to fluids. The ability
      to predict which patients will respond is an important tool for clinicians to treat shock
      while avoiding unnecessary fluid administration in those who are unlikely to respond. This is
      essential to avoid the adverse effects of fluid loading that can occur.

      A number of studies have attempted to determine predictors of volume-responsiveness through
      various methods, including the use of ultrasonography performed by intensivists,
      anesthesiologists and emergency medicine physicians. The currently published studies
      establish predictors of fluid-responsiveness in their populations. However, there has been
      large variability in the study designs, making it difficult to compare different modalities.

      The objective of our study is to determine the correlation of transthoracic ultrasonographic
      indices of fluid responsiveness to changes in direct measures of cardiac output and to
      compare them to other established predictors of fluid responsiveness such as central venous
      pressure variation, systolic arterial pressure variation and pulse pressure variation.
      Furthermore, we wish to include a broad range of patients with different types of shock in
      order to determine the generalized applicability of these indices. Additionally, reported
      success of intensivist-obtained echocardiographic images varies widely in the literature, but
      most studies do not report which views are most accessible. We plan to study prospectively
      which views are obtainable and correlate them to patient characteristics.

      This would potentially establish echocardiography by an intensivist as a widely applicable,
      non-invasive, and easily accessible method for determining fluid-responsiveness in a patient
      with shock. Achievement of this goal would allow clinicians to quickly identify those
      patients that would respond to fluids and at the same time minimize the administration of
      fluids to those in whom it is unlikely to benefit.
    
  