
    
      Males with coronary heart disease have lower serum levels of bioavailable testosterone than
      men of a similar age with normal coronary angiograms (English, European Heart Journal, 2000).
      Low plasma testosterone has been associated with known risk factors for CHD, including age,
      obesity, hyperinsulinemia, diabetes, and adverse lipid profile.

      Testosterone has also been shown in numerous studies to be a vasodilator. Recently,
      testosterone replacement compared with placebo, in hypogonadal men was shown to improve time
      to ischemic threshold, assessed by treadmill exercise testing at 4 and 12 weeks (Malkin,
      Heart, 2000). Prior studies had also shown a beneficial effect on exercise-induced ischemia
      in men with CAD, but not exclusively hypogonadal men (Jaffe,Br Heart J 1977; Rosano,
      Circulation, 1999; English, Circulation, 2000). In addition, this proposed study would be the
      first study to assess if the anti-anginal effects persists long term.

      This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study to evaluate the safety and
      efficacy of testosterone supplementation in hypogonadal men with coronary artery disease
      following successful revascularization with percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). Only
      those men who had successful coronary artery revascularization, and on stable cardiac medical
      regimen for the prior 4 weeks will be included. Eligible patients will then be randomized on
      a 2:1 basis with 50 subjects receiving 5 grams of AndroGel and 25 subjects receiving placebo
      gel.

      The men in this study who demonstrate hypogonadism represent a novel population to
      demonstrate the safety and efficacy of testosterone supplementation to improve cardiac
      function and outcomes. We hypothesize that treatment of hypogonadism in men with CAD,
      following successful PCI, will significantly improve cardiac ischemic threshold as assessed
      by cardiac stress testing. Furthermore, additional cardiac endpoints such as angina status,
      endothelial function and inflammatory serum markers will also demonstrate significant benefit
      in the testosterone treated group.
    
  