
    
      Anxiety disorders are among the most common, debilitating forms of childhood psychopathology,
      affecting 8.3-27.0% of youth before the age of 18. Child anxiety increases risk for
      psychiatric comorbidities across the lifespan) creates significant burdens for caregivers,
      and carries societal costs. Although numerous interventions have been developed to treat
      youth anxiety disorders, up to 82.2% of US youth with anxiety will not receive adequate care.
      Several reasons may explain this discrepancy, including the length and cost of existing
      evidence-based interventions (EBIs) and limited accessibility for families in need.

      Single-session interventions (SSIs) may offer one potential solution to this gap in care.
      SSIs include core components of comprehensive EBIs delivered succinctly to improve the odds
      of access and completion. In a recent meta-analysis of 50 RCTs, SSIs reduced youth mental
      health problems of multiple disorders, with SSIs targeting child anxiety producing the
      largest effects (mean g = 0.58). Thus, well-targeted SSIs may offer cost-effective additions
      or alternatives to traditional care for anxiety in youth. However, most existing SSIs for
      child anxiety target populations already experiencing clinical distress, and a need remains
      for options that may prevent anxiety in vulnerable children. Given that family factors play a
      crucial role in the etiology of child anxiety, SSIs targeting parents and their interactions
      with offspring offer a novel approach to preventing youth anxiety. Thus, the aim of this
      project is to test the acceptability and short-term effects of a novel, web-based SSI
      targeting parental accommodation: a well-established, potentially modifiable risk factor for
      child anxiety. Results may reveal a promising, targeted approach to scalable child anxiety
      prevention.

      Parental Accommodation as a Modifiable Intervention Target. Parent accommodation refers to
      changes in caregiver behaviors that facilitate or maintain their child's avoidance or
      anxiety. Examples include modifying family routines (i.e., staying home from work to
      alleviate a child's fear of separating) or directly participating in a child's avoidance
      strategies (i.e., keeping a child home from school). Parent accommodation reduces immediate
      distress but maintains long-term avoidance of feared stimuli or situations and high levels of
      parent accommodation are associated with anxiety problems in offspring. Parent accommodation
      is further maintained by caregiver factors, including parental anxiety and tolerance for
      distress. For instance, accommodation is greater among parents reporting higher distress
      about their child's anxiety symptoms and perceptions that anxiety exposure is harmful for
      youth.

      Research shows that parent accommodation can be systematically reduced via psychosocial
      intervention, and interventions targeting accommodation have helped mitigate child anxiety.
      Translating core components of existing interventions that target parental accommodation into
      briefer, self-administered SSIs (i.e., those that do not involve a trained therapist) may
      improve families' access to empirically-driven supports for child anxiety. It may also
      enhance the implementation of mental health interventions by lay providers who frequently
      interact with children (e.g. teachers and pediatricians). Thus, the goal of this project is
      to test a web-based, self-guided SSI targeting parental accommodation. Parent participants
      will be randomized to either (a) Online Resources and Referrals (ORR) + parent accommodation
      SSI, or (b) ORR alone and delayed SSI access. We predict that parents will report larger
      declines in accommodation in the ORR+Accommodation SSI group, relative to the ORR + delayed
      SSI access group, from baseline to 2-week follow-up. We also predict that parents will
      perceive significant pre-to immediate-post-SSI increases in their ability to help their child
      manage distressing situations. Finally, we predict that participants will find the SSI to be
      acceptable.
    
  