
    
      The incidence of prostate cancer (PCa) has increased considerably in recent years [1, 2]. The
      reported lifetime risk for men in Hong Kong to be diagnosed with PCa is 1 in 31 before the
      age of 75, and is currently the third commonest cancer Hong Kong men according to the Hong
      Kong Cancer Registry [3]. This highlights the importance of thorough and fundamentally a safe
      investigation technique to correctly identify patients with PCa. Such test should be able to
      sensitively detect PCa, and provide early diagnosis. Critically, such test is required to
      provide accurate disease risk stratification, which is absolutely crucial in guiding level of
      appropriate treatment is necessary in patients diagnosed with PCa.

      According to recommendations from the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence
      (NICE) guidelines, current standard clinical practice considers histological diagnosis of PCa
      a necessity in majority of patients presented with localized disease who are eligible for
      treatment [4]. This, alongside with prostate specific antigen (PSA) level, digital rectal
      examination (DRE) findings, and increasingly the use of multi-parametric MRI (mpMRI) imaging,
      collectively allows risk stratification of PCa.

      The current pathway to obtain prostate tissue for histological diagnosis of CaP is by
      transrectal ultrasound-guided systematic biopsy (TRUSB) of the prostate, usually following
      the detection of a raised serum PSA level and/or suspicious rectal examination findings.
      TRUSB has been the standard prostate tissue sampling technique for men suspected with PCa for
      over 30 years. It is an office-based procedure carried out under local anaesthesia (LA), with
      10 to 12 biopsy cores directed towards the lateral peripheral zones of the prostate thought
      to harbour majority of cancers [7]. However, there are still various well-known cancer
      detection limitations and patient safety problems associated with TRUSB.

      Firstly, a very significant portion of tumours are being missed with the TRUSB technique [8].
      It has been well- known that over 30% of patients with low risk PCa on TRUSB have been found
      to harbour clinically significant PCa [9]. Many of these tumours missed on TRUSB are located
      in the anterior and apical regions of the prostate, which TRUSB is difficult to access, in
      particular in patients with a large prostate volume

      Secondly, TRUSB requires the biopsy needle to penetrate through the bowel (rectum). This
      results in high risk of developing sepsis following biopsy, despite all patients undergoing
      the procedure being started on antibiotics prophylactically. This is a serious complication
      which can potentially be life-threatening. Our previous study has already demonstrated a high
      prevalence of fluoroquinolone-resistant and ESBL-producing rectal flora in our local
      population in Hong Kong [10]. The risk of developing post-biopsy sepsis in Hong Kong is high.

      Transperineal prostate biopsy (TPB) has been developed to provide a more comprehensive biopsy
      method to improve cancer detection rate by directing biopsy cores through the perineal skin.
      Theoretically, TPB enables access to sample the entire prostate, in particular the anterior
      and apical regions which are not easily accessible through the standard TRUSB method. By
      sampling the prostate using biopsy needles directly inserted through the perineal skin rather
      than bowel, the risk of sepsis is reduced. However, this technique requires multiple needles
      traversing through the perineum, and requires to be carried out under general anaesthesia
      (GA). Another disadvantage is a stabilising stepping unit is required to provide a consistent
      alignment of the ultrasound probe against the prostate in order to carry out the biopsies.
      Such stabilising stepping units are costly.

      A novel but simple transperineal access system device known as PrecisionPoint (Perineologic,
      Cumberland, MD, USA) has been developed to tackle the aforementioned limitations of TPB. This
      revolutionary device utilises a single access needle cannula mounted directly on to the
      ultrasound probe, which acts as an access point traversing through the perineal skin. This
      design minimises the number of needle punctures through the skin, enabling TPB to be carried
      out under LA. A stabilising stepping unit is not required with this technique. The device has
      gained the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval [11], and results from
      small contemporary series have already been published with very promising results in terms of
      cancer detection rate and safety [12].

      TRUSB has a poor cancer detection rate and is associated with potentially fatal septic risk.
      TPB, if able to be carried out under LA as an office-based procedure, can potentially provide
      a better cancer detection rate with significantly reduced sepsis risk. It has fundamentally a
      very high potential to become the new gold standard in obtaining prostate tissue for
      histological diagnosis of PCa.

      With an increasing number of men in Hong Kong with elevated serum PSA suspicion of PCa
      needing prostate biopsy, it is fundamental to carry out a study to determine the most
      effective, safe and tolerable prostate biopsy technique which fits with the clinical practice
      in Hong Kong.
    
  