
    
      Perioperative chemotherapy has been shown to significantly improve the R0 resection rate, the
      disease free survival and the overall survival in patients with adenocarcinoma of the
      esophagus, the gastroesophageal junction and the stomach. Therefore, perioperative
      chemotherapy is the new therapeutic standard (Cunningham NEJM 2006, MRC, Lancet 2002, Boige
      ASCO 2007). The best-evaluated regime is the combination of Epirubicin, Cisplatin and 5-FU
      (ECF) (Cunningham, NEJM 2007). Cisplatin and 5-FU are considered to be the most important
      components to form the cornerstone of this regime.

      Paclitaxel is a new and highly active cytotoxic agent. In a randomized phase II study, the
      dual combination of Paclitaxel and 5-FU seemed to show similar effects as ECF, administered
      as first line treatment. The triplet combination of Paclitaxel, Cisplatin and 5-FU has
      significantly superior efficacy than a combination of Cisplatin und 5-FU (Van Cutsem, JCO
      2007).

      It has been shown that Capecitabine is more active than 5-FU and can replace intravenous 5-FU
      in the combination with Cisplatin in the treatment of esophageal cancer. Capecitabine
      therefore is FDA approved for esophageal cancer (Cunningham, ASCO 2006, Kang ASCO 2006).It
      seems reasonable to optimize perioperative chemotherapy by including this modern
      chemotherapeutics.

      In this study, patients with squamous carcinoma of esophagus and gastroesophageal junction
      who seem operable with curative intent according to oncological and surgical assessment are
      treated with 2 preoperative cycles of PCF followed by surgical resection, followed by 2
      postoperative cycles of PCF. Among patients with no responses to preoperative chemotherapy,
      Capecitabine 625 mg/m² twice-daily dose is defined as alternatives to infused 5-Fluorouracil
      in the postoperative chemotherapy regimen Postoperative chemotherapy will start within 4-6
      weeks after the operation. 3 weeks after the end of the last chemotherapy the final
      investigation (end of study visit) will be done.
    
  