
    
      Study Design The proposed research will be a wait-listed randomized control trial of the
      efficacy of the NutriSTEP® screening process for toddlers and preschoolers. The treatment
      group will undergo screening with Nutri-eSTEP plus its accompanying nutrition education
      messages and links to resources. A control group will be wait-listed to receive the treatment
      (Nutri-eSTEP plus its accompanying nutrition education treatment) at the end of the
      intervention period.

      Outcome variables Participants Parents/caregivers of toddlers and preschoolers will be
      recruited at various Ontario Early Years Centres (OEYCs) in southern Ontario.

      Sample Size The sample size (http://www.stat.ubc.ca/) is estimated at 63 per group based on
      difference in scores on the NKQ of 2 (~half of the difference found between students and
      parents), with a SD of 4, alpha of 0.05 and statistical power of 0.80 (2-tailed). An
      allowance for 20% attrition (based on our previous test-retest reliability studies)(7,8,19)
      will see 77 participants per group recruited. This will also allow for enough power for an
      improvement in NutriSTEP® scores based on a difference of 2.2 units, standard deviation of 5,
      alpha of 0.05 and statistical power of 0.80 (1-tailed)(based on a difference in NutriSTEP®
      scores over 3 months of a parenting intervention study (56). The total sample of 154 will be
      recruited from ~20 OEYCs @ ~10 participants/site (based on previous experience).

      Intervention NutriSTEP® Questionnaire: The toddler and preschool NutriSTEP® questionnaires
      will form part of the intervention for this trial.

      Nutrition Education Material:

      "How to Build a Healthy Toddler/Preschooler": This booklet will be part of the intervention
      for this trial. "How to Build a Healthy Toddler/Preschooler" are 4-page brochures that have
      key messages relevant to the questions on the NutriSTEP® questionnaires. Recommendations from
      Canada's Food Guide (CFG) are included as well as suggestions for credible nutrition
      resources.

      Nutri-eSTEP Feedback Messages: As part of the Nutri-eSTEP platform, parents receive feedback
      messages based on their responses to each question on the NutriSTEP®. The feedback messages
      are categorized into two categories: "What is Going Well" and "What to Work On". For this
      study, we will provide print copies of the Results and feedback messages to participants as
      part of the treatment.
    
  