
    
      The aim of this study is to assess the effects of adding 10 sessions of Cognitive Bias
      Modification (CBM) training, and goal planning using implementation intentions, to treatment
      as usual for adolescents with eating disorders. It is hypothesised that at baseline,
      participants will demonstrate cognitive biases in their attention towards rejecting/critical
      facial expressions (attentional bias), and in making negative resolutions of ambiguous social
      scenarios involving the risk of social rejection (interpretation bias).

      Young people receiving treatment for eating disorders will be recruited from participating
      child and adolescent eating disorder services in the United Kingdom. Information about the
      study, the main eligibility criteria and contact details for the researcher will also be
      advertised using flyers and social media platforms. Individuals from the community who
      express an interest in taking part will be screened using the Structured Clinical Interview
      for DSM-5 (SCID-5) disorders to screen for psychiatric disorders to determine their
      eligibility. Parental consent will be obtained for any participants under the age of 16.
      Eligible participants will be invited to meet the researcher for an initial visit, to provide
      consent and complete the baseline assessments. The baseline assessments will consist of a
      battery of questionnaires used to assess interpersonal sensitivity, mood, anxiety and eating
      disorder psychopathology, and computerised tasks to measure various aspects of social
      cognition including attention and interpretation biases.

      Following the baseline assessments, participants displaying attention and interpretation
      biases will be invited to take part in the next phase of the study. Participants randomised
      to receive the computerised training will meet with the researcher for a second visit, during
      which they will learn how to complete the training tasks, complete the first set of training
      modules and create plans involving exposure to the risk of social rejection with the
      researcher using the implementation intentions approach. Participants will be asked to
      complete the remaining training three times per week over three weeks (10 sessions in total)
      and will have weekly contact with the researcher to review adherence to planned behaviours
      using implementations intentions. Attention and interpretation biases will be assessed again
      at the end of the 3-week training and at 12 weeks follow-up. Questionnaire measures of
      interpersonal sensitivity, anxiety, depression and disorder psychopathology will also be
      administered at these two time points.
    
  