
    
      Pulmonary rehabilitation (PR) has been suggested to be positive effects on 6 min walking
      distance (6MWD), muscle force, cycle exercise endurance time, and quality of life. However,
      the literature still could not explain the role of PR in reducing systemic inflammation of
      chronic obstruction pulmonary disease (COPD) patients. A recent study found that PR with
      negative pressure ventilation (NPV) improved lung function, exercise capacity and reduced
      acute exacerbation rates in COPD patients. The objectives of this research are to design a
      prospective, randomized controlled trial to determine the clinical outcome of NPV-PR in COPD
      patients and to investigate if NPV-PR reduces systemic inflammation in patients with COPD.

      This investigator-initiated, prospective, single center, randomized, controlled clinical
      trial enrolled patients with stable Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease
      (GOLD) stage II-IV COPD. NPV was targeted to reduce baseline blood carbon dioxide by at least
      20% during NPV titration. Patients were randomly assigned (in a 1:1 ratio) to continue
      optimised standard treatment (control group) or to receive additional NPV-PR for at least 24
      months (intervention group). The primary outcome was 2-year acute exacerbation rates. The
      lung function and walking distance will be assessed by six-minute walking tests and the
      severity of disease will be evaluated by high resolution computed tomography scores.
      Peripheral blood sample will be collected to analyze the inflammatory cytokines and oxidative
      markers.

      In the present prospective study, investigators hypothesize that NPV-PR would be superior to
      usual care in reducing the risk for acute exacerbations of COPD, hospitalisations and
      emergency visits over a 24-month period. This research will provide evidence for the role of
      NPV-PR in the management of COPD, and evidence for a role of systemic inflammation in disease
      progression of COPD. The results may provide certain insights into more effective treatments
      to inhibit the disease progression of COPD.
    
  