
    
      Background:

      Over the last several decades, MCSDs have been developed to augment or supplant failing
      myocardial performance. This therapy has been used successfully as a bridge to heart
      transplantation, a bridge to recovery, and as permanent implantation or "destination therapy"
      for intractable heart failure. Although heart transplantation offers life-saving therapy for
      selected patients, its use is limited by a supply of donor organs that currently meets less
      than one-tenth the need. As a consequence, the number of MCSD implantations has increased in
      recent years.

      Despite favorable survival and quality of life outcomes, MCSDs do have severe and sometimes
      life-threatening complications, including infection, thrombosis, and device failure. The
      development of new procedures and devices to reduce these complications will be expedited by
      the work of the registry involving the systematic, independent analysis of MCSD implantation
      procedures and outcomes. The National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NHLBI) will
      collaborate with the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) and the Food and Drug
      Administration (FDA) in monitoring the work of the registry to permit the development of
      standard reporting of patient characteristics, indications, implantation procedures, and
      adverse events.

      Intermacs Design Narrative:

      The goals of the registry include the following:

        1. Develop standard methods to collect data used to characterize heart failure patients
           receiving MCSDs, and develop methods of collecting demographic data of device use
           patient outcomes

        2. Collect, process, and store patients' clinical data

        3. Analyze collected data

        4. Provide these resources to researchers outside the registry

        5. Publish and disseminate results

      Intermacs has included pediatric patients since the inception of the registry in 2006 with an
      increased effort in September 2012 to include pediatric subjects. This focus is called
      Pedimacs. Pedimacs utilizes the Intermacs protocol. Due to collection of pediatric-only data
      elements, a separate Users' Guide has been developed for Pedimacs.

      Intermacs now serves as the national quality improvement system to assess the
      characteristics, treatments and outcomes of patients receiving legally utilized mechanical
      circulatory support devices. The protocol has undergone several changes since its inception
      in 2006. The Current protocol (Protocol 5.0) reflects the latest changes and the necessity
      for a waiver of informed consent and authorization for participants.

      In January 2013 the Medical Arm of the Interagency Registry for Mechanically Assisted
      Circulatory Support (Medamacs) was established to capture data on patients with advanced
      heart failure who were not receiving mechanical circulatory support devices. The aims of
      Medamacs are to:

        1. Identify prospectively a population of ambulatory patients on optimal medical therapy
           for whom chronic heart failure limits both function and survival to a range where
           elective implantation of left ventricular assist devices should offer meaningful
           benefit.

        2. Design an integrated endpoint of survival and objective functional assessment that
           provides more discrimination between chronic ambulatory heart failure and current device
           outcomes than survival alone.

        3. Evaluate patient perceptions about their cardiac condition, ventricular assist device
           technology, preferences for their care, and thresholds for considering device implant.

      Enrollment in Medamacs has closed.

      The clinicaltrials.gov identification number for Medamacs is NCT01932294.
    
  