
    
      It is estimated that 1.21 million abortions were performed in 2008. Of these, approximately
      11% occurred in the second trimester and 1.4% occurred after 21 weeks gestation. In the
      United States, dilation and evacuation (D&E) is the most common method of terminating a
      second trimester pregnancy with greater than 98% of second trimester abortions occurring by
      D&E.

      Pre-procedure cervical preparation decreases the incidence of complications associated with
      D&E. Cervical dilators are often used prior to second trimester D&Es to aid in softening and
      dilating the cervix. Typically, dilator placement occurs the day of the D&E or 1-2 days prior
      and oftentimes occurs in an outpatient clinic setting without anesthesia readily available.
      Many women experience moderate to severe discomfort with osmotic dilator insertion. Providers
      use various methods to minimize this discomfort including paracervical block (PCB),
      non-steroidal anti-inflammatory medications (NSAIDs), anxiolytics and narcotics. In
      particular, PCB and NSAIDs are readily available in the clinic setting and can be used for
      this purpose. There is, however, no data to support their efficacy in ameliorating the pain
      of dilator insertion.

      Paracervical blocks are used commonly to decrease pain in abortion procedures and other
      gynecological procedures. The PCB is thought to work primarily by blocking pain conduction
      via Frankenhauser's plexus. As such, their effect may be most important in relieving the pain
      associated with cervical dilation. In a recent randomized control trial, PCB prior to first
      trimester surgical abortion was found to significantly reduce pain with cervical dilation and
      uterine aspiration. Since osmotic dilator placement primarily involves cervical manipulation
      and dilation, PCB may provide some pain relief over placebo. The research team proposes a
      randomized controlled trial to evaluate the efficacy of a PCB in decreasing pain associated
      with osmotic dilator placement. This trial will also provide information about the degree of
      pain that women experience during osmotic dilator placement; information not previously
      known.
    
  