
    
      Objectives

      Developmental dyscalculia (DD) is a condition in which subjects cannot process adequately
      numerical concepts. Performance of arithmetical calculations is associated with fMRI activity
      in an extended brain network that includes parietal and prefrontal cortices. Areas within the
      parietal lobe, required for numerical processing in healthy subjects, are abnormal in
      subjects with DD. The purpose of this single-blinded study is to determine if facilitatory
      transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) of these parietal areas in association with
      numerical training will improve processing of numerical information relative to sham in
      subjects with DD and in healthy volunteers.

      Study population

      30 healthy volunteers and 30 subjects with developmental dyscalculia (DD).

      Design

      Healthy volunteers and subjects with DD will be randomly assigned to one of two groups. Each
      group will receive anodal tDCS or sham with numerical training. All subjects will participate
      in 7 sessions. First, they will be trained on an ordinal numerical task (numerical training
      task) in which they will learn the magnitude relations between two numbers on 6 consecutive
      days while receiving sham stimulation or tDCS during the training. Subjects will see two
      numbers on the screen, one viewed on the left side of the screen and the other on the right
      side of the screen (example, 2, 4), and they have to decide which one is larger. Performance
      will be evaluated by fitting a power-law function. Before the beginning of the experiment and
      after each training day subjects will perform a numerical Stroop task that assesses the
      automaticity of numerical processing, and a number-space task that will provide information
      on the subject's accuracy of mapping numbers into space. At the end of each of the 6 training
      days (immediately post training) and 3 months (seventh session) later (retention measure)
      subjects will be tested on a dyscalculia test (The Dyscalculia Screener),the numerical Stroop
      task, and the number-space task

      Outcome Measures

      The primary outcome measure will be the improvement in automatic numerical processing
      (numerical Stroop task) as reflected by reaction times. Secondary outcomes are accuracy when
      mapping numbers into space (number-space task) and improvement in the dyscalculia score
      (Dyscalculia Screener).
    
  