
    
      Patients with haematopoietic cancer (as leukaemia and lymphomas) that are treated with high
      doses of intense chemotherapy for the haematopoietic progenitors transplant experiment
      intense nausea and emesis related to this chemotherapy treatment.

      The introduction of regimens with antagonist of 5HT3 receptors (ondansetron, tropisetron,
      granisetron) seems to have reduced the magnitude of the problem in the first 24 hours after
      the beginning of the chemotherapy. However, in spite of the use of these drugs, it is very
      frequency to observe intense nausea and emesis induced by chemotherapy especially in the
      latest period (after 24 h).

      MASCC guides establish that It is not possible to give firm recommendations in the prevention
      of the NVIQ for these patients. Currently, the treatment of this problem in patients that go
      through a total body irradiation is made with antagonist of 5HT3 receptors with or without
      Dexamethasone.

      There is neither recommendation regarding the antiemetic prophylaxis in chemotherapy
      treatments with high emetogenic power of several days duration. However, there is controversy
      about the use of high doses of steroids to avoid the latest emesis in transplant patients (
      because of the high doses of steroids, Its continuous use during several days in this
      clinical situation and because of the possible worsening of the immunodeficiency inherent to
      the oncohematology illness/the previous chemotherapy treatment received by the patient). In
      patients that go trough a haematopoietic progenitor's transplant, many teams prefer to avoid
      the use of steroids. Main clinical guides do not offer firm recommendations regarding
      antiemetic prophylaxis protocols in the TPH and antagonists of 5-HT3 receptors are commonly
      used in practice.

      AMENO-1 study demonstrated that the incidence of NVIQ is high even with an anti-5HT3 daily
      prevention (experimenting vomits or requiring rescue treatment for 81% of the TPH receptors),
      this significantly ameliorated their quality of life.

      Currently, there are new drugs with new action mechanisms and a probable synergy between them
      that increase control of the NVIQ out of the transplant field. For that reason we have
      designed a study with the purpose of evaluating whether these new drugs ameliorate the
      control that we currently have of NVIQ (which is far from optimal).

      To avoid differences in terms of posology regimes, granisetron will be used as the common
      treatment with one daily dose of 3mg/day. The new experimental regime that we propose
      includes two newly commercialized drugs with complementary and different mechanisms of action
      that have demonstrated their efficacy and their security in the very emetogenic chemotherapy
      administrated only one day: aprepitant and palonosetron.
    
  