
    
      From November 2015, 90 consecutive patients with acute DeBakey I aortic dissection from
      five-centers in China were treated with triple-branched stent placement or hemi-arch
      replacement. The distribution of the patients adopts the dynamic random variance minimization
      random method. About half of the patients will be assigned to the the stent-graft group, the
      other to the hemi-arch group.

      In all cases, surgery was performed under general anesthesia with tracheal intubation and
      cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB). During surgery arterial pressures at the upper and lower limbs
      were monitored. An esophageal echocardiography probe was placed routinely, and a sternal
      incision was performed. To establish CPB, the perfusion tube was placed in the right axillary
      artery and the drainage tube was placed in the superior and inferior vena cava through the
      right atrium. The CPB flow rate was of 2.4-2.6 L/kg/min. Intermittent cold blood cardioplegia
      was perfused through the left and right coronary arteries for myocardial protection.

      In stent-graft group , the innominate artery and the left common carotid artery were fully
      isolated during the CPB cooling process. The ascending aorta proximal to the innominate
      artery was occluded, and the ascending aorta was transected slightly above the sinus tube
      connection; the left and right coronary arteries were directly perfused with blood-containing
      cold cardioplegia. Proximal procedures such as aortic valve repair, sinus reconstruction, and
      root replacement were performed first. Afterwards, the stumps were reconstructed. The
      reconstructed aortic root stump was anastomosed with a Dacron graft of corresponding size
      using 4-0 polypropylene suture (ascending aorta replacement). The nasopharyngeal temperature
      was then decreased to 25° (usually a rectal temperature of 27-29°C), the aortic perfusion
      flow was set to 10-15 ml/kg/min, and the innominate artery and the left common carotid artery
      were occluded 5-6 cm above the aortic arch. The aortic occlusion clamp was removed and a half
      aortic arch transection was made about 2 cm proximal to the innominate artery. Through the
      incision, the true lumens of the aortic arch, the proximal descending aorta, and the three
      aortic branches were identified. The triple-branched stent graft was inserted into the true
      lumens of the aortic arch and proximal descending aorta; the three stent graft branches were
      then placed into the corresponding true lumens of the aortic arch branch vessels followed by
      the sequential release of the vascular stent backbone and the branch stents in the left
      subclavian artery, the left common carotid artery, and the innominate artery. A catheter with
      a balloon or a probe was used to expand the vascular stents and the graft and branches were
      examined for kinks or folding of the backbone. A sandwich reconstruction was performed
      between the aortic stump, the aortic external Dacron graft, and the proximal stentless suture
      zone of the intraluminal artificial vessel backbone. The reconstructed stump was anastomosed
      with the Dacron graft that replaced the ascending aorta using 4-0 polypropylene suture. The
      occlusions of the left common carotid artery and the innominate artery were then relieved,
      and air was fully flushed out from the heart and the aorta. The right axillary artery
      perfusion was stopped, and systemic perfusion via an aortic perfusion tube at the artificial
      portion of the ascending aorta was performed. The patient was rewarmed after oxygen debt
      repayment, followed by the cardiac resuscitation.

      In total-arch group , the ascending aorta proximal to the innominate artery was blocked
      during the CPB cooling process, and the ascending aorta was incised and transected slightly
      above the sinus tube connection. The left and right coronary arteries were directly perfused
      with blood-containing cold cardioplegia. As in stent-graft group , proximal procedures were
      performed first. The reconstructed aortic root stumps were sutured with Dacron graft using
      4-0 polypropylene suture (ascending aorta replacement). The nasopharyngeal temperature was
      then decreased to 25° (usually a rectal temperature of 27-29°C) and the aortic perfusion flow
      was set to 10-15 ml/kg/min. The innominate artery and the left common carotid artery were
      clamped 5-6 cm above the aortic arch and the aortic occlusion clamp was removed. Half aortic
      arch resection was performed along the greater curvature of the aortic arch at 1 cm proximal
      of the innominate artery to the lesser curvature of the aortic arch at the origin of the
      descending aorta. Stumps between the dissection slices were lined with cotta slices and
      reconstructed using the sandwich method and then anastomosed with an Dacron graft of the
      corresponding size and shape using 4-0 polypropylene suture. Finally, the proximal end was
      anastomosed with the artificial blood vessel using 4-0 polypropylene suture. Air was fully
      flushed from the heart and aorta. The right auxiliary artery perfusion was stopped and
      systemic perfusion via an aortic perfusion tube at the artificial blood vessel of the
      ascending aorta was performed. The patient was rewarmed after oxygen debt repayment, followed
      by cardiac resuscitation.

      Telephone contact was maintained with the patients after discharge. At 3,6,12 months
      postoperatively , patients received a follow-up examination, chest radiography,
      echocardiography, bilateral carotid artery Doppler examinations and CT angiography (CTA)
      examinations Numerical data were expressed as percentages, and comparisons between groups
      were performed with the chi-square test. Quantitative data were expressed as mean ± standard
      deviation; the independent sample t test was used for group comparisons and the paired t-test
      was used to compare the groups before and after surgery. The primary end point is the
      occluded rate of the false lumen one year postoperatively. The secondary end point are the
      survive rate ,complication, reoperation rate, the growth rate of thoracic descending aorta,
      security index perioperatively, life quality postoperatively.Statistical analysis were
      performed with SPSS 11.5 software. A value of P < 0.05 was considered statistically
      significant.
    
  