
    
      Spectroscopy is the discipline of studying the interactions between light and matter, in
      order to perform analyzes unmatched in terms of the speed of data acquisition. Depending on
      the spectral ranges used by the sensors, it is possible to carry out molecular (molecular and
      vibrational spectroscopy) or elementary (atomic spectroscopy) analyzes.

      As part of this project, GreenTropism has selected Surface Enhanced Raman Scattering (SERS)
      technology as a spectral technique. The scientific literature reports several cases of use of
      SERS technology for virus analysis, under variable conditions: variable viral loads, after
      amplification, use of substrates enriched in antigens.

      The SERS allows an analysis of a sample deposited on a substrate on average (from fifteen
      seconds to 10 minutes depending on the devices and the presence of complementary imaging).
      Already proven for the identification of viruses on strains pathogenic for humans and
      animals, its deployment is slowed down by the complexity of the data to be processed.

      These spectra acquisition technologies require the joint use of statistical tools and
      multivariate analyzes to allow sample discrimination (classification) and / or
      quantification. Until recently, the capacity and performance of statistical tools were
      limited by the available computational capacities. The lifting of this technological lock
      allowed the advent and democratization of Artificial Intelligence (AI) techniques theorized
      in the 1960s and applied today.

      GreenTropism's Kaïssa, AI tool, in addition to processing big data, has been designed and
      trained specifically for processing spectral data and automating all of the algorithmic
      chains needed to go from spectrum support to its interpretation, and the presentation of the
      final answer.

      The analysis of chemometric data, for the purpose of classification, implements several types
      of algorithms that Kaïssa uses, combining them automatically to obtain the best possible
      analyzes of these data. These algorithms are divided into two large groups: mathematical
      preprocessing and classification models.

      The combination of photonic technologies (here SERS) and AI allows real-time analyzes of
      multiple substrates, without a priori knowledge of the user on the sample and without prior
      expertise. These characteristics make it a valuable tool for diagnosing SARS-CoV-2 infection
      in the context of Point Of Care.

      In a work carried out between the months of March and June 2020, several models showed, on
      test databases not integrated in the learning, performance of discrimination between positive
      and negative patients for SARS-CoV-2 according to RT-PCR equivalent to Youden indices of 0.6
      to 0.92. On the other hand, these models have highlighted a variability in the use of samples
      which results in a drop in performance during tests on statistically independent databases
      requiring additional spectral acquisitions, leading today to the presentation of this report
      project.
    
  