
    
      The study will be conducted at the Wake Forest University Dermatology Clinic and on Amazon
      Mechanical Turk. Patients meeting the following characteristics will be eligible to
      participate: individuals diagnosed with psoriasis (ICD-9: 696.1) or a parent/caregiver of an
      individual diagnosed with psoriasis (ICD-9: 696.1). The study team will recruit 180 subjects
      for the study. Patients will be randomized to three survey groups.

      Amazon Mechanical Turk, https://www.mturk.com/mturk/welcome, Amazon Mechanical Turk is an
      online crowdsourcing platform. The purpose of Mechanical Turk (MTurk) is to help people
      (participants) find paid tasks. In recent years MTurk had been extensively used in social
      science research.3 MTurk enables researchers to recruit participants to perform tasks such as
      filling out surveys, opinion polls, & cognitive psychological studies. Researchers advertise
      their studies on MTurk, and participants chose only those studies that interest them.

      Amazon Turk had been extensively used by psychologists in the last few years for participant
      recruitment. Participants on Amazon Turk see a list of potential jobs (referred to as HITs)
      when they log into their MTurk account. The price is provided next to the name of the HIT
      along with the approximate length of time that the HIT will take. Participants are free to
      choose the HITs that they are interested in taking, from a long list of thousands of tasks.
      The name of our HIT will be "Treatment of Psoriasis - the patient's perspective". The survey
      takes approximately one minute to complete. Once participants click on the HIT, they will be
      taken directly to the survey (attached as supporting document) which provides further
      information about the study. The survey/study will be hosted on "Google forms, Survey monkey,
      Qualtrics or other survey form". MTurk rules state that participants can terminate the study
      by returning the HIT at any time, without any penalty.

      Subjects will be randomized using SPSS version 24.0 or later into three groups and
      administered surveys querying willingness to use a biologic medication.

      The surveyor will record patient responses in the study log if patient is recruited at the
      Wake Forest Dermatology Clinic. If recruited via MTurk, patient responses will be recorded
      through the MTurk log.
    
  