
    
      Long-term evolution of successful-treated older patients is not well-known except for
      survival. They seem more affected by physical than psychological problems. The combined
      effects of aging, cancer, and treatments on muscle function could have hindered their usual
      physical activity. Cancer is associated with frailty. Fried and coll have defined a frailty
      phenotype as a combination of 3 or more of 5 conditions: exhaustion, loss of weight,
      decreased muscle strength, slow gait speed and low physical activity. Frail subjects have a
      higher risk of physical or cognitive disability and death. An intervention able to prevent
      frailty is of great interest for the older cancer patient and their quality of life. An
      intervention consisting of phone-program in physical activity has been associated with a
      decrease in self-reported disability in five-year obese survivors from cancer.

      Patients will be randomized in two arms (1:1 ratio). Arm 1: Physical activity advices
      according to a program adapted to physical status of the patient assessed using SPPB (short
      physical performance battery) and the IPAQ questionnaire. A monthly phone support during one
      year will be performed by an adapted physical activity instructor and delivery of PNNS guide
      for subjects older than 55 y old. Arm 2: Delivery of PNNS guide for subjects older than 55
      year old: recommendation of 1/2 hour physical activity of any kind.

      Each patient will be followed during 2 years: First visit (V1) will take place before
      treatment. The subsequent visits will take place at 3 months (V2), 6 months (V3), 1 year
      (V4), 18 months (V5) and 2 years (V6), in which patients will complete questionnaires (IPAQ,
      QLQ-C30, one day dietary intakes), have clinical examinations (weight, performance status/
      ECOG) and will be tested for physical facilities (SPPB, micro-fet2). These evaluations will
      be completed by the MMS / Fluency tests and the covered distance during 6 minutes at V1, V3,
      and V4.
    
  