
    
      Between January 1990 to December 2007, women with breast cancer who were given radical
      treatment with mastectomy, systemic therapy and RT at least 10 years ago were included.
      Eligible patients were recruited from the radiotherapy department record and these were on
      regular follow-up in the breast clinic. The study was approved by the departmental ethics
      committee. Clinical, pathological and treatment characteristics were taken from the patient
      file. Inclusion criteria were: female patients age ≥18 years of age, with invasive carcinoma
      of the breast, post mastectomy, complete microscopic excision of primary tumour and stage II
      or III disease treated with locoregional RT. Exclusion criteria were: breast conserving
      surgery, stage I or IV disease, past history of malignancy except (i) basal cell skin cancer
      or CIN cervix uteri or(ii) non-breast malignancy if treated with curative intent and at least
      5 years disease-free or contralateral breast cancer, including ductal carcinoma in situ
      (DCIS), irrespective of date of diagnosis. Patients with bilateral breast cancer were also
      excluded.

      Patients were treated in supine position on a breast board with ipsilateral arm abducted to
      900. All patients were planned using 2-D fluoroscopic conventional simulator with two
      tangential fields to the chest wall and a single incident field to the axilla and
      supraclavicular fossa. Lateral border of supraclavicular fossa was up to deltoid insertion.

      Radiotherapy dose delivered was 35Gy/15fractions /3 weeks to the chest wall. Dose was
      prescribed at mid separation. Bolus was used in all patients on alternate days, that is for
      50% of treatment. In patients with positive margins bolus was used daily and a scar boost of
      10Gy/4fractions was given. None of the patients had breast reconstruction. Supraclavicular
      fossa(SCF), axillary chain and internal mammary nodal irradiation (IMNI)6 was done with a
      single incident field. No posterior axillary field was used. The dose delivered was
      40Gy/15fractions/3weeks. All patients were treated on linac or cobalt-60 machine.

      A biologically effective dose(BED) of 35Gy/15fractions/3weeks is 75.1Gy in terms of 2Gy per
      fraction for late effects, 55.1Gy for tumour control, 45Gy for erythema and 42.3Gy for
      desquamation in case of local radiotherapy. The BED for RNI with this schedule is 90Gy, 65Gy,
      52.5Gy and 49Gy for late effects, tumour control, erythema and desquamation, respectively.

      Patients were seen by the radiation oncologists with special focus on chest wall fibrosis,
      telangiectasia, shoulder function, lymphedema, arm pain and sensory symptoms. Late fibrosis
      was defined grade 1 as barely palpable firmness, grade 2 as definite increased firmness and
      grade 3 as marked firmness of the chest wall. Telangiectasia was defined grade 1 as <1cm2,
      grade 2 as 1 cm2-4 cm2 and grade 3 as >4 cm2 area of chest wall. Lymphedema was graded by
      measuring arm circumference 10cm above and below the medial epicondyle of humerus . For
      lymphedema and shoulder function, the treated side was compared with the untreated opposite
      side as a reference. Lymphedema was classified as none, mild, moderate and marked if there
      was no difference, 0.5-2cm, 2.1-3cm and >3cm difference, respectively in the circumference of
      the affected and normal arm. If the patient had symptoms of pain in the arm, paresthesia,
      numbness, weakness, or other sensory symptoms then injury to the brachial plexus was
      suspected and reported as brachial plexopathy. A four point scale(none, a little, quite a
      bit, very much ) was used to assess all late effects according to the RTOG LENT SOMA scale.
      Late lung toxicity was defined grade 1 as asymptomatic or mild symptoms of dry cough, slight
      radiographic changes; grade 2 as moderate symptomatic fibrosis or pneumonitis (severe cough),
      low grade fever, patchy radiographic changes; grade 3 as severe symptomatic fibrosis or
      pneumonitis, dense radiographic changes and grade 4 as severe respiratory insufficiencies,
      oxygen required of assisted ventilation. Late cardiac toxicity was defined grade 1 as minimal
      enlargement of cardiosilhoutte (ECS), grade 2 as ECS without pulmonary congestion, grade 3 as
      ECS pulmonary congestion and grade 4 as ECS with frank pulmonary oedema. All late effects
      assessment scores were dichotomised as none/mild versus moderate/marked effects.
    
  