
    
      Persistent organic pollutants (POPs) are mostly fat-soluble halogenated chemicals with very
      long half-lives. POPs are endocrine disruptors, and have been associated with increased risk
      for diabetes, alterations in thyroid function, hypertension, dyslipidemia and neurobehavioral
      alterations in studies of children, and adults including the elderly. Some of the most
      prevalent POPs include organochlorine pesticides, polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and
      polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs).

      Most POPs are excreted in bile due to their lipophilic nature. However, a substantial amount
      is reabsorbed in the small intestine and returns to the blood stream (entero-hepatic
      circulation). Two small clinical trials found that bile acid sequestrants (cholestyramine,
      cholestimide) enhanced the fecal excretion of organochlorines after 2-3 days of treatment and
      significantly lowered their blood concentrations at 6 months. One pilot trial reported
      decreases in blood PCB concentrations in adults after a 1 year treatment with fat-free potato
      crisps made with olestra, a non-absorbable synthetic fat, versus standard potato crisps. POPs
      were thought to bind to olestra and be excreted in the feces. Replication of this finding is
      needed. Nuts, could yield similar effects. Nuts are foods with high-fat content which are
      incompletely absorbed in the intestine (21-24% of calorie not absorbed).

      As people age, the body burdens of POPs increase. The almost ubiquitous presence of endocrine
      disrupting POPs in US adults is a substantial public health concern, particularly because
      there is no established treatment to reduce body concentrations of POPs. There is potential
      for dietary interventions to have an important role in the reduction of POPs at a population
      level due to their and low cost and wide use.

      The investigators aim to measure 24 POPs (9 OC pesticides, 10 PCBs, 5 PBDEs) in blood (all
      participants) and in stool samples (only in a subset of 10 participants per treatment arm)
      before and during the treatment period. The specific aims of this pilot study are to:

        1. Assess the effectiveness of recruitment strategies, acceptance and compliance of the
           treatment arms, and establishing the feasibility of conducting a larger trial.

        2. Conduct preliminary testing of the hypotheses: Consumption of olestra (fat free
           Pringles): A) increases the fecal content (excretion) of POPs, and B) decreases blood
           levels of POPs, compared to the control arm (standard crisps).

        3. Conduct preliminary testing of the hypotheses: Consumption of nuts: A) increases the
           fecal content (excretion) of POPs, and B) decreases blood levels of POPs, compared to
           the control arm (standard crisps).
    
  