
    
      The randomized study will focus on assessing the effectiveness of 3 different
      physiotherapeutic interventions. The physiotherapist with 10 years of professional experience
      will be responsible for performing all diagnostic procedures and therapeutic interventions.

      Diagnosis of latent trigger point will be performed on subjects in the supine position. The
      therapist using a pincer grip will perform palpation in the area of the entire upper
      trapezius muscle. Testing for the presence of trigger point can be considered positive when
      it is noted: 1) the presence of a detectable strained band in the muscle, 2) the presence of
      an excessively sensitive area in the strained muscle band, 3) the response of local vibration
      caused by compression of the strained band, 4) occurrence of characteristic transferred
      symptoms (pain radiating to the posterior-lateral side of the neck, and/or mastoid process of
      the temporal bone, and/or the temporal bone area, and/or the angle of the jaw) as a result of
      compression of the hypersensitive muscle band. The test will be performed on both sides of
      this muscle.

      The following measurement methods are planned to be used:

        1. Electrogoniometry of the cervical spine. A Penny & Giles strain tensometric
           electrogoniometer will be used. Using this device, the angular values of cervical spine
           movements will be examined. The SG150 two-plane sensor and the Q110 single-plane sensor
           will be used. The lower edge of the upper sensor will be attached around the occipital
           tuberosity, while the upper edge of the lower sensor on the C7 spinous process. The
           examined person will be in a sitting position. Double-sided tape from Biometrics will be
           used to stick the electrogoniometer sensors. For the measurements of each movement, the
           subject will perform 3 repetitions. Then the mean value will be calculated, which will
           be the result.

        2. Myotonometry. In order to examine the biophysical parameters of soft tissues a MyotonPRO
           will be used.

           Measurements will be made on the upper part of the trapezius muscle at the point located
           in the middle of the segment between the C7 spinous process and the shoulder angle of
           the acromion. During measurements, the subject will be lying down.

        3. Pressure pain threshold (PPT). The Wagner Instruments Algometer will be used to assess
           the subjective parameter - pressure pain threshold of first discomfort. The place of
           measurement will be the point located on the upper trapezius muscle in the middle of the
           segment between the C7 spinous process and the shoulder angle of the acromion. The
           subject will be lying down on his back. Pressure from the algometer sensor will be
           applied from above and perpendicular to the examined muscle. Three measurements will be
           taken alternately for both sides of the upper trapezius. The mean value will be
           calculated, which will be the results for the right and left sides of the examined
           muscle.

      The order of measurements will be: 1) myotometry, 2) pressure pain threshold test, 3)
      cervical spine electrogoniometry.

      Participation in the study will be voluntary, free and fully anonymous. The participant will
      be able to opt out of the study at any stage. All planned therapeutic and measurement methods
      are non-invasive and safe. They do not threaten the health and life of the respondents.
    
  