
    
      Optimising drug-therapy for patients, 80 years and older, to reduce hospital visits

      Background and Objective:

      Results from a pilot-study performed in 2004 at the Academic Hospital, Uppsala, including 214
      consecutive patients (80 years old or older) showed that 9.4%-13.6% of the patients were
      acutely admitted to hospital due to a drug related problem1. Other similar international
      studies show that the frequency of drug-related hospital admissions stands for at least 14%
      of the acute admissions (14%-30.4%). Of these admissions it was estimated that 32%-69% were
      preventable 2,3,4.

      A study from Antrim Hospital, Northern Ireland, showed that pharmacists´ involvement in the
      health care team can reduce the number of acute hospital admissions and improve quality of
      drug use5.

      In view of these findings this study was initiated in 2005 with fundings from the Drug and
      Therapeutics committee, the County Council of Uppsala, the Division of Acute-Medicine and the
      Pharmacy Department at the Academic Hospital in Uppsala

      Aim and objectives:

      The Study Aim was to optimize drug-prescribing and drug use for patients 80 years and older.

      The main objective was to reduce the number of hospital visits for patients 80-years old or
      older.

      Design:

      A randomized, controlled trial including 400 patients (200+200). Patients in the intervention
      group (I) received a patient interview on admission, drug counseling on discharge and a drug
      review - all performed by a clinical pharmacist. Patients in the control group (C) received
      standard care, without pharmacists´ involvement.

      Patients were included between Oct 2005 and June 2006.

      Setting:

      Two wards at the Division of Acute-Medicine at Uppsala University Hospital, Sweden

      Main Outcome Measures:

      1) Frequency of hospital visits 12 months after (last included patient) discharge from
      hospital for (I) and (C).
    
  