
    
      Frontotemporal Lobar Degeneration (FTLD) is the neuropathological term for a collection of
      rare neurodegenerative diseases that correspond to four main overlapping clinical syndromes:
      frontotemporal dementia (FTD), primary progressive aphasia (PPA), corticobasal degeneration
      syndrome (CBS) and progressive supranuclear palsy syndrome (PSPS). The goal of this study is
      to build a FTLD clinical research consortium (FTLD CRC) to support the development of FTLD
      therapies for new clinical trials. The FTLD CRC will be headquartered at UCSF and will
      partner with six patient advocacy groups to manage the consortium. Patients will be evaluated
      at 13 clinical sites throughout North America and a genetics core will genotype all
      individuals for FTLD associated genes.

      The study will be divided into 2 projects. The first project will be Preparing for Sporadic
      FTLD Clinical Trials and the second project will be a Longitudinal Assessment of Familial
      FTLD. Self-registration for an online registry will be available for patients and families
      with any FTLD syndrome. Eligible participants for research Projects 1 and 2 FTLD will be
      invited to a CRC site for clinical evaluations. All enrolled participants in both research
      projects will have a site visit consisting of a neurological exam, medical and family
      history, cognitive testing, and a blood draw.

      Participants in Project 1 who have a diagnosis of Progressive Supranuclear Palsy Syndrome
      will have two additional assessments. A lumbar puncture (LP) will be performed for CSF
      collection, and an MRI scan of the brain will be done.

      Participants in Project 2: Longitudinal Assessment of familial FTLD will return for a
      follow-up visit in 12 months; procedures at the follow-up visit will be identical to those at
      baseline. Additionally, asymptomatic participants will undergo MRI scans at both visits.
    
  