
    
      1. What is the problem being addressed? Greater trochanteric pain syndrome (GTPS), also
           known as trochanteric bursitis, is a painful condition characterised by pain around the
           greater trochanter usually affecting middle aged women (1). It was first described, as
           trochanteric bursitis in 1958 (2). Further details on the clinical symptoms published in
           1978 as pain over the greater trochanter on walking, squatting or climbing stairs and
           pain on lying on the affected side or when crossing one's legs (3). Little described
           tenderness over the greater trochanter over the insertion of the gluteus tendons. GTPS
           was a term used by Karpinski et al 1985 instead of trochanteric bursitis as patients did
           not exhibit typical bursitis signs of swelling, heat, crepitus or fluctuation (4). This
           notion has been supported by other studies (5) including a study performed by Bird et al
           2001 evaluated 24 patients using MRI with the clinical picture of GTPS and found that
           majority of them had gluteus medius tendon pathology with only 2 patients with
           trochanteric bursal inflammation (1). Hence, GTPS instead of trochanteric bursitis
           appears to be the more accurate way of described the clinical condition which seems to
           have multiple facets in its pathology.

        2. Why is the research important? Greater trochanteric pain syndrome (GTPS) is one of the
           most common causes of lateral hip pain in adults and can be a painful and debilitating
           condition which as a last resort requires surgery especially if it does not respond to
           conservative treatments. The best estimates of prevalence are from a large,
           community-based study with over 3000 adults aged 50 to 70 years, in which unilateral
           GTPS was present in 15 percent of women and 6.6 percent of men. Bilateral GTPS was
           reported in 8.5 and 1.9 percent of women and men, respectively. The usual age at
           presentation is over 50 years, and the female to male ratio is approximately 4:1. It can
           be associated with low back pain in 20-35%. Bilateral GTPS in particular is associated
           with higher 20-meter walk time and chair stand time. It can lead to substantial
           limitation of activity and poor quality of life. It is therefore important to look at
           appropriate treatment options that will lead to quicker and more long-lasting recovery.

           Currently the treatment ladder for GTPS consists of conservative measures such as
           physiotherapy and NSAIDs. The majority of patients will settle with conservative
           management however if this fails then more invasive treatment options include shockwave
           therapy and corticosteroid injections. These second line treatments are important in
           preventing the need for surgery as a last resort. (6, 7, 8). Corticosteroid injection is
           an established second line treatment for GTPS that has been shown to be efficacious but
           not necessarily long term as reported by a randomised study comparing steroid . (9) This
           notion has been supported by numerous reviews of GTPS management (10, 11, 12, 13). It is
           therefore imperative to explore treatment options that have the potential for
           long-lasting benefits, in the form of regenerative medicine are explored. One such is
           the use of platelet rich plasma (PRP) which will allow regeneration of cells and more
           robust healing.

           PRP is an autologous blood product which has been postulated to promote healing in
           damaged or inflamed tissues including muscles, ligaments, bones and tendons. Platelets
           contain a variety of elements including growth factors and cytokines which are involved
           in tissue healing. These include platelet derived endothelial growth factor, platelet
           derived growth factor, transforming growth factor, insulin like growth factor, vascular
           endothelial growth factor, basic fibroblast growth factor. These growth factors are
           present in the processes of tissue injury, inflammation and repair. Therefore the theory
           is the higher the concentration of platelets, the more growth factors there will be
           present to promote the healing process when administered directly to the area of
           interest (14). PRP has been applied in other fields of medicine including regenerative
           therapies in oral and maxillofacial surgery. (15, 16) Over the past decade or so there
           have been numerous studies of PRP's efficacy in treating inflammatory musculoskeletal
           conditions similar in pathology to GTPS, such as lateral epicondylitis, patellar
           tendinitis, rotator cuff pathology, achilles tendonitis and plantar fasciitis. This has
           been collectively reviewed by several authors with reports of mixed efficacy compared to
           standard treatments for these conditions with the most promise shown in plantar
           fasciitis and patellar tendinitis (17, 18). These reviews all report a lack of evidence
           to fully support or reject PRP's efficacy in these conditions, except for achilles
           tendonitis where PRP showed no difference compared with placebo in a randomised study
           (19, 20). PRP's healing or regenerative properties have shown promise in other areas of
           orthopaedics such as cartilage pathology (14).

           The success of novel regenerative therapy in the form of PRP in a scientifically
           conducted clinical study will be a major advance in our current knowledge base and will
           have wider implications for its use in other fields of orthopaedics and will provide
           better understanding in developing strategies for dealing with similar issues probably
           even for degenerative conditions.

        3. How does the existing literature support this proposal We have completed a systematic
           literature review which has been submitted for publication. We used NICE healthcare
           database advanced search (HDAS) via Athens (PubMed, MEDLINE, CINAHL, EMBASE and AMED
           databases) to conduct our search from their year of inception to October 2017. In total,
           four studies were included for analysis consisting of two randomised control trials and
           two case series. We also identified four additional studies from published conference
           abstracts (one randomised control trial and three case series). 209 patients included in
           these studies with a mean age ranging from 48 to 76.2 years. Majority were females with
           three months minimum duration of symptoms. Diagnosis was made using ultrasound or MRI.
           Included studies used a variety of outcome measures. Improvement was observed during the
           first 3 months after injection. Significant improvement was also noted when patients
           were followed up till 12 months post treatment. We found that there is a paucity of
           evidence reporting the efficacy of PRP in treatment of GTPS. The current literature has
           revealed that PRP injections are relatively safe and can be effective. Considering the
           limitations in these studies, we think more large-sample and high-quality randomised
           clinical trials are required in the future to provide evidence of the efficacy for PRP
           as a treatment in GTPS.

        4. What is the research question / aims and objectives?

           The aim of the trial is to investigate the clinical efficacy of the novel treatment
           platelet rich plasma (PRP) in treating patients with GTPS. PRP's clinical efficacy will
           be compared against a placebo injection of normal saline.

           Hypothesis: PRP is an effective treatment for greater trochanteric pain syndrome.

        5. Project Plan

      Population: Patients with GTPS Intervention: Platelet rich plasma (PRP) injection into
      trochanteric area under ultrasound guidance Comparator - Placebo of normal saline Outcome:
      Validated patient reported outcome measures (iHOT-12), Visual Analogue Score for pain (VAS),
      Modified Harris Hip Score (mHHS) and quality of life outcome (EQ-5D 3L) will be collected at
      baseline, 3, 6 and 12 months will be compared within and between the PRP and normal saline
      arms.

      Design: The trial will be a two arm single centre double blind randomised control trial. The
      study will include a two-way comparison between PRP and placebo normal saline injections for
      treating GTPS. Participants will be reviewed at baseline, 3, 6 and 12 with patient reported
      outcome measures (PROM) completed at each of these reviews.

      Setting: Hospital outpatient Target population: Participants with GTPS will be identified and
      referred for inclusion in the study by their main care provider (GP, Orthopaedic surgeon,
      Rheumatologist).

      Health technology being assessed: Platelet rich plasma injection (PRP)

      Objectives of the Trial :

        1. To test the hypothesis that PRP is effective in treating GTPS in patients who have
           failed conservative management

        2. To assess the duration of effect of PRP Outcome Measures Primary: The International Hip
           Outcome Tool - 12 (iHOT-12) PROM scores Secondary: The Visual Analogue Score for pain
           (VAS), Modified Harris Hip Score (mHHS) and the EQ-5D 3L scores

      Power and sample size:

      The primary outcome of interest is the change from baseline to 12 month follow-up for the
      12-item International Hip Outcome Tool (iHOT-12). Statistical significance is set at 5% and
      desired power at 90%, with two tailed tests applied. The minimally clinically important
      difference (MCID) for the iHOT-12 has been reported as 10 (from 100) and the standard
      deviation for the change in score from baseline as no greater than 21 by Sansone et al (23).
      We conservatively assume that change in iHOT score from baseline in the steroid group will be
      no more than 10 and the change in the iHOT score form baseline in the PRP group will be no
      less than 27. Using these figures, a minimal sample size at follow up of 66 (33 in each
      group) will be required. Pilot data obtained by our team suggest that the refusal to
      participate rate should be no more than 25% and the dropout rate no more than 35% over 12
      months. Refusal rates tend to be low in this patient group given the chronic nature of the
      condition and the fact that patients will only be approached once conservative management has
      failed. Thus, we will need to approach 135.4 (round up to 136) patients, and recruit 102
      patients to achieve our target sample size.

      Difference between current and planned care pathway: None

      Dissemination Plan:

      To ensure that the outputs from the research informs policy and practice and thereby
      maximises the benefit to patients and the NHS, the following dissemination strategy has been
      developed using evidence for translating knowledge into practice. From research evidence we
      know that research is most effectively disseminated using multiple vehicles, ideally with
      face to face interaction. So, in addition to giving written feedback to study participants,
      dissemination activities will include development of links with key organisations such as
      NICE, NHS Information Centre, NHS Commissioning Board and Quality Observatories to contribute
      to and capitalise on their networks. In addition, media and national and international
      medical conferences. Furthermore, Publications including Full, Executive Summary and Plain
      English summary reports of the research, peer review journals and local NHS newsletters and
      A5 laminate.
    
  