
    
      This study is a randomized clinical trial with two interventions: control group and
      intervention interdisciplinary group, without cross-over.

      Interventions will take place at the Rehabilitation Hospital São Lucas Center (CR), will have
      12 sessions for each of the following ways:

      Control Group (CG): In this type of intervention, the focus will be the development of skills
      through educational activities on health using the pedagogy of transmission. The meetings
      will be weekly with 45 minutes duration on a schedule of lectures about cardiovascular risk
      factors and prevention.The sample is 60 adolescents with overweight or obesity.

      Interdisciplinary Intervention Group (IG): In this type of intervention, the focus will be
      the development of skills through educational activities on health that provide the
      development of autonomy and empowerment for behavior change, based on interdisciplinary
      motivational strategies. Therefore, group meetings will be performed in the presence of a
      member of the nursing staff, physiotherapy, nutrition and psychology. The meetings are
      weekly, lasting 1 hour and 45 minutes. In the first 1 hour and 15 minutes will be addressed
      health issues related to lifestyle modification (self-care, healthy eating and physical
      activity) using the fundamentals of motivational interviewing technique. All topics will be
      focused on the major cardiovascular risk factors considered modifiable.

      The staff is trained to the techniques of motivational interviewing and transtheoretical
      model of change and the health issues related to the modification of lifestyle. During the
      sessions the team members address the health issue so that the knowledge of a professional
      complements the other. At the same time occur the integration of knowledge between these
      professionals from different areas aiming to encourage teens to lifestyle modification based
      on the techniques of motivational interviewing and transtheoretical model of change.
      Likewise, it is envisaged to include a time of physical activity (30 minutes) oriented in
      conjunction with the research team. This activity aims to motivate adolescents to include
      other physical activity sessions during the week.

      So this interdisciplinary intervention with adolescents seeks to measure the result of an
      educational proposal using the techniques of motivational interviewing and transtheoretical
      model of change, for all professionals involved independent training in health issues related
      approach to lifestyle modification and the inclusion of family in this process.

      Run in: There will be a meeting with the parents of the IG and CG (separately) in order to
      inform them about the participation of children in the program and guide them about the
      procedures of the research protocol.
    
  