
    
      The administration of the tranexamic acid (TRAXA), an antifibrinolytic, blocks primary
      fibrinolysis, and thus the haemorrhage, in the early postoperative period. Significant
      surgical operations, as well as trauma, initiate a similar dynamic homeostatic mechanism
      between the creation of a clot (primary and secondary haemostasis) and its dissolution
      (fibrinolysis). Antifibrinolytics are initially used in patients with an accelerated
      fibrinolysis of different pathogeneses. However, they have been proven effective in reducing
      haemorrhage in patients who have undergone significant surgical operations with normal
      fibrinolysis, with the use of an appropriate surgical technique.

      A pharmacokinetic study has shown that peak fibrinolytic activity is present for 6 hours
      after the incision and it persists for 18 hours in total knee and hip arthroplasty. The
      administration of the tranexamic acid in optional orthopaedic surgery of total hip (THA) and
      knee (TKA) arthroplasty reduces the postoperative haemorrhage, as well as the number and
      volume of the postoperative autologous blood.

      A randomized, placebo-controlled trial CRAS-2 has validated that the early post-traumatic
      administration of the tranexamic acid, within 8 hours after the injury, in adult patients
      with traumas or in patients with the risk of significant haemorrhage, reduces the fatality
      rate.

      The tranexamic acid is a synthetic derivative of lysine, an amino acid which blocks lysine
      binding sites of the plasminogen molecule which are essential for its biding to fibrin. This
      mechanism inhibits the plasminogen activation via a plasminogen activator which also binds to
      fibrin. Thus, it prevents the conversion of plasminogen into plasmin, which is essential for
      fibrin dissolution, the integral element of a stable clot. The second important
      antifibrinolytic effect is blocking the lysine binding sites on the free plasmin molecule
      which has already been formed through the conversion from the plasminogen. This inhibits its
      binding to fibrin, and the TRAXA-plasmin complex is rapidly inactivated with the
      α-2-antiplasmin and α-2-macroglobulin. Biological half-life is approximately 2-3 hours.

      A trauma in the organism triggers the immunologic response. The initial immunologic reaction
      occurs at the location of the injury, and it is called an inflammation. The inflammatory
      response is characterized by a complex interaction of macrophages (a type of leukocytes which
      develop from monocytes and are a part of the mononuclear phagocyte system, the main task of
      which are phagocytosis, i.e. the clearance of foreign materiel from the organism, performing
      the immunologic function - the defence against foreign materiel - antigens, and the
      regulation of the inflammation via interleukins which they secrete - IL1, IL-2,TNF) and
      dendritic cells (antigen-presenting cells), the consequence of which is the release of
      cytokines (interleukins - glycoproteins which regulate interactions among cells) and
      chemokine (small proteins from the cytokine group - able to induce chemotaxis, cell
      migration), and the activation of the neutrophils, monocytes and mesenchymal stem cells
      (cells not containing any information, located in the adipose tissue, cartilage and muscle
      tissue).

      If the initial inflammatory response at the location of the injury is strong enough, it will
      develop into a systemic inflammatory response, called systemic inflammatory response syndrome
      (SIRS), which implies an inflammatory response of the entire body without a proven source of
      infection. The criteria for the diagnosis of the SIRS are: heart rate higher than 90 bpm;
      body temperature lower than 36°C or higher than 38°C; tachypnoea, respiratory rate higher
      than 20 breaths per minute or the partial pressure of carbon dioxide in the blood lower than
      4.3 kPa (32 mm Hg); the number of white blood cells, leukocytes, lower than 4.000 cells in 1
      mm³ or higher than 12.000 cells in 1 mm³; or the presence of more than 10% of immature
      neutrophils. A destructive immunologic inflammatory cascade can prevent or delay healing.

      At the same time the compensatory anti-inflammatory response syndrome (CARS) is initiated,
      which includes the immunologic response with the aim of re-establishing the immunologic
      homeostasis. It is characterized by: a reduced cytokine response of monocytes to the
      stimulation; a reduced number of antigen-presenting receptors (human leukocyte antigens or
      HLA) on monocytes; an increased level of IL-10, an anti-inflammatory cytokine; lymphocyte
      apoptosis (T-cells); lymphocyte dysfunction, i.e. reduced proliferation; reduced Th1
      proinflammatory cytokine production (a shift in homoeostasis towards the Th2 phenotype
      facilitated by the regulatory T lymphocytes). It clinically manifests as skin allergy,
      hypothermia and leukopenia. Additional criteria include elevated levels of C-reactive
      proteins, lactates and hyperglycaemia. If the immunosuppressive response persists, it may
      increase the possibility of an infection occurring, and the inability to defend against the
      infection, which may result in the development of sepsis, multiple organ failure and death.

      Due to the wide clinical and laboratory criteria which both the SIRS and CARS terms include,
      they are not the best terms for describing the immunologic response to a trauma, and a new
      term has been introduced - the post-traumatic immunosuppression (PTI), characterised by: a
      change on the immunologic cells (neutrophilia, monocytosis, increased number of mesenchymal
      stromal cells, reduced expression of HLA-DR on monocytes, reduced function of natural killer
      (NK) cells, increased lymphocyte apoptosis, a shift in homoeostasis towards the Th2 phenotype
      facilitated by Treg lymphocytes - CD4+CD25+CD127-); a change in production levels of various
      cytokines (anti-inflammatory cytokines): IL-10, IL-4; anti- and pro-inflammatory cytokine:
      IL-6; pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-2, TNF-α, IFN-γ); the activation of the complement system
      (C5a and C3a via factor VII - tissue factor system, activated by cell damage).

      Post-traumatic immunosuppression can be made worse by transfusion, haemorrhage, stress,
      significant surgical operation and immunosuppressive drugs.

      The research has shown that Treg lymphocytes CD4+CD25+CD127- have an important role in
      controlling the acquired and innate immunity (comprising 6-8% of all CD4+ lymphocytes).

      The normal function of Treg lymphocytes is the suppression of the T-cell response against its
      own antigens.

      Stopping haemorrhage prevents the occurrence of anaemia, as well as the need for transfusion
      of blood products, which lead to developing the post-traumatic immunosuppression (PTI).

      Monitoring the immunologic status of patients with the understanding of the PTI mechanism can
      enable timely and individual modulation of the immunologic status with pre-planned procedures
      (preventing haemorrhage, anaemia, avoiding transfusion) and/or immunotherapy (drugs and
      nutrients), and thereby prevent the occurrence of complications, such as infections.
      Infections may result in sepsis and multiple-organ failure, and eventually be lethal for the
      patient.

      The research has proved that Treg lymphocytes CD4+CD25+CD127- have an important role in
      controlling the acquired and innate immunity (comprising 6-8% of all CD4+ lymphocytes).

      The normal function of Treg lymphocytes is the suppression of the T-cell response against its
      own antigens.

      There are two main types of regulatory lymphocytes: natural Treg, which are mostly developed
      in the thymus, and inducible Treg, which arise in the periphery after being exposed to
      cytokines, antigen-presenting cells or immunosuppressive drugs. It may be difficult to
      differentiate these two lymphocyte Treg populations in vivo. Nevertheless, it is known that
      different stages of the infection require different regulations. Acute infection, tissue
      damage, inflammation caused by the innate immunologic response is limited, i.e. locally
      controlled via natural Treg lymphocytes. This mechanism triggers the activation of inducible
      Treg lymphocytes.

      For the first time, in 1995, it was described that the suppression of CD4+ T-lymphocytes is
      caused by a low T-cell population with the CD4+ CD25+ expression. Natural Treg lymphocytes,
      apart from belonging to CD4+ T-cell population, have a CD25+ receptor, an α-receptor chain
      for IL-2, and a receptor for the cytotoxic T-lymphocytic antigen 4 (CTLA 4), the tumour
      necrosis factor receptor (TNF), but it differs from the activated T-cells by the expression
      of the transcription factor FoxP3 (transcription factor encoded with the FoxP3 gene). The
      expression of CD 127lo, an α-chain receptor for the interleukin 7 enables us to differentiate
      Treg lymphocytes from the activated T-lymphocytes via flow cytometry. The number of
      CD25+CD127lo cells correlates to the number of CD25+FoxP3+ cells in the peripheral blood.

      Different studies show that the application of the 3-colour flow cytometry shows small
      variation in the percentage of Treg lymphocytes in the peripheral blood from 6.35% to 8.34%.

      There is a number of different mechanisms which achieve regulation by using the Treg
      lymphocytes: the long-term interaction with dendritic cells (DC), thereby modulating the
      function of antigen-presenting cells (APC), the production of the anti-inflammatory cytokine,
      IL-10 and the CTLA4 expression on Treg cells which induces the enzyme indoleamine
      2,3-dioxygenase (IDO) in APC which degrade the amino acid tryptophan, the lack of which
      inhibits the activation of T-cells and induces T-cell apoptosis. Treg lymphocytes also induce
      the apoptosis of monocytes and affect the lower expression of HLA-DR on monocytes whereby
      they directly affect the innate immunological response.

      Elevated, suppressive activity of Treg cells in traumas prevents the protective Th1 response
      for up to 7 days in comparison with the healthy population.
    
  