
    
      There is urgent need of an effective therapy for Covid-19. To date, the best treatment of
      SARS-CoV-2 infection is unknown. Multiple strategies have been proposed and several
      randomized clinical trials are ongoing. Recently, data extracted from scientific literature
      by machine learning suggested a potential role of baricitinib, a Janus kinases (JAKs)
      inhibitor, that induces an anti-inflammatory effect and a dose dependent inhibition of IL-6.
      This drug is currently approved for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. However, it has
      been suggested that this drug may act against SARS-CoV-2 by inhibiting of the AP2-associated
      protein kinase 1 (AAK1), a regulator of the endocytosis pathway exploited by SARS-CoV-2 to
      infect lung cells through binding with ACE2. Disruption of AAK1 might interrupt the passage
      of the virus into cells and also the intracellular assembly of virus particles.

      The aim of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of baricitinib in patients with
      SARS-CoV2 pneumonia.

      This is a multicenter randomized controlled clinical trial for evaluating efficacy, safety
      and tolerability of baricitinib added to the usual care treatments in comparison with the
      usual care treatments, enrolling patients with COVID-19 /SARS-CoV2 pneumonia.

      The primary endpoint measure is the efficacy of baricitinib in reducing the number of
      patients requiring invasive ventilation after 7 and 14 days of treatment.

      Secondary endpoints will be: mortality rate after 14- and 28-days from randomization; time to
      invasive mechanical ventilation (days); time to independence from non-invasive mechanical
      ventilation (days); time to independence from oxygen therapy (days); time to improvement in
      oxygenation for at least 48 hours (days); length of hospital stay (days); length of ICU stay
      (days); instrumental response (pulmonary echography); toxicity of baricitinib.

      All patients included in the study will be treated with the usual care treatments. One group
      will receive baricitinib by oral route, while the control group will continue the usual care
      treatments. In the intervention group, baricitinib will be administered at the dosage of 4 mg
      daily by oral route for 14 consecutive days. For patients with eGFR between 30 and 60 ml/min
      and for patients with age >75 years old, the dosage will be half a tablet a day (2 mg/day)
      for 14 days.

      Inclusion criteria are the following

        -  Any gender

        -  Age > 18 years on day of signing informed consent

        -  Informed written consent for participation in the study

        -  Virological diagnosis of SARS-CoV-2 infection (real-time PCR)

        -  Hospitalized due to clinical instrumental diagnosis of pneumonia

        -  Oxygen saturation at rest in ambient air ≤93% or P/F ratio <250

        -  Able to be administered by oral route drugs

        -  Patients who receive O2 therapy or who need non-invasive mechanical ventilation

        -  In case of female patients at childbearing potential, they should agree to use highly
           effective methods of birth control at least till 7 days after the termination of the
           treatments

      Exclusion criteria are the following:

        -  Known hypersensitivity to Baricitinib or its excipients

        -  Patients with Creatinine Clearance < 30 ml/min

        -  Patients with active Tuberculosis (TBC)

        -  Patients with known HBV or HCV infection

        -  Patients with deep vein thrombosis (DVP) or Pulmonary Embolism (PE)

        -  Patients with ALT or AST> 5 times the upper limit of the normality

        -  Neutrophils <1000/mmc

        -  Platelets <50.000/mmc

        -  Hb< 8g/dl

        -  Bowel diverticulitis or perforation

        -  Patients who receive invasive mechanical ventilation

        -  Documented bacterial infection at time of randomization

        -  Patients with "do not resuscitate order"

        -  Patients receiving immunosuppressants or anti-rejection drugs

        -  Pregnancy or breastfeeding

      All patients, required by the assignment arm, will continue to receive therapy already in
      place, including that for Sars-CoV2 infection. Chloroquine/idrossichloroquine and
      low-molecular weight heparin (LMWH) eventually associated with ritonavir/lopinavir or
      darunavir/ritonavir will be allowed for all included patients.

      For the duration of the study, the following will not be allowed:

        -  the concomitant use of IL-1 or IL-6 blockers, JAK inhibitors and TNF inhibitors

        -  the start of the steroid in the two weeks of study. The steroid will be continued if the
           patient already takes steroid at the time of admission

      Intervention:

      Intervention arm:

        -  BARICITINIB 4 mg daily via oral route for 14 days as add-on therapy

        -  BARICITINIB 2 mg daily via oral route (eGFR between 30 and 60 ml/min and for patients
           with age >75 years old) for 14 days as add-on therapy

      Control arm:

      - patients in the control group will continue to receive standard therapy

      Sample size calculation:

      Expected 7-days and 14-days invasive ventilation (P0):30% Auspicated 7-days and 14-days
      invasive ventilation (P1):12% Statistical power: 80% Bilateral alpha error: 5% Sample size
      needed: 63 patients for each group (126 total patients)

      The statistical analysis plan will be developed and finalized before database lock and will
      describe the participant populations to be included in the analyses, and procedures for
      accounting for missing, unused, and spurious data.

      An intention-to-treat (ITT) and per-protocol (PP) analysis will be performed on randomized
      patients and on the overall population, respectively.
    
  