
    
      The aim of the study was to examine the effect of fish oil (FO) on sustained attention and
      visuospatial short-term memory memory, as well as cognitive inhibition, executive function,
      and core symptoms of ASD, and of ADHD, and social function in adults with ASD. In light of
      the shared and additive cognitive impairments in individuals with both ASD and ADHD, the
      hypothesis was that individuals with comorbid ADHD will show the most pronounced effects. The
      study furthermore aimed to examine potential interaction with depression, anxiety, and
      gender.

      This was investigated in a 2 × 4 week randomized double-blind head-to-tail crossover study
      with FO and safflower oil (SO).

      Participants were recruited by advertisements posted in autism-related institutions and
      autism forums on Facebook as well as via personal networking. The study aimed to recruit up
      to thirty participants and ended up with twenty six participants.

      The intervention in the two periods consisted of four capsules two times per day of FO
      (corresponding to approximately 5,2 g/d long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids) and SO (1.2
      g/day of linoleic acid), respectively. The intervention sequences: FO → SO or SO → FO was
      determined by a randomization list generated by a person, who was not involved in the data
      collection and FO and SO capsules were packed in white containers of similar appearance in
      the same known excess amount of what was required for four weeks. The participants were
      allotted to one of the intervention sequences by ID numbers based on date and time of their
      first visit and were provided with the appropriate pre-ID labelled container in the beginning
      of each period.

      The participants were examined at baseline and after each period. The assessment consisted of
      the following: attention (The d2 Test of Attention) and spatial working memory (Corsi
      Block-Tapping Test) as primary outcomes and as secondary outcomes, inhibition and flexibility
      (The Stroop Word-Color Test), ADHD symptoms (Conners Rating Scale), and executive and social
      functions assessed by the Behavioral Inventory of Executive Function and Social
      Responsiveness Scale, respectively. Compliance was verified by whole-blood fatty acid
      analysis.
    
  