
    
      The purpose of the African American (AA) Families and Lung Cancer Study is to learn more
      about (1) the beliefs of family members of AA patients with lung cancer about why AA get lung
      cancer and (2) whether these beliefs are associated with their interest in genetic testing
      for lung cancer risk and willingness to participate in clinical genetics research. We plan to
      recruit 200 AAs (n = 100 current smokers and n = 100 never smokers) who are considered to be
      as close as family (both biological and non-biological kin) to patients with lung cancer who
      self-identify as AA (n = 115). Patients will be recruited from Washington Cancer Institute at
      the Washington Hospital Center in Washington, DC. Family members who self-identify as AA and
      are between the ages 18 and 55 will be eligible for the study. A Washington Hospital Center
      recruiter will approach patients and ask their willingness to be contacted for a telephone
      survey about their general well-being. As part of the survey, patients will be asked to
      enumerate family and friends who they consider to be as close as family, and asked to
      specifically focus on those who are current cigarette smokers and those who have never
      smoked. Patients will be asked to give permission to contact some or all of those enumerated.
      These family members will be mailed a letter to inform them that unless they call to decline
      they will be contacted by a telephone interviewer. The survey will include questions to
      assess family members' explanations for the causes of lung cancer and reactions to possible
      explanations for disparities in lung cancer between AA and Caucasian Americans (CA),
      perceived personal risk and worry about developing lung cancer, smoking history, motivation
      to quit smoking, emotional responses to the patient's diagnosis, racial identity, experience
      with racial discrimination, pros and cons of genetic testing, and interest in genetic testing
      (the primary outcome variable). Data analysis using hierarchical linear modeling will assess
      whether patient characteristics and family members' endorsement of genetics as the cause of
      lung cancer are associated with their interest in genetic testing and participation in
      clinical genetics research.
    
  