
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To estimate the effect of erlotinib hydrochloride on expression of interleukin (IL)-1α
           in patients with estrogen receptor (ER-)-negative, EGFR-positive and IL-1α-positive
           breast cancer.

      Secondary

        -  To estimate the effect of erlotinib hydrochloride on expression of nuclear NF-κB and
           amphiregulin (AR) in patients with ER-negative, EGFR-positive and IL-1α-positive breast
           cancer.

        -  To estimate the effect of erlotinib on tumor cell proliferation (Ki67) and apoptosis
           (TUNEL).

        -  To estimate the rates of IL-1α, nuclear NF-κB, and AR expression in patients with
           ER-negative, EGFR-positive breast cancer.

        -  To follow the clinical course of patients with resectable ER-negative, EGFR-positive and
           IL-1α-positive breast cancer.

        -  To assess the toxicity of a 15-day regimen of daily oral administration of erlotinib
           hydrochloride in participants with ER-negative, EGFR-positive and IL-1α-positive breast
           cancer.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label, pilot study. Patients are stratified according to HER2 status
      (positive vs negative).

      Patients receive oral erlotinib hydrochloride once daily on days -14 to 0 in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients undergo surgery on day 0.

      Tissue samples are collected at baseline and examined for expression of estrogen receptor,
      progesterone receptor, HER2, EGFR, interleukin (IL)-1α, amphiregulin, and NF-kB. Tissue
      samples collected at surgery are examined for IL-1α, NF-kB, and amphiregulin by IHC.

      Following surgery, patients will be contacted 1 week post-surgery (± 1 day) or 1 week
      post-withdrawal from study (± 1 day) by phone call or clinic visit to assess toxicity. After
      that, patients will be followed and treated according to standard of care practices. If
      patients choose to follow-up with an oncologist outside of our institution, they or their
      oncologist will be contacted every 6 months for updated information on their conditions.
    
  