
    
      Purpose: To determine the outcome differences in patients 6 months and younger with
      laryngomalacia and dysphagia who are evaluated by speech language therapy (SLP) alone versus
      those with both SLP evaluation and acid suppression therapy (AST) (famotidine)

      Hypothesis: There will be no differences in outcomes between those that had SLP alone versus
      those that had both SLP and AST.

      Laryngomalacia (LM) is the most common cause of stridor in infants. Symptoms of
      gastroesophageal reflux (GER) are often seen in the setting of LM; therefore, acid
      suppression therapy (AST) has been empirically used in the management of this disorder.
      However, there is no gold standard in treating mild and moderate LM patients and therefore
      this study will help establish guidelines for treatment.

      A medical chart review will be performed to assess airway and dysphagia symptom improvement
      from consult to the 3-month follow up appointment and then up to a year. The Pittsburgh
      Airway Symptom Score (PASS) questionnaire and the Infant Gastroesophageal Reflux
      Questionnaire (I-GERQ-R) will be given to families at the consult and at the 3-month follow
      up appointment for caregiver assessment. The physician will then perform the standard
      procedures at the clinic appointment. The Flexible Laryngoscopy Findings sheet will be filled
      out in conjunction with the clinic procedures for objective data. The surveys will then be
      scored to determine true GERD (score >=16) and severe laryngomalacia (LM) (RED questions on
      the PASS), which would further exclude these patients. There are 12 total questions on the
      I-GERQ-R. On the PASS, questions 1 & 2 are in the GREEN category and signifies mild LM,
      YELLOW signifies moderate LM, and RED is severe LM. On the PASS questionnaire, "Yes" to
      either #1 or #2 and nothing else is mild LM, "yes" to at least one #3-5 and none of #6-10 is
      moderate LM, and "yes" to any of the #6-10" indicates severe LM. There are 10 total questions
      on the PASS. Mild and moderate LM patients will be block randomized the day before the
      appointment to receive speech language therapy alone or speech language therapy with
      famotidine (Pepcid). Both treatments are standard of care in these patients. Speech language
      therapy (feeding therapy) is part of the normal clinic visit for LM patients. These patients
      will then be re-evaluated at their follow up appointment in 3 months (+/- 1 month). The
      families will take the PASS and I-GERQ-R surveys again to determine LM severity.
    
  