
    
      Cancer immunotherapy refers broadly to approaches which attempt to treat cancer by activating
      immune responses directed against malignant tissue. Prostate GVAX is an allogeneic cell-based
      prostate cancer vaccine composed of two irradiated cell lines (PC3 and LNCaP) that have been
      genetically modified to secrete granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor
      (granulocytemacrophage-colony stimulating factor). The release of
      granulocytemacrophage-colony stimulating factor by these modified tumor cells serves to
      recruit dendritic cells which then present tumor antigens to T-cells, thus initiating
      antitumor immune responses.

      However, abundant preclinical data show that, when used alone, cell-based immunotherapy is
      unable to break specific T-cell tolerance in tumor-bearing hosts. Studies in an autochthonous
      prostate cancer mouse model have shown that giving low-dose cyclophosphamide prior to a
      cell-based granulocytemacrophage-colony stimulating factor-secreting vaccine abrogates immune
      tolerance through augmentation of CD8+ T cell infiltration in the prostate, transient
      depletion of regulatory T cells (Tregs), and increased expression of dendritic cell
      maturation markers. Enhancement of antitumor immunity has also been observed in other
      preclinical models where cyclophosphamide was given in sequence with
      granulocytemacrophage-colony stimulating factor-secreting immunotherapy for the treatment of
      breast and pancreatic cancers. These preclinical data are supported by early-phase clinical
      trials combining GVAX with low-dose cyclophosphamide in pancreatic and breast cancers.

      Furthermore, emerging evidence suggests that androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) itself has
      profound effects on the host immune system, resulting in thymic regeneration and enhancement
      of antitumor immunity. In addition, preclinical and clinical studies demonstrate that ADT
      augments prostate cancer-specific immune responses induced by immunotherapy, suggesting that
      ADT may act synergistically with immunotherapy. Based on data from mouse models as well as
      human clinical trials, it has been suggested that prostate cancer immunotherapy may be most
      effective when administered in the setting of an androgen-suppressed environment.

      Building on these findings, investigators have designed a study to assess the use of ADT
      given alone or administered following immunization with low-dose cyclophosphamide and
      prostate GVAX, in patients undergoing radical prostatectomy. Investigators aim (1) to
      determine whether ADT is immunogenic in men with localized prostate cancer by evaluating
      T-cell infiltration in harvested prostate glands; (2) to determine whether administering ADT
      after low-dose cyclophosphamide and prostate GVAX augments immune infiltration into the
      prostate gland; and (3) to investigate whether this combinatorial immuno-hormonal approach is
      safe and feasible. Investigators hypothesize that the combination of ADT and
      cyclophosphamide/GVAX will produce significantly greater antitumor immune responses than
      would ADT used alone.
    
  