
    
      Crohn's Disease (CD) therapy is aimed at reducing inflammation via induction of remission
      after a flare-up and maintenance of the remission for as long as possible. Therapies commonly
      used for inducing remission are steroids and anti-TNF-a. Standard 6MP, on the other hand, has
      a slow onset of action and requires several months of administration before its therapeutic
      effects become apparent. Therefore, 6MP is typically used as maintenance therapy, rather than
      for remission. Furthermore, serious AE's associated wtih 6MP include leucopenia,
      hepatoxicity, pancreatitis and bone marrow suppression, requiring lowering of dose or
      treatment discontinuation.

      The Teva DR-6MP project was designed to evaluate a new oral 6MP formulation that would
      address these limitations. The slow action of standard 6MP, precluding its use as a treatment
      for induction of remission, would be offset by a faster-disintegrating, more soluble
      formulation with an enteric coating for targeted ileal delivery. This new formulation
      designed to open at the terminal ileum, the most commonly affected area of CD bowel
      involvement, could deliver higher effective local concentrations of drug to the site most
      affected by CD, stimulating an effective local immunological response, resulting in a cascade
      of widespread immunological activity, evoking an induction of remission. The safety of
      standard 6MP would be improved upon by the fact that negligible levels of the DR-6MP
      formulation have been observed in the plasma, obviating the toxicities associated with
      systemic 6MP. Moreover, since the DR-6MP dose is fixed and not subject to patient weight, nor
      potentially, side-effects, the dose adjustments required for up-titration to optimal dose, or
      down-titration due to toxicity, could be avoided.

      Previous small, pilot proof-of-concept clinical efficacy and pharmacokinetic studies of the
      DR-6MP formulation demonstrated the potential for induction of remission, mucosal healing,
      systemic immunological improvement and lower systemic side-effects.

      The current study is designed to repeat the earlier studies under larger, more rigorous
      conditions in a randomized, double-blind fashion at multiple sites to ascertain if the
      initial encouraging results could be repeated. Moreover, a higher dose of 6MP (80 mg) will be
      tested to ascertain if presumably higher local concentrations at the disease site can evince
      a more robust clinical effect.
    
  