
    
      Pilates is an exercise form created by Joseph Pilates in the 1920s. It is a programme of
      mind-body exercise focusing on strength, core stability, flexibility, muscle control, posture
      and breathing. Neuropilates is the practice of clinical pilates in patients with a
      neurological condition. The exercise is ideally led by a clinician with experience and
      expertise in the area and uses postural, positional and equipment adaptations as necessary to
      suit the needs of the client. The benefits derived from pilates exercise of balanced strength
      with improved alignment, postural control and flexibility, could be favourable to post stroke
      patients who often have one-sided loss of strength and muscle length and subsequent adverse
      postural adaptations and abnormal movement patterns.

      This study aims to investigate the effects of a 6-week neuropilates class in post stroke
      patients, when compared with a 6-week generalised exercise class. Participants will be
      assessed before and after partaking in either class in order to examine their gait,
      functional independence and spasticity. Participants will then be randomly assigned to either
      the 6-week neuropilates class or generalised exercise class. Participants will be 6 or more
      months post stroke and finished their formal rehabilitation. Participants should not be
      involved with any other rehabilitation therapies / hydrotherapy / gym services for the
      duration of the study. We will aim to recruit 30 participants to the study. The intervention
      group will attend a once-weekly 60-minute neuropilates exercise class over 6 weeks
      facilitated by the principle investigator (a chartered physiotherapist who is also a pilates
      instructor). The control group will attend a once weekly, 60-minute generalized exercise
      class which will be designed by a chartered physiotherapist to address strength,
      cardiorespiratory fitness and mobility. Both exercise classes will take place in the
      Physiotherapy Department in St. John's Hospital, Sligo, Ireland
    
  