
    
      A previous retrospective study evaluated the UNOS database of liver transplant recipients for
      use of total tumor volume (TTV) and alphafetoprotein (AFP) as criteria for selection of
      candidates for liver transplantation. The results confirmed a prior publication demonstrating
      that tumors modestly beyond Milan size limitation and irrespective of tumor numbers can
      achieve excellent outcomes, while providing important insight into which tumors within Milan
      criteria remain with a high likelihood of recurrence (high AFP). The work has now been
      published in Hepatology.

      The investigators propose a prospective evaluation of these composite criteria, using data
      from patients receiving a liver transplant in order to have a larger population. Centers will
      continue to transplant according to their own criteria for inclusion on the waiting list.
      Data will be gathered prospectively through a web-based database (Quickbase, Intuit) and
      outcomes analyzed yearly for 5 years follow-up for tumour recurrence and patient survival.

      Each center will be responsible to enter a short list of data points for their patients at
      time of listing, time of transplant, and yearly post transplant. Data points have been kept
      to a minimum in the hope that this will encourage participation in this database.

      The database will be set up with 3 levels of access:

        1. data entry only (one at each site)

        2. review site data and composite data from other sites(one at each site)

        3. review all sites and aggregate (for analysis and publication) Sites will only be able to
           edit and review their own patient data. They will be able to view aggregate data from
           other sites from which all identifiers have been removed.

      Data will not be used to manage patient care in any way. The data will be used only to
      evaluate outcomes of patients who had a liver tumour at the time of their liver transplant.
    
  