
    
      The Echopulse System provides High Intensity Focused Ultrasound (HIFU) ablation of soft
      tissue. The energy is delivered via an extra-corporeal treatment probe, which includes an
      imaging system. The high-energy ultrasound waves propagate through the skin and are focused
      on a portion of the target tissue, generating intense heat and causing local cell apoptosis
      and progressive tissue volume reduction over the following months in the tissue within the
      focal area. The process is then repeated in a stepwise fashion to destroy the targeted
      tissues.

      The Echopulse System is comprised of several components, including the console, treatment arm
      containing the visualization and treatment unit (VTU), and computer with touchscreen user
      interface. In addition, the Echopulse System is intended to be used in conjunction with a
      disposable cooling and coupling system known as EPack.

      This is a single-center prospective study with a planned accrual of 35 patients with
      diagnosed symptomatic Lower Limb Veins System (Superficial, Perforating) Insufficiency
      (including recurrence at the thigh/groin level after previous treatment). The eligible
      patients must present a symptomatic Leg Veins System Insufficiency diagnosis which fulfills
      the inclusion/exclusion criteria. All patients will be consented at a Pre-Study Visit and
      evaluated for eligibility and for baseline characteristics of the disease. Patients will
      return to clinic on a separate day for the HIFU treatment. Device performance parameters will
      be collected during the HIFU visit. At follow-up visits at 3 days, 7 days and 3 months,
      changes in veins and flow characteristics will be evaluated by ultrasound and physical exam,
      and patient well-being, including pain and anxiety, will be evaluated by patient-reported VAS
      evaluations. Continued follow-up for a total of 3 months will be completed prior to subject
      study exit. Adverse events (AE) will be assessed at every study visit following HIFU
      treatment. An interim Safety Report will be issued after the first 5 patients will arrive at
      the 7 days visit and will be provided to the Ethics Committee. A second report will be issued
      once the first 5 patients will complete the follow-up period of 30 days and will be also
      provided to the Ethics Committee.
    
  