
    
      Current research has shown evidence that phytocannabinoids may have a promising therapeutic
      potential in a variety of physical and psychological ailments, and cannabidiol (CBD) is of
      particular interest due to its positive safety profile, non-intoxicating effects and
      widespread capabilities in a number of musculoskeletal diseases. Three primary reasons people
      consume CBD on a global basis, in addition to the fact that it is non-intoxicating, are for
      symptomatic (pain) relief, anxiety reduction, and improved sleep quality. Very little is
      known about CBD and how it functions in the body from both an efficacy and mechanistic
      perspective, especially in humans. There is a large consumer base for this product that will
      be expanding exponentially in the next few years. Most of the evidence available is anecdotal
      from the personal testimony of consumers. We aim to determine the efficacy of a controlled
      short-term trial of CBD ingestion for reducing symptomatic response and facilitating recovery
      following induced muscle injury. In addition, we aim to identify if the effects are
      dose-dependent by utilizing a low-dose (25 mg/day), high-dose (62.5 mg/day) and
      vehicle-control (0 mg/day) ingestion regimen. We will assess, in serial fashion, symptomatic
      response, functional limitations and recovery of the quadriceps muscle following induced
      injury in which selected doses of CBD oil will be administered orally during a 15-day
      pre-injury consumption and post-injury recovery phase. A double-blind, randomized, three-arm
      study design will be used and participants will be randomly assigned to either a high dose
      (n=15), low dose (n=15), or vehicle control group (n=15). Our clinical outcomes include
      measures of muscular pain and disability along with measures of pain-related fear and
      anxiety. Our laboratory-based study design is desirable and advantageous because it is a
      controlled method of tracking individuals using an experimental model of injury that is
      translatable to clinical populations. Another advantage of this study design is that it will
      address, in parallel fashion, two of the primary reasons people are consuming CBD -
      symptomatic relief and anxiety reduction. This exploratory study will provide preliminary
      data needed to support the hypotheses of a planned larger scale application.
    
  