
    
      Laser microlaryngeal surgery (LMS) requires brief and intense paralysis in the short
      operation time and the ambulatory setting.

      The ideal muscle relaxant with rapid onset time, short duration of action and minimal side
      effects is not yet available.

      Succinylcholine (SCC) is commonly used muscle relaxant for LMS because of its rapid onset
      time and short duration of action.

      The use of SCC for tracheal intubation is usually followed by repeated small boluses or drip
      of SCC or small boluses of nondepolarizing muscle relaxants with intermediate duration.

      As an alternative to SCC, the non-depolarizing neuromuscular blocking agent rocuronium can be
      used for LMS. The onset of rocuronium 1mg/kg is around 60s that is similar to SCC. However
      higher doses of rocuronium have a long duration of action; this is inappropriate in
      ambulatory surgery that requires rapid recovery of neuromuscular function and rapid turnover.

      Sugammadex has recently been introduced as a selective relaxant-binding agent that allows for
      rapid reversal of rocuronium-induced neuromuscular blockade. Even profound neuromuscular
      block with rocuronium can be quickly antagonized with sugammadex.

      After obtaining Institutional Review Board approval and written informed consent, 80 patients
      is enrolling in this study.

      Patients is divided by two groups randomly as the Rocuronium-Sugammadex group(R-S group) and
      the Succinylcholine - Cisatracurium- Neostigmine group(S-C-N group) .

      Anesthesia was induced with intravenous propofol 1.5-2.5 mg/kg, together with fentanyl1.5
      mcg/kg After induction of anesthesia, neuromuscular monitoring is performed continuously at
      the adductor pollicis muscle with acceleromyography (TOF-Watch®).

      Subsequently, in the R-S group, patients receive rocuronium 1mg/kg and in the S-C-N group,
      patients receive SCC 1mg/kg.

      After T1 assessed as being zero by neuromuscular monitoring, endotracheal intubation is
      performed.

      After endotracheal intubation, in the S-C-N group, cisatracurium 0.08mg/kg is injected and in
      the R-S group, the same volume of normal saline is injected.

      Anesthesia is maintained with desflurane with air during the surgery. Additive dose of
      rocuronium 0.15mg/kg or SCC 10mg is given as necessary to ensure that neuromuscular blockade
      remains below T2 during surgery.

      After the surgical procedure ends, patients receive sugammadex 2mg/kg in the R-S group, and
      pyridostigmine 0.2 mg/kg with atropine 10mcg/kg in the S-C-N group at the appearance of
      second TOF twitch (T2).

      Patient will be assessed for the time to recovery of the TOF ratio to 0.9, surgical rating
      scale (1- extremely poor conditions, 2- poor conditions, 3- acceptable conditions, 4- good
      conditions, 5- optimal conditions), and anesthesia time.
    
  