
    
      Pain has been deemed the fifth vital sign and many describe it as an adverse event. The
      adequate management of pain is the bane of the dental profession and its continuous
      assessment is crucial to minimizing patients' pain experiences. Due to the duration of action
      of most commonly-used local anesthetic agents, dental patients are unable to predict their
      pain following dental procedures until many hours later, when the participants have already
      returned home and dental offices are closed. This has led to an over-reliance on
      pre-emptively prescribed opioids by dental providers because the participants have no means
      to actively track their patients' pain after hours. Innovative mobile applications and
      connected health technologies that allow real-time tracking of patients' symptoms, functional
      status and quality of life, provide healthcare professionals with data that were previously
      unavailable, and have fostered patient engagement, shared decision-making and adherence to
      treatment plans. The investigators propose an innovative solution to optimize the quality of
      dental pain monitoring and management by implementing mobile phone technology to monitor
      patients' pain during the critical acute post-operative phase. The hypothesis is that by
      actively tracking these symptoms using mobile phones, the investigators modify analgesic
      prescriptions), thereby eliminating needless suffering, reducing the occurrence and/or
      severity of post-op complications, and enhancing the overall care experience. The
      investigators' ultimate goal is to achieve the quadruple aim: improve patient experience,
      improve patient outcomes, improve physician experience and reduce per capita costs. The
      investigators will test this hypothesis using a cluster-randomized experimental study design
      with: (1) an intervention arm where patients receive push notifications through text messages
      on their mobile phones (FollowApp.Care) at designated time intervals on Days 1, 3, 5 and 7;
      and (2) a control arm where patients receive the usual care. This project will be conducted
      at two dental institutions: Willamette Dental Group (WDG) and University of California San
      Francisco (UCSF). In Aim 1 the investigators will customize the design features of the
      existing FollowApp.Care at two dental institutions (Willamette Dental Group and University of
      California San Francisco) and assess its capacity to accurately capture patient-reported
      outcomes. In Aim 2 the investigators evaluate the impact of using FollowApp.Care on patient
      post-op experiences and oral health outcomes. And in Aim 3, the investigators evaluate
      provider acceptance of FollowApp.Care and its impact on provider performance. By collecting
      patient reported outcomes in a timely and usable way, the investigators expect to help
      dentists enhance their practice performance and reduce the burden of unnecessary opioid
      prescriptions on society.
    
  