
    
      The study is a pilot randomized trial to test the acceptability, feasibility, and impact on
      long-term adherence of implementing a POC urine tenofovir test to provide real-time adherence
      feedback among women on PrEP in Kenya. Eligible women (n=100) will be HIV-negative, ≥18 years
      old, and on PrEP. Participants will be randomized 1:1 to the intervention of providing
      real-time feedback via the urine assay versus standard-of-care adherence counseling.
      Acceptability will be assessed by a quantitative survey of participants at the end of the
      study, as well as by qualitative data collected via in-depth interviews (n=20) and focus
      group discussions (n=4 groups of 5-10 women each). Feasibility will be assessed by the
      proportion of women retained in the study, the mean number of missed visits, the proportion
      of planned urine assessments completed and messages delivered, while in-depth interviews with
      providers will explore the ease of administering the urine test. Tenofovir levels in hair
      serve as the long-term metric of adherence.

      Feasibility outcome: The investigators will assess the feasibility of the intervention by
      interviewing health care providers, who will be administering this test at the clinical point
      of care in the future. The investigators will examine provider perceptions of the assay using
      in-depth interviews. These key informant interviews will be performed at the end of this
      study with the healthcare providers (up to 8) who delivered the counseling messages to
      intervention arm participants after performing the POC urine TFV test. The semi-structured
      interview guide will draw from the Unified Theory of Acceptance and Use of Technology (UTAUT)
      model.200 This model incorporates factors that influence technology acceptance (in this case,
      of the POC immunoassay): perceived usefulness (performance expectancy), complexity to use
      (effort expectancy), stigma/social harm (social influence), and benefits (facilitating PrEP
      adherence among patients). These interviews will also elicit barriers and facilitators to
      delivering the TFV assay-informed counseling messages.

      Acceptability outcome: The investigators will conduct a mixed-methods assessment of the
      intervention arm participants' experiences with real-time monitoring and feedback at the end
      of the study. A quantitative survey and a qualitative interview guide for in-depth interviews
      of participants will draw from the Information-Motivation-Behavioral skills (IMB)
      model.205-212 Quantitative data collection will occur via standardized
      interviewer-administered questionnaires. Items to be assessed include the following: 1)
      Feelings about receiving their PrEP adherence results in real time; 2) Likelihood of
      participating in other studies using a similar design; 3) Likelihood of wanting to receive
      results of urine testing outside of a study while they are on PrEP; 4) Concern about the
      privacy and security of the data regarding their urine results; 5) Grading of the potential
      impact of knowing their urine TFV results on subsequent medication adherence; 6) Advantages
      and disadvantages of being told about their adherence in real time; 7) Likelihood of taking
      PrEP just before later study visits because they knew the urine test was being conducted; 8)
      Preferences regarding a yes/no assay versus an assay that provides information on "high",
      "moderate" or "low" adherence. A 5-point Likert item format will be used to assess graded
      items (such as the likelihood of wanting continued urine testing in the context of PrEP;
      feelings about the urine testing, ranging from negative to positive; concerns about privacy,
      ranging from low to high; the potential impact of real-time feedback on subsequent adherence,
      ranging from low to high). Other items (advantages and disadvantages of being told about
      adherence results) will provide pre-specified options with one "other" option for open-ended
      text fields.

      Adherence outcome: A linear mixed effects linear regression model will estimate the effect of
      the intervention versus standard-of-care on logarithmically transformed levels of tenofovir
      in hair.
    
  