
    
      During pregnancy, obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) prevalence is estimated between 5% and 15%
      and is associated with maternal and fetal comorbidities such as preeclampsia, neonatal
      intensive care admission , fetal growth retardation , preterm birth but even if growing,
      literature is still relatively poor about this topic.

      To date, there is no systematic screening of OSA performed in at-risk pregnant women
      (obesity, hypertension, diabetes, fetal growth retardation, suggestive symptoms), probably
      mainly because of polysomnography complexity and accessibility.

      As in non pregnant woman, OSA must be treated adequately during pregnancy. Continuous
      positive airway pressure (CPAP) is the reference treatment for severe OSA. This device, by
      blowing air under pressure in upper airways, via a nasal of an oro-nasal mask, is able to
      alleviate the upper airway collapse responsible for the occurrence of obstructive sleep
      apnea. It has been proven to offer a survival benefit in patients with severe disease and to
      improve sleep quality, cardiovascular variables and health-related quality of life . CPAP
      have been shown to improve fetal well-being in pre-eclampsia .

      Oral appliance can be an alternative for mild to moderate disease and in patients who do not
      tolerate CPAP. Positional counselling can be sufficient in case of mild to moderate
      positional OSA. Associated behavioural strategies (diet and exercise) are always recommended
      in case of excessive weight. Surgical treatments are dedicated to patients with specific
      anatomic problems but cannot be performed during pregancy.

      Aim of the study:

      The primary aim of this study is to screen OSA in at risk pregnant women with Watch-PAT 200,
      a simplified sleep study tool used on ambulatory mode and able to detect accurately OSA in
      suspected patients. As secondary aim, we will observe the impact of OSA on a composite
      endpoint assessing materno-fetal wellbeing.
    
  