
    
      Artesunate is an established antimalarial drug belonging to the artemisinin class of drugs,
      has an excellent safety profile, is well tolerated and affordable. In last two decades,
      artemisinins have shown potent and broad anticancer properties in a range of cell lines and
      animal models, supporting the hypothesis that artemisinins have the potential to be an
      effective anti-cancer therapy. Multiple potential mechanisms of action include
      anti-proliferative effects through cell-cycle disruption, reactive oxygen species (ROS)
      -induced DNA damage, induction of apoptosis, anti-angiogenesis, immunomodulation and induced
      radiosensitivity.

      Despite a multi-modality treatment approach to colorectal cancer, 5 year overall survival
      does not currently exceed 60%. Neoadjuvant pre-operative therapy may be more effective at
      eradicating micrometastases compared to adjuvant therapy delivered following the delay and
      immunological stress of surgery. However current neoadjuvant chemotherapy regimens are often
      associated with significant side effects and may result in a delay in surgery whilst patients
      recover. A well tolerated, affordable, novel anticancer agent that could be given to patients
      whilst they wait for surgery, without causing a surgical delay due to treatment related
      toxicity, would have a significant clinical impact on patient care.

      The NeoART trial is a phase II multicentre randomised, double blind, placebo controlled trial
      (RCT) for patients undergoing primary surgery for Stage II/III colorectal cancers. Patients
      are randomised (1:1 ratio) to receive either a two week course of neoadjuvant artesunate
      200mg once daily or matching placebo. Both patients and health care professionals are blinded
      to treatment allocation arm to minimise outcome-reporting bias. The primary endpoint of the
      trial is recurrence free survival two years after surgery. Secondary endpoints include 2 and
      5 year overall survival, treatment related toxicity, tolerability and patient quality of
      life. A translational sub-study looking at predictive and prognostic biomarkers is also
      planned.
    
  