
    
      Pancreatic cancer is a common malignant disease of the digestive system, and its incidence
      has been steadily increasing recently. Currently, the only potential curative treatment for
      pancreatic cancer is radical surgery. However, due to the peculiarity of the anatomical
      location of pancreas (in the retroperitoneum, surrounded by peripheral nerves and blood
      vessels) and its biological characteristics (neurotropic, highly malignant, and with probable
      skip metastasis), it is difficult to achieve R0 resection in patients with pancreatic cancer.
      High postoperative recurrence and distant metastasis rate are key factors in reducing
      long-term survival of patients with pancreatic cancer. The radical surgery modalities for
      pancreatoduodenectomy to achieve R0 resection involve extended lymphadenectomy, multivisceral
      resections, with or without simultaneous vein removals. Currently, the lymphadenectomy extent
      and approaches used to achieve R0 status are diverse. In 2014, the International Study Group
      for Pancreatic Surgery (ISGPS) reached a consensus to strive to resect lymph nodes (LNs) 5,
      6, 8a, 12b1, 12b2, 12c, 13a, 13b, 14a, 14b, 17a, and 17b in standard lymphadenectomy for
      pancreatoduodenectomy. However, no consensus was reached on dissection of LN 16 due to
      variation in the literature and different expert opinions. On the current evidence, benefit
      of extended lymph node dissection seems to be outweighed by the risks. But deficiencies exist
      in the design of previous RCTs, such as insufficient sample size, lack of certain critical
      data for statistical analysis, inclusion of other pathological types of pancreatic neoplasms
      and variable retroperitoneal lymph node resection and nerve plexus dissection . Therefore,
      the power of evidence was low. Most studies report a high frequency of lymph node metastasis
      to LNs 13, 14, 17, 12 and 16 in pancreatic cancer, and tendency to metastasis from LNs 13, 14
      to LN 16. In a lot of case reports, only nodal station 16a2 and 16b1 were positive in LN 16.

      This study is performed to confirm whether pancreatoduodenectomy with extended
      lymphadenectomy could improve survival. Subjects undergoing surgery will be randomized to
      pancreatoduodenectomy with extended lymphadenectomy including nerve tissues around CHA and
      the SMA and nodes around the celiac trunk and SMA (No.16a2, 16b1) versus standard
      pancreatoduodenectomy. Subjects will be followed every three months for survivorship or
      death. The primary endpoint of 5-year overall or disease-free survival survival will be
      determined at five year post surgery.
    
  