
    
      Anyone aged 16 or over who has a lung condition for which they use an inhaler will be invited
      to join the study. We will recruit a minimum of 650 study participants, with at least 50
      participants using each of the 13 inhaler device types selected. These inhaler device types
      include: Accuhaler, Autohaler, Breezhaler, Easi-breathe, Easyhaler, Ellipta, Genuair,
      Handihaler, Nexthaler, pMDI, pMDI plus spacer, Respimat and Turbohaler. Participants will be
      recruited from respiratory outpatient clinics, hospital wards and from staff at Queen
      Alexandra Hospital (QAH); from integrated outreach lung clinics, GP database searches,
      clinics run in primary care settings, respiratory support groups in the Hampshire region, and
      from students at the University of Portsmouth (UoP).

      Participants in this study will have their inhaler technique observed and corrected by a
      specialist clinician, such as a nurse, pharmacist, physiotherapist or doctor using a
      single-use placebo device. A placebo device is exactly the same as the inhaler that the
      participant uses, but there is no active medication in the device. If any errors are made
      using the placebo inhaler, these will be recorded using device-specific checklists based on
      manufacturers' guidelines.

      Correcting inhaler technique is vitally important in the management of respiratory conditions
      . Observing patients using their inhaler, identifying any errors in their technique, teaching
      the correct inhaler technique and then observing the patient repeating the procedure
      correctly should occur at the time of device prescription; however this often does not happen
      and patients are left unsure how to use their inhaler and errors are commonplace. After
      inhaler technique has been corrected in this study, a written information sheet with guidance
      on how to use the inhaler will be provided to each participant to help reinforce the correct
      technique.

      Alongside recording any errors that participants using the inhalers have made, we will also
      record additional information such as the type of inhaler they are observed using and how
      long they have been using that inhaler; their age, gender and how many other inhalers they
      are using in total; which lung condition they have and how badly it affects them and if they
      have any other medical conditions. We will also record information using a questionnaire
      called the SPURTM profiling tool, which assesses patients' beliefs and understanding around
      their medication; this will be done using an iPad/tablet and all data that is inputted will
      be anonymous and kept securely, as with all other information.

      The information collected on this study will help HCP better understand which inhaler
      technique errors are made most frequently associated with each different inhaler device. We
      will also use the information gathered in this study, along with additional information
      gathered from inhaler experts, to develop a method of scoring inhaler technique errors, which
      will be tested in a future study. Such a scoring system does not currently exist in the UK
      and will be a valuable tool in clinical practice to accurately measure how good people are at
      using their inhalers.
    
  