
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare progression-free survival of patients with inoperable metastatic colorectal
           cancer treated with oxaliplatin, leucovorin calcium, and fluorouracil with vs without
           maintenance leucovorin calcium and fluorouracil.

        -  Demonstrate that time of disease control (TDC) can be increased by 15% at 9 months and
           that maintenance therapy can be avoided.

      Secondary

        -  Compare the overall survival and response rate in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the salvage surgery rate in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the tolerability of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare the quality of life in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the duration of chemotherapy-free intervals in patients treated with these
           regimens.

        -  Compare the pharmacoeconomy and pharmacogenetics of these regimens in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, controlled, open-label, multicenter study. Patients are
      stratified according to participating center, performance status (0-1 vs 2), number of
      metastatic sites (1 vs > 1), age (18-50 years vs 51-75 years vs 76-80 years), adjuvant
      chemotherapy, and baseline alkaline phosphatase (≤ 3 times upper limit of normal [ULN] vs > 3
      times ULN). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      Arm I

        -  FOLFOX chemotherapy: Patients receive oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours and leucovorin calcium
           IV over 2 hours on day 1 and fluorouracil IV continuously over 46 hours on days 1 and 2.
           Treatment repeats every 14 days for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity. Patients then proceed to maintenance chemotherapy.

        -  Maintenance chemotherapy: Patients receive leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours on day 1
           and fluorouracil IV continuously over 46 hours on days 1 and 2. Courses repeat every 14
           days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients with disease progression on maintenance chemotherapy receive 6 additional courses of
      FOLFOX as above. Patients with continued disease progression while receiving the additional
      courses of FOLFOX proceed to irinotecan-based chemotherapy off study.

      Arm II

        -  FOLFOX chemotherapy: Patients receive 6 courses of FOLFOX as in arm I. Patients with
           disease progression on FOLFOX receive 6 additional courses of FOLFOX. Patients with
           continued disease progression while receiving the additional courses of FOLFOX proceed
           to irinotecan-based chemotherapy off study.

      In both arms, patients with stable or responding disease may undergo surgical resection after
      completion of the initial 6 courses of FOLFOX.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, after courses 4 and 6, and then every 2-3 months
      thereafter.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 1 month and then every 3 months
      thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 600 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  