
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To define the remission induction response rate (complete response [CR] and CR with
      incomplete platelet recovery [CRp]) in older patients with previously untreated acute myeloid
      leukemia treated with induction therapy comprising bortezomib in combination with
      daunorubicin hydrochloride and cytarabine.

      II. To define the maximum tolerated dose of bortezomib when administered in combination with
      intermediate-dose cytarabine after induction therapy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To describe the disease-free survival of patients treated with this regimen. II. To
      describe the overall survival of patients treated with this regimen. III. To evaluate the
      treatment-related toxicities in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study of bortezomib. Doses of bortezomib are
      escalated during remission consolidation therapy.

      REMISSION INDUCTION THERAPY: Remission induction course 1: Patients receive bortezomib IV
      over 3-5 seconds on days 1, 4, 8, and 11; daunorubicin hydrochloride IV on days 1-3; and
      cytarabine IV continuously over 168 hours on days 1-7.

      After completion of remission induction course 1, patients undergo bone marrow aspiration and
      biopsy for evaluation of response. Patients achieving a complete response (CR) or partial
      response (PR) proceed to remission consolidation therapy. Patients achieving a CR with
      incomplete platelet recovery (CRp) proceed to remission consolidation therapy after platelet
      counts recover. Patients with persistent leukemia (>= 20% bone marrow cellularity and >= 5%
      bone marrow myeloblasts) proceed to remission induction course 2.

      REMISSION INDUCTION COURSE 2: Patients receive bortezomib IV over 3-5 seconds on days 1 and
      4; daunorubicin hydrochloride IV on days 1 and 2; and cytarabine IV continuously over 120
      hours on days 1-5.

      After completion of remission induction course 2, patients undergo bone marrow aspiration and
      biopsy for evaluation of response. Patients achieving a CR or PR proceed to remission
      consolidation therapy. Patients achieving a CRp proceed to remission consolidation therapy
      after platelet counts recover. Patients with residual leukemia who do not meet the criteria
      for PR are removed from the study.

      REMISSION CONSOLIDATION THERAPY: Patients receive bortezomib IV over 3-5 seconds on days 1,
      4, 8, and 11 and intermediate-dose cytarabine IV over 3 hours on days 1-5. Patients then
      undergo bone marrow aspiration and biopsy for evaluation of response. Patients achieving a CR
      or who demonstrate continuing CR receive a second course of remission consolidation therapy
      beginning 2-4 weeks after blood counts recover.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed every 2 months for 2 years, every 3
      months for 2 years, and then annually for up to 10 years.
    
  