
    
      Study Groups:

      If participant is eligible and agrees to take part in the study, they will be randomly
      assigned (as in the flip of a coin) to 1 of 2 groups. Participant will have an equal chance
      of being in either group. This is done because no one knows if one study group is better, the
      same, or worse than the other group:

        -  If participant is in Group 1, they will have RARP with dHACM.

        -  If participant is in Group 2, they will have RARP alone.

      Participant will not be told which group they are assigned to until they reach the end of the
      study. Participant will sign a separate consent form for the surgery that explains the risks.

      During Surgery:

      If participant is in Group 1, the dHACM will be wrapped around the nerve bundles at the end
      of the surgery.

      For both groups, during the surgery, participant's surgeon may decide that RARP is not
      possible. In this case, participant will be taken off the study and dHACM will not be used.

      Information will also be collected during participant's surgery, such as details about their
      surgery, their hospital stay, and about any side effects that they may have.

      Study Visits:

      Participant will visit the study doctor for their standard follow-up visits after surgery at
      6 weeks, 3 months, 6 months, and 12 months. At these visits, participant will complete the
      same questionnaire they completed at screening.

      At 24 months, participant's medical chart will be reviewed or they will be called on the
      phone to learn if the disease came back. If participant is called, the call should last about
      5-10 minutes.

      Length of Study Participation:

      Patient's participation in the study will be over after the 24-month medical chart review or
      call.

      This is an investigational study. The dHACM is commercially available for use in various
      types of surgeries. Its use in prostate surgery to help improve the return of erectile
      function and bladder control in patients after RARP is investigational.

      Up to 100 participants will be enrolled in this study. All will take part at MD Anderson.
    
  