
    
      Treatment of patients with hematologic disorders is frequently complicated by invasive fungal
      infections (IFI). The current spectrum of pathogens in this patient population is
      characterised by an increasing rate of aspergillosis, atypical moulds and yeasts, which might
      be explained by an extended application of myelosuppressive chemotherapy and prophylactic use
      of antibiotic therapy, but also more sensitive diagnostic tools. Although several new
      antifungal drugs have been approved recently for the treatment of invasive fungal infections,
      the mortality rates remain unacceptably high. In patients with suspected IFI invasive
      diagnostic procedures can often not be performed due to thrombocytopenia and blood testing of
      fungal antigens with ELISA or PCR-methods are at most additive tools at this time. Thus,
      antifungal drugs are frequently applied empirically when neutropenic fever persists despite
      of antibiotic therapy or preemptive in case of radiological or laboratory suspicion of IFI.
      The antifungal armamentarium consists mainly of azoles, polyenes, and echinocandins. Therapy
      with azoles is frequently complicated by hepatological side effects and drug interactions,
      whereas the application of polyenes is often associated with a worsening of the renal
      function, severe hypopotassemia and shivering. Because of their favourable efficacy and
      outstanding safety profile, nowadays echinocandins are increasingly used in hematologic
      wards, especially in patients with renal or liver comorbidity. Anidulafungin is a novel
      echinocandin with potent invitro fungicidal activity against several pathogen yeasts and
      moulds like Candida- or Aspergillus spp. It has recently been approved by the EMEA for
      treatment of invasive candidiasis in non-neutropenic patients. A low cytochrome P450
      interaction profile has been reported and dose adaption in case of hepatical or renal
      impairment is not recommended. In the pivotal clinical trial anidulafungin achieved a
      superior response rate for treatment of invasive candida infection in comparison with
      fluconazole. In this trial, only a quarter of patients had cancer and only 3% had neutrophil
      counts below 500/cm3 blood at randomisation. Although the clinical experience of the efficacy
      and tolerability of anidulafungin in adult hematologic patients is limited, the Infectious
      Diseases Society of America recently recommended anidulafungin for use in neutropenic
      patients with candidiasis.

      Primary endpoint:

      Safety: For all patients who will receive anidulafungin without regard to indication the
      incidence of (serious) adverse events and changes of important laboratory parameters (in
      particular liver and renal function parameters) with clinical impact will be reported.

      Secondary endpoints:

      Pharmacokinetics Efficacy

      For patients receiving anidulafungin as prophylaxis the number and rate of breakthrough
      infections will be reported. If breakthrough infection occurs the type of salvage therapy and
      the outcome will also be documented. For patients receiving anidulafungin as treatment of a
      current episode of a fungal infection the primary efficacy outcome is defined as the
      proportion of patients alive at week six after inclusion in the study or at the time that a
      patient is censored. A second evaluation of survival will be done at week 12. Reason of death
      will be analyzed according to toxicity of study drug and progression of IFI, respectively.

      The efficacy outcome will be categorized into the following:

      Success:

      Complete response: Survival within the prespecified period of observation, resolution of all
      attributable symptoms and signs of disease and radiological abnormalities, and mycological
      evidence of eradication of disease.

      Partial response: Survival within the prespecified period of observation, improvement in
      attributable symptoms and signs of disease and radiological abnormalities, and evidence of
      clearance of cultures or reduction of fungal burden, as assessed by a quantitative and
      validated laboratory marker.

      Failure: Stable response: Survival within the prespecified period of observation and minor or
      no improvement in fungal disease, but no evidence of progression, as determined on the basis
      of a composite of clinical, radiological, and mycological criteria.

      Progression: Evidence of progressive fungal disease based on a composite of clinical,
      radiological, and mycological criteria.

      Death: Death during the prespecified period of evaluation, regardless of attribution.

      Survival data (overall mortality and attributable mortality, if applicable) for all patients
      and the time-to-negativity of a blood culture will be reported in this study.
    
  