
    
      Tubal ectopic pregnancies occur in around 1-2% of all pregnancies. Traditionally, surgery
      with salpingectomy was the mainstay of treatment; however, it comes with anaesthetic and
      operatives risks in addition to an increased cost for operative procedures. In recent years,
      systemic methotrexate (MTX), a dihydrofolate reductase inhibitor, has been a widely used
      alternative for management for unruptured tubal ectopic pregnancies. The success rate of
      systemic MTX at a doses of 50mg/m2 body surface area is around 70% which ranges from 65 to
      95%, depending greatly on the level of human chorionic gonadotrophin (hCG), the size of
      adnexal mass and presence of fetal heart pulsation.

      Use of systemic MTX as the first-line management has been proposed for women with unruptured
      ectopic pregnancy where the adnexal mass is smaller than 35mm, serum hCG level is less than
      5000 IU/l and fetal heartbeat is absent.

      Letrozole is a third generation non-steroidal reversible aromatase inhibitor. It can suppress
      oestradiol level up to 95% to 99% after administration according to pharmacodynamics and
      pharmacokinetics studies. Oestrogen is important in the support of early pregnancy, other
      than progesterone with well-known pivotal effect on the maintenance of early pregnancy.

      Animal studies showed the combination of mifepristone and letrozole worked synergistically
      and induced almost 100% termination of pregnancies in rats. Letrozole induced 50% miscarriage
      rate in pregnant baboons. Letrozole combined with vaginal misoprostol regimen was associated
      with a higher complete abortion rate than misoprostol alone in pregnancies up to 63 days.

      The use of letrozole in ectopic pregnancy has never been explored. It is hypothesized that
      letrozole can suppress serum oestradiol level, which in turn, may cause failure of pregnancy
      in ectopic pregnancy. The aim of this study is to investigate the clinical effectiveness of
      letrozole in the medical treatment of ectopic pregnancy.
    
  