
    
      Patients will undergo exams, tests, and procedures to determine if they are eligible to
      participate. Subjects will be randomized to one of two groups. Patients randomized to Arm 1 -
      Patients will receive the LHRH agonist every 3 months. Patients will also take 50 mg. of
      bicalutamide by mouth every day. Bicalutamide comes in tablet form. This arm is broken down
      into periods of time called cycles, starting with cycle 1 then cycle 2, and so on.Each cycle
      is 28 days long. If randomized to Arm 2 - Patients will receive the LHRH agonist every 3
      months. Patients will also take 50 mg. of bicalutamide by mouth every day. Patients will also
      take 125 mg. of Ibrance速 daily for 21 days, and then will stop taking Ibrance速 for 7 days.
      Patients will then begin taking Ibrance速 again after 7 days off. Patients will keep repeating
      this cycle every 28 days. When the patient starts the first 28 day cycle that will be cycle
      1, then cycle 2, and so on. During each cycle the patient will come in for routine and
      research tests and procedures for patient safety, to see how patients are doing, and for
      research purposes. The researchers will ask patients to complete a drug diary to track
      bicalutamide and Ibrance速 administration. The total time of study participation depends on
      how a patient responds to the study medications. Patients may be on the study for a short
      period of time, such as a week, or for a longer period of time, such as a few years. Patients
      may continue on study treatment until one of the following: cancer progresses (gets worse);
      another illness or condition develops that prevents study participation; unacceptable side
      effects occur; drug is delayed more than 4 weeks; patient withdraws consent; the study doctor
      thinks the patient should stop; the patient does not follow researcher's instructions; the
      study is cancelled.
    
  