
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Evaluate the safety and tolerability of the combination of avelumab (Ave) plus utomilumab
      (Uto) plus rituximab, ifosfamide, carboplatin, and etoposide phosphate (RICE) in patients
      with relapsed/refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) as first (1st) line salvage
      therapy.

      II. Evaluate the safety and tolerability of Ave plus Uto plus rituximab (R)/ibrutinib in
      patients with relapsed/refractory mantle cell lymphoma (MCL).

      III. Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of the combination of Ave plus Uto with RICE
      for DLBCL.

      IV. Determine the MTD of the combination of Ave plus Uto with R/ibrutinib for MCL.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Estimate overall response rate (ORR), complete response (CR) rate, duration of response
      (DOR), and progression-free survival (PFS) of the combination therapy.

      II. Evaluate the stem cell mobilization rate after Ave+Uto+RICE therapy in DLBCL patients.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES I. Explore immunologic and genomic biomarkers of response to
      Ave+Uto-based combination therapy.

      II. Explore the use of CCND1 messenger (m)ribonucleic acid (RNA) for minimal residual disease
      (MRD) monitoring for MCL.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study. Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 cohorts.

      COHORT I: Patients receive rituximab intravenously (IV) on day 1, etoposide phosphate IV on
      days 1-3, avelumab IV over 60 minutes on day 2, ifosfamide IV over 24 hours on day 2, and
      carboplatin IV on day 2 or rituximab IV on day 1, etoposide phosphate IV on days 1-3,
      avelumab IV over 60 minutes on days 2, utomilumab IV over 60 minutes on day 2, ifosfamide IV
      over 24 hours on day 2, and carboplatin IV on day 2. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up
      to 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients may
      then undergo autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.

      COHORT II: Patients receive rituximab IV on day 1, avelumab IV over 60 minutes on days 2 and
      16, and ibrutinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) or rituximab IV on day 1, avelumab IV over 60
      minutes on days 2 and 16, utomilumab IV on day 2, and ibrutinib PO QD. Treatment repeats
      every 28 days for up to 24 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. (Closed as of 12/12/2019)

      After completion of study treatment, patients in cohort I are followed up for up to 3 months
      or 2 years and patients in cohort II are followed up at 30 and 90 days and then every 6
      months for up to 2 years.
    
  