
    
      The Ages and Stages Questionnaires (ASQ) is a developmental screening questionnaire for
      parents to answer regarding their children's level of growth and development between the ages
      of 7 months and 3 years. This questionnaire was translated into Arabic in order to adapt it
      for the Arab speaking culture. For the first phase of this study, aiming to adapt and
      field-test this translated version, parents of eligible children will be recruited from the
      AUBMC outpatient clinics (OPD and Private Clinics). Interested parents of eligible children
      will be invited to a private meeting in private settings where the study will be thoroughly
      explained. 75 parents (fathers or mothers) will be interviewed and asked to answer the ASQ.

      At a later stage, 500 parents will be interviewed and asked to answer the ASQ in order to
      test its validity. A list of all day care centers in Lebanon will be retrieved from the
      ministry of public health website and a list of all Lebanese pediatricians will be sought
      from the both Lebanese Order of Physicians (Beirut and Tripoli). Eligible day cares are the
      ones with at least 15 children between 7 and 36 months. Eligible physicians are those who are
      actively seeing patients aged between 7 and 36 months with a patient load of at least 10 per
      day.

      To minimize selection bias and to include different socioeconomic groups, a random sample of
      eligible day care centers and pediatricians from across the Lebanese governorates (Beirut,
      Mount Lebanon, South Lebanon, North Lebanon and Beqaa) will be selected.

      After obtaining the permission of the selected day care centers and pediatricians, flyers
      explaining the study and inviting parents to participate will be distributed and posted at
      those centers. Parents of eligible children who contact us and show interest in participating
      will be invited for a meeting in private settings. Construct validation will be done using
      varimax rotation, concurrent validity will be done by correlating ASQ-3 scores with Bayley
      scale for infant development scores. Sensitivity and specificity will also be tested.

      Parents will be asked some questions regarding their child's growth in order to evaluate
      several aspects of his/her developmental skills. It takes 10-15 minutes to complete the
      questionnaires. After completing the questionnaire, the child's developmental status will be
      evaluated and any risk of delay will be detected.
    
  