
    
      Breast milk is an extremely complex and highly variable biofliud that has evolved to nourish
      infants and protect them from disease whilst their own immune system matures. The composition
      of human breast milk changes in response to many factors, matching the infants requirement
      according to its age and other characteristics.

      Therefore, the composition of breast milk is widely believed to be specifically tailored by
      each mother to precisely reflect the requirements of her infant.

      Human milk is uniquely suited to the human infant, both in its nutritional composition and in
      the non-nutritive bioactive factors that promote survival and healthy development.

      Breast milk contains over 400 different proteins which perform a variety of functions;
      providing nutrition, possessing antimicrobial and immunomodulatory activities, as well as
      stimulating the absorption of nutrients.

      The immune system of preterm infants is immature, placing them at increased risk for serious
      immune-related complications.

      Human milk provides a variety of immune protective and immune maturation factors that are
      beneficial to the preterm infants poorly developed immune system. The most studied immune
      components in human milk include antimicrobial proteins, maternal leukocytes,
      immunoglobulins, cytokines and chemokines, oligosaccharides, gangliosides, nucleotides, and
      long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids. There is growing evidence that these components
      contribute to the lower incidence of immune-related conditions in the preterm infant.
      Therefore, provision of these components in human milk, donor milk, or formula may provide
      immunologic benefits.

      The effects of breast milk and breastfeeding on neurodevelopment may be quite different in
      very preterm infants than in those born at full term. Nutritionally, breast milk is
      considered the optimal food for full term infants. But preterm infants require fortification
      to match third trimester nutrient accretion rates.
    
  