
    
      Naïve patients ≥ 18 years of age with histological confirmation of locally advanced or
      metastatic, non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with an activating EGFR mutation
      and concomitant T790M mutation. Evidence of measurable or evaluable metastatic disease is
      required.

      Primary objective:

        -  To evaluate the efficacy of osimertinib (AZD9291), in terms of the objective response
           rate in patients with advanced non-squamous NSCLC with EGFR mutations and the EGFR T790M
           mutation at diagnosis as defined by RECIST 1.1 criteria.

      Secondary objectives:

        -  To determine the safety and tolerability profile of osimertinib (AZD9291), measured
           using the number and severity of AEs entered into the Case Report Form (CRF); chemistry,
           blood count, vital signs, physical examination, weight, ECG and performance status (S).

        -  To determine other efficacy parameters such as progression-free survival (PFS), overall
           survival (OS), time to treatment failure (TTF), duration of response (DOR), disease
           control rate (DCR), and tumor shrinkage (TS).

        -  To correlate the parameters of clinical response efficacy documented with the EGFR
           mutational status.

        -  To carry out a longitudinal analysis of EGFR mutations (including the T790M mutation) in
           plasma and serum.

        -  To determine levels of BIM mRNA as well as mRNA levels of other biomarkers related to
           EGFR TKI response and determine whether they are predictors of treatment response.

        -  To identify mechanisms of acquired resistance to osimertinib (AZD9291); mutations at the
           site of covalent binding to the drug (C797) or other mutations in tissue or blood.

      Type of study: Multicenter, international, single-arm, open-label, non-controlled phase IIa
      clinical study.

      Treatment: Patients will be treated with 1 tablet of osimertinib (AZD9291) 80 mg per os
      (p.o.) daily.
    
  