
    
      Sedatives and analgesics are used to maintain comfort in almost all mechanically ventilated
      patients. Unfortunately, these medications also have many deleterious effects. Sedatives
      increase time on mechanical ventilation, have adverse hemodynamic effects, disturb sleep
      architecture, and have been determined to be an independent risk factor for ICU delirium.
      Delirium is an independent determinant of longer hospital stay, higher costs, and higher
      mortality, and the presence of delirium is highly predictive of long-term neurocognitive
      deficits. In consideration of these facts, better methods are needed to guide sedation, avoid
      oversedation, and possibly reduce delirium.

      Current guidelines recommend titration of sedation to a goal level based on bedside
      evaluation using a validated assessment tool, e.g. the Richmond Agitation and Sedation Scale.
      These assessment tools, however, are underused and many ICU patients are oversedated with
      well described consequences. A practical method by which to determine where a patient lies
      may prove beneficial in optimizing our delivery of sedatives and improving patient outcomes.

      While conventional EEG monitoring is not practical in the ICU, bispectral index (BIS)
      monitoring may be easily used in this clinical setting. BIS monitoring may provide a means to
      assess sedation level in unresponsive or paralyzed ICU patients and to decrease the total
      amount of sedatives/analgesics administered. Additional benefits of a combined clinical
      sedation scale and BIS-monitoring approach could include a decreased incidence and/or
      duration of delirium as well as a decreased incidence and severity of ICU-associated
      prolonged neurocognitive deficits.

      The specific aims of this study are as follows:

      Aim 1: To determine if sedative and analgesic medication delivery guided by clinical sedation
      scales and BIS monitor parameters of over-sedation will decrease time on mechanical
      ventilation.

      Aim 2: To determine if sedative and analgesic medication delivery guided by clinical sedation
      scales and BIS monitor parameters of over-sedation will decrease the duration of delirium and
      coma when compared to the use of clinical sedations scales alone.

      Aim 3: To determine if sedative and analgesic medication delivery guided by clinical sedation
      scales and BIS monitor parameters of over-sedation will decrease the incidence and severity
      of subacute cognitive impairment when compared to the use of clinical sedation scales alone.

      Aim 4: To characterize polysomnography findings in critically ill patients at various BIS
      levels.

      Aim 5: To determine if poor sleep quality is a factor in post critical illness neurocognitive
      dysfunction.
    
  