
    
      Immediate release (IR) tramadol has demonstrated efficacy in several pain conditions
      including: obstetrical, gynecological, orthopedic, abdominal, and oral surgery. The short
      elimination half-life of IR tramadol necessitates every 4-6 hour dosing in order to maintain
      optimum levels of analgesia in chronic pain. The study medication in this study is a
      once-daily, extended release (ER) tramadol formulation. This is a multicenter, double-blind,
      randomized, placebo-controlled, parallel-group study. At the Screening Visit, patients
      eligible for study participation by medical history, physical exam and other evaluations will
      enter a 2-7 day washout period during which time analgesics will not be allowed. At Visit 2,
      patients with a pain intensity >= 40 mm on a 100 mm visual analog scale (VAS) and who meet
      all other eligibility criteria will be admitted into a 3-week, open-label, run-in period
      during which time they will receive tramadol ER 100 mg once daily (QD) for at least 3 days.
      On Day 4, the dose will be increased to tramadol ER 200 mg QD, based on tolerability.
      Patients must be maintained on a minimum dose of tramadol 200 mg QD by the beginning of
      Week-2 (Visit 3); the dose may be increased to tramadol ER 300 mg QD at Visit 3, based on
      tolerability. Patients must increase their tramadol ER dose to 300 QD by the beginning of
      Week - 1 (Visit 4); this dose must be maintained for one week. Patients with pain
      unresponsive to appropriate dose adjustments or with unacceptable side effects will be
      discontinued from the study and an alternative analgesic therapy will be initiated. Patients
      receiving tramadol ER 300 mg QD at the end of the run-in period (Visit 5, Week 0) will enter
      a 12-week, double-blind period during which they will be randomized to receive tramadol ER
      300 mg, tramadol ER 200 mg, or placebo QD. No dose adjustments will be permitted during the
      double-blind period of the study. Patients will return for safety and efficacy evaluations at
      Weeks 1, 2, 4, 8 and 12 or early termination. Study medication will be discontinued at Week
      12 and patients will return after one week for a post-treatment visit (Week 13).
    
  