
    
      Lymphedema is an accumulation of fluid in the interstitial tissues resulting from an
      impairment of the normal lymphatic drainage of the affected region. Lymphedema is often a
      side effect of breast cancer treatments such as axillary lymph node surgery and radiation, as
      these procedures are damaging to the lymphatic structures. Due to poor awareness of the
      condition, minimal education is given to patients about their risk for lymphedema as a result
      of cancer treatments. With inconsistent diagnostic methods, many cases of breast
      cancer-related lymphedema are diagnosed after the condition has progressed to its
      irreversible and chronic form, i.e. clinical lymphedema.

      Bioimpedance spectroscopy (BIS) uses a low frequency electrical current to assess
      extracellular fluid of the limbs. BIS has proven to be a sensitive and specific tool for
      detecting subclinical lymphedema (Stage 0) and has been validated in its use within a
      surveillance model. Recent literature supports the use of a surveillance model to identify
      breast cancer-related subclinical lymphedema to allow for early intervention and improved
      patient outcomes.

      Despite the growing body of evidence supporting the importance of early identification of
      lymphedema in the subclinical stage, there is limited evidence to guide treatment of this
      patient population. Treatment parameters for subclinical lymphedema stem primarily from a
      study by Stout et al. indicating that a short compression trial (mean duration of 4.4 weeks)
      of 20-30 mmHg garments effectively treated subclinical lymphedema identified by perometry by
      preventing progression to late-stage lymphedema.

      Surveillance of arm volume will be performed using bioimpedance spectroscopy (BIS) testing
      with the Impedimed® L-dex U400. Subjects will receive BIS testing (1) pre-operatively, (2)
      post-operatively at 6 weeks, (3) 3 months, (4) 6 months, (5) 12 months, (6) 18 months, (7) 24
      months, and (8) 36 months. The outcome measure will be the L-dex score.

      Only subjects who have an abnormal result will be enrolled in the experimental portion of the
      study. If an L-dex score is abnormal (defined by a change of +7 units from her pre-operative
      baseline), the subject is determined to exhibit subclinical lymphedema. As a result, these
      subjects will be randomized into one of two intervention groups. The group receiving only
      compression intervention will be referred to as the compression group (CG). The group
      receiving Manual Lymphatic Drainage (MLD) and compression will be referred to as the therapy
      group (TG).

      Subjects will be followed through screenings for a maximum of 3 years post-surgically.

      The investigators hope that this study will take the next step in the surveillance model by
      answering questions about how patients with subclinical lymphedema should be clinically
      managed.
    
  