
    
      Detailed Description:

      All subjects consented to this study will require endotracheal intubation. They will be
      randomly assigned to either one of two groups. The randomization will be stratified on
      whether the subject has an oral cavity/pharynx tumor or laryngeal tumor. The randomization
      groups are:

        1. Intubation using King Vision video-laryngoscope with the disposable #3 blade and a
           stylet for placement of the endotracheal tube. This group is considered the "control
           group".

        2. Intubation using the King Vision video-laryngoscope with the disposable #3 blade and the
           fiber-optic bronchoscope (aScope III). This group is considered the "interventional
           group".

      When randomized to the "control group" (King Vision video-laryngoscope with #3 disposable
      blade and a stylet) the procedure sequence is as follows:

        1. Standard anesthesia monitoring which includes but is not limited to ECG, pulse oximetry,
           capnography, blood pressure and temperature monitoring. Their head will be on an
           anesthesia pillow. This is all standard procedure.

        2. Anesthesiologist will induced with Fentanyl (1-2 ug/kg), propofol (2-4 mg/kg). This is
           standard dosing.

        3. Subjects will receive muscle relaxation using Rocuronium (0.6mg/kg) This is standard
           dosing.

        4. The patient will be pre-oxygenated for 2-3 minutes with 100% oxygen by mask to achieve
           optimal oxygen saturation

        5. One anesthesiologist will perform the intubation procedure using the King Vision
           video-laryngoscope with a #3 disposable blade and use a stylet to pre-form the
           endotracheal tube (ETT).

        6. If the anesthesiologist's first attempt to intubate should fail the next attempt will
           use the standard Storz video-laryngoscope and a #4 reusable blade, a stylet to pre-form
           the endotracheal tube (ETT) and with external laryngeal pressure. (BURP: back, up, and
           rightward pressure)

        7. The anesthesiologist may make a total of three attempts to intubate using the control
           group procedures. Each attempt should be less than 60 seconds and will be aborted if
           oxygen saturation falls below 90%. The patient will be pre-oxygenated by mask between
           each attempt.

        8. After three failed attempts to intubate the anesthesiologist will use the interventional
           group method. Two anesthesiologists will be required to perform the intubation using the
           King Vision video-laryngoscope with a #3 disposable blade and the video bronchoscope
           (aScope III). The stylet will not be needed since the bronchoscope will be used to guide
           the endotracheal tube (ETT).

        9. The video-laryngoscope will be used to visualize the glottis; the bronchoscope (aScope
           III) will be inserted underneath the epiglottis and advance to the carina under direct
           visualization. The endotracheal tube (ETT) will be threaded over the bronchoscope
           (aScope III) using the bronchoscope as a guide through the trachea.

       10. Should the first attempt using the interventional method fail the next attempt will use
           the standard Storz video-laryngoscope and #4 reusable blade along with the video
           bronchoscope (aScope III)

       11. There may be three attempts using the interventional method. Each attempt should be less
           than 60 seconds. If the oxygen saturation decreases below 90% the attempt should be
           aborted. The patient will be pre-oxygenated by mask between each attempt.

       12. After three unsuccessful attempts the patient will be awaken and an "awake" intubation
           procedure will take place.

       13. The anesthesiologist will note any bleeding occurring during the procedure. Bleeding
           will be assessed as minimal, moderate, and significant.

       14. Study ends once the patient is intubated and breath sounds confirmed or when it is
           decided an "awake" intubation is needed.

      When randomized to the "interventional" group. (King Vision video-laryngoscope and #3
      disposable blade and the video-bronchoscope (aScope III) The sequence of procedures will be:

        1. Standard anesthesia monitoring which includes but is not limited to ECG, pulse oximetry,
           capnography, blood pressure and temperature monitoring. Their head will be on an
           anesthesia pillow. This is all standard procedure.

        2. Anesthesiologist will induced with Fentanyl (1-2 ug/kg), propofol (2-4 mg/kg). This is
           standard dosing.

        3. Subjects will receive muscle relaxation using Rocuronium (0.6mg/kg)This is standard
           dosing.

        4. The patient will be pre-oxygenated for 2-3 minutes with 100% oxygen by mask to achieve
           optimal oxygen saturation

        5. Two anesthesiologist will perform the procedure

        6. The video-laryngoscope will be used to visualize the glottis; the bronchoscope (aScope
           III) will be inserted underneath the epiglottis and advance to the carina under direct
           visualization. The endotracheal tube (ETT) will be threaded over the bronchoscope
           (aScope III) using the bronchoscope as a guide through the trachea.

        7. Should the first attempt fail to intubate the patient the next attempt will use the
           Storz video- laryngoscope with a #4 reusable blade with the video-bronchoscope (aScope
           III)

        8. A total of three attempts may be made using the interventional method. Each attempt
           should be less than 60 seconds and aborted if the oxygen saturation falls below 90%. The
           patient will be pre-oxygenated by mask with 100% oxygen between each attempt.

        9. If failure to intubate should occur the patient will be awaken and an "awake" intubation
           will be performed.

       10. The anesthesiologist will note any bleeding occurring during the procedure. Bleeding
           will be assessed as minimal, moderate, and significant.

       11. The study will end with successful intubation and confirmation of breath sounds or when
           it is determined an "awake" intubation is necessary.
    
  