
    
      Hip osteoarthritis (OA) is associated with joint pain, dysfunction of activities of daily
      living (ADL), decreased muscle strength and decline in health-related quality of life status,
      and the most common cause for total hip arthroplasty (THA). In Denmark, approximately 10.400
      primary THA surgeries are performed annually, and the yearly incidence rate of this procedure
      has increased dramatically from 80 to 180 per 100.000 persons between 1995 and 2016. However,
      some patients experience long-term pain and may never recover full physical function and
      muscle strength after surgery.

      Exercise has been shown to improve physical function and reduce pain in people with hip OA,
      and is recommended initially as a treatment in international clinical guidelines.
      Furthermore, a recent randomised controlled trial (RCT) showed clinically relevant
      improvements in ADL and muscle function after 10-weeks of supervised explosive-type
      progressive resistance training (PRT) in patients with end-stage hip OA scheduled for THA
      compared to standard preoperative care.

      To date, no RCTs have investigated the effect of THA followed by standard postoperative care
      compared to supervised explosive-type PRT in patients with end-stage hip OA. Therefore, this
      highlights the need for a high-quality trial as it is unknown whether non-surgical treatment
      may be used as an alternate to surgery.

      The aim of this randomised controlled trial is to investigate whether THA followed by
      standard care is superior to a 12-week supervised explosive-type PRT programme for improving
      patient-reported hip function and pain 6 months after initiating the intervention, measured
      using the Oxford Hip Score (OHS), in patients with end-stage hip OA eligible for THA.
      Exploratory outcome time-points will be assessed at 3, 12, 24 and 60 months after initiating
      the intervention.

      The hypothesis is that THA followed by standard care is superior to a 12-week supervised
      explosive-type PRT programme for improving patient-reported hip function and pain 6 months
      after initiating the intervention, measured using the OHS, in patients with end-stage hip OA
      eligible for THA.

      Observational cohort:

      Patients fulfilling the eligibility criteria but declining to participate in the RCT will be
      asked to participate in a prospective observational cohort study using the same primary
      end-point (6 months), exploratory time-points (3, 12, 24 and 60 months), and patient-reported
      outcomes, but following usual clinical practice.
    
  