
    
      Mortality from cardiovascular disease occupies a leading position worldwide. Patients with
      atherosclerotic lesions of the peripheral arteries account for 20% of the total number of
      patients with cardiovascular diseases. Special attention should be paid to patients with
      multilevel lesions artery since the maximum reduction in blood flow leads to the development
      of critical limb ischemia (CLI) and a high risk of limb loss. Almost 25% of patients with CLI
      require multistory revascularization of the arteries of the lower extremities. In this group
      of patients, proximal revascularization of the only iliac segment is usually the initial
      approach, but in some cases leads to disappointing relief of symptoms due to concomitant
      severe lesions of the infra-anginal arteries. Whereas the combined implementation of
      femoral-popliteal bypass surgery or endovascular revascularization of SFA can increase the
      likelihood of ulcer healing and avoid multi-stage surgical interventions. In turn, an
      adequate inflow to the revascularized segment is necessary for its long-term functioning.

      Femoral-popliteal bypass surgery is still the procedure of choice for long occlusions of the
      superficial femoral artery TASC C, D. The "total" endovascular correction (full metal jacket)
      may become an alternative to hybrid technology since allows for less traumatic and fully
      revascularization of the wall occlusal lesions of SFA. The salvation of the limb and the
      achievement of compensation for the clinic of chronic lower limb ischemia in patients with
      multi-vessel atherosclerotic lesions of the arteries of the lower extremities is possible
      using both hybrid procedures and endovascular reconstruction. The main goal of stenting the
      iliac arteries during hybrid procedures is not only to restore blood flow in the common and
      deep femoral arteries but also to support the long-term functioning of the femoral-popliteal
      shunt or stent in SFA.

      Similar analogues of the comparative study of the two methods of revascularization in the
      world literature the investigators have not seen.

      In the first group, stenting of the iliac artery under x-ray control with the bypass of the
      femoral-popliteal segment above the gap of the knee joint is performed. The first stage is
      performed femoral-popliteal bypass surgery above the fissure of the knee joint according to
      conventional technology. Conduit is at the discretion of the operating surgeon.
      Intraoperatively bolus is administered heparin 5000 IU. The second step is the puncture of
      the selected CFA with a retrograde installation of the introducer sheath. The iliac segment
      is recanalized with angioplasty and stent implantation in the affected area. In the
      postoperative period, clexane is administered at a prophylactic dosage of 3 days and
      cardiomagnyl at a dosage of 75 mg per day. Next, the patient takes dual antiplatelet therapy
      cardiomagnyl 75 mg + clopidogrel 75 mg for 6 months.

      In the second group, stenting of the iliac artery and recanalization SFA with angioplasty and
      stenting under X-ray control is performed. The first step is the puncture contralateral CFA
      with a retrograde installation of the introducer. Intraoperatively bolus is administered
      heparin 5000 IU. A conductor is placed in the contralateral iliac artery along the conductor.
      A stent is implanted in the iliac artery lesion. The second stage is the recanalization of
      the femoral-popliteal segment with angioplasty and stent implantation in the affected area.
      In the postoperative period, a loading dose of clopidogrel 300 mg + cardiomagnyl 75 mg is
      taken. Next, the patient takes dual antiplatelet therapy cardiomagnyl 75 mg + clopidogrel 75
      mg for 6 months.

      Statistical analysis: Data processing and comparison of variables will be carried out by
      appropriate statistical methods with a preliminary check for compliance of the sign
      variability with the normal distribution, which is evaluated by the Kolmogorov-Smirnov
      criterion. Under the condition of the normal distribution, Student's criterion is used. A
      comparative assessment of qualitative characteristics is carried out using the χ2 criterion.
      The dynamics of the indicators in the group will be determined by the pairwise coupled option
      using the Student criterion with a normal distribution of indicators and using the Wilcoxon
      criterion - with a mismatch with the normal distribution. Comparison according to qualitative
      characteristics (gender, degree of ischemia, and others) will be carried out using the
      criteria of Pearson (Pearson) and Fisher (Fisher). In all cases, a 95% significance level is
      used.
    
  