
    
      This is a single-arm, open-label observational study in IPF patients receiving usual care at
      an interstitial lung disease specialist centre. The objectives are [1] to characterise the
      longitudinal trends of patient-measured FVC and PROM in a cohort of patients with IPF [2] to
      determine the correlation (if any) between patient-measured FVC and PROMs with
      clinic-observed measurements and [3] to assess if longitudinal trends in patient-measured FVC
      are predictive of clinical health outcomes in IPF. An additional purpose is to assess the
      acceptability and utility of the patientMpower app in helping IPF patients and their
      healthcare professional caregivers manage their condition. This app has been specially
      developed for patients with lung fibrosis and is owned by patientMpower Ltd., Dublin,
      Ireland. The app is downloaded to the patient's mobile phone/tablet device. Patients can
      record symptoms (e.g. dyspnea), activity (steps/day) and lung function (FVC) via a
      Bluetooth-connected hand-held spirometer. The app can also be used to remind patients to take
      their medicines. The app includes a PROM to capture impact of IPF on daily life (once/week).

      This planned observation period is sixteen weeks. No additional clinic visits are required
      (compared with usual care). Only patients with a confirmed diagnosis of IPF who provide
      written informed consent will participate.

      At a usual care visit to the IPF clinic at the study centre, the research team will discuss
      the study with the patient (face-to-face) and seek written informed consent. The study starts
      at this visit (baseline). The IPF clinic will record the usual measurements which would be
      done at a routine visit to assess IPF. These will include FVC, assessment of dyspnea
      (modified Medical Research Council score) and PROM.

      After written informed consent, patientMpower Ltd. will send an information pack via e-mail
      and a Medical International Research Spirobank Smart spirometer to the patient. Technical
      support on installation of the app and spirometer will be provided by patientMpower Ltd. The
      patient will use the patientMpower app to record lung function, breathlessness, adherence to
      medication and symptoms every day at home until their next visit to the IPF clinic. Every
      week, patients will be reminded to record the impact of IPF on daily life PROM on the app.
      There will be no changes to the patient's usual care (e.g. prescribed medicines or exercises)
      during the study.

      After about sixteen weeks, patients will return to the IPF clinic for routine assessment of
      their IPF. The clinic will record all of the usual measurements as at baseline. Patients and
      healthcare professionals will provide their opinion on the utility and acceptability of the
      patientMpower app. The study is concluded at this visit. However, patients can continue to
      use the patientMpower app and spirometer if they wish.
    
  