
    
      Using their smartphones, potential participants will download the doc.ai research mobile app.
      There will be a web pre-screening link where potential participants will self-screen to see
      if they meet the basic eligibility criteria for this study. The recruitment tool for this
      trial is developed for diversity, fairness, and inclusion. With the aim to ensure diversity
      in the demographics of the trial to better understand the health needs of different
      populations. So, while some interested potential participants do qualify, they may not be
      invited into the trial due to these diversity requirements.

      Patients with myasthenia gravis (MG) who meet the inclusion criteria will be invited to join
      this digital health trial. Participants will sign the e-consent and self-enroll into the
      study. Once their eligibility is confirmed by the study team (to ensure eligibility criteria
      and validity of participant i.e. eliminate robo sign-ins) they will be asked to take a
      selfie, provide documented proof of MG diagnosis, respond to a series of survey questions
      regarding their demographics, current health, medical history, and other MG related
      information.

      Enrolled participants will have a daily brief check-in, 2 weekly check-ins and a weekly
      check-in which will include an audiovisual check-in, and will maintain an audiovisual diary
      to keep track of their symptoms, connect data, record their voice (to detect vocal symptoms:
      weakness, nasality) and take videos of their face (to detect facial symptoms: ocular, mouth
      droop) on a daily to weekly basis through the various data collecting modules in the doc.ai
      research app for the duration of their study participation. doc.ai's digital health trial
      platform will be leveraged to collect this data.

      The study aims to enroll approximately 200 participants in approximately 9 months. It is
      expected that a minimum of 100 participants will be included in the final analysis as at any
      given time there will be a lag between potential participants expressing interest in the
      study, their eligibility being assessed by the PI, and participants completing all required
      study procedures.

      At the end of their participation, participants will be asked to complete a questionnaire.
      After the participant has completed their final survey, they will be able to connect to a
      link redeemable as an Amazon.com gift card worth $250. All participants will also receive an
      end-of-trial-summary of the data that they had collected during the study. No medical advice
      or direction will be given based on this study.

      In addition, in the final survey participants will be asked if they would be willing to
      complete a usability interview after their participation in this trial has ended. This subset
      of participants invited to be part of a follow-up usability interview will include those who
      complete all study required procedures and some who may not have completed all study required
      procedures, in order to assess usability experience of the app for the duration of their
      participation. Participants will be contacted at their end of their period of participation
      until a total of 10-15 participants successfully complete the usability interview.
      Participants who successfully complete the usability interview will receive a link for a $50
      in Amazon.com gift card via the app.

      For this study the data and, audio and video recordings will be captured directly on the
      doc.ai research app and securely stored on a HIPAA compliant cloud provider (Google Cloud
      Platform).

      This data will be used to understand the patterns of symptoms and triggers in order to better
      characterize factors such as the length and timing of flares and any unique symptom patterns
      in order to create more objective measures of MG symptoms. Ultimately this data would be used
      to build a machine learning model that could predict MG symptom flares.

      Primary Objective:

      Use a collection of digital health modules on the smartphone to collect myasthenia gravis
      (MG) symptoms and triggers to better characterize symptom patterns and flares.

      Secondary Objective:

      Use the data collected to develop an A.I. model to detect and/or predict symptom flares.
    
  