
    
      The goal of the proposed study is to perform a randomized, controlled trial (RCT) to test the
      efficacy of a novel integrative group movement program called Preventing Loss of Independence
      through Exercise (PLIE) on function and quality of life in older Veterans living in the
      community with dementia. Dementia is a devastating condition that affects nearly 1 in 10
      older Veterans (~1 million individuals). Current dementia medications have minimal impact on
      function and quality of life and do not stop or slow the disease course; however, there is
      growing evidence that behavioral interventions such as exercise have a variety of beneficial
      effects in individuals with dementia. PLIE was developed based on recent discoveries in
      neuroscience and experimental psychology that have found that, although explicit memory (the
      ability to consciously recall new information) is impaired in individuals with dementia,
      implicit memory (unconscious learning that typically occurs through repeated exposure) is
      relatively preserved. Therefore, PLIE focuses on training procedural memory (unconscious
      learning of procedures) to build the strength and capacity to perform the movements that are
      most needed for daily function (e.g., transitioning safely from sitting to standing). In
      addition, to maximize the benefits of the training, PLIE integrates elements of Eastern and
      Western exercise modalities to develop mindful body awareness and enhance social connection.
      The investigators completed a pilot study of the PLIE program at an adult day center in San
      Francisco, CA, finding that it was associated with clinically meaningful improvements in
      cognitive function, physical performance and quality of life as well as reduced caregiver
      burden when compared with usual care at the facility. The current study will enable the
      investigators to build on these pilot study results by performing a full-scale RCT at adult
      day centers in Northern California. Most VA Medical Centers currently contract with
      community-based organizations to provide adult day care to eligible Veterans with dementia.
      Therefore, sites for the current study will be adult day centers that have current contracts
      with local VA medical centers. Within each center, study participants will be randomly
      assigned to receive the PLIE intervention program (1 hour, 2-3 days/week, 4 months) or Usual
      Care (UC) control (standard center activities, 1 hour, 2-3 days/week, 4 months) (N=120,
      60/group) using a waitlist design. The co-primary outcomes are 4-month change in physical
      function (Short Physical Performance Battery, SPPB), cognitive function (Alzheimer's Disease
      Assessment Scale - cognitive subscale, ADAS-cog) and quality of life (Quality of Life in
      Alzheimer's Disease, QOL-AD). Changes in caregiver feelings (Caregiver Burden Inventory, CBI;
      Positive Aspects of Caregiving, PAC), mood (Geriatric Depression Scale, GDS), fear of falling
      (Falls Efficacy Scale, FES), independence (Disability Assessment for Dementia, DAD) and
      dementia-related behaviors (Neuropsychiatric Inventory, NPI) will be examined as secondary
      outcomes. To account for the waitlist design, all outcomes will be assessed at baseline, 4
      months and 8 months. The proposed project will address a critically important Veterans'
      health problem related to optimizing functional status and quality of life in older Veterans
      with dementia. It is directly responsive to Request for Applications (RFA) RX-14-011 (RR&D
      Merit Review Award for Research on Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis, Parkinson's Disease and
      Alzheimer's Disease), which has identified "pioneering new and innovative rehabilitation
      methodologies to restore function and improve quality of life for Veterans living with
      [these] neurodegenerative diseases" as a "major focus." Many patients and caregivers
      currently feel that little is being done to help individuals with dementia maintain function
      and quality of life. The current study will utilize rigorous research methods to test the
      efficacy of an innovative and promising new program for older adults with dementia. If the
      program is successful, the investigators will work with VA and community-based organizations
      to implement PLIE more broadly.
    
  