
    
      Human subjects will be recruited at the VA Palo Alto Health Care System from people with
      clinically complete spinal cord injury.

      Subjects who meet the selection criteria described below will be screened to identify those
      whose reflex bladder contractions are inhibited by neuromodulation using low levels of
      electrical stimulation via electrodes on the skin over the dorsal genital nerve. Serial
      filling cystometries will be performed in the clinical urodynamic laboratory in the Spinal
      Cord Injury Service of the VA Palo Alto. Bladder capacity and compliance will be recorded for
      each cytometrogram. Subjects whose reflex bladder contractions are significantly inhibited by
      this neuromodulation will be offered enrollment in the trial. Subjects whose reflex bladder
      contractions are not significantly inhibited by this neuromodulation, or who do not wish to
      participate in the study, will be able to continue with their usual form of bladder
      management.

      After screening, selected subjects will be offered surgical implantation of a Vocare Bladder
      System in the FDA-approved manner, but without posterior rhizotomy. Because posterior
      rhizotomy is not performed, the afferent axons in the sacral nerves are intact and can be
      stimulated after surgery via the electrodes connected to the implanted stimulator.

      The Vocare Bladder System will be implanted in the FDA-approved manner but without posterior
      rhizotomy.

      After implantation, subjects will be evaluated in the urodynamic laboratory. Stimulation will
      applied to S34 sacral nerves bilaterally, and the effects on bladder capacity and continence
      and voiding will be measured.

      Continence of urine will be documented by bladder diaries. These diaries will be completed
      initially as an inpatient in the SCI Service and then at home while applying neuromodulation
      via the implant.

      It is expected that sacral neuromodulation by this method will be associated with a
      significant increase in bladder capacity and continence.

      It is possible that this neuromodulation will not be associated with an increase in bladder
      capacity or continence. If so, subjects will still be able to use conventional methods of
      managing continence and should have no loss of function.

      Participants whose bladder capacity and continence are improved by neuromodulation using the
      implanted stimulator will be offered the opportunity to continue to use the stimulator for
      the duration of the study and will be reviewed at three-month intervals. At the end of the
      study they will be reviewed again with their usual clinician and if there are no
      contra-indications to continued use of the stimulator will be offered the opportunity to
      continue its use under continued clinical follow-up from their usual clinician.

      Participants whose bladder capacity and continence are not improved by neuromodulation using
      the implanted stimulator, or who do not wish to continue using the implanted stimulator, will
      be reviewed with their usual clinician and offered the bladder management they were using
      prior to the study. The implanted stimulator will be switched off, but will not be removed
      unless the participant wishes it to be removed or the investigators or the participant's
      usual clinician consider it in the participant's interest to be removed. It is usually
      simpler and safer for the participant to leave the stimulator implanted but inactive.

      All participants will be provided with appropriate documentation regarding safety and
      electromagnetic compatibility of the device.

      The investigation is justified because the potential benefits are greater than the potential
      risks, as follows:

      The potential benefit of the research to the subjects are:

        1. Improved bladder capacity

        2. Improved continence

      The potential benefits of the research to others are:

      Evidence that bladder capacity and continence after spinal cord injury can be improved by
      electrical stimulation without cutting nerves.

      The risks to subjects are reasonable in relation to the anticipated benefits to subjects and
      others because of

        1. The high prevalence and severity of clinical complications caused by bladder
           complications after spinal cord injury

        2. The paucity of methods of restoring continence after spinal cord injury that are safe,
           effective and without undesirable side effects

      This study is primarily aimed at demonstrating safety, feasibility and proof of concept. It
      may also produce statistically and clinically significant evidence of efficacy that can be
      used to plan future clinical trials.

      Significance:

      If the technique of reducing reflex bladder contraction by implanted stimulation of the S34
      nerve bilaterally is successful, it will open the door to more effective use of
      neuromodulation for continence after spinal cord injury.
    
  