
    
      Headaches and neck pain following a concussion are potentially treatable and resolve over
      time. Nerve blockade may enhance the recovery of appropriate neural circuits involved in the
      pathophysiology of a chronic headache. Currently, no evidence-based guidelines exist for
      treatment of PTH. Adoption of "brain rest" for 1-2 weeks, followed by gradual return to
      activity and avoiding "second-impact syndrome" are current practice. The use of medications
      controlling neuropathic pain is of partial benefit for some. Adverse effects like sedation,
      mood changes, cardiac side effects of pharmacologic agents are often not compatible with the
      demands of athletics. For those patients where sports performance is paramount, they may
      therefore not be able to tolerate regular medications. The incidence of chronic
      post-concussive headaches (> 3 months) at one year is 8.4% - 35% and at four years is up to
      25%. Therefore, patients can have a significant disability from their post-traumatic
      headaches for many years after their injury. Without appropriate treatment, these headaches
      can remain as chronic headaches. Over-the-counter and other symptomatic medication overuse
      can exacerbate and prolong PTH significantly, secondary to rebound headaches. Successful
      treatment is essential since PTH limits return to sports as well as more general activities
      of living, such as work and school. Most interventions currently in use partially help and
      take several weeks to months for a noticeable benefit. PTH interventions, including ONB and
      CMBB, are employed in the treatment of primary headache disorders and neck pain from cervical
      arthritis and may provide more improved, faster and more sustained pain relief in many
      patients. Also, given that most of the action of the nerve blocks is local, there are
      significantly fewer side effects than in more standard headache medications. Injections that
      use corticosteroids may be beneficial in a post-traumatic headache by reducing inflammation
      and therefore mechanical allodynia. Injection of corticosteroids in the cervical facet joint
      area has shown up to 13 months of pain relief. This prolonged effect may be secondary to
      central pain modulation. Ultimately, nerve blocks may be a more effective and efficient
      post-traumatic headache given the onset of effect and the minimal side effects.

      To date, there have been no prospective studies of procedural treatments for medically
      refractory PTH and none in the adolescent and young adult population in whom football
      injuries are common. Despite the frequent clinical practice of using ONB and CMBB for
      occipital neuralgia, cervical arthritis, and cervicogenic headaches, there has been no
      adequate scientific investigation into the use of these interventions for PTH. Given that PTH
      is typically felt to be secondary to an inflammatory reaction to trauma, the use of injection
      of corticosteroids may be more effective in PTH than in common headache disorders.

      The investigators propose a randomized, prospective, controlled treatment trial to evaluate
      the efficacy of minimally invasive nerve block interventions (ONB and CMBB) as treatments for
      PTH and neck pain in adolescents and adults aged 14-35 years of age with PTH.
    
  