
    
      This is a randomized, parallel phase II study to evaluate the rates of progression-free
      survival and unacceptable toxicity in patients receiving NK cell-enriched donor lymphocyte
      infusions (DLIs) when administered alone or administered with the TLR9 agonist, DUK-CPG-001,
      from a 7-8/8 HLA-matched related or unrelated donor (Cohort A) or 4-6/8 HLA-matched related
      donor (Cohort B) following reduced intensity or non-ablative allogeneic stem cell
      transplantation. Randomization will be stratified for disease types (myeloid versus lymphoid
      malignancies).

      Patient prior to starting therapy Within 21 days prior to initiating therapy, patients will
      have an updated history and physical examination performed, lab tests, stool collection, and
      pregnancy test if the patient is a female of childbearing potential. Patients will have blood
      or marrow stored for analysis of immune function and chimerism. Tests documenting the
      patient's disease state are required at study entry as well (bone marrow aspirate/biopsy,
      blood studies, and/or radiographic tests such as CTs, MRI, PET scans as determined by
      treating physician,and as required for standardized response evaluations).

      Donor apheresis and cell processing Donors will return to the center for a fresh collection
      of NK cells and they will not need growth factor mobilization. One collection will be used
      for each NK cell infusion. Cells will be transfused immediately after collection and
      processing or the next day. Cell processing will be performed in our cryopreservation lab
      according to SOP for collection, labeling and handling. The cells will be NK selected using a
      CD56 antibody (CliniMACS CD56 Reagent), CliniMACSplus instrument and CliniMACS tubing set
      provided by Miltenyi Biotec using the company protocol (Miltenyi Biotec Inc, Auburn,
      California). Pre and post processing cell count, viability, Hematopoietic Progenitor Cell
      Assay (HPCA) and flow analysis per SOP will be done.

      Patient Evaluation Assessment of disease will use standardized criteria and shall include a
      careful examination of the studies needed to detect the disease (PET, radiographs, immuno
      phenotype, marrow, molecular studies etc). Restaging may be altered at the discretion of the
      transplant physician following the patient (who are all subinvestigators in this study) if
      the patient is felt to be progressing before these time points but the recommended restaging
      is q3 months for 1 year after the last NK-enriched DLI, q6 months for the next 2 years, then
      as indicated clinically. Immune reconstitution studies prior to and 1 and 7 days after each
      NK cell-enriched DLI, and 3, 6, and 12 months after the last NK-enriched DLI. Determination
      of chimerism (by short tandem repeat analysis in use in our DUKE HLA laboratory with a 2%
      sensitivity) just prior to each NK cell-enriched DLI, and 3, 6, 12 months after the last
      NK-enriched DLI.

      Toxicity will be formally evaluated post infusion and a week later (more as determined by
      treatment team) and at a minimum of every other week through 6 weeks post infusion, then q3
      months starting at 3 months post-second DLI for the first year. Assessments include history
      (specific to GI toxicity as well as overall new problems), physical exam, CBC, liver function
      tests (AST, ALT, bilirubin at a minimum), and Chemistry CS to include creatinine and BUN for
      toxicity assessment following the NCI common toxicity criteria (version 4) and standard GVHD
      criteria (appendix I). Further follow up will be required as needed if the patient has a
      toxicity due the transplant or infusion procedures. Patients with a grade 3 or greater
      toxicity due to the study will be seen every other week at a minimum until the toxicity is <
      grade 3, and then will be seen as clinically appropriate.

      Stool Collection and Microbiome Analysis:

      We will collect stool samples from patients at the following time points throughout the
      study: pre-DLI, day +7, pre-second DLI, day +7, then every 3 months post DLI for one year.
      Stool samples from patients may be stored at 4°C for up to 24 h before freezing at -80°C for
      batch analysis.

      Patient NK cell infusion and CpG administration plan The target cell dose for NK
      cell-enriched DLI will be as many cells as can be collected with less than 0.5 x 106 CD3+
      CD56- cells/kg patient weight in the 4-6/8 HLA-matched related setting and 1 x 106 CD3+ CD56-
      cells/kg patient weight in the 7-8/8 HLA-matched related or unrelated setting. The first NK
      cell-enriched DLI will be administered one to six months post transplant. The second NK
      cell-enriched DLI will be administered one to three months post the first infusion, in
      patients who have < grade II aGVHD at the time of infusion and have not had unacceptable
      toxicities that are at least possibly related to the previous DLI and resolved to grade 1 or
      less. The second DLI will NOT be administered in patient with ≥grade III aGVHD at the time of
      infusion or unacceptable toxicities at least possibly related to the first infusion. If
      patients have GVHD and were on immunosuppressive therapy at study entry, patients will
      continue on their stable dose of immunosuppressive agents started for therapy of acute GVHD
      before the NK cell-enriched DLI, and will not taper until at least 6 weeks following the each
      NK cell-enriched DLI (unless disease progression or patient toxicity from the agents requires
      earlier taper). The donor NK cells will be infused over 30 minutes. Diphenhydramine 25 mg iv
      or po, and Acetaminophen 650 mg po will be used prior to each reinfusion, unless there is a
      history of allergy or contraindication in the patient, in which case hydrocortisone 50mg IV
      will be used.

      These cells are infused into the patient via a peripheral intravenous line or central line.
      If signs of GVHD occur after NK cell-enriched DLI, immunosuppressive agents (prednisone,
      cyclosporine, tacrolimus and/ or mycophenolate preferred first choices) may be started.
    
  