
    
      Study setting:

      Assisted Reproduction unit in Ain Shams University Maternity Hospital

      Study population:

      Patients underlying ICSI in Assisted Reproduction unit in Ain Shams University maternity
      hospital

      Intervention:

      After taking written informed consent, all patients recruited in the study will undergo,
      detailed medical history and complete clinical examination will be obtained along with
      necessary laboratory investigations and ultrasound findings The standard protocol of the
      Assisted Reproduction unit in Ain Shams University Maternity Hospital for induction of
      ovulation in ICSI patients which it is the long protocol will be given for all patients in
      the study. Endometrial and sub-endometrial blood flow for every patient in the 3 groups will
      be assessed by transvaginal ultrasound using Medison Sonoace R5 ultrasound machine, eight
      hours before giving the trigger, after they have completely emptied their bladders (2D power
      Doppler will be performed). This will be repeated one week after the day of embryo transfer.
      Endometrial blood flow will be detected by intra-endometrial or the adjacent sub-endometrial
      regions within 10 mm of the echogenic endometrial borders. Double thickness of the
      endometrium will be measured (maximum distance between each myometrial/endometrial interface
      through the longitudinal axis of the uterus). The pulsatility index (PI) and resistance index
      (RI) of the endometrial arteries will be calculated. Analysis will be used together with
      computer algorithms to form indices of blood flow within the endometrium. The parameters will
      be analyzed by software for: (i) resistance index (RI): the difference between maximal
      systolic blood flow and minimal diastolic flow divided by the peak systolic flow (S-D/S);
      (ii) pulsatility index (PI): the difference between maximal systolic blood flow and minimal
      diastolic flow divided by the mean flow throughout the cycle (S - D/mean); (iii) the ratio
      between peak systolic flow and lowest diastolic flow (S/D). These three parameters express
      the resistance to flow from the point of measurement downstream. The patients will be divided
      into three groups according to the condition of the endometrial blood flow: In Group 1, no
      endometrial blood flow is detected; Group 2 has sub-endometrial blood flow detected, and
      Group 3 has both endometrial and sub-endometrial blood flow detected.

      Pregnancy will be assessed by serum B-HCG test after fourteen days of having embryo transfer,
      then two weeks later trans-vaginal ultrasound will be performed to insure the presence of
      gestational sac.
    
  