
    
      Tremendous technological advances have occurred in recent years that enable easily controlled
      lights, sound, temperature, airflow as well as sensatory experiences such as smell or
      vibrations. While in some fields, these technologies are readily used, their potential
      application within healthcare environments has not yet been studied. In this study, we want
      to investigate how environmental factors including light, sound, temperature, smell, and
      sensatory experiences such as vibration are being perceived by subjects to develop
      environmental strategies using those components to create a more relaxing, and comforting
      experience for patients prior, during and after an imaging examination and for staff working
      in such environments. This data that will also guide to encourage changes of patient staff
      facility interactions to further improve the healthcare experience and quality of imaging
      examinations. To get a complete set of data, we plan to include volunteer participants,
      patients scheduled for imaging examinations, and staff working in the healthcare environment.
      This study has up to three different components: A, filling out survey forms to learn more
      about the perception of experience factors B, participating in facility experiences that may
      expose subjects to different facility factors and will then assess responses using additional
      survey forms or electronic measurement and data capture devices and C, during an imaging
      study the environment experience may be altered and assessments will be done to determine how
      relaxed the subject remains during the imagining study and the degree of motion induced
      artifacts. Feedback data will be obtained through survey tools as well as available consumer
      grade wearable devices that can continuously capture physiological parameters such as heart
      rate, motion, body perspiration and muscle tension. Only participants in the patient, staff,
      or volunteer populations who are not receiving an MRI imaging examination will participate in
      utilizing the wearable devices, as the wearable devices are not compatible with the MRI
      system. Patients receiving a PET/CT examination will be able to utilize a wearable device.
      For patients scheduled for an imaging examination the findings and perception of
      environmental factors will be compared with the image quality of the imaging examination and
      the feedback responses.
    
  