
    
      MST is a novel modification of electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) with the potential for similar
      clinical effectiveness, fewer side-effects and a more rapid return of orientation and shorter
      duration of post-ictal confusion. In the proposed study, the investigators will evaluate the
      clinical effectiveness of MST for the treatment of treatment-resistant depression (TRD) and
      suicidal ideation in patients with BPD. The study will use a case-control design comparing
      symptom reports (depression severity and suicidal ideation) and cognitive functioning between
      outpatients receiving MST plus dialectical behavioral therapy (DBT) and matched patient
      controls receiving DBT alone. To evaluate potential biomarkers that may underlie the
      anticipated clinical benefits of MST, functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) will be
      used to measure activation of the DLPFC and associated neural circuits subserving emotion
      regulation and cognitive functioning (e.g., impulse control, episodic memory) in BPD.

      Objective 1: To evaluate the efficacy of MST as a treatment for suicidal ideation and TRD in
      BPD.

      Hypothesis 1: MST will demonstrate substantial efficacy on objective measures of suicidal
      ideation and depression.

      Objective 2: To evaluate the effects of MST on cognitive functioning in patients with BPD.

      Hypothesis 2: MST will have limited, if any, effects on performance on standard
      neuropsychological measures of attention, memory and executive functioning in patients with
      BPD.

      Objective 3: To explore potential neuroimaging-based biomarkers that may index any changes in
      suicidal ideation and depression that result from treatment with MST.

      Hypothesis 3: On neuroimaging tasks assessing emotion processing and cognitive functioning,
      patients receiving DBT+MST will show increased activity in bilateral DLPFC after treatment
      relative to pre-treatment baseline activation, and more activation in this region than
      patients in DBT without concurrent MST (DBT-only).
    
  