
    
      Stroke is one the most devastating and prevalent diseases, but efforts to limit the amount of
      tissue damaged in the acute phase have been disappointing, highlighting the need for
      effective therapeutic interventions after neurologic damage has occurred. A major goal of the
      research in stroke rehabilitation is to harness the capacity of the brain to reorganize after
      neurologic damage has occurred and thus ultimately lead to successful recovery of function.
      Data from animal and human models have suggested that sensory input plays an important role
      in motor output, possibly by influencing cortical plasticity. However, in spite of the
      advances to date, little is known about the extent to which sensory input in the form of
      peripheral nerve stimulation can be successfully combined to physical training. A new
      emerging approach called constraint-induced therapy (CIT) is an intensive functional motor
      training and has produced promising results in the field of stroke rehabilitation. CIT
      involves restraining the unaffected arm with a sling or glove combined with intense
      task-oriented therapy of the affected side for six hours daily during 2 weeks. This pilot
      study will evaluate the effectiveness of sustained peripheral nerve stimulation coupled with
      functional motor training to improve hand motor function. While the functional motor training
      follows identical principles of CIT, the length of daily training will be shortened to 4
      hours daily and thus the investigators will refer in this proposal as a modified CIT.
      Preliminary data for this study demonstrated that peripheral nerve stimulation results in
      increased cortical motor excitability in normal subjects. In addition, learning and
      use-dependent plasticity can be substantially enhanced by a single session of 2 hours of
      peripheral nerve stimulation in chronic stroke patients. The goal of this study is to test
      the hypothesis that stroke patients treated with upper extremity peripheral nerve stimulation
      preceding CIT (intervention group) will have improved hand motor function compared to a group
      receiving lower extremity peripheral nerve stimulation and CIT (control group).
    
  