
    
      The context and the environment in which we act may interact significantly with our actions
      and with the property of our performance, leads to alterations of arousal states and
      psychophysiological stress responses.

      Stress has typically been defined as a state that occurs when situation's demands are
      inconsistent with social, psychological and biological person's resources. Stress is an
      adaptive response direct to optimize the available resources to cope a given situation.
      However, when resources demand outstrips the individual's ability, stress has negative
      effects (distress). Stress effects are investigated along three domains: (1) at biological
      and neurophysiological modifications level, (2) at behavioral performance level and finally
      (3) through the subjective assessment (self-report questionnaire).

      Many psychological theories have taken into account the Inverted-U shape model, in which
      arousal and performance are mutually reliant. There is an optimal level of arousal at which
      performance peaks whereas, at both lower or higher level than the optimal one, performance
      deteriorates .

      Other thesis instead explain the different responses to stress and performance modifications
      in terms of cognitive resources, in particular the attentive and executive ones. Therefore,
      the measurement of stress involves the analysis of particular bio signals which are tied
      tightly to arousal such as Heart Rate (HR), Galvanic Skin Response (GSR) and electromyography
      (EMG), to which we should add behavioral assessment, cognitive load (in a range from single
      task to multi-tasking execution) and subjective assessment of one's own state of
      stress/distress.

      Motor disability caused by neurological disorder is an important issue: every years 16
      millions of people all over the world are affected by stroke and currently 33 million stroke
      survivor are affected by a serious acquired motor disability. Almost the whole of them are
      subjected to serious limitations of daily living activities and require constant assistance
      to their relatives.

      Parkinson's Disease is the most common degenerative disorder of the central nervous system
      after Alzheimer's disease. Incidence rate for PD is about 18 per 100.000 person-years and
      it's one of the most important cause of motor disabilities in adult age with stroke.

      Laboratory controlled research showed that stress response could changes psychophysiological
      parameters and signal (HR, GSR, EMG, EEG, etc...). A recent survey by Reinkensmeyer and
      colleagues (Reinkensmeyer et al., 2016) point out the relevance of computational approaches
      in neuro-rehabilitation which provide clear information about the neuromotor rehabilitation
      performance and its optimization thanks to feedback originate from analysis conducted on
      extensive motor and electrophysiological data.

      With current technologies, many of which are available at a reduced cost, we are able to
      supervise on-line different aspects of our behavior, first of all the motor one. Equally
      important are all that technological supports which controls autonomic responses. Indeed,
      they highlight the relevance of individual internal response in context as the neuromotor
      rehabilitation one.

      In such scenario, several questions still need a clear answer:

        1. What are the triggering states to best cope with stressful situations and tasks?

        2. What level of arousal is associated with the gradual increase of cognitive difficulties
           while carrying out a task?

        3. Can the online feedback, on the patient's activation status, guide the work of the
           therapists and the patients themselves?

      The present study therefore aims at studying and evaluating the state of activation by
      psycho-physiological, behavioral, and subjective responses of individuals with Stroke and
      Parkinson's disease in contexts from the gradual increase in cognitive and stress loads, in
      order to provide information on the possibility Use of biofeedback devices in rehabilitation
      contexts.

        1. Assess the psychophysical response;

             1. Describe the configuration of physiological activation patterns.

             2. Determine the interaction effect between task type and pathology.

        2. Assess behavioral response;

             1. Describe the performance,

             2. Determine the interaction effect between task type and pathology.

        3. Evaluate the subjective response.

           a. Measure the degree of awareness of your state and your performance.

        4. To highlight the relationships between psychophysiological patterns, behavioral
           performance and subjective response.
    
  