
    
      Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) is an autosomal dominant neurocutaneous syndrome with highly
      variable clinical manifestations and that has a worldwide incidence of approximately 1/2500.
      The most common lesion is the cutaneous neurofibroma, appearing on the skin of 90% of adults
      with NF1. The number of cutaneous neurofibromas in an affected individual can vary from a few
      to several thousand. These lesions may be surgically removed, but typically recur, and
      surgical removal often leads to scarring. Intralesional administration of diclofenac was
      previously reported with favorable results, and significant inflammatory processes were
      observed within the treated neurofibromas, with tissue necrosis and detachment of some
      treated neurofibromas, effects that were not observed among the control neurofibromas. The
      primary objective of this study is to evaluate the use of topical diclofenac in the treatment
      of cutaneous neurofibromas in patients with NF1. The secondary objective of this study is to
      assess the safety of the use of topical diclofenac in the treatment of cutaneous
      neurofibromas in patients with NF1. This is an open, controlled, prospective,
      proof-of-concept study, in 7 patients presenting NF1 and cutaneous neurofibromas. This study
      will include three treatment visits to the study center and three follow-up visits. Treatment
      will consist of two stages: neurofibroma microporation using the laser device, followed by
      topical application of one drop of diclofenac 25mg/ml on the surface of the neurofibroma;
      followed by re-application of one drop of diclofenac, twice daily, for three days. The
      applications subsequent to the first application will be performed by the patients. Subjects
      will return to the study center at three day intervals (Assessments 2 & 3) for new
      microporation and topical diclofenac application, followed by at-home topical diclofenac
      application for three more days. Assessment 4 will take place 3 days after Assessment 3.
      Assessment 5 will take place 7 days after the end of the treatment period and Assessment 6 30
      days after the last application of study drug. The primary efficacy variable in this study is
      the inflammatory process with the presence of tissue necrosis. The primary safety variable is
      the occurrence of adverse events considered to be associated with the study drug, occurring
      during the treatment period. Prior to any study-related procedure, written informed consent
      will be obtained from the participant. The Clinical Research From will be filled, stored,
      coded, and the data will be analyzed using GraphPad Prism, v. 5.0. Frequency tables will be
      generated and central tendencies calculated (mean, median, mode).
    
  