
    
      Image acquisition and treatment under deep inspiration breath hold (DIBH) has been
      demonstrated to reduce treated volumes and doses to organs at risk (OARs) for photon
      radiotherapy but has not been investigated in the context of proton radiotherapy. The
      objective of this registry study is to prospectively evaluate deep inspiration breath hold CT
      scans for use in proton radiotherapy treatment planning and obtain dosimetric data to assess
      for changes in target volume, planning volumes and doses both to tumor and organs at risk
      using the SpiroDynrX (SDX) deep inspiration breath hold system as compared to free breathing
      and 4D CT scans. Patients will be treated with photon therapy. This is a prospective
      non-randomized, single arm, single institution registry study of patients undergoing
      definitive external beam photon radiotherapy in our department. Deep inspiration breath hold
      CT scans will be obtained in our department in the treatment position at the time of CT
      simulationin addition to the currently obtained free breathing and 4D CT scans. These scans
      will all be co-registered with the treatment planning CT. Treatment planning volumes will be
      delineated by the physician and compared to the results and data for our current standard of
      care utilizing 4D CT scans. Patients will be treated with breath hold CT using photon
      radiotherapy but we will prospectively create proton treatment plans which will also be
      compared to the photon treatment plans used for actual treatment. Variability in tumor
      localization, target volume definition, doses to organs at risk and treatment planning
      particularities will be summarized and reported across several modalities, including: 3
      dimensional conformal radiation therapy (3DCRT), intensity-modulated x-ray therapy (IMXT) and
      proton therapy. Correlations will be statistically analyzed and reported in terms of minimum,
      maximum, average and standard deviation, and other dose volume histogram parameters, and
      where appropriate, compared with appropriate statistical methods (for example, student
      t-test).
    
  