
    
      Inclusion criteria's in the study were 1) Patients should present with histological verified
      local or locally advanced PC (stage T2b to T3b, N0, M0; UICC 1992 classification was used).
      2) Patients should consequently be candidates for intended curative radiotherapy. Prostatic
      work up is done before inclusion in the study. A new prostatic Nickel - Titanium stent is
      placed in the prostatic urethra one week prior to the radiotherapy planning CT using a
      flexible cystoscope to insert the stent under urethral anaesthesia. The stent is then flushed
      with hot water (60 degrees Celsius). The hot water expands the stent collar, thereby locking
      the stent in place. Correct positioning of the stent is secured visually on retraction of the
      scope. Radiotherapy of prostate is given to a mean dose of 70 (department standard regime).
      Treatment are given with daily fractions of 2 Gy using a combination of 6 MV and 18 MV X-ray
      fields using isocentric 3D conformal treatment plan, consisting of three MLC conformal
      radiation fields (One anterior and two lateral wedged fields). This was assumed to be the
      optimal treatment plan. A pair of orthogonal 15 cm x 15 cm isocenter setup fields was added
      to the plan. The orthogonal fields are used to obtain pairs of electronic portal images.
      Electronic portal images are recorded using a Varian As500 electronic portal imaging device
      (EPID). The images are used to determine the 3D reference position of the stent. The image
      pairs of the stent were taken at eight treatment sessions in each patient (Session number
      1,2,3,6,11,21,22 and 23). From each orthogonal set of images the 3D position of both the
      stent and the symphysis (pubic bone) are determined. Positions are calculated using
      orthogonal reconstruction. A control CT scan is made before treatment session number 21 to
      verify the intra prostatic position of the stent. The intra prostatic position of the stent
      is also verified during removal of the stent three months after radiation therapy. Before
      removal the stent was flushed with water at 10 degrees Celsius. When cooled with 10°C cold
      water, the stent became super soft, and can easily be removed as a twisted wire.
    
  