
    
      Chronic granulomatous disease (CGD) is one of primary immunodeficiency diseases. Due to the
      deficiency of the phagocyte nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) oxidase the
      respiratory burst of all types of phagocytic cells is badly impaired which lead to a
      susceptibility to infection among CGD patients.

      BCG vaccine is wildly used in China to avoid severe tuberculosis infection. Children are
      supposed to get BCG vaccine injected within 24 hours after birth. When patients with CGD got
      the vaccination of BCG they will easily got infected. And due to the immunodeficiency of
      these children, the infection cannot be cure by normal treatment.

      Vitamin D supplementation was used to treat tuberculosis in the pre-antibiotic era and is
      reported to have influence on immune system especially on monocytes and macrophages thus may
      help CGD children defend the BCG infection. In addition, studies show that
      1,25-Dihydroxyvitamin D3 can induce nitric oxide synthase thus may up regulate NO production
      and help host defense against human tuberculosis without the help of NADPH oxidase. Other
      researches indicate that Vitamin D and the expression of vitamin D receptor may lead to
      induction of antimicrobial peptide such as LL-37 which help macrophages kill the
      intracellular Mycobacterium tuberculosis. These discoveries indicated that vitamin D may
      induce immune response against BCG in a nontraditional way. Therefore, when CGD patients face
      BCG infection, add vitamin D supplementation to the treatment may help them survive this
      challenge.

      Since there have had clinical trials revealing that intermittent high dose vitamin D3
      supplementation as 2.5mg per 14 days only receive positive effect on partial patients the
      investigators decide to choose a mild dose treatment as 800IU/d for 3 month to see if things
      get different in this way.
    
  