
    
      Proadrenomedullin as a Severity Score and Prognostic Marker in Intra-abdominal Sepsis

      Research Type:

      Prospective, observational study.

      Duration:

      October 2016 - October 2017

      Associated Medical Centers:

      La Paz University Hospital (Madrid), La Princesa Hospital (Madrid), Hospital del Mar
      (Barcelona), Hospital Clínico de Valladolid and Hospital Clínico de Valencia.

      Main Goal:

      To measure the value of Pro-adrenomedullin as a prognostic marker and predictor of mortality
      in patients with intra-abdominal sepsis after damage control surgery.

      Secondary Goals:

      Make a comparison with other biomarkers (procalcitonin, lactic acid, CRP) and clinical
      severity scales used in standard critical practice (SAPSII, SOFA).

      To establish a correlation between the levels of Pro-Adrenomedullin, the time of stay in
      critical care units, days of mechanical ventilation and mortality.

      Variables:

      A. Demographics

      B. Date of admission to hospital and date of admission to critical care unit unit

      C. Clinical data:

        -  Associated diseases

        -  SAPS II

        -  SOFA

      D. Intra-abdominal infection episode data

        -  Systemic response: sepsis / septic shock

        -  Isolated microorganisms in blood cultures and intra-abdominal fluid

        -  Complications related to the infectious process (ARDS, need for mechanical ventilation,
           vasopressors, disseminated intravascular coagulation, acute renal failure, renal
           replacement techniques)

      E. Follow-up

        -  Critical unit registration date

        -  Date of discharge from hospital

        -  Critical unit mortality, in-hospital mortality and 30 days mortality (assessed by
           telephone contact if the patient had been discharged).

      F. Pro-adrenomedullin levels at admission, 24 and 72 hours. As well as procalcitonin (PCT),
      lactic acid and polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) levels.
    
  