
    
      The study was performed as a prospective randomized trial at the Department of Anesthesiology
      and Intensive Care Medicine and the Department of Surgery of the Hospital Universitario de
      Ciudad Real, Spain.Faculty. The study was approved by the local ethical committee. All
      patients scheduled for hepatic resection of more than two segments were found eligible for
      study inclusion. Exclusion criteria were: age less than 18, body weight less than 50 kg or
      more than 150 kg, irregular heart rhythm, severe cardiovascular disease (chronic heart
      failure, valvular abnormality, cardiomyopathy, etc.), severe liver dysfunction (Child Pugh
      score B or C). All participants signed informed consent prior study inclusion.

      Protocol of the study.

      Eligible patients were equally randomized into two study groups: 1) Standard perioperative
      (Control group ) and 2) hemodinamic management based using radial artery pulse contour
      analysis (GDHT group). Randomization was performed the day before surgery by the study member
      responsable for anesthesia delivery using sealed opaque envelope technique stored in
      non-transparent containers with group allocation in a 1:1 ratio. Only patients were blinded
      to group allocation. Care providers and investigators could not be blinded due to the
      presence of the cardiac index trending monitor.

      Intraoperative management.

      All subjects received balanced anaesthesia, i.v. anaesthetic induction, and neuromuscular
      relaxants; for pragmatic reasons, their administration was at the discretion of the
      anaesthetist. Bispectral index monitoring was used to monitor the depth of anaesthesia.
      Sevoflurane was used for anaesthesia maintenance, with a BIS target range of 40-60. Central
      venous catheter placement and invasive radial arterial blood pressure monitoring were
      performed per preference of the anaesthetist.

      All subjects had basic anaesthetic monitoring with fivelead ECG, pulse oximetry, and
      oscillometric blood pressure; at least one peripheral i.v. line was established. All subjects
      received standard measures to maintain oxygen saturation by pulse oximetry >94%,
      normothermia, and heart rate <100 beats min-1. Ventilation with inspired oxygen fraction of
      60% was mechanically controlled to maintain PaCO2 between 4.7 and 6.0 kPa, with a positive
      end-expiratory pressure of 4-6mm Hg and tidal volume of 6-8 ml kg-1.

      In cases when PM was used, hemodynamic data were recorded one minute before the clamp, one
      minute after the clamp and one minute afterthe PM's release. Ephedrine was given in case of
      hemodynamic instability (mean arterial pressure <65 mmHg) and if repeated boluses were
      ineffective, noradrenaline infusion was started.

      In a case of acute blood loss (more than 150 mL/ min or more than 500 mL), colloid infusion
      of was administered with respect to maximal recommended dose (30 mL/kg).

      In both groups, blood loss was compensated for by infusión of colloid in a 1:1 ratio. Packed
      red cells were transfused for haemoglobin <10 g dl-1 in subjects with cardiac comorbidities,
      or <7 g dl-1 in those without cardiac comorbidities.

      Hemodynamic data were documented every 15 minutes. At the beginning of hepatic resection,
      middle and at the end of surgery blood samples were drawn for arterial and central venous
      blood gas analysis. At the end of surgery total catecholamine administration, estimated blood
      loss, urine output and infused fluids were recorded. The time between the end of surgery and
      extubation was recorded.

      GDHT group.

      The arterial line was additionally connected to the cardiac index trending monitor (ProAQT,
      PULSION Medical Systems SE, Munich, Germany).

      Fluid therapy was given. Before hepatic resection (Static phase) all patiens received
      continuous infusion of balanced crystalloid fluids (Ringer,s lactate) at 1 ml kg-1h-1 After
      hepatic resection (Dynamic phase), the patients received an initial hemodynamic assessment
      based on PPV, CI and MAP, as shown in Figure 1. First, preload was optimized by fluid loading
      until PPV was <14% or VVS <12%, subjects were given 4 ml kg-1 boluses colloid solution every
      5 minutes. At this point, the patient's individual preload optimized CI was determined and
      used as the hemodynamic goal until the end of surgery. Only if this value was below 2.5
      L/min/(m2), inotropes were applied to reach this minimum CI, serving as a safety parameter to
      prevent patients from low cardiac output. If PPV and CI were within the target range but MAP
      was below 65 mmHg or PPV/VVS>1,2, vasopressors were started. After the initial assessment,
      patients were reassessed every 15 minutes intraoperatively to maintain values
    
  