
    
      Study Procedure: Visit Schedule

      Visit 1(Baseline visit): Following consent, the study coordinator will obtain participant's
      demographic data including age, race/ethnicity, body mass index. Data on medical
      comorbidities, surgical history and medications known to be associated with FI will be
      collected. The participant's severity of FI will be measured using the St. Mark's Vaizey
      scale (Vaizey). The impact of FI on quality of life will be measured using the Fecal
      Incontinence Quality of Life scale (FIQL). The presence, type, and severity of other pelvic
      floor symptoms known to be associated with FI will be assessed using the Pelvic floor
      Distress Inventory- Short Form. Participants will be given a Food and Bowel Symptom diary and
      a stool collection kit at the conclusion of the visit.

      Visit 2(Intervention visit): Stool sample will be collected by the study coordinator.
      Investigators will administer the DMP. Participants will be given the booklet outlining the
      DMP and investigators will review the participant's Food and Symptom diary and provide
      targeted recommendations. The participant will be given a second Food and Symptom diary and
      stool collection kit to return 6 weeks after the intervention start date.

      Calls: Trained Nutritionists will call the participant between weeks 2 and 4 for three
      unannounced 24h diet recall. The 24-hour dietary recalls will be collected using Nutrition
      Data System for Research, a computer-based software application that facilitates the
      collection of recalls in a standardized fashion.

      Visit 3 (Follow up visit): Post intervention stool samples and Food and Symptom diary will be
      collected. Questionnaires including the Vaizey, FIQL, Pelvic Floow Disability Index (PFDI),
      and Patient Global Index of Improvement (PGI-I) will be administered by the study
      coordinator. Participants will receive compensation for participating in the study.
    
  