
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the objective response rate (ORR) of pembrolizumab combined with cryoablation
      and intratumoral mature dendritic cells (mDCs) in patients with metastatic melanoma that has
      failed to respond or has stopped responding to initial therapy with a PD-1 axis-blocking
      monoclonal antibody.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the safety profile of pembrolizumab combined with cryoablation and intratumoral
      mDCs in patients with metastatic melanoma that have failed to respond or have stopped
      responding to initial therapy with a PD-1 axis-blocking monoclonal antibody.

      II. To determine median progression-free survival (PFS) obtained with this approach in this
      patient population.

      III. To determine median overall survival (OS) obtained with this approach in this patient
      population.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To quantitate tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) in tumor biopsies prior to and
      following cryoablation and intratumoral mDCs.

      II. To measure PD-L1 levels in tumor biopsies and blood biopsies prior to and following
      cryoablation and to assess whether a change in PD-L1 levels differ among those patients who
      met the criteria for clinical benefit (progression-free and on study for at least 6 months)
      and those who do not.

      III. To measure peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) proliferation and function after
      coculture with frozen tumor before and after intratumoral mDC injection.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients undergo apheresis over 4 hours on day 1 or course 1. Patients also receive
      pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Courses with pembrolizumab repeat
      every 21 days for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Within 36 hours after receiving pembrolizumab, patients undergo cryosurgery over 45
      minutes on day 1 or 2 of courses 2 and 3. Patients also receive mature dendritic cells
      intratumorally (IT) on day 1 or 2 of courses 2 and 3 after cryosurgery.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for up to 5 years
    
  