
    
      This is a multicenter randomized controlled cluster, parallel open study. In order to avoid a
      contamination bias between groups, this trial will be randomized at the center level. This
      randomization will lead to the formation of 2 groups: a group of control centers (usual care)
      and a group of interventional centers (repositioning schedule).

      A visit to set up the study will be carried out before the beginning of the inclusions.
      During this visit, a training course will be delivered to the caregivers of all the research
      centers on the risk assessment of pressure ulcers using the Braden scale, the evaluation of
      the skin condition, the identification of the stages of pressure and their management as well
      as the collection of data necessary for this study. In addition, the interventional group
      centers will receive training on the application of the repositioning schedule.

      The risk assessment for pressure ulcers using the Braden scale will be performed daily in
      both groups. All patients participating in research with a Braden scale ≤ 17 will benefit
      from a pressure ulcer prevention mattress.

      Usual care:

      Within the control group, repositioning schedule frequencies and positioning will be done
      according to the habits of the service. The daily collection form present in the room will
      collect information concerning the care related to the positioning of the patient (length of
      treatment, frequency of positioning, type of positioning, any adverse events occurring during
      this care), the evaluation of the patients 'cutaneous status, duration of pressure ulcer care
      and evaluation of the Braden scale. The possible contraindications to the positioning of the
      patients will be informed by the doctors on the medical prescription according to the current
      practice.

      Repositioning schedule:

      Within the interventional group the repositioning schedule will be applied according to the
      risk of pressure ulcer evaluated daily by the Braden scale. A medical prescription, as part
      of the care, will attest to the absence of absolute contraindication or relative to the
      procedure of mobilization.

      Depending on the result of the Braden scale, the repositioning schedule is defined as
      follows:

      6 ≥ Braden ≤ 8: alternate positioning every 2 hours; 9 ≥Braden ≤ 13: alternate positioning
      every 4 hours; 14 ≥ Braden ≤ 17: No alternative of the positioning required, but a friction
      and an evaluation of the cutaneous state every 6 hours.

      18 ≥Braden ≤ 23: No alternative of the positioning required, but a friction and an evaluation
      of the cutaneous state every 12 hours
    
  