
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To compare the effect of adjuvant mitotane treatment alone (arm A) with that of adjuvant
      mitotane combined with four 21-day cycles of etoposide/cisplatin (arm B) on recurrence-free
      survival (RFS) in patients with high-risk adrenocortical carcinoma (ACC) after initial
      surgical resection.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Assess overall survival (OS), defined as the time interval between the date of
      randomization and the date of death from any cause.

      II. Assess the effect of serum mitotane levels, disease stage, and surgical resection margins
      on clinical outcomes.

      III. Assess the effect of early start (1-6 weeks from surgery) versus (vs.) late start (> 6
      weeks from surgery) of adjuvant therapy on clinical outcomes.

      IV. Assess serious adverse events. V. Measure quality of life at baseline, 6 weeks, 6 months
      after the initiation of adjuvant therapy, and at the end of study participation (recurrence
      or completing study treatments) using a validated quality of life questionnaire (European
      Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer [EORTC] QLQ-C30).

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Perform molecular profiling on available tissue specimens obtained at the time of initial
      surgical resection (formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded or frozen tissues) to identify genomic
      alterations in primary tumors that are associated with the clinical end points.

      II. Evaluate markers to detect ACC recurrence or predict response to therapy (including
      steroid hormones and precursors, circulating tumor cells, and micro ribonucleic acid
      [microRNA]).

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive mitotane orally (PO) daily on days 1-21. Cycles repeat every 21 days
      for 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B: Patients receive mitotane as in Arm A. Patients also receive cisplatin intravenously
      (IV) over 2 hours on day 1 and etoposide IV over 2 hours on days 1-3. Treatment repeats every
      21 days for up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months.
    
  