
    
      Over the past decade there have been increasing calls for the scale-up of evidence-based
      interventions in order to reduce the risk of violence against children in low- and
      middle-income countries (LMICs). In particular, group-based parenting programs for families
      with young children have been shown to be effective in reducing the risk of child
      maltreatment and improving child wellbeing with promising evidence emerging from low- and
      middle-income countries. These group-based programs typically aim to strengthen
      caregiver-child relationships through positive parenting and help parents to manage child
      behavior problems through effective, age-appropriate, nonviolent discipline strategies.

      Despite the emerging evidence of the effectiveness of parenting interventions in reducing
      violence against children, many local governments and service providers in LMICs face
      multiple challenges in implementing evidence-based parenting programs in resource poor
      contexts. Parenting programs are often too expensive to deliver effectively at scale in
      low-resource settings due to their complexity, intensity, and length. Parenting programs
      developed and evaluated in other contexts also may not fit the local service delivery context
      and may require adaptation to be relevant to the local culture of families. Additional
      program content may also be necessary to address acute economic deprivation, high community
      violence, and parental distress. The process of delivery may also need to be simplified to
      improve participant engagement and the quality of delivery.

      As a result, it is essential that programs implemented in LMICs are

        1. Effective at reducing violence against children,

        2. Integrated within the existing service delivery system of the country,

        3. Feasible and culturally acceptable to service providers and families, and

        4. Scalable in terms of their affordability, replicability, and sustainability while
           reaching a maximum number of beneficiaries.

      However, there are currently very few parenting programs that meet these criteria in LMICs
      (such as Romania, FYR of Macedonia and Republic of Moldova), where the need is the greatest.

      The Parenting for Lifelong Health (PLH) initiative is focused on the development, evaluation,
      and dissemination of parenting programs to reduce violence against children and improve child
      wellbeing in LMIC. It was established to address the need to develop low-cost, evidence-based
      parenting programs that can be integrated within existing service delivery systems in LMIC.
      The PLH for Young Children from 2-9 y. (PLH 2-9) program includes general content like
      one-on-one time/child-led play; praising and rewarding children; instructions, household
      rules, and routines; managing difficult behaviours: ignore and consequences; reflection and
      moving on. Core activities during sessions include group discussions illustrated vignettes,
      role-plays, collaborative problem solving, practicing skills at home.

      The present study utilizes the Multiphase Optimization Strategy (MOST) and RE-AIM framework
      for increasing the reach and enhancing the implementation of PLH 2-9 in three Southeastern
      European countries with restricted resources. The MOST framework is implemented over 3
      distinct phases: 1) Preparation, 2) Optimization, and 3) Evaluation.

      The overall RISE project has two general objectives: (1) the first objective relates to the
      adaption, optimizing and evaluation of selected best practice intervention condition (MOST),
      while (2) the second objective relates to implementation issues (RE-AIM).

      This presently registered study relates to the Optimization Phase (phase 2). This cluster
      factorial experiment is to inform the selection of the most effective and cost-effective
      components to include in a prevention package prior to testing in the subsequent RCT.

      The factorial experiment will be conducted across the three countries in Southeastern
      European country sites (N = 48 clusters, 288 families per country site). The study will focus
      on the recruitment of families from LMICs with children aged two to nine years who have
      elevated child behaviour problems as well as high-risk groups, i.e. such as Roma families.
      Program facilitators (N = 80; 16 in FYR of Macedonia, 32 in Republic of Moldova, and in 32
      Romania) will be recruited from local agencies and schools. Program coaches (N = 11; 3 in FYR
      of Macedonia, 4 in Republic of Moldova, and in 4 Romania) will be selected from personnel who
      previously implemented the PLH 2-9 program during Phase 1.

      The following intervention components have been selected (the three components are related to
      program implementation and efficacy):

      Component 1: Engagement booster (high/low): Half of the participants will receive a
      communication booster (including weekly text messages reminders and 5-minute phone
      consultations twice a month from facilitators) and an enhanced incentives package (including
      lunch @ approx. 2-4 euros/person, transport to group sessions when necessary (FYR of
      Macedonia, and Republic of Moldova only), raffle prize @ approx. 5 euros/person, food parcels
      @ approx. 2-5 euros/person, and reward for attending all or all but one sessions @ approx.
      3-5 euros/person) and half will not receive any engagement boosters. All participants,
      regardless of condition, will receive a basic incentive package (including child care and a
      snack) at each group session.

      Component 2: Program Length (long: 10 sessions; short: 5 sessions): Half of the participants
      will receive 5 group sessions (i.e., 10 hours of program delivery and half of the
      participants will receive 10 group sessions (i.e., 20 hours of program delivery). Both short
      and long versions will contain the same content as each other and be delivered over the same
      time period (weekly for the 10 session and fortnightly for the 5 session).

      Component 3: Fidelity booster (high supervision/low supervision): Half of the facilitators
      will receive facilitator training workshop (3-5 days) plus a structured weekly supervision
      session by a local coach including video feedback (high supervision), while half of the
      facilitators receive the facilitator training workshop and supervision only upon request (low
      supervision; low component level).

      With this number of components, the current factorial experimental trial will randomize 16
      geographical areas to 8 experimental conditions (cluster randomization) in each country.
      There will be a total of 16 groups (with 2 groups per experimental condition).

      It is important to note that although there are 8 experimental conditions, this experiment
      should not be considered an 8-arm RCT. The purpose of this factorial experiment is to
      estimate the main effects of the three intervention components and interactions between the
      components, not to compare the 8 experimental conditions to each other. Each main effect and
      interaction estimate is based on all of the experimental conditions. Instead of recruiting
      the originally planned 240 participants per country, we will over-recruit (n = 288 per
      country) to account for study attrition identified in Phase 1
      (https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03552250?term=Prevention+of+Child+Mental+Health+Probl
      ems+in+Southeastern+Europe+%28RISE%29&rank=1) (approx. 20-30%) in order to avoid empty cells
      and being at risk of being underpowered.

      This study will examine the following hypotheses related to the selected components based on
      a conceptual model* tested in the factorial experiment:

        1. Component 1: Engagement Booster. We hypothesize that providing enhanced engagement
           boosters (i.e., high participation incentives and communication boosters) compared to a
           low level of engagement boosters (i.e., low participation incentives and no
           communication boosters) will result in higher retention and participation of parents,
           which in turn will indirectly result in improvements in parenting outcomes, child
           behavior and other secondary outcomes (via indirect effects).

        2. Component 2: Program Length. We hypothesize that those receiving the shorter length
           program will have higher retention and participation rates than those receiving the
           longer program. However, the 10-session program condition compared to the 5-session
           program condition will have higher dosage and therefore, we expect no difference on
           outcomes.

        3. Component 3: Fidelity Booster. We hypothesize that higher levels of fidelity boosters
           (i.e., training plus structured video feedback supervision) will result in higher
           program fidelity which will yield larger intervention effects on primary and secondary
           outcomes than low levels of fidelity booster (i.e., training plus supervision
           on-demand).

        4. We hypothesize that there will be an interaction effect between Engagement Boosters and
           Program Length: Program Length will interact with engagement booster and lead to greater
           change in primary and secondary outcomes when both components are on high level. In
           addition, we expect a main effect of Engagement Booster of retention and participation
           rates, such that regardless of Program Length, high levels of Engagement Boosters will
           be related to higher retention and participation rates.

        5. We hypothesize that there will be an interaction effect between Fidelity Booster and
           Engagement Booster components, such that higher levels of Fidelity Booster and
           Engagement Booster will result in higher retention and participation rates than either
           condition alone. Higher retention and participation rates will in turn be associated
           with greater change in primary and other secondary outcomes.

        6. There will be an interaction effect between Program Length and Fidelity Booster in which
           program length (i.e., 10 sessions instead of 5 sessions) in combination with higher
           levels of Fidelity Booster (i.e., instead of on-demand) will result in larger effect on
           primary and secondary outcomes than either component alone.

        7. Moderators: Higher baseline levels of parental mental health symptoms and problems in
           the family environment will be associated with greater change on primary and secondary
           outcomes. Other moderators of intervention effects, such as parental age, ethnicity, and
           gender of the child, will be examined on an exploratory basis.

        8. Economic Analyses: The objective of the economic analysis for phase 2 of this project is
           to explore and compare the cost-effectiveness ratios for different combinations of
           program components and determine the most cost-effective combinations.
           Cost-effectiveness ratios in terms of Euros per 1-point reduction of the CBCL subscale
           "Aggressive Behavior" of the PLH 2-9 program and Euros per quality-adjusted life-year
           (QALY) gained will be calculated to assess and compare the cost-effectiveness of
           different combinations of program components.

      In preparation for the factorial experiment in phase 2 of this study, a 5-session version of
      PLH 2-9 will be developed from the original program as a potentially more affordable and more
      accessible program. The PLH 2-9 will include the following session contents (independent of
      program length): one-on-one time/child-led play; praising and rewarding children;
      instructions, household rules, and routines; managing difficult behaviors: ignore and
      consequences; reflection and moving on.

      * The conceptual model will be published in a manuscript version of the study protocol
      (preferably open access; anticipated submission date: April 2019).
    
  