
    
      This trial proposes a therapy for pediatric Hodgkin lymphoma with the objective of achieving
      high levels of long lasting complete remission with less risk of late effects.

      Patients of both genders, between 2 and 18 years, with newly diagnosed classical Hodgkin
      lymphoma are admitted. An open surgical biopsy with histopatological diagnosis is preferred.

      Initial staging provides stratification in three groups: low, intermediate and high risk. An
      initial set of two chemotherapy courses is administered to all cases after which an early
      disease response assessment is performed. According to disease response a final therapy group
      is assigned (7 arms).

      Imaging with PET-CT and Deauville Score is preferred for initial and further disease
      assessment. Complete response is defined by volume reduction and metabolic remission. In case
      PET-CT is not available, CT and ultrasound with volume reduction standards to assess response
      may be used.

      Rapid early responders who achieve complete remission (CR) benefit from less chemotherapy.
      Those who are in partial remission at the end of chemotherapy (late disease assessment)
      receive low dose (30Gy) involved node radiotherapy. At the end of chemotherapy, radiotherapy
      is delivered only to patients who do not achieve a CR. Thus, therapy is tailored according to
      initial extension and disease responsiveness. Complete responders at the end of chemotherapy
      do not receive radiotherapy. To avoid radiotherapy in the majority of cases constitutes a
      principal goal of this trial. Stable or progressive disease at any moment is assumed as a
      trial failure and new therapeutic strategies are offered to these patients off protocol.

      Chemotherapy is based upon regimes with well known effectiveness in Hodgkin lymphoma. (i.e.
      ABVD: doxorubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine and dacarbazine and ESHAP: Etoposide, methyl
      prednisolone, citarabine and cisplatin).

      Low risk arms (Arms A, B and B2) receive no more than 4 cycles of ABVD. Intermediate risk Arm
      C, 5 cycles of ABVD and Arm D 4 cycles of ABVD and 2 courses of ESHAP. High risk Arm E
      receives 3 cycles of ABVD and 3 Cycles of ESHAP, Arm F receives 4 courses of ABVD and 4
      courses of ESHAP. The schedules are delivered projecting low cumulative drug doses and
      avoiding the use of toxic alkylating agents. Risks of secondary leukemia and infertility are
      thus minimized. Doxorubicin and bleomycin do not achieve cumulative doses that may expose to
      significant risk of heart or lung damage. Radiotherapy reduction avoids late radiation
      sequels.

      Cardiac, lung , thyroid and any other toxic effects are prospectively assessed at onset and
      regularly during and after therapy.

      The main event-free and overall survival proportions end points will be analyzed annually
      during the following 10 years after the last patient registration.

      This clinical study proposes a therapeutic approach based on chemotherapy that do not sum up
      high cumulative toxic doses. Therapy is tailored according to initial risk assessment and
      disease responsiveness. Those who achieve a complete response after chemotherapy do not
      receive additional radiotherapy, thus avoiding further late effects.
    
  