
    
      The FH Foundation CASCADE-FH Registry will implement an enrollment framework which is
      characterized by three possible points of contact: 1) Clinic enrollment 2) Self-enrollment
      through an online patient portal, and 3) Electronic Health Record (EHR) identification.

      Pathway 1: Clinic-Based Screening and Enrollment During the initial study phase, a number of
      specialized lipid clinics across the US will participate in the CASCADE-FH registry. FH
      patients at these sites who meet inclusion will enroll. Each site will be required to receive
      IRB approval and obtain patient consent. Once the initial set of specialized lipid clinics
      has demonstrated acceptable feasibility for patient enrollment and engagement, additional
      sites will be recruited into the registry.

      Pathway 2: Patient Self-Enrollment Potential registry participants will have the opportunity
      to self-enroll in the CASCADE-FH Registry through an online screening mechanism. A link on
      the FH Foundation website (http://www.thefhfoundation.org) will direct potential participants
      to a brief screening questionnaire see inclusion criteria.

      Pathway 3: Electronic Health Record (EHR) Screening System-wide searches of EHR to identify
      potential FH patients based on LDL lab values and clinical FH criteria. Following
      identification, the primary care provider of the potential FH patient is sent a notification
      letter describing the patient's high LDL level, at-risk status and need for additional
      screening. The patient may then undergo additional clinical or genetic testing and be
      provided information about CASCADE-FH and registry participation.

      Data collection For data entered at clinical sites, the primary source of information will be
      the patient's medical record. Baseline data will elements to be abstracted and entered.

      Data elements entered by self-enrolled patients in the online patient portal will include a
      subset of clinical information as well as questions on quality of life, disease-related
      anxiety, and depression. A short survey to assess patient understanding of FH health risks,
      available treatment options, and family member screening will also be included. The patient
      questionnaire was designed to be free of clinical jargon and pilot-tested by FH patient
      volunteers to ensure ease of use by participants.

      Followup data collection For patients enrolled at clinical sites, providers will be asked to
      update information at yearly intervals. Medical records will be reviewed to assess changes in
      medications, occurrence of major adverse cardiovascular events, hospitalizations, genetic
      testing, and laboratory values updated since the last date of data entry. Follow-up data will
      be collected yearly for 3 years following initial enrollment. Self-enrolled patients may
      update data at any time by accessing the patient portal. Updated information on current
      medication regimens, clinical events, and quality of life will be collected. However,
      reminder emails will be sent to all self-enrolled patients on an annual basis to ensure
      uniform entry of follow up information.

      Patient-Reported Data Validation To ensure collection of high-quality data on FH
      patient-reported outcomes, an annual validation of a proportion of self-enrolled patient
      records will be conducted to assess concordance between information entered in the online
      patient portal with data from their medical record. Following baseline data entry,
      self-enrolled patients will be asked to provide contact information for their physicians and
      to sign a medical release for validation of patient reported data. Of patients signing this
      medical release, a randomly generated 10% sample will be selected for validation on a yearly
      basis. Patient responses to questions regarding medication regimens, comorbid conditions,
      clinical events and lab results will be compared to determine concordance between patient-
      and physician-reported data. Overall agreement, sensitivity, specificity, and kappa
      statistics will be evaluated to determine concordance between responses. Based on prior
      validation analyses of patient-reported data, we expect moderate to good agreement between
      the two data sources (Κ=0.40-0.80)19,20 Data elements with low rates of concordance will be
      assessed for clarity and may be refined to enhance sensitivity and specificity. Supplemental
      educational material may be provided for variables with low concordance to further promote
      valid data capture.

      Longitudinal Outcomes Serial lipid values will be a key outcome of interest and will be
      examined to assess the adequacy of lipid modifying therapies to achieve target LDL values.
      Longitudinal outcomes of interest will include medication changes, occurrence of major
      adverse cardiovascular events, and mortality. Primary patient-reported outcomes of interest
      will include notification and screening of family members, treatment satisfaction,
      disease-related perceptions, and quality of life measurements.

      Statistical Considerations The CASCADE-FH Registry will collect patient-reported and
      clinician-reported information to characterize treatment patterns and outcomes among FH
      patients. Because this study is not-hypothesis driven and no specific medical therapies or
      treatment interventions are being compared, formal prospective calculations of sample sizes
      are not necessary. However, we will periodically assess variations in lipid management,
      clinical events, and patient-reported outcomes to evaluate temporal changes in these
      variables. Standard statistical approaches commonly used in observational analyses will be
      utilized.

      Data Feedback and Quality Improvement Sites participating in the CASCADE-FH Registry will
      receive annual data feedback reports that will highlight treatment patterns, serial lipid
      values, and clinical outcomes for their enrolled patients compared with the national results.
      These reports will be designed to facilitate quality improvement interventions at
      participating sites designed to improve the treatment and outcomes of FH patients.
      Self-enrolled patients will have the opportunity to download their reported data directly as
      well as through pre-programmed self-feedback, electronic reports that can be accessed at any
      time.
    
  