
    
      One of the challenging goals of root canal therapy is to relieve the pain associated with
      irreversible pulp inflammation. Pain control especially in the early stages of treatment, is
      critical and can enhance the confidence of both the patient and the dentist. Irreversible
      pulpitis pain is sometimes difficult to be managed through the use of local anesthetics
      solely. Inadequate pain control during treatment may contribute to the development of
      peripheral and central sensitization leading to greater pain during recovery. Various
      mechanisms have been proposed to explain the failure of local anesthetics including anatomic
      variations such as; cross innervations and accessory innervations, tachyphylaxis of
      anesthetic solutions, and activation of nociceptors including tetrodotoxin (TTX).Strategies
      to control intra-operative endodontic pain include preoperative administration of analgesics,
      supplemental infiltrations, the use of different local anesthetic solutions, intra-osseous
      and periodontal injections, a repeat inferior alveolar nerve block. Prescribing drugs prior
      to treatment may enhance the patient's attitude and reduce the apprehension during endodontic
      therapy. Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are the most common category of
      medications recommended for pain relief. They act by inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis by
      inhibition of cyclooxygenase pathway. Although, pulpectomy and removal of the inflamed pulpal
      tissues eliminates endodontic pain, post-operative pain and discomfort are common side
      effects. Many patients may still experience mild to extreme pain even after therapy.
      Diclofenac has shown a substantial reduction of post-endodontic pain when administered
      preoperatively in a single oral dose since it holds anti-inflammatory, antipyretic and
      analgesic effects. It acts primarily by inhibition of COX 1 and COX 2, thus inhibiting the
      prostaglandin synthesis. COX 1 is expressed throughout the body and has a role in protection
      of stomach mucosa, kidney function and platelet action. Numerous studies have clearly
      documented that the risk of upper gastrointestinal complications increases with increasing
      doses as well as increasing frequency of use. Additionally, when taken through oral route,
      only 50% of the absorbed dose of Diclofenac becomes available systematically, due to its
      first pass metabolism. Trans-mucosal drug delivery offers distinct advantages over oral
      administration such as avoiding hepatic first-pass metabolism, less dosing frequency,
      improved patient compliance, reduction in fluctuation in steady-state levels. In addition,
      there is a reduced intensity of local or systemic side effects, increased safety margin and
      maximum utilization of drug and reduction in the total amount of drug administered while
      achieving target delivery in odontogenic region.
    
  