
    
      Despite need for consistent adherence to medical care, youth living with HIV (YLWH) have
      suboptimal rates of retention in care and adherence to antiretroviral medication (ARV)
      treatment. There are few adherence studies with YLWH and the results are mixed, so there is a
      great need for the development of novel interventions. Results of adult HIV adherence studies
      indicate that participants are interested in using technology-based methods and are most
      receptive toward interventions that couple technological devices with motivational
      components. Pill taking monitoring devices have been found to be a sensitive measure of
      adherence to ARV medications, but do not lead to sustained improvements in adherence or
      intrinsic motivation when used alone. Building on this knowledge, this study will examine a
      multi-level technology that integrates a medication monitoring device WITH an interactive
      smartphone based app/game that is attractive and engaging to YLWH. This multi-level approach
      will integrate theory driven content with novel, but intuitive, technology to improve HIV
      treatment adherence.

      In this study, data on opening of the pill bottle will be transferred wirelessly from the
      bottle cap and a text on adherence sent to the phone. This developmental project will adapt
      and refine a smartphone app/game to include content consistent with the
      Information-Motivation-Behavioral Skills (IMB) Model. Creation and adaptation will occur from
      in-depth interviews with YLWH on ART (n=25) and an open trial of the Intervention (n=20).
      While gaming, participants will experience absorbing action-oriented adventures that increase
      information about their health (e.g. knowledge about HIV treatment), improve motivation (e.g.
      action-figures experience health benefits of adherence), and build skills (e.g. utilize
      clinicians as partners). A small randomized controlled pilot study (24 weeks) among 60 YLWH
      will examine the preliminary efficacy of the IMB Gaming Adherence Intervention (integration
      of the smart cap with the IMB informed app/game) compared to a comparison group who receive
      the smart cap and smartphone but no IMB game, on adherence and biological measures.
    
  