
    
      DESIGN Each patient will receive an Eye Movement Desensitisation Reprocessing (EMDR)
      treatment session with eye movements (EM) and an EMDR treatment session without EM. Half will
      complete the EM session first and the other half will complete the no EM session first. After
      the first session is complete the patients will cross over to complete the other treatment
      session, which will be approximately one week later. This is known as a cross over design and
      allows patients to act as their own control group. Furthermore they will be randomly
      allocated into which condition they complete first to reduce order effects. During both
      treatment sessions patients will have their arousal levels digitally measured and face video
      recorded.

      METHODOLOGY Patients who have been referred for trauma will be allocated from the NHS Tayside
      waiting list. From January 2013 to January 2014 there were approximately 72 patients across
      Tayside who were treated for Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) and/or 'reaction to severe
      stress, and adjustment disorders'. This was taken from the online patient database (MiDIS),
      which is mandatory for all clinicians in NHS Tayside to complete.

      PROCEDURE NHS Tayside Adult Psychological Therapies Service receives electronic referrals,
      usually from the GP, stating the reason for referral. The patients' symptoms/diagnoses and
      CHI number are then documented in a diary waiting to be allocated to the next available
      appointment. The clinicians will look through the diary, noting the ones who appear to meet
      the relevant diagnosis/symptoms to ensure that they will be seen by an EMDR qualified
      clinician if they choose to be seen by psychology at all. Patient's who appear to meet the
      initial criteria, will be sent a standard protocol appointment letter, stating that they must
      contact the service within 2 weeks if they still wish to be seen by psychology. Those who
      choose to be seen will be provided with an initial assessment session, where information is
      gathered about their presenting problems and history. They will also be asked to complete
      routine questionnaires. This will be completed by the EMDR qualified clinician, who at the
      same time will offer them to take part in the study if they believe the patient is suitable
      for EMDR. If the therapist believes the patient is not suitable for EMDR then as part of
      standard protocol the assessment will be completed and the patient will be allocated to the
      next available clinician for treatment. If the patient is suitable then the clinician will
      explain the parameters of the study which will include, digitally measuring arousal levels
      and video recording the patient's face during their first two treatment sessions of EMDR
      therapy with the assessing clinician. Also at their first session the clinician will show the
      equipment that will be used and provide them with a participant information letter about the
      study for them to take away and think about. Within the information letter they will be
      informed that choosing not to take part will not affect their routine care and even if they
      choose to take part they can drop out at any time and continue with treatment as usual. The
      chief investigator's contact details will also be provided, should they require further
      information. At the end of the letter they will be provided with 2 options: 1. I agree to
      take part in the study. 2. I do not wish to take part in the study. They will need to contact
      the service within 5 days of their first session to inform us of their decision. This is to
      allow the equipment to be set up in advance if they agree to take part. Regardless of whether
      they decide to take part in the study or not, their next session will be within 2 weeks of
      the initial assessment, which will be with the same clinician if they take part, but may be a
      different clinician of they do not take part, which is within standard service protocol.

      Those who agree to take part in the study will be required to bring their signed consent form
      (contained within the participant information letter) to their second session or complete
      another one on the day before engaging within the study. Their second session will either be
      to complete the assessment process/other formal measures (documented below) or start with
      EMDR treatment. This will be up to the clinician depending on how much information was
      gathered in session 1. This is within standard service protocol. Before treatment can begin
      each patient must complete the formal assessment measures. Only the 2 treatment sessions will
      use the recording equipment and following this they will continue with treatment without
      being part of the study. If at any point they decide that they no longer wish to take part,
      treatment will continue as usual, without the recording devices.

      EMDR trained clinicians will administer the EMDR treatment with 3 or 4 patients each. As
      standard service protocol, patients will receive a minimum of one hour per treatment session
      and each session will take place in an NHS psychological therapies service building.

      Within the treatment sessions patients will be exposed to EMDR with eye movements (Condition
      1, C1) and EMDR without eye movements (Condition 2, C2) conducted by the EMDR accredited
      therapist. Patients will be randomly allocated into either C1 or C2 for his or her first
      session. Session one and session two will be no more than two weeks apart with each session
      lasting approximately one hour. At the beginning of each session patients will be required to
      attach the small infrared transmittance heart rate sensor (HeartMath) to their index finger,
      which will digitally record their arousal levels and transfer the responses to the laptop.
      Their face will also be video recorded during the entire session by a small camera on a
      laptop located approximately three feet across from them. The purpose of this is to be able
      to match the time of when specific EMDR phases were administrated (the eye movements), to the
      same time of the patients HRV response. Although faces will be recorded throughout the entire
      session, only certain stages of the eight stage therapy protocol will be analysed. A five
      minute adaptation period will be given to all individuals. During both treatment sessions the
      therapist will use a chosen life event to use within the EMDR protocol. Where possible, the
      clinician will seek to ensure that each patient will complete the full eight stage protocol
      as outlined by Shapiro (1989) (Appendix 1). Each individual will also score the vividness
      scale before and after each condition is completed. A self measure of distress level (known
      as subjective units of distress [SUD]) are also obtained throughout each session as part of
      standard EMDR protocol, requiring the patient to rate their level of distress on a scale of 1
      to 10.

      MEASURES:

      Routinely used within the National Health Service (NHS):

        1. Beck's Depression Inventory-II (BDI-II) (Beck et al., 1961) will be administered in
           session 1, to ascertain the participants' mental health and well being. The BDI-II will
           be used because it is a widely used measure of depression (Beck et al, 1988).

        2. The Life Events Checklist (LEC) (Weathers et al., 2013) will be administered in session
           1 or 2, but before treatment commences, to determine a specific trauma that patients
           have been subjected to within their life. The LEC is a measure of exposure to
           potentially traumatic events, which was developed at the National Centre for
           Posttraumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). Once a trauma has been identified this will be the
           specific trauma that will be used within treatment.

        3. Impact of event scale (IES) (Horowitz et al., 1979) will be completed in session 1 or 2,
           but before treatment begins. It will be administered in conjunction to the LEC, to
           measure post trauma symptomology, which is one of the most widely used self-report
           measures.

        4. Patients self measure of distress (also known as Subjective Units of Distress [SUDs]) -
           This will be measured on a scale of 1 to 10 and is part of the eight stage EMDR
           protocol. This will occur during the 2 treatment sessions.

      Measures not routinely used in the NHS service:

        1. Dissociative Experiences Scale (DES) (Bernstein & Putnam): this will be administered in
           session 1, to screen patients who dissociate, since EMDR is found to be ineffective with
           patients who dissociate as they are unable to attend to the unpleasant thought. Patients
           scoring 30 and above will be excluded from this study. Although a formal dissociate
           measure is not routinely use, therapists will often use their clinical judgement to
           determine if someone is dissociating.

        2. Arousal levels - Heart Rate Variability (HRV) will be digitally recorded using an
           infrared transmittance heart rate sensor (HeartMath) which will be connected to the
           patient's index finger throughout the entire 2 treatment sessions. The device is very
           similar to the device that measures oxygen levels in the blood.

        3. Facial Behaviour - A laptop camera, located three feet away from the patient, will
           record the patient's face throughout the entire 2 treatment sessions, so that the time
           when the different phases of EMDR are administered can be matched to the same time on
           the patient's arousal level response. In order to accurately match patients' arousal
           responses to what treatment phase of EMDR was being administered recording must be
           achieved. Recording facial behaviour may also allow for other observable analysis to be
           completed.

        4. Vividness Scale - Barrowcliff et al. (2004) found eye movements to produce a greater
           reduction in arousal and vividness for memories associated with fear and anxiety
           compared with an eye stationary condition using physiological measures of arousal. It
           has also been found that eye movements resulted in reduced ratings of distress and
           vividness compared to a no eye movement condition (Kavanagh et al, 2001). Therefore this
           study will inform the degree of vividness associated with a particular image by asking
           the patient to hold the image in mind for ten seconds and then indicate on a ten
           centimetre visual analogue scale the degree to which the image appeared vivid from ''not
           clear at all'' to ''very clear''. The scale will contain more than two anchors to
           provide individuals with greater clarity. This is identical to a procedure used in
           previous studies on vividness (van den Hout et al., 2001). This will be administered
           during their 2 treatment sessions.

      DATA COLLECTION:

      Arousal levels and facial video recordings will be collected by the laptop program. The chief
      investigator will review and analyse the results in order to determine whether eye movements
      during EMDR treatment significantly improves arousal levels (i.e. is the patient more
      relaxed) compared to no eye movements during EMDR treatment. Analysis will also include
      taking time points across each treatment session in order to determine whether or not arousal
      levels improve over the course of the session (i.e. do patients anxiety levels reduce over
      the course of the session).

      TIME FRAMES:

      Identify patients from waiting list by 1st October 2015. Patients to get in touch by
      beginning of November to commence treatment end of November 2015 and complete by end of
      February 2016. Analyse the data by the beginning of March 2016 and then commence write up to
      complete by end of April 2016.

      A pilot study using the same technology and similar method as above was completed with 4
      Undergraduate students.
    
  