
    
      The Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development (NICHD)
      established the Nulliparous Pregnancy Outcomes Study: Monitoring Mothers-to-be (nuMoM2b) to
      study women for whom the current pregnancy will lead to their first delivery (nulliparas).
      About 40% of pregnant women in the United States are nulliparas. Because little or no
      information from previous pregnancy outcomes is available to guide assignment of risk or
      mitigating interventions, adverse pregnancy outcomes in nulliparas are especially
      unpredictable. The underlying mechanisms of adverse pregnancy outcomes such as preterm birth,
      preeclampsia, fetal growth restriction and stillbirth are interrelated and therefore will be
      evaluated as part of this study. The information gained will benefit women who are pregnant
      or who are considering pregnancy and their physicians. In addition, the knowledge will
      support future research aimed at improving care and health outcomes for a critical group of
      at-risk women who are currently understudied.

      The study is a prospective cohort study of a racially/ethnically/geographically diverse
      population of 10,038 nulliparous women with singleton gestations. The women undergo intensive
      research assessments during the course of their pregnancies to study the mechanisms for and
      prediction of adverse pregnancy outcomes (APOs) in women in their first pregnancy. The APOs
      of primary interest are preterm birth, preeclampsia and fetal growth restriction.

      The goals of the study are to 1) determine maternal characteristics, including genetics,
      epigenetics, and physiological response to pregnancy as well as environmental factors that
      influence and/or predict adverse pregnancy outcome; 2) identify specific aspects of placental
      development and function that lead to adverse pregnancy outcome; and 3) characterize genetic,
      growth, and developmental parameters of the fetus that are associated with adverse pregnancy
      outcome.

      Eight academic medical centers or sites had primary responsibility for enrollment and
      follow-up of study participants. Several of these sites collected data through additional
      academic research centers or nearby hospitals (subsites). A Data Coordinating and Analysis
      Center (DCAC) provided input to the protocol, manages the data, and analyzes the data.
      Investigators from these institutions have established a partnership with NICHD staff to
      develop and implement the study protocol and ancillary studies that acquire and analyze data
      to identify biomarkers and understand the mechanism and prediction of preterm birth and other
      adverse pregnancy outcomes.

      Nulliparous women with an in utero singleton gestation between 6 weeks 0 days and 13 weeks 6
      days of pregnancy were recruited through the eight clinical sites and their subsites.
      Mechanisms were created in the various prenatal clinics associated with the sites to identify
      eligible nulliparous women with singleton pregnancies. Once enrolled, a participant was
      followed for the duration of her pregnancy by research staff at the clinical site. Study
      visits were scheduled at four times during the pregnancy: 6 weeks 0 days through 13 weeks 6
      days estimated gestational age (EGA), 16 weeks 0 days through 21 weeks 6 days EGA, 22 weeks 0
      days through 29 weeks 6 days EGA, and at the time of delivery. Data were collected through
      personal interview, self-administered questionnaires, clinical measurement, chart
      abstraction, and collection of biological specimens (blood, urine, cervico-vaginal fluid).
      Additional data (i.e., sleep breathing assessments, actigraphy, fetal adrenal gland
      measurements) were collected through ancillary research studies on subsets of the enrolled
      women. The set-ups for screening, enrollment and follow-up of participants varied by clinical
      site and subsite. However, in each setting, the clinical site staffs included study
      investigators, research nurses, research assistants and sonographers. Clinical site staffs
      were trained to interview participants, collect and process samples, conduct various research
      tests, and input data. Data are managed at the DCAC. Specimens are stored at the NICHD
      specimen repository for later analysis.
    
  