
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the radiation dosimetric coverage of the surgical cavity and any residual tumor
      when the immediate post-operative MRI is used versus (vs.) newly acquired MRI prior to
      radiation therapy.

      II. To evaluate the cumulative dosimetric differences for the target volume and normal
      structures between an adaptive radiotherapy approach based on serial MRI vs. the
      conventionally delivered radiotherapy plan using the target and normal structure volumes from
      the initial MRI simulation.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To report the incidence of tumor progression between surgery and radiation therapy and
      factors related to higher risk of tumor progression (e.g. Time interval between surgery and
      radiation, extent of surgery, molecular characteristics).

      II. To evaluate the relationship between the delivered dosimetry and patterns of failure and
      changes in neurocognitive function.

      III. To evaluate the relationship between voxel-wise quantitative changes on multiparametric
      MRI including apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC), fractional anisotropy (FA), relative
      cerebral blood volume (rCBV), fractional volume of the extravascular, extracellular space
      (ve) and Ktrans (transfer constant that characterizes the diffusive transport of
      low-molecular weight gadolinium across the capillary endothelium) with patterns of failure
      and changes in neurocognitive function.

      IV. To determine if early post-operative progression is associated with worse overall
      survival.

      V. To determine the difference in reported pseudoprogression at first follow-up after
      completing radiation when the baseline MRI is the immediate post-op MRI vs. newly acquired
      MRI prior to radiation therapy.

      VI. To compare image co-registration accuracy between the radiation planning computed
      tomography (CT) images and MRI for the immediate post-op MRI vs. newly acquired MRI prior to
      radiation therapy.

      VII. To evaluate the relationship between standard clinical neurocognitive function (NCF) and
      iPad based NCF (iNCF) test results.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients undergo MRI with and without contrast immediately before radiotherapy (for radiation
      planning) and at mid treatment (week 3). Patients also undergo MRI without contrast on weeks
      1, 2, 4, 5, and 6 of radiotherapy. Patients may also undergo neurocognitive function testing
      over 70 minutes before treatment, at the end of each week of treatment, and at 3 and 6 months
      after completion of treatment.
    
  