
    
      Bothersome lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) secondary to benign prostatic hyperplasia
      (BPH) is a common problem, which impact patients' quality of life. It may lead to serious
      outcomes, including urinary tract infection, hematuria, bladder stones, urinary retention,
      hydronephrosis, and rarely renal insufficiency. Symptoms of BPH are due to prostatic
      enlargement, increased smooth muscle tone from the bladder and prostate, and changes in
      bladder contractility leading to lower urinary tract obstruction, which may cause permanent
      kidney damage if left untreated.

      Introduction of the Holmium laser enucleation of the prostate (HoLEP) represented a turning
      point in minimally invasive laser therapy for BPH as it achieves size-independent prostatic
      cavities similar to simple open prostatectomy with significantly lower perioperative
      morbidity. It has successfully passed the steps of validation through a growing number of
      well-designed randomized controlled studies to have a high level of evidence for safety and
      efficacy. The pulsed nature of holmium laser allows the plane of enucleation to be easier to
      develop and follow and gives superior visibility than the electro-cauterization with less
      charring of tissue.

      HoLEP proved itself as the only endoscopic procedure with superior efficacy compared to the
      traditional transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP). Furthermore, it is not only safe,
      effective, size-independent and durable even in patients with coagulopathy, but also more
      cost-effective than TURP. Meta-analyses have confirmed how well established HoLEP has now
      become, with a low long-term retreatment rate and the more pronounced improvement in prostate
      symptoms score and flow rate than after TURP.

      Recently, Holmium Xpeeda side firing fibre was introduced and it stands apart from other
      available technologies as a combination of power and efficiency, which minimizes vaporization
      time. This technology seems to revolutionize utilization of the Holmium power and delivering
      more energy directly to the tissue, due to its capability of being in contact with the
      tissue. Moreover, hemostasis would be improved by the pulse reshaping technology with a wider
      pulse width, activated by a dedicated footswitch. Therefore, the Lumenis Pulse™ 100W will
      make prostate vaporesection procedures more precise, faster and efficient, with excellent
      hemostasis. Consequently, bleeding is minimal, tissue is easier to remove and patients can
      have their catheter removed faster.

      On the other hand, Greenlight 532nm laser photoselective vaporization of the prostate (PVP)
      is an appealing treatment modality with hemoglobin as tissue target chromophore and
      relatively short learning curve. The introduction of the Xcelerated Performance System (XPS)
      180W in 2010 with the MoXy fibres represents the highest-powered system currently in use for
      this type of laser. It encourages the adoption of the enucleation principle, making it a real
      contender to HoLEP in treating large adenomas. Despite the fact that large prostates often
      require more energy and longer operative time, the XPS system has reduced the operative time
      and number of fibres required in these situations.

      Elmansy et al reported that Greenlight vaporization and Holmium laser ablation of the
      prostate (HoLAP) are effective surgical treatments for BPH in small to medium prostates. The
      two techniques have similar functional outcomes and complication rates. Subjective and
      objective voiding parameters showed significant improvement lasting for up to 3 years,
      confirming the long lasting, durable effects of each technique.

      To date, no outcomes of the new Xpeeda laser fiber have been reported in the literature,
      which is striving for trials comparing XPS 180W with other competitors such as Holmium
      vaporesection with the new fiber Xpeeda. Therefore, this study is planned to compare both
      procedures in improving bothersome LUTS secondary to BPH, and to evaluate safety and cost
      effectiveness.
    
  