
    
      An increasing body of evidence has supported acute benefits of beetroot juice including
      lowered blood pressure and greater muscle oxygenation during exercise. Thus, consumption of
      beetroot juice prior to exercise may alter the perceptual difficulty for a given exercise
      bout -- possibly resulting in an individual exercising at a greater intensity (without the
      commensurate increase in discomfort). The investigators propose that repeated exposure to a
      relatively greater exercise stimulus (via beetroot juice) may elicit more robust
      cardio-metabolic adaptations compared to exercise training alone (i.e., without beetroot
      juice). Possible findings could inform a larger randomized clinical trial to determine if
      pre-exercise beetroot juice supplementation is an effective strategy to promote health
      related benefits.

      The investigators will examine the effects of pre-exercise beetroot juice coupled with 8
      weeks of supervised exercise training among post-menopausal (55-74 years) women. Qualified
      individuals will be required to complete an initial screening visit as well as three baseline
      visits (Visits 1-3). Participants will undergo a series of tests including: dual-energy X-ray
      absorptiometry scan, bioelectrical impedance analysis, laser Doppler flowmetry, exhaled
      fraction of nitric oxide, health-related questionnaires, pulse wave velocity, and
      flow-mediated dilation. Participants will also be asked to perform leg muscle function and
      walking tests. Following the completion of Visits 1-3, participants will attend supervised
      exercise training sessions 3x/week for 8 weeks. Within 2-6 days from the last exercise
      training session, participants will repeat the same measurement procedures.

      The primary objective involves elements of feasibility (e.g., recruitment, retention,
      adherence, and adverse event) and to generate preliminary effect sizes for 8 weeks of
      exercise training for three groups: control, EX+PL, EX+BR. Secondary objectives involve
      preliminary effect sizes for pre-post changes in distance covered during the 6 minute walk
      test, changes in endothelial-dependent vasodilation, and biomarkers of cardiovascular health.
    
  