
    
      Color matching may be the only parameter of treatment with which the patient is concerned.
      Failure to match the proper color of the teeth may lead to failure of mechanically and
      biologically successful restoration. Up to 80% of the patients expressed their
      dissatisfaction with the perceived color of their dental restorations. Thus, proper color
      reproduction is considered to be one of the most complex and frustrating problems in
      restorative dentistry.

      Polymerisation shrinkage is another serious problem that causes entrapment of stresses that
      may shorten the clinical life of the restoration. In an effort to reduce this, resin
      composite is placed in increments as each increment compensate for the previous one. These
      increments are usually 2 mm each to allow the penetration of curing light. As the resin shade
      is darker and the filler size is larger, the curing depth will be more limited. So no doubt
      that the more translucent is the shade of the resin, the higher is the depth of cure. It is
      noted that, incremental placement is a tedious, time consuming and a very sensitive
      technique. Improper placement may result in air bubble entrapment or porosity that may result
      in a weak restoration.

      The bulk-fill resin composites specifically designed for large posterior restorations. They
      represent a new era in direct filling technology and a paradigm shift away from the
      traditional 2 mm increment system. Bulk-fill resin composite are possible to be cured in a
      depth of 3.5 to 5.5 mm. This reduces effort and time of the procedure and guarantees a
      solution for the polymerization shrinkage problem. It is important to note that bulk-fill
      materials do not constitute a uniform class of materials, they have different consistencies
      sculptable and flowable. Also some companies produce a translucent shade that should match
      almost all teeth color as they claim. This is called blending effect where the material can
      take the shade of the surrounding tooth structure and thus guarantee a solution for color
      matching problem.

      Also there is a deficiency in literature that compares the blending effect and color matching
      of translucent shade bulk-fill resin composite with shaded bulk-fill resin composite. So in
      this research we will assess the effect of shaded bulk-fill resin composites against the
      translucent shade bulk-fill resin composite in-vivo and ex-vivo by spectrophotometer and
      visual inspection.
    
  