
    
      The study uses 3-group parallel randomized controlled trial design.

      Participants will be recruited through advertising on social media, distributing notices
      through our networks, snowball sampling, and posting notices in community centres. The aim is
      to obtain complete data on 375 participants, thus the investigators will recruit at least 501
      mothers to account for attrition. Interested participants will complete a questionnaire in
      REDCap electronic data capture tool hosted at British Columbia Children's Hospital Research
      Institute to answer eligibility questions and provide informed consent. Enrolled participants
      will be sent a link to the baseline questionnaire package to be completed in REDcap.

      Once participants are deemed eligible for the study, they are allocated to one of the three
      conditions: 1) Control group; 2) RR digital tool; and 3) RR in-person workshop. Participants
      in Condition 1 will be provided with a link to the Position Statement on Active Outdoor Play,
      which includes information on research and recommendations for action. Participants in
      Condition 2 will be provided with a link to the RR digital tool to complete at their leisure.
      Participants in Condition 3, will be scheduled to attend the RR in-person workshop. The
      randomization schedule was generated beforehand in sealedenvelop.com using blocks of size 3,
      6, and 9. The list was then transferred to REDCap.

      Honoraria will be paid at each time point as compensation for participation. Participants
      attending in-person RR workshops are provided with an additional honorarium to compensate
      them for any expenses incurred in attending, such as travel or childcare.

      Participants have equal likelihood of assignment to each condition (33%). They will not be
      blinded to allocation, because the nature of the intervention does not allow it. They will be
      informed of their allocated treatment after completing the baseline questionnaires.
      Allocation will be concealed to the researchers at participant assignment and data analysis.
      Furthermore, the RR in-person workshop facilitator does not need to be blinded to allocation,
      as the other two arms do not have a facilitator.

      Participants will complete a questionnaire package at three time points: Baseline (T1),
      1-week post-intervention (T2), and 3-months post-intervention (T3). Survey data will be
      collected and managed using REDCap.

      The study hypotheses are:

        1. Mothers completing the RR digital tool will have a significantly greater increase of
           tolerance for risk in play than mothers in the control condition.

        2. Mothers completing the RR in-person workshop will have a significantly greater increase
           of tolerance for risk in play than mothers in the control condition.

        3. A greater proportion of mothers completing the RR digital tool will attain their
           behaviour change goal, than mothers in the control condition.

        4. A greater proportion of mothers completing the RR in-person workshop will attain their
           behaviour change goal than mothers in the control condition.
    
  