
    
      Background:

        -  Inflammatory disorders that present with neutrophilic pustular skin lesions, including
           generalized pustular psoriasis, are characterized by severe cutaneous manifestations,
           generalized inflammation and significant morbidity.

        -  Recent studies in patients with phenotypically similar pustular diseases have identified
           two monogenic forms of neutrophilic pustular psoriasis implicating interleukin (IL)-1 in
           disease pathogenesis.

             -  Deficiency of the IL-1 receptor antagonist (IL1RN, DIRA) is an autosomal recessive
                condition characterized by severe generalized pustular eruptions in the neonatal
                period, osteopenia, lytic bone lesions, joint pain, respiratory insufficiency,
                thrombosis, elevated acute phase reactants and significant mortality. Patients with
                this condition have responded rapidly to IL-1 receptor antagonist, anakinra.

             -  Deficiency of IL-36 receptor antagonist (IL-36RN/IL1F5, DITRA) is an autosomal
                recessive condition with episodic widespread pustular skin lesions, fevers and
                systemic inflammation defined by marked leukocytosis and elevated creactive
                protein.

        -  Both IL1RN and IL36RN/IL1F5 are highly expressed in epidermal keratinocytes, suggesting
           a role for keratinocytes in initiating innate immunity-mediated inflammatory skin
           diseases, and ultimately manifesting in a pustular phenotype.

        -  Patients with inflammatory pustular diseases often respond poorly to conventional
           treatment with methotrexate, cyclosporine and anti-TNF agents.

        -  Two recent case reports describe patients with pustular psoriasis unresponsive to TNF
           inhibition who responded to anti-IL-1 receptor therapy with anakinra. We hypothesize
           that monogenic and polygenic inflammatory pustular skin diseases share common pathogenic
           mechanisms mediated by IL-1.

        -  We propose a phase 2 study that will utilize a collaborative bench-to-bedside approach,
           applying targeted anti-IL-1 therapy, novel imaging modalities, and laboratory techniques
           including immunohistochemistry, gene expression and cytokine studies, and in vitro
           manipulations of skin to dissect and validate pathways in these complex diseases.

      Objectives:

      -To characterize the clinical efficacy, optimal dosing and safety of anakinra in patients
      with pustular dermatoses.

      Eligibility:

        -  Age greater than or equal to 18 years.

        -  Active macroscopic noninfectious pustular skin lesions involving greater than or equal
           to 5% of the total body surface area, or palmoplantar involvement.

        -  Histopathologic confirmation of epidermal neutrophilic pustulosis.

        -  Patients must have maintained a stable dose of immunosuppressant therapy, retinoids or
           anti-neutrophil therapy for 2 weeks prior to study initiation with resultant stable or
           worsening skin disease.

        -  Use of biologic agents requires a washout period of at least 3 half-lives prior to study
           initiation.

        -  Patients must have organ and marrow function as defined below:

             -  leukocytes >3,000/mcL

             -  absolute neutrophil count >1,500/mcL

             -  platelets >100,000/mcL

             -  creatinine within normal institutional limits OR creatinine clearance >60
                mL/min/1.73 m2 for patients with creatinine levels above institutional normal.

      Design:

        -  A 16-week, open-label phase 2 study.

        -  Patients will initially receive treatment with anakinra 100 mg/day by self-administered
           subcutaneous injection.

        -  Disease response will be assessed every 4 weeks, and determination of dose escalation
           will be made based on clinical assessment. Dose escalation can increase up to 200
           mg/day, and for patients >75 kg up to 300 mg/day at the end of week 8.

        -  If a response is achieved with anakinra, other immunosuppressants administered for the
           purpose of treatment of pustular skin disease may be tapered per physician discretion.

        -  Clinical assessment, and laboratory and subjective data will be collected in-person
           every 4 weeks to determine disease response. Telephone assessments will be performed
           weekly.

        -  Twenty-five evaluable patients will be enrolled onto this trial. The accrual ceiling for
           this study will be set to 30.
    
  