
    
      To the best of the investigators' knowledge, this is a novel study. Studies have been
      previously done on individuals who have suffered an acute TBI and were admitted to an
      intensive care unit (ICU) setting but none have been completed on individuals who suffer
      post-concussion headaches. Despite a high prevalence of post-concussive headache, there are
      no evidence-based guidelines for acute or preventive pharmacological treatment. Patients who
      experience very frequent or daily headache post-concussive headache are also at risk of
      developing medication-overuse headache (MOH)12. In addition, patients with post-concussive
      headache experience disabling comorbidities such as symptoms of depression, anxiety, and
      sleep disturbances 12 This study will be of benefit to patients who suffer headaches after a
      concussion because, though various treatments have been studied, including a combination of
      Reglan and Benadryl (63% effective in one prospective study) triptans vs non-triptans (70%
      effective vs 42% effective in one retrospective trial), gabapentin vs tricyclic
      antidepressants vs. no medication (no significant difference in outcome), none have been
      established as a definitive treatment regimen for post-concussive headache 12.
      Corticosteroids are currently utilized for management of these headaches; they are done so at
      the discretion of the physician and like the aforementioned medications, are not standard of
      care. Corticosteroid used in severe TBI (GCS < 8) have been widely studied8, however the
      utility has not been conclusive. Of note, case studies in the pediatric population with mild
      TBI (GCS 13-15) and post-concussive headache, report that they respond well to the Medrol
      Dose Pack with headache improvement during or after completion of the medication2. Currently,
      there is no standard treatment of post-concussion headaches, and in clinical practice, it has
      been observed that only approximately 50% of patients improve without any medication use. It
      is important to establish the role of corticosteroids in treating post-concussive headaches
      because they may improve quality of life and accelerate patient's functional recovery.
    
  