
    
      Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) remains an uncommon debilitating and fatal disease, and
      is clinically marked by a progressive increase in pulmonary vascular resistance leading to
      right heart failure and ultimately death. Currently the treatment options available for those
      suffering from PAH target cellular dysfunction that leads to constriction of the vasculature.
      Although there is some evidence that available therapies have secondary effects on vascular
      remodeling there are currently no therapies that target abnormal cell proliferation in PAH.

      Carbon monoxide (CO) is a gaseous molecule with known toxicity and lethality to living
      organisms when exposed to high concentrations for sustained periods. However, CO has shown
      promise in preclinical models of pulmonary hypertension. Recent studies have shown that
      mammalian cells have the ability to generate endogenous CO primarily through the catalysis of
      heme by the heme oxygenase enzymatic system and there is ample evidence demonstrating that CO
      behaves as a signaling molecule in cellular and biological processes. Furthermore, CO has
      been demonstrated to exert key physiological and protective functions in various models of
      tissue inflammation and injury.

      This study will evaluate the safety and potential efficacy of inhaled CO in subjects with
      severe PAH. Over forty subjects with severe PAH despite best available therapy will be
      screened from the UIC pulmonary vascular disease clinic, of which twenty subjects will be
      recruited for participation in the trial. The trial will consist of an initial screening
      period to determine subjects' eligibility for the study. This will be based on a previous
      echocardiogram, a six minute walk test and right heart catheterization done as part of
      standard care for subjects with pulmonary arterial hypertension. Following the initial
      screening, the trial will last sixteen weeks, during which subjects will receive inhaled
      carbon monoxide up to three times weekly at the University of Illinois at Chicago.
    
  