
    
      Background

      Subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) from a ruptured cerebral aneurysm is a subset of stroke with a
      poor prognosis. Delayed cerebral ischemia (DCI) is a major complication after SAH in around
      30% of SAH patients and increases case fatality 1.5 - 3 fold. One option to treat DCI is to
      use induced hypertension, alone or in combination with haemodilution and hypervolemia, so
      called Triple-H, but the efficacy of induced hypertension in reducing DCI is based on case
      series only, and not on a randomised clinical trial.

      Objective

      To investigate the outcome after induced hypertension versus no induced hypertension in
      patients with DCI after aneurysmal SAH.

      Study design

      A multi-centre, single blinded, randomized controlled trial.

      Study population

      Patients admitted to one of the participating centres after recent SAH with a treated
      aneurysm and DCI based on the onset of a new focal deficit and/or a decrease of the level of
      consciousness of at least 1 point of the Glasgow Coma Scale with exclusion of other causes of
      deterioration, will be randomized to either hypertension (n=120) or no hypertension (n=120).

      Interventions

      Patients in arm 1 will have their blood pressure raised in order to improve cerebral blood
      flow (CBF). In case of a low cardiac output, inotropics will be added. Induced hypertension
      will be continued for at least 48 hours when patients show some improvement within the first
      24 hours. After 48 hours, the dose of vasopressor will be tapered daily, and resumed in case
      of clinical deterioration. In patients who do not show any improvement within 24 hours,
      induced hypertension will not be continued. In patients in arm 2 of the trial, hypertension
      will not be induced. Patients in both arms of the trial will be treated with oral nimodipine
      and normovolaemia without haemodilution. In some selected centres, an extra perfusion CT scan
      is performed 24-36 hours after instalment of the treatment. Measurement of CBF is performed
      in all participants with perfusion CT-scanning of the brain at the beginning of the study (as
      part of regular patient care), and after 24-36 hours.

      Main outcome measurement

      The modified Rankin scale at 3 months after the SAH, will be compared between patients who
      were randomized to induced hypertension and patients who were randomized to no induced
      hypertension.
    
  