
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Articular cartilage repair in the knee is aimed at young patients with area(s) of cartilage
      loss and no deformity of the knee. These patients aren't indicated for a knee replacement.
      Articular cartilage repair leads to improvement of symptoms of pain, locking and function.
      Traditionally, articular cartilage repair has always involved exposing the entire knee joint
      with an arthrotomy. This, though effective, would lead to a large scar, longer hospital stay,
      longer rehabilitation and its associated complications. Also, the use of Bone Marrow Aspirate
      Cells (BMAC) for the purpose of cartilage repair has long been debated with both sides having
      valid arguments and good surgical results.

      RATIONALE:

      In our study, one method (Cultured Chondrocytes) requires an arthroscopy and an arthrotomy,
      takes 6 weeks to complete and is followed by 6 weeks of partial weight bearing on the
      operated leg. The other method (Cultured BMAC) is done arthroscopically, followed by 4
      injections into the affected knee and takes 6 weeks to complete which includes 6 weeks of
      partial weight bearing on the operated leg.

      Both procedures have shown encouraging results in terms of pain relief, cartilage growth and
      improved function. The use of cultured chondrocytes requires two surgeries and takes a total
      of 12 weeks till the patient can walk without support while the use of cultured BMAC involves
      only one surgery and can have the patient walking unsupported in 6 weeks. This study aims to
      ascertain if either technique is superior to the other.

      If the cultured BMAC technique is shown to be superior, it could mean lesser surgery and
      faster recovery for the patient.

      STUDY DESIGN: This study aims to compare two techniques of articular cartilage repair in the
      knee, namely the use of cultured chondrocytes and the use of cultured bone marrow aspirate
      cells (BMAC). The principal objective of is to ascertain and assess the superiority, if any,
      of either surgical technique over the other. The superiority will be assessed with by the
      certain scoring systems (IKDC, KOOS, Lysholm and MOCART) measured pre- and post-operatively.

      Depending on which procedure the patient chooses to have, they will be allotted to either the
      cultured chondrocytes group or the cultured BMAC group. The patient is followed up in the
      clinic at the Spire Alexandra Hospital at 2 weeks, 6 weeks, 3 months, 6 months, 1 year and 2
      years following the surgery and their progress is documented by questionnaires and clinical
      examination. MRI scans are done at one and two years to assess the extent of cartilage
      growth.

      SURGICAL TECHNIQUES

      Cultured chondrocytes:

      This method has two stages. In the first stage, a knee arthroscopy is done to harvest viable
      cartilage cells which are then sent to a lab to be cultured for 6 weeks. The entry ports are
      then closed and the knee is covered with a sterile dressing. The patient is transferred to
      the surgical recovery ward and, when medically stable, then transferred to their room on the
      ward. After discharge from the hospital, the patient is advised partial weight bearing on the
      operated leg for six weeks after the surgery. They also undergo five sessions of
      physiotherapy. Surgical clips and sutures are removed at 2 weeks following the surgery.

      In the second stage, an arthrotomy is performed. The area of cartilage deficiency is prepared
      and the cultured cells are transplanted onto it. The incision is then closed and the knee is
      covered with a sterile dressing. The patient is transferred to the surgical recovery ward
      and, when medically stable, then transferred to their room on the ward. After discharge from
      the hospital, the patient is advised partial weight bearing on the operated leg for 6 weeks
      after the surgery. They also undergo 5 sessions of physiotherapy. Surgical clips and sutures
      are removed at 2 weeks following the surgery.

      Cultured BMAC:

      This method also has two major stages. The first stage involves harvesting BMAC from the
      patient's iliac crest (hip bone), which are then sent to the laboratory for culture for 3
      weeks. Simultaneously, an arthroscopy is performed on the affected knee and the area of
      cartilage deficiency is debrided and microfractured. The entry ports are then closed and the
      knee is covered with a sterile dressing. The patient is transferred to the surgical recovery
      ward and, when medically stable, then transferred to their room on the ward. After discharge
      from the hospital, the patient is advised partial weight bearing on the operated leg for six
      weeks after the surgery. They also undergo five sessions of physiotherapy. Surgical clips and
      sutures are removed at 2 weeks following the surgery.

      In the second stage, the cultured BMAC are injected into the affected knee and cells attach
      themselves to the microfractured area. The patient is then recalled at 4, 5 and 6 weeks from
      the first stage for an injection of Hyaluronic Acid into the operated knee.

      Follow up: Patients in both arms will be followed up at 2,6,12,26,52 and 104 weeks following
      the end of the second stage of the procedure. Parameters noted will be pain relief,
      improvement in function and cartilage growth as assessed by MRI scans at one and two years.
    
  