
    
      The Study Drugs:

      Oxaliplatin is designed to keep new cancer cells from growing.

      5-fluorouracil is designed to block the way cancer cells grow and divide, which may slow or
      stop their growth and keep them from spreading throughout the body. This may cause the cancer
      cells to die.

      Leucovorin is designed to strengthen the effect of 5-fluorouracil by reducing tumor cell
      resistance to 5-fluorouracil. BECAUSE OF A PHARMACY SHORTAGE OF IV LEUCOVORIN, PATIENTS WILL
      CONTINUE TREATMENT WITHOUT LEUCOVORIN UNTIL IT BECOMES AVAILABLE.

      Bevacizumab is designed to block the growth of blood vessels that supply nutrients necessary
      for tumor growth. This may prevent or slow down the growth of cancer cells. Bevacizumab is no
      longer FDA approved to treat breast cancer.

      Cetuximab is designed to prevent or slow down the growth of cancer cells by blocking proteins
      inside the cancer cell, called the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR).

      Study Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be assigned to a study
      "arm" (group) based on the results of your screening tests. All patients will receive
      oxaliplatin and bevacizumab. If your doctor thinks it is in your best interest, you will also
      receive cetuximab. However, recent studies have found that cetuximab, when given alone or in
      combination with other chemotherapy drugs, was not effective when given to patients with
      colorectal cancer that had a K-RAS mutation. If you have colorectal cancer and you are tested
      for and do not have the K-RAS gene, you will also receive cetuximab. Patients with normal
      liver function will also receive 5-FU.

        -  If you are in Arm A, you will receive oxaliplatin, 5-FU, and bevacizumab.

        -  If you are in Arm B, you will receive oxaliplatin, 5-FU, leucovorin, bevacizumab, and
           cetuximab.

        -  If you are in Arm C, you will receive oxaliplatin and bevacizumab.

        -  If you are in Arm D, you will receive oxaliplatin, bevacizumab, and cetuximab.

      Arm A:

      All participants will receive the same dose levels of oxaliplatin and bevacizumab.

      You will be assigned to a dose level of 5-FU based on when you joined this study. Up to 4
      dose levels of 5-FU will be tested. Up to 6 participants will be enrolled at each dose level.
      The first group of participants will receive the lowest dose level. Each new group will
      receive a higher dose than the group before it, if no intolerable side effects were seen.

      Arm B:

      All participants will receive the same dose levels of oxaliplatin, bevacizumab, and
      leucovorin.

      You will be assigned to a combination dose level of 5-FU and cetuximab based on when you
      joined this study. Up to 4 combination dose levels of 5-FU and cetuximab will be tested. Up
      to 6 participants will be enrolled at each dose level. The first group of participants will
      receive the lowest dose level. Each new group will receive a higher dose than the group
      before it, if no intolerable side effects were seen.

      Arm C:

      All participants will receive the same dose levels of oxaliplatin.

      You will be assigned to a dose level of bevacizumab based on when you joined this study. Up
      to 4 dose levels of bevacizumab will be tested. Up to 6 participants will be enrolled at each
      dose level. The first group of participants will receive the lowest dose level. Each new
      group will receive a higher dose than the group before it, if no intolerable side effects
      were seen.

      Arm D:

      All participants will receive the same dose levels of oxaliplatin.

      You will be assigned to a combination dose level of bevacizumab and cetuximab based on when
      you joined this study. Up to 4 combination dose levels of bevacizumab and cetuximab will be
      tested. Up to 6 participants will be enrolled at each dose level. The first group of
      participants will receive the lowest dose level. Each new group will receive a higher dose
      than the group before it, if no intolerable side effects were seen.

      In each group, after the highest tolerable dose of the study drug combination is found, up to
      12 additional patients will receive that dose level.

      Additionally, for Arm A and Arm B, after the highest tolerable dose of the study drug
      combination is found, up to 20 additional participants with colorectal cancer will be added
      to Arm A and Arm B.

      Catheter Placement for Study Drug Administration:

      You will be hospitalized to receive the study drug combination. On the day of your admission
      to the hospital, you will have a catheter (a sterile flexible tube that will be placed in the
      hepatic artery [a blood vessel in the liver] while you are under local anesthesia) through
      which you will receive the study drugs. The catheter will be placed and removed during each
      cycle. Your doctor will explain this procedure to you in more detail, and you will be
      required to sign a separate consent form.

      You must lay in bed for the entire time that the catheter is in place. In some cases, the
      catheter will be removed right after your chemotherapy is complete. In some cases, the
      catheter may remain in overnight. Therefore, you must remain in bed until the catheter is
      removed.

      Study Drug Administration:

      Arm A:

      On day 1 of each 21 day cycle you will receive oxaliplatin through the hepatic arterial
      catheter over 2 hours. You will then receive 5-FU over 24 hours through the hepatic arterial
      catheter. You will then receive bevacizumab by vein over 1 1/2 hours.

      Arm B:

      On day 1 of each 21 day cycle you will receive oxaliplatin through the hepatic arterial
      catheter over 2 hours and 5-FU and leucovorin by vein over 24 hours on Days 1 and 2 of each
      cycle (a total of 48 hours). You will then receive bevacizumab by vein over about 1 1/2
      hours, followed by cetuximab by vein over 1-2 hours.

      Arm C:

      On day 1 of each 21 day cycle you will receive oxaliplatin through the hepatic arterial
      catheter over 2 hours and bevacizumab by vein over about 1 1/2 hours.

      Arm D:

      On day 1 of each 21 day cycle you will receive oxaliplatin through the hepatic arterial
      catheter over 2 hours and you will receive bevacizumab by vein over about 1 1/2 hours. You
      will also receive cetuximab by vein over about 1-2 hours on Day 1 of each cycle.

      Study Visits:

      At each study visit, you will be asked about any other drugs you may be receiving and about
      any side effects you may be having.

      On Day 1 of Cycle 1:

        -  Your medical history will be recorded.

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your weight and vital signs.

        -  Blood (about 4 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  Blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be used to test your blood's ability to clot.

        -  If your study doctor thinks it is needed, you will have an ECG.

        -  Women who are able to become pregnant will have a urine pregnancy test.

      On Day 2 of Cycle 1:

      -You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your weight and vital signs.

      On Day 1 of Cycles 2 and beyond:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your weight and vital signs.

        -  Blood (about 4 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  If your study doctor thinks it is needed, you will have an ECG.

        -  Women who are able to become pregnant will have a urine pregnancy test.

      On Day 2 of Cycles 2 and beyond:

      -You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your weight and vital signs.

      At the end of each cycle, blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn to test your blood's ability
      to clot.

      At the end of Cycle 2 and then every 2-3 cycles after that, you will have scans to check the
      status of the disease. This may include a chest x-ray, CT scan, MRI scan, a PET scan and/or a
      PET/CT scan. If the study doctor thinks it is more appropriate for you, other types of scans
      may need to be performed. The study doctor will discuss these scans with you, and you may be
      asked to sign a separate consent form.

      Length of Study:

      You may continue to receive the study drug combination for as long as you are benefitting.
      You will be taken off study if the disease gets worse or if you experience any intolerable
      side effects.

      Follow-Up:

      About 6 weeks after your last dose of study drugs, the following tests and procedures will be
      performed:

        -  Blood (about 3 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your weight and vital signs.

      This is an investigational study. All of the study drugs are FDA-approved and commercially
      available for use in other types of cancer:

        -  5-FU - for cancers of the breast, pancreas, colon/rectum, stomach, and a type of skin
           cancer (superficial basal cell carcinoma).

        -  Oxaliplatin and leucovorin - for colorectal cancer.

        -  Bevacizumab - for colorectal and lung cancers.

        -  Cetuximab - for colorectal and head/neck cancers.

      It is investigational to give the study drugs together for advanced cancer.

      Up to 198 participants will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  