
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the safety and maximum tolerated dose of oral arsenic trioxide with or
      without ascorbic acid in subjects with myelofibrosis.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the incidence, severity, and attribution of treatment-emergent adverse events.

      II. To estimate the rate of complete or major clinical-hematological response from treatment
      with arsenic trioxide and ascorbic acid in this subject population as measured by the
      International Working Group for Myelofibrosis Research and Treatment (IWG-MRT) response
      criteria.

      III. To measure arsenic trioxide levels in the plasma of patients treated with and without
      ascorbic acid on this protocol.

      IV. To estimate the efficacy of arsenic trioxide with ascorbic acid in subjects with
      myelofibrosis, as determined by a reduction in Janus kinase 2 (JAK2) V617F, JAK22T875N, and
      mutations of the thrombopoietin receptor (MPL515L/K) allele frequency in peripheral blood
      neutrophils.

      V. To examine the effect of treatment on biological markers of myeloproliferation, cytokine
      production and hematopoietic stem cell mobilization. In particular, the following markers of
      disease will be measured: cluster of differentiation (CD)34+ cell count in peripheral blood
      measured by cytofluorimetry, plasma vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), transforming
      growth factor-beta (TGF-B), stromal cell-derived factor-1 (SDF-1), neutrophil elastase levels
      by commercial assays.

      VI. To examine single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in the arsenic trioxide pathway in
      subjects with myelofibrosis treated with arsenic trioxide and ascorbic acid.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of arsenic trioxide.

      Patients receive arsenic trioxide orally (PO) once daily (QD) in orange juice on days 1-21.
      Patients may also receive ascorbic acid PO QD on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 28 days
      for up to 168 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 4
      months for 1 year.
    
  