
    
      Arginine is the substrate of endothelial nitric oxide (NO) synthase. Citrulline converts to
      arginine and has a greater bioavailability than arginine. Chloroquine is a competitive
      inhibitor of arginase which is released from lysed red cells and possibly through liver
      damage. Raised arginase predicts low plasma arginine levels and may predict clinical disease
      severity.

      The interventions being tested are designed to target:

      (i) the moderate to severe growth retardation commonly observed in children with SCD
      especially in low income countries; (ii) endothelial dysregulation secondary to low NO
      bioavailability, inflammation and oxidant stress, hypothesised to underlie much of the
      clinical pathology in SCD.

      This study will test the following hypotheses:

        1. That the provision of energy, protein and micronutrients within a ready to use
           supplementary food will increase linear growth, weight gain and proportion of fat-free
           mass in children with SCD.

        2. That the provision of supplementary L-arginine and L-citrulline within the matrix of a
           twice-daily RUSF plus daily chloroquine (CQ) for 4 months, compared to a standard RUSF
           and weekly anti-malarial prophylaxis CQ to children with SCD will:

             -  Increase plasma arginine concentrations and the ratio of plasma arginine:
                ornithine.

             -  Decrease or not alter plasma asymmetric dimethylarginine (ADMA) concentrations

             -  Improve NO-dependent vascular function as detected by an increase in maximum flow
                mediated dilatation (FMDmax)

        3. That the provision of daily CQ at a dosage of 2-3mg base/kg/day for 4 months to children
           with SCD will:

             -  Decrease the activity of plasma arginase through competitive inhibition

             -  Decrease levels of plasma inflammatory markers

      If successful then larger studies of efficacy and effectiveness would be needed to assess
      long-term endpoints of hospitalization, stroke, and mortality. Existing evidence suggests
      that the proposed intervention also has the potential to increase the efficacy of hydroxyurea
      (HU) therapy. The successful development of an affordable ready-to-use 'nutraceutical' food
      with proven efficacy in growth promotion and vascular health could represent a major step
      forward for SCD patients in low-income countries.
    
  