
    
      Background:

      Participation rate for colorectal cancer screening in France is 39%. In a Cochrane review,
      patient participation rates to colorectal cancer screening varies from 30 to 60%. Policy
      makers usually consider that these participation rates should be higher, based on the premise
      that the impact of the screening mainly depends on patient participation. In France, patients
      at average risk of colorectal cancer are eligible to the Faecal Occult Blood Test for
      colorectal cancer screening if: 1) they are older than 50 and younger than 74; 2) they have
      no personal history of colorectal cancer (or history of adenoma bigger than 1 cm) and no
      family history of colorectal cancer.

      Objective:

      To demonstrate that providing to GPs a list of their patients who are not compliant to
      colorectal cancer screening will 1) enhance patient participation to screening, and 2)
      decrease the proportion of cancer diagnosed outside the screening organisation. Design :
      Randomised controlled study, 3 parallel arms.

      Design:

      Randomized controlled study. 3 parallel arms.

      Setting:

      Primary care setting in France.

      Enrollment:

      In this study, the intervention will focus on the GP. The statistical unit for the results
      analysis will be the GP. GPs allocated in the 3 groups of the study will be all GPs 1) from
      the "Loire-Atlantique and Vendée" geographic area (1300 GPs on average) and 2) who have more
      than 100 patients in their patient list (based on data provided by the Healthcare Insurance
      System Services).

      Intervention:

      GPs allocated to the intervention group (A) will receive a list of the patients who are not
      compliant to colorectal cancer screening, while GPs allocated to the others groups will not
      receive the corresponding information.

      Randomization:

      3 groups : (A) GPs will receive a list of the patients who are not compliant to colorectal
      cancer screening, (B) GPs will receive a document providing general information on colorectal
      cancer screening, (C) GPs will not receive any specific document (they continue regular
      practice).

      Primary outcome measure: Patient participation to colorectal cancer screening Secondary
      Outcome Measures: number of cancers screened in (versus diagnosed outside) the screening
      procedure.
    
  