
    
      Apart from regular chest physiotherapy and postural drainage to help clearing mucus from
      bronchiectatic airways, inhalational and parenteral antibiotics have also been used to reduce
      the bacterial load in destroyed airways, thus controlling and preventing infective
      exacerbations. In recent years, accumulated evidence has suggested a central role of airway
      inflammation and immune dysregulation in the evolution of non-CF bronchiectasis. The
      classical type of airway inflammation is neutrophilic, with abundance of neutrophils in
      sputum, bronchoalveolar lavage fluid and bronchial biopsy from patients with non-CF
      bronchiectasis, even in clinically stable-state. The recruitment and trafficking of
      neutrophils to bronchiectatic airways are mediated via various pro-inflammatory cytokines
      like interleukin-1β (IL-1β), IL-8, tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha and leukotriene B4
      (LTB4). Investigators have also shown in an in vitro model that sputum from patients with
      non-CF bronchiectasis could stimulate IL-6 production from normal human bronchial epithelial
      cells, mediated via TNF-alpha. Recent data have suggested the involvement of Th17 immunity,
      in which Th17-polarized Cluster of Differentiation 4 (CD4) T cells can respond to bacteria
      (especially Pseudomonas aeruginosa) in bronchiectatic airways by elaboration of IL-17,
      leading to downstream IL-8 release from airway epithelial cells, neutrophil chemotaxis, mucus
      hypersecretion and formation of ectopic lymphoid follicles. This IL-17 driven pathway can
      further aggravate the vicious circle of key pathogenetic mechanisms in non-CF bronchiectasis.
      In previous studies, airway neutrophilic inflammation as indicated by sputum neutrophil count
      was inversely correlated with lung function (forced expiratory volume in 1 second, FEV1) and
      directly with duration of disease and severity (Bronchiectasis Severity Score, BSI) in stable
      non-CF bronchiectasis. Investigators have also demonstrated that sputum elastase, released
      from airway neutrophils, significantly correlated with 24-hour sputum volume, number of
      bronchiectatic lobes, percent predicted FEV1, and sputum leukocyte count in stable-state
      bronchiectasis. Patients with non-CF bronchiectasis harbouring Pseudomonas aeruginosa showed
      greater sputum neutrophilia and volume, with lower FEV1 and FEV1/forced vital capacity (FVC)
      ratio in previous studies from our group and others.

      This study aims to investigate the extent of airway inflammation in non-CF bronchiectasis is
      indicated by sputum leukocyte density (primary outcome measure), pro-inflammatory cytokines
      (IL-1β, IL-8, TNF-alpha, LTB4 and IL-17) and neutrophil elastase. Investigators hypothesize
      that 4-week treatment of roflumilast in stable-state non-CF bronchiectasis can result in: (1)
      reduction in sputum leukocyte density (primary hypothesis); (2) reduction in sputum
      pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-1β, IL-8, TNF-alpha, and IL-17) and LTB4; (3) reduction in
      sputum neutrophil elastase; (4) reduction in 24-h sputum volume; (5) no change in sputum
      bacterial colonization, load and microbiome.
    
  