
    
      The investigators will collect two data sets each in Lao PDR and Thailand: the first contains
      district-level representative health behaviour of approx. 2,400 adults across 30 rural
      communities per country (4,800 in total; representing rural populations of approx. 1-2
      million adults); the second is a complete social network census of approx. 1600 adults each
      in three rural communities per country (approx. 4,800 in total). Within the sampled villages,
      the investigators will complete checklists about existing formal and informal healthcare
      facilities and gather patient load data from primary care units catering to the respective
      villages. As part of the questionnaire testing process, the investigators will conduct (and
      collect as primary data) cognitive interviews to improve the survey tool, to interpret our
      data, and to justify our methodological choices. The investigators will carry out the
      district-level village survey in one round, and the village-level social network censuses in
      two rounds. Between the two village social network censuses, the investigators will engage in
      public engagement activities in the selected villages (focused on antibiotic use) and
      re-survey all adults in the three villages per country two to three months later.

      Objectives:

      The primary objective is to improve the understanding of patients' antibiotic-related
      behaviour to support creative thinking about targeted and unconventional antimicrobial
      resistance (AMR) interventions in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs).

      The investigators strive to achieve this primary objective by informing three research
      questions in Chiang Rai (Thailand) and Salavan (Lao PDR):

        1. What are the manifestations and determinants of problematic antibiotic use in patients'
           healthcare-seeking pathways?

        2. Will people's exposure to antibiotic awareness activities entail changed behaviours that
           diffuse or dissipate within a network of competing healthcare practices?

        3. Which proxy indicators facilitate the detection of problematic antibiotic behaviours
           across and within communities?
    
  