
    
      Acute Graft versus Host Disease (aGvHD) is the most deadly complication facing children who
      have allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT). aGvHD occurs, in large part,
      because the T cells in the bone marrow graft do not "accept" the presence of the transplant
      recipient's cells, and mount a severe, debilitating, and often deadly attack against the
      recipient, striking the skin, the liver, and the gastrointestinal track, most prominently.
      For patients receiving bone marrow from an unrelated donor, the rate of aGvHD can reach as
      high as 80%, with up to half of patients dying from this complication. These serious outcomes
      occur despite our best efforts at aGvHD prevention. Given the lack of success in preventing
      aGvHD with current therapies, novel therapies to prevent this disease are desperately needed.

      In this study, we plan to test a novel drug to prevent aGvHD. This drug, known as abatacept,
      specifically blocks the activation pathway critical to T cell function known as "T cell
      costimulation." In particular, it blocks the CD28-mediated costimulation pathway that is
      critical for optimal T cell activation and proliferation. My research group has done
      extensive pre-clinical work with this compound. Our work has demonstrated its efficacy in
      inducing immune tolerance after transplantation in both mouse models and primate models. In
      addition, patient trials have demonstrated that blocking CD28-directed T cell costimulation
      can prevent T cell-mediated diseases, including rheumatoid arthritis and psoriasis, and can
      improve solid organ transplant acceptance. Abatacept is currently FDA approved for use in
      rheumatoid arthritis. Given this drug's safety and efficacy profile, we have been granted an
      IND-exemption from the FDA for the inclusion of abatacept in a GvHD-prevention strategy.

      This is a safety and tolerability study of the addition of abatacept to a GvHD-prophylaxis
      regimen. Thus, the primary objective of the study is to determine the safety and tolerability
      of the addition of abatacept to aGvHD prophylaxis in transplants for malignant hematologic
      disease using unrelated donor bone marrow or peripheral blood stem cell grafts.

      Three secondary objectives will also be addressed:

        1. We will estimate the incidence and severity of aGvHD in patients receiving the
           abatacept-based protocol.

        2. We will determine the immune phenotype of donor cells in patients receiving abatacept.

        3. We will determine the ability of donor T-cells in patients receiving abatacept to
           respond to both polyclonal and recipient-specific immune stimulation.

      These secondary objectives will allow us to determine the impact of abatacept-containing GvHD
      prevention on both T cell alloreactivity and on T cell-mediated protective immunity.

      This study is for patients older than 12 who have been diagnosed with high-risk leukemia and
      for whom an unrelated bone marrow transplant is planned. We plan to enroll 10 patients on the
      study, over a 1-year period from the opening of the trial. Of these ten patients, at least
      five will be pediatric patients; the other five may be from adult patients taken care of by
      Winship Cancer Center physicians. All clinical study coordination and biologic studies will
      be performed by CHOA personnel.

      Participants will receive one of two standard myeloablative conditioning regimens for their
      stem cell transplant, and will receive an aGvHD prophylaxis regimen including cyclosporine,
      methotrexate, and abatacept. They will have immunologic analysis for 1 year after transplant
      and clinical analysis for 3 years after transplant.
    
  