
    
      Femur fracture is one of the most common cause for hospital stay in the case of elder people.
      Besides these, the patients have the stress of surgery. According to existing practice, the
      patients are kept in fasting state from the midnight that makes the patients physically as
      well as mentally discomfort. The patients go in the catabolic state. In addition to these,
      the prevalence of malnutrition in older people having hip fracture ranges from 2% to 63%. Now
      the new concept has been launched that the patients should be fed 50 gram carbohydrate two
      hours prior to the surgery, called carbohydrate loading. The study reveals that preoperative
      carbohydrate loading decreases the insulin resistance and improves metabolic functions. It
      presents the patients in anabolic state rather than catabolic state, resulting in the less
      post-operative protein and nitrogen loss, which facilitates the wound healing. It improves
      the recovery rate, and hence decreases the length of post-operative stay at hospital, that
      brings the smile in the face of patients and reduces the treatment cost too. Similarly, it is
      also associated with significantly better well-being. In Nepal, there is the practice of
      giving anesthesia to the patient in complete fasting state.

      The prolonged fasting state adds the harassment in the patients. Now, the practice of
      preoperative carbohydrate loading before two hours of surgery is preferred in the world
      context to minimize the problem of patients discomfort and to maximize better outcome.
      However, this type of trend is not practiced in Nepal. Furthermore, the issue of nutrition is
      not prioritized in orthopedics in Nepal. So, this study will also evaluate the nutritional
      status of the patients under study to relate with the outcomes.

      The sample size will be calculated based on the previous similar study with a Mean + SE of
      Cumulative Ambulatory score (Study groups Vs Control groups: 12.76 + 0.33 Vs 12.02 + 0.32).
      Considering this data with taking α level of significance at 5% and power of 80%, the sample
      size will be calculated using test comparing independent two means in Stata/MP version 14.1
      (StataCorp LP, College Station, Texas). The calculated sample size is 60. To take into
      account with 10% loss through follow-up and drop out, the total sample size will be 66 (33
      participants in each group.)
    
  