
    
      Effectiveness and feasibility: As part of this randomized controlled trial, our study team
      will work with two FQHCs in North Carolina to identify patients who are eligible and due for
      CRC screening according to the clinics' electronic health records. We will randomly select
      and assign eligible patients to receive either the mailed FIT intervention or usual care in
      waves, rather than defining the patient cohort at the beginning of the study, to more closely
      align with a pragmatic approach that would occur in clinical practice. Among patients who
      return a completed FIT and have a positive (abnormal) FIT result, a patient navigator will
      call the patient to assess and resolve barriers to follow-up (diagnostic) colonoscopy. The
      study team will conduct another round of mailings the following year. Participants will
      remain in their originally assigned study arms. Participants in the intervention arm who
      remain eligible for the study will be mailed another FIT and, if the FIT result is positive
      (abnormal), will be offered navigation to follow-up (diagnostic) colonoscopy.

      Implementation assessment: We will survey FQHC providers to assess their perceptions of the
      appropriateness, feasibility, and fit of the program. We also will administer a brief survey
      to representatives of each FQHC to assess organizational climate, culture, and communication
      patterns that may affect the implementation of the project. Following the survey, we will
      conduct interviews with providers to better understand contextual factors that may affect
      adoption, maintenance, and scalability of the SCORE CRC screening program. Also, we will
      interview patients in the Mailed FIT (intervention) arm patients to better understand factors
      that affect completion of a follow-up colonoscopy following a positive (abnormal) FIT result.

      Cost and cost-effectiveness: We will assess total cost (sum of fixed and variable costs) and
      the incremental cost-effectiveness of the Mailed FIT (intervention) arm versus the usual care
      arm, measured in cost per person screened for CRC. We will document all fixed and variable
      costs associated with implementing the intervention, based upon personnel time tracking,
      invoices, receipts paid, test kit and processing costs, postage and other mailing costs, and
      other means.
    
  