
    
      Focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS) and a related condition, collapsing glomerulopathy,
      are chronic renal diseases affecting the glomerular podocytes. Currently, over thirteen
      genetic mutations are associated with FSGS. We are interested in expanding our understanding
      of these and other genes that may cause FSGS and collapsing glomerulopathy. We will study
      individuals with affected family members. We will also study sporadic cases; the rationale
      for studying this population is that FSGS and collapsing glomerulopathy are significantly
      more common among individuals of African descent. The latter observation suggests that
      particular FSGS-susceptibility alleles may be more common among African Americans. In the
      present study, we are addressing the hypothesis that genetic variation contributes to the
      pathogenesis of idiopathic FSGS and collapsing glomerulopathy, both idiopathic and HIV
      associated variants.

      We are studying the following groups:

        1. African-Americans with idiopathic or HIV-associated collapsing glomerulopathy. We will
           exclude post-adaptive FSGS, associated with glomerular hyperfiltration, and medication
           associated FSGS.

        2. Other patients with idiopathic FSGS<TAB>

        3. African Americans with HIV and without kidney disease (hyper-normal controls)

        4. African descent controls (controls).<TAB>

        5. Healthy European and Asian descent controls (controls).<TAB>

        6. Relatives of patients with familial FSGS

        7. Kidney donors

        8. Tamils

      We are taking three methodologic approaches. First, we are examining known FSGS risk genes or
      candidate genes, looking for disease-causing mutations and for disease-susceptibility
      haplotypes. Second, we have undertaken a genome scan, in the African descent population. We
      may also undertake a whole genome scan in European and Asian descent. Evidence of linkage
      disequilibrium among these markers will be sought between patients with and without FSGS.
      Third, when we identify families with multiple affected individuals and which lack known
      genetic mutations affecting FSGS genes, we will pursue positional cloning.
    
  