
    
      Background:

        -  A phase I clinical trial with this same vaccine alone was associated with stable disease
           (at least 4 months) in 40% of patients and 1 pathologic complete response.

        -  Radiation therapy upregulates Fas on tumor cells allowing for easier killing by antigen
           specific activated T cells. Dominant negative fas transfected tumor cells demonstrated
           the anti-tumor effects were fas mediated.

        -  Radiation has been shown to up-regulate ICAM, tumor associated antigens and MHC class I
           on human tumor cell lines in vitro.

        -  TRICOM vaccines act synergistically with radiation in tumor treatment models.

        -  Radiation therapy at the doses we propose appears to have a favorable safety profile.

        -  Clinical trials using PSA vaccine shows that local radiation of tumor does not inhibit
           vaccine efficacy.

      Objectives:

        -  1: Safety of the combination of a CEA based vaccine and radiation

        -  2: clinical response

        -  2: Immunohistochemistry - (FAS, MHC, p53 and CEA on tumor before and after radiation
           therapy)

        -  2: Immunological response (ELISPOT assay).

      Eligibility:

        -  Solid Tumors expressing CEA positive cancer with radiographically visible metastatic
           liver lesions.

        -  Completed at least one chemotherapy regimen for metastatic disease.

        -  Life expectancy greater than or equal to 6 months

        -  Adequate organ function

        -  ECOG 0-1

        -  No autoimmunity

        -  No serum positivity for HIV, Hepatitis B or C viruses

      Design:

        -  Single cohort pilot study of vaccine and radiation therapy to liver lesions in 10
           evaluable patients. All vaccines and radiation are given at the NIH Clinical Center.

        -  Vaccine:

      rV-CEA(6D)/TRICOM, (1.2 x 10(8)) PFU subcutaneously (s.c.) day 1

      rF-CEA(6D)/TRICOM, (4 x 10(8)) PFU s.c., days 21, 35, 49, and 63

      All vaccinations will be given with rF-GM-CSF, 1 x 10(7) pfu s.c.

      -Radiation: 2 Gy/d for 4 days after each dose of rF-CEA(6D)/TRICOM on days 22-25, 36-39,
      50-53, and 64-67 (total planned radiation dose per patient is 32 Gy).
    
  