
    
      The healing process and therefore the success of a laser treatment are strongly determined by
      an appropriate treatment with special skin care products of the laser-treated skin. Cooling
      measures prevent the swelling of the treated skin area, if applied directly after the
      procedure. A soothing and wound-healing-promoting care applied subsequently for seven days,
      can support and also speed up the healing process.

      The Lumenis® Company is the manufacturer of CO2 laser systems and recommends the application
      of the Okklusiv ointment Vaseline® postoperatively, in order to prevent the treated tissue to
      the air exposition. These occlusive wound care should be maintained, until the encrustation
      of the laser-treated skin decreases, which usually happens 7-14 days postoperatively.

      The Bepanthen® Wund- und Heilsalbe (Bayer) could be a possible alternative to Vaseline® as
      postoperative care. Bepanthen® Wund- und Heilsalbe contains pro-vitamin Dexpanthenol as an
      active ingredient and is widely used in dermatological therapy. The product helps to
      stabilize the protective barrier of the skin, to reduce the skin irritation, to stimulate the
      skin regeneration and to promote the wound healing. The investigators examined the effect of
      substances containing Dexpanthenol on wound healing process applied topically, in
      three-dimensional (3D) dermal skin equivalents in vitro. For this purpose, many lesions with
      standardized diameter and depth were generated using a laser. The subsequent topical
      application of substances containing dexpanthenol on the wound healing models (treated with
      laser) for three-days led to a significantly faster wound closure compared to
      Vaseline-covered models (Marquardt et al., 2015). The aim of this study is to compare the
      effect of white Vaseline with Bepanthen® "Wund- und Heilsalbe" (both applied postoperatively)
      on the wound healing following fractional ablative CO2 laser treatment of photo-damaged skin
      in vivo.
    
  