
    
      This study was a prospective, randomized and controlled clinical trial designed to compare
      two modalities of treatment of Miller's class II recession: FTPG versus Langer &Langer
      modified technique. From each patient study was included one Miller's class II recession, in
      patient with multiple Miller's class II recession was included the deepest one. Clinical
      parameters were evaluated at base-line and after 6 months.

      40 patients seeking treatment at the Unit of Periodontology of the University of Chieti,
      Pescara, Italy, and affected by Miller's class II recession were selected for the study. The
      participants volunteered for the study after they received verbal and written information and
      signed a consent form approved by the Ethical Committee of the "G. D'Annunzio" University
      Medical Faculty. The study protocol was in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki of
      1975, then revised in Tokyo in 2004.

      All 40 patient underwent a professional supra-gingival scaling by ultrasonic instruments. To
      each patient were given motivational oral home care instructions in order to acquire correct
      and pressure-less brushing technique and a-traumatic use of dental floss and/or inter-dental
      brush. In addition it was suggested electric toothbrush use with controlled pressure with
      extra-soft head and instructions about it were conferred. Only The achievement of
      supra-gingival plaque control through a-traumatic oral hygiene procedures permit the access
      of the surgical step.

      A sample size of 40 patient (20 for group) was calculated to detect clinical statistical
      difference of 1 mm in root coverage with α= 0.005 and to prevent a reduction of statistical
      power due to hypothetical patient's drop out.

      Student's t-test for unpaired samples and analysis were used to harmonize the different age
      and gender in each group.

      Custom made computer-generated table provides the randomly allocation of experimental unit in
      the two groups.

      To conceal allocation, opaque envelopes containing the treatment of the specific subject were
      assigned to the specific patient and were opened during surgery, immediately before making
      clinical measurements.

      All measurements were performed by a single experienced operator. To ensure intra-examiner
      reproducibility, calibration sessions were performed until a standard deviation of the
      difference of three consecutive measurements <0.5mm for the GR(primary outcome) has reached.

      The post-surgical care is founded for all patients on 2 g/day amoxicillin plus clavulanic
      acid for 6 days, oral ketoprofen for pain-control if needed . Two weeks after surgery suture
      were removed. Plaque control of grafted area was performed for 3 weeks after surgery through
      a double rinse in a day with 0.12% chlorhexidine digluconate solution. Than patients were
      instructed again in mechanical tooth cleaning of the grafted area using an ultra-soft manual
      toothbrush for 1 month.

      Patients were recalled once a week for the first 4weeks after the surgery where they
      underwent gentle supra-gingival professional tooth cleaning and oral hygiene motivation
      reinforcement.
    
  