
    
      In the last decade, significant progress has been made in improving the heart health of
      individuals in the United States. However, despite these advances, many racial and ethnic
      minority groups still have high rates of cardiovascular disease. Korean Americans, in
      particular, are more prone to developing high blood pressure than other Americans or
      individuals living in Korea. Possible reasons for this may include stress, diet, or lifestyle
      changes that occur as a result of immigration. Because many Korean Americans have low health
      literacy skills, it may be harder for them to understand medication dosing instructions, keep
      track of medical appointments, or comprehend written medical information. Korean Americans
      have traditionally been identified as a "hard to reach" group, and few programs have
      specifically targeted these individuals with regards to improving blood pressure control. The
      purpose of this study is to evaluate a health literacy-focused intervention that aims to
      improve blood pressure control among older Korean Americans. The results from this study may
      be helpful in developing future literacy-focused blood pressure programs targeted to minority
      groups in the United States.

      In this study, participants will be randomly assigned to either a literacy-focused high blood
      pressure intervention or a wait-list control group, which will initially involve usual care
      from a regular medical provider. Participants in the intervention group will attend a weekly
      2-hour educational session for 6 weeks. Bilingual research nurses and other professionals
      will facilitate these sessions, and each participant will receive a Korean language workbook
      with examples of medical terminology, prescription and appointment slips, and blood pressure
      management strategies. For 12 months, participants will self-monitor their blood pressure and
      record these measurements through a telephone management system. Community health workers
      will conduct telephone counseling on a monthly basis and those participants with uncontrolled
      blood pressure will receive more intensive support and follow-up counseling. Study visits
      will occur at Week 6 and Months 6, 12, 18, and 24, at which time blood pressure, height, and
      weight will be measured. In addition, participants will complete questionnaires that assess
      health literacy, high blood pressure knowledge, problem solving and communication skills,
      treatment adherence, health care utilization, and quality of life. Participants in the
      control group will take part in the intervention once the study has been completed.
    
  