
    
      The primary objective of this multicentre cross-sectional survey-based study is to estimate
      the prevalence of oral side effects of COVID-19 vaccine in the short term.

      The secondary objectives are:

        -  to identify the risk factors of COVID-19 vaccine oral side effects in the short term.

        -  to evaluate the relationship between oral side effects and other inflammatory side
           effects of COVID-19 vaccine in the short term.

      The target population is healthcare workers as they are identified among the priority groups
      of COVID-19 vaccine deployment plans in the EU/EEA and the UK. One more reason to select the
      healthcare workers among different groups of the population, their higher awareness about the
      possible vaccine-related oral side-effects so that more accurate and reliable results can be
      obtained.

      A self-administered questionnaire will be developed, and its content validity will be tested
      using a panel of experts. The test re-test reliability of the questionnaire will be tested by
      30 volunteers (10 Czech, 10 Turkish, 10 German) to achieve at least a Cronbach's alpha of
      0.70. The questionnaire will be available in five languages; Czech, English, German, Slovak
      and Turkish. Dual forward translation and expert panels will produce equivalent Czech,
      German, Slovak and Turkish versions of the questionnaire.

      The questionnaire will be composed of multiple-choice items divided into four main
      categories; a) demographic data including gender, age, location of practice, profession, and
      experience, b) medical anamnesis including medical comorbidities, medications, and recent
      oral symptoms, c) COVID-19 related anamnesis including vaccination date, previous infection,
      and exposure to infected cases, and d) vaccine side effects including inflammatory symptoms,
      cutaneous symptoms, and oral symptoms. (Annex 1)
    
  