
    
      1. To conduct the research, a sociologist will collaborate with Doctor Nicolas Roche, the
           study director. The contribution of a sociologist will offer a viewpoint from outside
           the medical aspect, which will allow more global identification of the areas of the
           lives of patients that are affected by hemiparesis. Furthermore, the sociological
           perspective will seek to demonstrate the social aspects, which have heretofore been
           explored little or not at all in medical and public health studies, such as, for
           example, in terms of intimacy or self-image. It must delicately capture the practices,
           logic of action and though of the patients, by placing them in the social contexts in
           which they evolve and develop. Therefore, attention will be paid to certain "social
           determinants" (such as sociocultural setting, age or gender) and certain resources
           (particularly economic, relational and material), which can have an effect on the ways
           in which patients perceive and cope with the consequences of their hemiparesis. The role
           of loved ones (partner, family members, friends) will also be examined, since many
           sociological works have shown that they are usually on the front line to accompany,
           shape and manage the effects of the motor impairment.

        2. The study will target adults regularly followed in the department of physical medicine
           and rehabilitation of the Raymond-Poincaré hospital. These individuals must present with
           hemiparesis secondary to a single, hemispheric cerebrovascular accident, be living at
           home and be able to move inside and outside of the home.

      Patients having several severe cognitive disorders or aphasia will not be interviewed.

      The study will include an exploration phase (a corpus of approximatively 30 examinations) and
      a quantitative component (approximatively 100 questionnaires).

      Once the examinations have been completed, the preparation of the questionnaire will be done
      with the validation of clinical experts. The questionnaire will include approximately 20
      items, distributed over several dimensions of patients' lives. The participants' response
      time to the questionnaire should be in a range from 8 to 12 minutes, in order to facilitate
      its insertion in the professional practices when the patients are at a hospital visit.

      The researcher will be in charge of completion of the questionnaire. This will be performed
      around or during the consultation of patients at Raymond-Poincaré hospital. The first
      completions will be recorded (with the written approval of surveyed patients) in order to be
      able to work on possible improvements, particularly in terms of the order of questions or in
      their understanding and response options. After ten completions, the questionnaire will be
      slightly revised if modifications appear necessary, then will remain the same until the
      desired volume of questionnaires is received (approximatively 100).
    
  