
    
      The main aim of this project is to address our knowledge gap about COPD management, access
      problems, and differences in environmental exposure among newcomers in Canada: by engaging
      key stakeholders, fostering dialogue, gathering baseline data, and generating knowledge on
      how improved access to culturally and linguistically appropriate educational materials can
      enhance awareness and practices about COPD control and self-management through interventional
      study, thereby improving the health status of the target populations. We plan to document:
      "1." what are the cultural imperatives that are likely to mediate ethnic Chinese patients to
      manage COPD? "2." to what extent does the Canadian health care system's environment influence
      newcomers response to COPD? Our aim is to examine the belief system and health practices
      among target communities that may influence treatment and management of COPD.

      This research will make theoretical, methodological and applied research contributions. It
      will establish strong community - primary care provider and academic connections for the
      development of the proposed educational materials, measurement tools, and framework.
      Community participation will be included throughout the development of this study, enhancing
      the potential of acquiring new knowledge about cultural and traditional practices of the
      sample population.

      Our approach will enable primary health care providers, knowledge users, and policy makers to
      design appropriate educational intervention initiatives targeted to diverse ethnic minority
      groups in relation to COPD. We foresee findings that provide not only better ways to measure
      health literacy pertaining to COPD in our target populations, but that will also help develop
      materials and measures that can be applied to other populations in BC and the rest of Canada.
      We expect that the participatory approach used in this study will contribute to capacity
      building, improving newcomers' ability to access and use relevant COPD information (in terms
      of prevention, control and management) and to transfer and share the information learned with
      other members of the target communities. The proposed community consultation will also help
      us identify culturally appropriate communication mode(s) to deliver health information
      messages and determine practical adult learning approaches applicable to diverse communities
      in Canada.
    
  