
    
      The reduction of postoperative complications is an essential aspect of care in perioperative
      medicine.

      Many studies have shown that individualized hemodynamic therapy, by optimizing fluid
      administration and cardiac output, can reduce the risk of postoperative morbidity and
      mortality.

      A fluid challenge, consisting in the administration of a small bolus of intravenous volume of
      fluid over a short period of time, is one of the commonest therapeutic hemodynamic
      intervention to test the preload reserve and the cardiac response to an increase in
      intravascular volume of a patient (fluid responsiveness). However, an increase in stroke
      volume (or cardiac output) is only achieved in 30 to 50% of patients after a fluid challenge
      test. Several dynamic tests have been described to predict the response to fluid challenge,
      however their limits are numerous.

      The end-expiratory occlusion (EEO) test, consisting in a brief interruption of mechanical
      ventilation at end-expiration, by preventing the variation in intra-thoracic pressure, allows
      an increase in venous return, cardiac preload and stroke volume. Thus, an increase in stroke
      volume during an EEO can predict fluid responsiveness, simulating a fluid challenge though
      avoiding the administration of possibly unnecessary fluids.

      The EEO test has already been successfully evaluated in several studies in ICU patients. Only
      few studies were conducted in the operating room, with conflicting findings: one study,
      consisting of an EEO test of 30 seconds found that changes in stroke volume during an EEO can
      predict fluid responsiveness, whereas another one, consisting of an EEO test of 15 seconds
      did not.

      The purpose of the study is to evaluate the influence of the duration of EEO test to predict
      fluid responsiveness in mechanically ventilated patients in operating room.
    
  