
    
      Rapid wound healing in burn injuries advances wound closure, and decreases opportunities for
      infection and scarring (Hansbrough, Achauer, Dawson, et al., 1995; Soroff & Sasvary, 1994);
      also leading to a shorter length of stays (LOS). Decreased LOS in the hospital supported by
      rapid wound closure facilitates reentry to the home and work environments should lead to a
      reduction in the costs associated with hospitalization. In addition, for patients with facial
      burns, rapid granulation bed establishment may decrease associated appearance changes.

      Use of an enzymatic agent has been described in only three studies (Hansbrough, Achauer,
      Dawson, et al., 1995; Soroff & Sasvary, 1994; Varma, Bugatch, & German 1973). Treatment an
      enzymatic agent resulted in shorter time to achieve a clean wound bed and significantly more
      rapid wound healing when compared to controls or other agents for 94 patients with
      non-facial, partial-thickness burns (Hansbrough, Achauer, Dawson, et al.; Soroff & Sasvary).
      Twenty patients with dermal ulcers treated with an enzmatic agent, when compared to placebo
      controls, showed significantly decreased pus, odor, necrosis, and inflammation (Varma,
      Bugatch, & German, 1973). There was a relative reduction in wound size almost reaching
      significance (p<0.07) for those patients with dermal ulcers too.

      Though an enzymatic agent is without purported antibiotic properties, a rapid reduction in
      bacterial burden in wounds has been shown in animal models (Payne, Salas, Ko, Naidu, Donate,
      Wright et al., 2008). The bacterial burden decreased rapidly in scald burn wounds to achieve
      a bacterial balance for 15 rats with E-coli infected wounds when compared with saline-treated
      controls to <105 colony forming units/gram of tissue (p < .05).

      Previous studies have suggested that the exploratory variables being collected are associated
      with shorter healing times and lower infection rates. Whether these differences are actually
      due to some other mediating/moderating factor (gender-specific enzyme or hormone
      concentrations, gene interaction, metabolism, etc) and not the exploratory variables is
      unclear and not empirically established. A future, larger study will hopefully more fully
      explore these relationships. However, to justify the more detailed investigations will
      require showing differences at the more crude level. Unfortunately, to date there has been no
      research examining the potential benefits of using collagenase in patients with facial burn
      injuries. As a result, the aims of this study are to:

        1. Show the benefit (e.g., decreased time until the granulation bed is well established,
           shorter time until wound closure) an enzymatic agent achieves in partial-thickness
           facial burns when compared to a common antibacterial agent;

        2. Investigate the interrelationships among demographic variables, treatment, pain,
           anxiety, and itch;

        3. Explore whether time to granulation bed establishment can be predicted from treatment;
           when adjusting for demographic variables, pain, anxiety, and itch levels.

        4. Examine the long-term scarring and social experience of persons with facial burns.

      Design: A prospective, experimental study design in which each individual will be their own
      matched control.

      Methods

      Procedure. Within 24 hours of burn unit admission, patients or their spouses, or guardians
      will be asked regarding study participation. Upon patient agreement, and signing the
      institutional review board approved informed consent form, HIPAA Research Authorization, a
      demographic information form will be completed and wound culture results obtained (if
      ordered).

      The patients will be randomized into receiving either bacitracin or collagenase to the right
      side of the face (ointment one). Ointment two will be applied to the left side of the face.
      Treatment of the partial-thickness facial burns will be performed by the nurses on the burn
      unit according to burn unit protocol. Therefore, each person will serve as their own matched
      control, thus reducing the sample size required to achieve sufficient power for the study by
      reducing deviance between cases and control (i.e., age, pain, itch, size of burn, and
      scarring). Also, this type of study design will allow us to achieve valid, reliable results
      with fewer individuals. This is a typical study design for similar ointment and eye drops
      studies. The bridge of the nose will be used as a guide to divide the face in half
      lengthwise. The wound will be cleansed and dressed twice daily. Treatment will continue until
      the granulation bed is well established. Daily ratings of pain, anxiety, and itch will be
      obtained at each morning dressing change. Digital photographs of only the facial burn will be
      taken weekly and at the first outpatient visit.

      Patient confidentiality will be maintained by assigning participants a random, unique, study
      identification number that cannot be linked directly to any individual. This random number
      will be used in all study data sets for data management and data analysis. Signed (approved)
      informed consent forms will be kept in a locked file in the principle investigator's office.
      The research data sets will be stored on a university secured computer drive.

      Digital photographs will be identified by patient number. These photographs will be rated by
      burn wound experts recruited from a posting on the American Burn Association web site (e.g.
      nurses and/or physical therapists certified in wound care with a minimum of 5 years'
      experience). Patients' records will also be assessed weekly as to whether any patient on
      study has a wound or blood infection confirmed by a positive laboratory culture. Those
      patients with confirmed positive cultures will be dropped from the study. Patient pain,
      anxiety, and itch scoring will be obtained and recorded by the nurses caring for patients on
      the burn unit.

      Assessment of scarring will be obtained at the first out-patient visit by both the healthcare
      provider and patient. For the three and six month follow-ups, every effort will be made to
      have both the health care provider and patient assessments, however, it may not always be
      possible to have the patient return to the hospital (e.g., costs associated with travel and
      missing work) so the patient's assessment will be obtained via telephone. Assessment of the
      social experience will be obtained by completing the two instruments and open-ended questions
      either in-person or through a telephone interview at the first out-patient visit, at three
      and six months after injury.

      Instrumentation

      Pain and Anxiety. Physician ordered analgesic and anxiety therapy will be provided per
      patient request prior to each dressing change. At each morning dressing change, patients will
      rate their perception of pain and anxiety, separately, with a 10-point visual analogue scale
      (where 1= no pain, or anxiety and 10= the most possible) at three time points. These times
      will be: prior to cleansing and debridement, at completion of the dressing change, and 30
      minutes after treatment. The Richmond Agitation and Sedation Scale (RASS) will be used with
      non-verbal patients.

      Richmond Agitation and Sedation Scale (RASS). Inter-rater reliability in 290-paired
      observations by nurses, results of both the RASS demonstrated excellent inter-rater
      reliability (weighted kappa, 0.91 and 0.94, respectively) (Ely, Truman, Shintani, et al.,
      2003). Criterion validity was tested in 411-paired observations in the first 96 patients of
      the validation cohort, in whom the RAS showed significant differences between levels of
      consciousness (P<.001 for all) and correctly identified fluctuations within patients over
      time (P<.001). Face validity was demonstrated via a survey of 26 critical care nurses, which
      the results showed that 92% agreed or strongly agreed with the RASS scoring scheme, and 81%
      agreed or strongly agreed that the instrument provided a consensus for goal-directed delivery
      of medications.

      Itch. Physician ordered itch therapy (e.g., Benadryl, Atarax, or Claritin) will be provided
      per patient request prior to each dressing change. At each morning dressing change, patients
      will rate their perception of itch with a 10-point visual analogue scale (where 1=no itch and
      10=the most possible), at three time points. These times will be: prior to cleansing and
      debridement, at completion of the dressing change, and 30 minutes after treatment.

      Scarring. Scarring will be measured by two instruments [The Patient and Observer Scar
      Assessment Scale (POSAS)] developed by Draaijers, Tempelman, Botman, et al. (2004) and
      further tested by Van de kar, Corion, Smeulders, et al. (2005. These two instruments, one for
      the health care provider and the second for the patient, recognizes the need for both the
      professional's and patient-based need for scar assessment, whereas, the Vancouver Scar Scale
      (VSS) only assesses scar severity from the professional's viewpoint. Though the VSS has been
      accepted and used as a scar assessment tool, there is not evidence to suggest it is the "gold
      standard" measure of burns scarring, and additionally, it does not include the patient's
      perception of their scarring.

      The POSAS has items assessing vascularity, pigmentation, thickness, relief and pliability,
      rated on a 10-point numeric scale, with normal skin and worst scar used as end labels. Items
      on the patient scale directly correspond to theses except for scar color. Patients are asked
      to rate their itchiness and scar pain. A ten-point numeric scale is used (1=no complaints
      /normal skin, 10=worst imaginable/very different). Individual items are summed with higher
      scores representing poorer scars and lower scores representing scars more closely to normal
      skin. Both scales showed acceptable internal consistency (Cronbach's alpha 0.76 (patient) and
      0.69 (observer). The test-retest reliability of the patient scale has not been evaluated in
      burn scars.

      Social Experience. It is proposed that partial-thickness burns to both sides of the face
      result in non-normal appearance which may cause stigmatizing and dehumanizing behavior
      directed at these burn survivors (Lawrence, Fauerbach, Heinberg, Doctor, and Thombs, 2006;
      Lawrence, Rosenberg, Rimmer, Tombs, and Fauerbach, 2010). The following two instruments will
      assess the social experience.

      The social experience will be measured by two instruments: the Perceived Stigmatization
      Questionnaire (PSQ) and the Social Comfort Questionnaire (SCQ) (Lawrence, Fauerbach,
      Heinberg, Doctor, and Thombs, 2006; Lawrence, Rosenberg, Rimmer, Tombs, and Fauerbach, 2010).
      Both instruments were developed and tested for use with a population of burn injury
      survivors. The PQS is a 21 item scale where each item is measured on a 5-point Likert scale
      (never, almost never, sometimes, often, always). Three factors were loaded: absence of
      friendly behavior, confused behavior and starring, and hostile behavior. Scores are
      calculated by totaling items and dividing by 21. Higher scores indicate levels of perceived
      stigmatizing behaviors.

      The SCQ is an eight item, one factor scale. Each item is also measured on a 5-point Likert
      scale (never, almost never, sometimes, often, always). The final score is the average of
      items; higher scores indicate higher social comfort.

      Open-ended Questions: Several open-ended questions will be included to allow participants to
      describe instances of how their social experience changed after the facial burn injury. It is
      hoped that these answers will further clarify the two instrument findings
    
  