
    
      People with atopic dermatitis (AD), also known as eczema, experience hot, dry, scaly skin
      with severe itching. In addition, people with AD are prone to skin infections and
      inflammation. Little is known about the causes of AD or why people with AD are more prone to
      infections. The purpose of this multi-center, clinical registry study is to determine genetic
      markers associated with susceptibility of AD patients to infections and to also serve as a
      potential participant database for future studies.

      Study procedures will usually be completed in one visit to the clinic; however, participants
      may need to return for one or more additional visits to provide blood and skin swabs if they
      do not meet sampling criteria at the initial Screening Visit. A subset of participants from
      National Jewish Health may be asked to return to clinic for 2 additional visits approximately
      7 and 14 days after the original sample collection for collection of skin swabs for
      assessment of antimicrobial activity. All participants may also be asked to return for an
      Unscheduled Visit to provide additional blood and/or skin swabs. Atopic Dermatitis with
      previous or current Eczema Herpeticum (ADEH+), Atopic Dermatitis with previous or current
      Eczema Vaccinatum (ADEV+) and Methicillin-Resistant S. Aureus (MRSA+) participants will be
      contacted every 6 months for the duration of the study.

      Recruitment emphasis will include Non-Hispanic Caucasian, Non-Hispanic African American, and
      Mexican American since these constitute the three largest racial/ethnic populations according
      to the U.S. Census Bureau 2009 data; however, no racial/ethnic groups will be excluded. Our
      scientific rationale for targeting these three racial/ethnic groups is to ensure that we are
      able to recruit sufficient numbers of participants in each group to perform meaningful tests
      for genetic association.
    
  