
    
      The aim is to study efficacy of chemotherapy with gemcitabine - oxaliplatin combination for
      advanced radioiodine refractory differentiated thyroid cancer patients after anti-angiogenic
      agents or in case of contra-indication to anti-angiogenic therapy.

      For refractory thyroid cancer patients, in case of contra-indication to molecular targeted
      therapies or in case of progression or toxicity during treatment, alternative treatments are
      urgently needed.

      Our study could precise if cytotoxic agents should remain a treatment option for refractory
      thyroid cancer after molecular targeted therapies or in case of contra-indication.

      Numerous clinical trials are proposed to evaluate various molecular targeted therapies for
      refractory thyroid cancer, either conducted by institutional or industrial promoters. In
      contrast, chemotherapy trials are lacking. As generics are actually available for gemcitabine
      and oxaliplatin, no industrial support can be expected and prospective evaluation a
      chemotherapy regimen need to be conducted by an institutional promoter ("Assistance Publique
      - Hôpitaux de Paris"), supported by many French expert teams through the rare tumor network
      ""TUTHYREF"".

      GEMOX regimen will be administrated intravenously every two weeks in ambulatory setting.

      The objective of this study is to analyse the efficacy of chemotherapy with gemcitabine -
      oxaliplatin combination for advanced radioiodine refractory differentiated thyroid cancer
      patients after anti-angiogenic agents or in case of contra-indication to anti-angiogenic
      therapy.

      The primary end point is overall response rate (complete + partial response - CR+PR),
      according to RECIST 1.1, assessed by local investigator at 4 months.

      30 patients will be included in a two steps design (Fleming design). A response rate lower
      than 15% define the inefficacy level. Minimal efficacy should be 35% response rate.

      First step: inclusion of 15 patients. If 2 or less responses are observed: end of study for
      inefficacy If 6 or more responses are observed: efficacy endpoint has been reached If 3 to 5
      responses are observed, additional inclusions are needed. Second step: inclusion of 15
      additional patients. Nine responses are expected to define a positive study. Details are
      presented in statistical section.

      The secondary end points are:

        -  Safety report according to NCI CTCAE v 4.0 grading scale

        -  Early metabolic response rate on 18F-FDG-PET/CT at 2 months

        -  Disease control rate (DCR = CR + PR + SD) ≥ 6 months

        -  Duration of response

        -  Time to progression

        -  Progression free survival

        -  Overall survival.

        -  Evolution of quality of life according to Fact-G and EQ-5D "
    
  