
    
      Hepatic encephalopathy (HE) is a highly prevalent neuro-cognitive complication of cirrhosis
      characterized by cognitive dysfunction, and high rate of subsequent mortality and recurrence.
      HE also places a tremendous burden with a relentless increase in inpatient stay duration with
      charges topping $7244.7 million in 2009. There were almost 23,000 hospitalizations for HE in
      2009 and far more patients with HE who are being managed as an outpatient in the US. In the
      NACSELD (North American Consortium for the Study of End-Stage Liver Disease) experience
      supported by Grifols, HE in inpatients is an independent risk factor for mortality and also
      the leading cause of readmissions in patients with cirrhosis.

      HE has two major phases, an acute inpatient phase, where patients undergo evaluation for
      precipitating factors and HE treatment, and the post-discharge phase after HE resolution
      where the patient has a normal mental status but may be cognitively impaired. Furthermore, it
      is being increasingly recognized that even after the resolution of an acute HE episode with
      normal mental status and ability to understand and consent, patients do not regain their
      pre-HE cognitive function despite maximal therapy with the current standard of care. As many
      as 70% of patients with HE, despite standard of care, have residual significant cognitive
      impairments. Studies show that patients with HE, despite being on these medications which are
      standard of care, continue to have significant cognitive impairment translating into poor
      health-related quality of life (HRQOL), poor employment status, and very poor socio-economic
      status. This residual cognitive impairment is proportional to the number of HE episodes and
      places a heavy medical and socio-economic burden on patients, caregivers and society. In some
      cases, this approximates a dementia-like situation and makes this situation very difficult to
      manage.

      These patients have three options in the current therapeutic situation which can improve
      brain function. However all of these options have problems in widespread acceptance or
      eligibility. First, if the patients are hyponatremic, correction of hyponatremia using
      tolvaptan can help but tolvaptan is now not FDA-approved for cirrhosis. Second a selected
      group of patients can undergo porto-systemic shunt embolization if their MELD score is <11
      and they have a double shunt, which is the minority of individuals. Lastly a small trial done
      by our group showed improvement with fecal transplant but this requires several more years of
      study before this becomes mainstream.

      Therefore, there is a major need for treating this continued cognitive impairment for which
      there are currently no widely-available therapeutic agents available but which can improve in
      selected cases. A medication or strategy that shows improvement in this functioning will be
      rapidly assimilated into the therapeutic algorithm and will potentially affect several
      thousand patients and their caregivers who continue to suffer from this issue.

      There is strong evidence that this persistent cognitive impairment is accompanied by a
      sustained pro-inflammatory state that is not quenched by our current standard of care15.
      Ammonia, inflammation, endotoxemia, oxidative stress and endothelial dysfunction play an
      important role in the pathogenesis of HE. There is also evidence that in patients with
      advanced cirrhosis, i.e. those who are predisposed to HE, of reduction in albumin
      concentration and capacity to bind to these metabolites that precipitate HE.
    
  