
    
      Design: The study design is a single-site, single-arm, trial of NDURE (Navigation for
      Disparities and Untimely Radiation thErapy) to assess the feasibility and acceptability of
      this patient navigation (PN) intervention to decrease delays and racial disparities starting
      postoperative radiation therapy (PORT) after surgery for HNSCC.

      Following screening and informed consent, sociodemographic and oncologic will be
      prospectively gathered about participants from validated questionnaires and the electronic
      medical record (EMR). Participants will undergo 3 sessions of NDURE. Measures of feasibility
      (enrollment, dropout, missed PN encounters, navigator caseload, and time allocation) will be
      assessed during delivery of NDURE. Questionnaires assessing symptom burden and health-related
      beliefs will be collected at baseline and post-treatment to assess the feasibility of data
      collection procedures and monitor completion rates. Following completion of NDURE, patients
      with HNSCC will complete validated measures of acceptability related to satisfaction with PN.
      Post-NDURE qualitative work with patients and providers will help refine the intervention

      Treatment Allocation: Participants will be enrolled into NDURE

      Delivery of intervention: NDURE is a navigation-based, multilevel intervention targeting
      barriers to timely, guideline-adherent PORT at the patient-, healthcare team-, and
      organization-levels. NDURE consists of 6 key functions including (1) Improve patient
      knowledge about Guidelines for timely PORT and associated care processes; (2) Minimize the
      burden of travel for HNSCC care; (3) Improve communication between patients and providers
      regarding intentions and goals for timely, guideline-adherent PORT; (4) Enhance coordination
      of care between healthcare teams during care transitions and about treatment sequelae; (5)
      Track referrals to ensure timely scheduling of appointments and patient attendance across
      fragmented healthcare systems; (6) Restructure the organization to clarify roles and
      responsibilities for care processes associated with PORT delivery to avoid duplication and
      gaps in care.

      Direct contact between the NDURE navigator and patient occurs via three clinic-based,
      face-to-face NDURE sessions lasting 30-60 minutes each. The three NDURE sessions coincide
      with the pre-surgical consult, hospital discharge, and first postoperative visit, time points
      chosen to facilitate case identification and coordination across care transitions. During
      each NDURE session, the navigator delivers patient education and creates or updates the PORT
      Care Plan. Referral tracking and follow-up occurs through asynchronous contact between the
      navigator, patient, and healthcare organizations between NDURE sessions.

      The sample size justification for this single-arm study is based on the primary feasibility
      endpoints of NDURE accrual and completion. In the randomized controlled trial (RCT) of NDURE
      (NCT04030130), the investigators plan to enroll 60% of eligible patients. The investigators
      expect similar accrual in this feasibility study and therefore, accruing to NDURE will be
      considered feasible if at least 15 of 25 eligible subjects enroll. Our sample size was
      selected to provide a small probability of having an observed accrual rate of at least 60%
      when the true accrual probability is actually less than 60%. For example, if the true accrual
      probability for our proposed design is 45% (35%), the probability of enrolling 15 or more of
      25 eligible subjects is only 10% (1%). Additionally, the investigators target an NDURE
      completion rate ≥85%. That is to say, NDURE is feasible if at least 13 of the 15 subjects
      enrolled complete all three in-person NDURE sessions. Accordingly, the sample size for the
      single-arm study was selected to provide a small probability of having an observed completion
      rate of at least 85% when the true completion probability of the intervention is actually
      less than 85%. For example, if the true completion probability for our proposed design is 70%
      (60%), the probability that 13 or more of the 15 enrolled patients complete all three
      in-person NDURE sessions is 13% (3%). Therefore, the probability of falsely declaring NDURE
      feasible is reasonably controlled based on this sample size.

      Statistical Methods of Analysis: This aim is descriptive, and the statistical analysis
      focuses on characterizing the feasibility and acceptability of NDURE. To examine patterns and
      characterize sociodemographic, oncologic, and symptom burden variables, the investigators
      will construct graphical displays and descriptive statistics (e.g. frequencies and percent
      for categorical variables and mean, median, standard deviation, and range for continuous
      variables). Feasibility measures for study accrual rate will evaluate the proportion and
      frequency of eligible patients who accrue (overall, white, and African American). Given its
      pilot nature, the study is not designed to evaluate racial differences in accrual, although
      reasons for study decline will be collected, analyzed for each racial subgroup, and used to
      refine recruitment. NDURE completion rate will be analyzed as 1) the percentage of enrolled
      patients who attend all three in-person NDURE sessions and 2) the proportion of three
      in-person NDURE sessions that are completed. For navigator caseload, the investigators will
      consider the frequency of simultaneous cases navigated. Navigator time allocation for direct
      and indirect time, as well as patient-report measures of satisfaction with navigation will be
      summarized as described above for continuous data. Study questionnaire completion rate will
      be calculated as the proportion of pre- and post-intervention questionnaires (n=5 each)
      completed. Qualitative data will be analyzed using established team codebooks and focus on
      the content, format, delivery, and timing of NDURE. Qualitative analysis of semi-structured
      interviews with patients and providers following the pilot will be analyzed using established
      codebooks from the study team for evaluating the feasibility and acceptability of
      clinic-based interventions with a focus on the content, format, delivery, and timing of
      NDURE.
    
  