
    
      Spinal anesthesia (SA) is currently the most preferred method of anesthesia in elective
      cesarean deliveries. However, SA causes maternal hypotension by decreasing systemic vascular
      resistance over sympathetic blockade. Maternal hypotension can lead to serious adverse events
      both in mother and in fetus: fetal hypoxia and acidosis occur due to decreased uterine blood
      flow, whereas the mother may experience vertigo, nausea, vomiting, alteration in
      consciousness, cardiovascular collapse and arrest. Today, various strategies have been
      suggested for the prevention of maternal hypotension. Of these strategies, the most critical
      ones are fluid load before spinal anesthesia (preloading) or rapid fluid load just after
      spinal anesthesia (coloading) and the use of vasopressor agent. The fluids used for this
      purpose include crystalloids and colloids. Comparative studies performed with colloid
      preloading, colloid coloading and crystalloid coloading indicated that the incidence of
      hypotension decreased similarly with no significant difference determined between the methods
      of fluid loading. Researchers defended necessity of using vasopressor agent together with
      fluid loading methods. In daily routine; however, the investigators observe that the
      incidence of hypotension is lower in the patients that undergo colloid preloading as compared
      to the patients that undergo colloid coloading or crystalloid coloading. The investigators
      therefore aimed to compare the methods colloid preloading and colloid coloading in terms of
      the incidence of maternal hypotension and impacts on neonatal outcomes. In the present study,
      the investigators aimed to use 6% HES 130/0.4 (Voluven ®), which is the newer generation
      colloid solution. The other aim while planning the present study is to identify the method of
      the lowest adverse event for mother and infant and the simplest approach for the clinician.
    
  