
    
      This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, stepwise study of multiple once-daily
      oral dosing of DPOC-4088 (100 mg in Step 1) in healthy young male subjects. Each Step of the
      study will include 10 subjects and consist of screening for eligibility followed by a 13-day
      period during which once-daily oral doses of DPOC-4088 or placebo are administered for 10
      consecutive days and blood is sampled for PK/PD measurements.

      In each dose step, 8 subjects will receive active drug and 2 subjects will receive matching
      placebo according to a randomized allocation schedule.

      During each Step, DPOC-4088 or placebo will be given each morning on Days 1 through 10,
      safety permitting. Each of the 10 days of dosing will be preceded by an overnight fast (10
      hours). Subjects will have frequent PK/PD sampling performed for a 24 hour period following
      dosing on Day 1 and for a 72-hour period following dosing on Day 10. On Days 1 and 10, the
      first meal will be given at 4 hours post-dosing. On other dosing days, subjects will not have
      breakfast until one hour after dosing. Blood samples will be drawn for PK and PD evaluations
      immediately prior to dosing and at specified time intervals post-dosing. Following completion
      of all 10 days of dosing in each Step, subjects will return for a follow-up examination in 1
      week (7-9 days).

      After completion of all dosing in Step 1, PK, PD and safety data will be analyzed and (if
      necessary) used to determine the dose for Step 2, the same procedure will be followed for the
      next dose steps, if necessary.

      The safety, tolerability, and the PK profile of DPOC-4088 will be assessed. Additionally,
      this study will assess the PD profile and the relationship of PK/PD in terms of the ability
      of DPOC-4088 to inhibit thrombin activity (based on prolongation of aPTT, ECT, TT and PT).

      To main objective is to determine the dose of DPOC-4088 that, following multiple once-daily
      oral dosing, achieves a target increase of 2-fold over baseline in the ecarin clotting time
      (ECT) at the steady-state trough plasma concentration (Cmin-ss) without safety concerns.
    
  