
    
      Advances in medicine have resulted in the development of specific drugs to treat cancers that
      express certain mutations. The detection of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), BRAF and
      KRAS mutations (10-30%, 1-2%, 25% respectively) in lung cancers and KRAS mutations in 94% of
      pancreatic cancers allows these patients to be treated with a wider cohort of drugs,
      potentially resulting in progression free, prolonged survival, with a more favourable
      tolerability and less adverse effects compared with chemotherapy.

      NHS England has a test directory which lists the molecular tests that trusts should provide
      for cancer patients. EGRF, KRAS and BRAF are listed in this directory. Verification of the
      use of the Idylla would enable this trust to provide all of these molecular tests
      effectively. Lung and pancreatic cancers both present at advanced disease states and
      therefore a rapid turnaround of test results is vital. Currently laboratories rely on the use
      of formalin-fixed paraffin embedded (FFPE) samples for EGFR testing.

      Clots are produced in the laboratory to congeal all of the tissue fragments and cells into
      one solid mass. The clotted sample is then fixed in formalin and processed. The current
      processing and reporting time is 5 days. Liquid based cytology (LBC) specimens obtained
      through the same sampling procedures are also prepared in the laboratory and fixed using a
      methanol based fixative called Preservcyt. Previous research has been conducted to determine
      whether LBC samples can be used instead of FFPE samples for mutation detection with
      favourable results. A switch to the use of LBC samples for mutation analysis on the Idylla
      would remove multiple processing steps and make use of residual samples that are currently
      discarded, which optimises the amount of testing that we can run on small cytology samples,
      reducing the likelihood of repeat procedures for patients. Alcohol fixation is regarded as a
      superior method of DNA and RNA preservation, therefore better molecular results will be seen.

      Detection of circulating tumour cell mutations could in the future negate the need for
      invasive procedures, with patients requiring a simple blood test for diagnosis.

      The aim of the study is to determine whether LBC samples are a feasible and reliable
      alternative to FFPE samples for detecting mutations in LBC samples and blood using the Idylla
      platform.

      Hypothesis: EFGR, KRAS and BRAF mutations identified using FFPE samples will be detected in
      LBC and blood plasma samples using the Biocartis Idylla ™ platform.

      Part 1 of the study: (extension of previous research project - IRAS Number: 261622) Will use
      residual material from existing LBC cytology samples sent to the laboratory. Routine testing
      will take priority. Cases identified as non small cell lung carcinoma will have the residual
      LBC sample tested on the Idylla platform for EGFR, KRAS and BRAF. The EGFR, KRAS and BRAF
      mutation results obtained using the routine diagnostic procedure (FFPE samples) will be
      compared to those produced using the LBC samples.

      Part 2 of this study:

      Will involve testing archived FFPE clot samples from confirmed pancreatic adenocarcinoma
      patients since 2014 (Approximately 20 cases per year). KRAS testing will be performed using
      the Idylla platform to establish if there is a KRAS codon 12 mutation present in 94% percent
      of the cases reported at RCHT. Patients will have consented to the use of their tissue at the
      time of procedure. Prospectively new patients diagnosed with pancreatic adenocarcinoma will
      have KRAS testing on the FFPE clot made as part of the routine diagnostic work up and KRAS
      testing on the LBC sample.

      Part 3 of this study:

      Will involve a blood sample being taken at the time of the procedure from patients that have
      a clinical suspicion of having lung or pancreatic cancer. The single blood sample will be
      taken from the cannula inserted for the procedure. The blood sample will be processed using
      the Biocartis Idylla ™ circulating tumour cell cartridges (EFGR, KRAS and BRAF for lung and
      KRAS for pancreas).

      Samples for inclusion in the study will be identified by a (member of direct care team)
      working in the cytology department who will perform a computerised search every week and
      identify patients who have been diagnosed with non small cell lung carcinoma or pancreatic
      adenocarcinoma. The patient's original laboratory number will be entered into a secure,
      password protected database and the patient will then be assigned with a new study number.
      This database, and patient information, will only be accessible by the senior biomedical
      scientist and will be stored in a secure electronic file in compliance with information
      governance and patient confidentiality. Patient samples will be labelled with the study
      number and the original laboratory number and all patient information will be covered. The
      researcher will not have access to any patient information and will not be able to identify
      any patients. The senior biomedical scientist will store the anonymised results of the study
      into the database. The study duration will be 24 months. In which time it is estimated that
      the following number of patients will be tested:

      100 patients for non small cell lung carcinoma 60 retrospective pancreatic adenocarcinoma
      samples 40 prospective pancreatic adenocarcinoma patients

      Patients attending for EUS (Endoscopic ultrasound) or EBUS (Endobronchial ultrasound) guided
      fine needle aspirations with a clinical suspicion of non-small cell lung carcinoma or
      pancreatic carcinoma by multi-disciplinary team. Samples for inclusion in the study will be
      identified by a senior biomedical scientist (member of direct care team) working in the
      cytology department who will perform a computerised search every week and identify patients
      who have been diagnosed with lung non-small cell carcinoma and pancreatic adenocarcinoma. The
      patient's original laboratory number will be entered into a secure, password protected
      database and the patient will then be assigned with a new study number. This database, and
      patient information, will only be accessible by the senior biomedical scientist and will be
      stored in a secure file in compliance with information governance and patient
      confidentiality. Patient samples will be labelled with the study number and the original
      laboratory number and all patient information will be covered. The researcher will not have
      access to any patient information and will not be able to identify any patients. Samples that
      do not meet the study criteria will be discarded in accordance with laboratory protocol.

      All patient data (including tissue samples and associated reports) will be anonymised prior
      to being released to the primary researcher. The identifiable data is linked by a laboratory
      number. This information is stored in a secure database accessible only by a member of the
      direct care team.

      All information is stored and backed up on secure servers at the Royal Cornwall Hospital. All
      databases relevant to the research will be password protected and this is monitored by the
      RCHT IT department. The location of the databases themselves will only be accessible to
      authorised users.

      No further patient intervention is required for this research.

      If liquid based cytology (LBC) samples are found to be a feasible alternative for EGFR, KRAS
      and BRAF mutation testing this has the potential to result in:

        -  Quicker turnaround time of results in cases of unequivocal adenocarcinoma. This would
           provide

        -  Earlier access to treatment allowing for optimal patient management.

        -  Expands the range of molecular testing provided in house as recommended by the NHS test
           library.

        -  Easier sample preparation within the laboratory

        -  Increase in efficient use of material could also prevent repeat sampling procedures on
           patients.

        -  Use of LBC samples may allow for better results from molecular testing (methanol
           superior fixative to formalin).

        -  Supports of the use of blood sample testing for circulating tumour cells (less invasive
           sampling). This may identify at what disease staging circulating tumour cells can be
           detected in blood plasma, which would make it a potential future diagnostic triaging and
           follow up tool.

        -  Supports KRAS mutation testing for pancreatic adenocarcinoma and future development of
           target therapies specific to the codon 12 mutation
    
  