
    
      The development of non-invasive brain stimulation techniques offers new approaches for the
      treatment of depression. TMS is an approved treatment for treatment-resistant depression in
      the UK and USA. tDCS is currently under investigation as a potentially cheaper, safer and
      more accessible alternative. A recent meta-analysis suggests that it has a moderate
      antidepressant effect (Razza et al., 2020).

      One potential way of improving the antidepressant efficacy of tDCS might be to combine it
      with a reward learning task. There is evidence from rodent and human studies that tDCS
      enhances activity-dependent synaptic plasticity and behavioural learning and retention
      (Fritsch et al., 2010; O'Shea et al., 2017; Reis et al., 2009).

      In depression, people prioritize the processing of negative information at the cost of
      positive information and this negative bias is theorized to play a major role in the
      maintenance of depressive symptoms (Kube, Schwarting, Rozenkrantz, Glombiewski, & Rief,
      2020). Therefore, by having depressed participants learn from reward, and increase their
      learning/retention via tDCS, this could potentially counteract negative bias and thus
      increase the antidepressant potential of tDCS.

      In an earlier proof-of-concept study in young healthy volunteers (without low mood), we
      showed that tDCS applied during, but not before, an information-bias learning task increased
      reward learning rates. Here, we will test for the same effect in young healthy volunteers
      with subclinical depression. The study will involve online screening, a face-to-face
      screening session and two tDCS + learning sessions. Task performance will be fitted with a
      computational reinforcement learning model. Analyses will include both computational and
      non-computational measures of task behaviour.

      Primary hypotheses:

        1. Bifrontal compared to sham tDCS applied during the information-bias learning task will
           increase the learning rate from positive outcomes.

        2. Bifrontal compared to sham tDCS applied during the task will increase the percentage of
           win-driven choices.

        3. The effects of bifrontal tDCS will be cognitive state dependent, i.e. the predicted
           effects will be specific to stimulation applied during but not prior to learning.

      Secondary hypothesis:

      A growing body of evidence suggests that depression and anxiety are characterised by a
      reduced ability to adjust learning rates to volatility of action-outcome contingencies
      (Browning, Behrens, Jocham, O'Reilly, & Bishop, 2015; Gagne, Zika, Dayan, & Bishop, 2020;
      Pulcu & Browning, 2017). Therefore, we will also investigate whether bifrontal tDCS might
      increase participants' ability to adjust their learning rates to the volatility context. This
      is exploratory, since there is no current evidence that tDCS can improve this ability.

      Sample size: Our primary goal is to test hypothesis 1 that bifrontal compared to sham tDCS
      applied during the information-bias learning task will increase the learning rate from
      positive outcomes. In our previous study in healthy volunteers we observed this effect, which
      was most pronounced in the losses-volatile condition (paired t-test contrasting bifrontal and
      sham tDCS in the losses volatile blocks: t(19) = 2.88, p = .009), with an effect size of
      Cohen's d = 0.522. To detect an effect of this size with a power of 80% and an alpha level of
      .05 requires 31 participants. To account for a potential overestimation of the effect size we
      will recruit 40 participants, which should yield a power level of .89 for the effect size
      observed in our previous study. To keep sample sizes equal across conditions, we will recruit
      another 40 participants for the offline condition.

      Screening: Participants will be asked to fill out a pre-screening online depression
      questionnaire (Beck Depression Inventory - II (BDI)) and a safety screening form to identify
      potential contraindications to tDCS. Participants with a BDI score of ≥10 will be invited to
      a 1-hour screening session. The structured clinical interview (SCID) will be administered and
      the researcher will interview the participant about their tDCS safety screening
      questionnaire. If there are no contraindications to tDCS and no indications of current or
      history of bipolar disorder, the researcher will schedule two tDCS testing sessions.

      Experimental task: Participants will perform the Information Bias Learning Task developed by
      (Pulcu & Browning, 2017). The same task protocol as in our previous study will be used
      (Overman, Sarrazin, Browning, & O'Shea, 2021). In short, participants will be asked to press
      a button to choose between two shapes on each trial. After they choose, the word "win" and
      "loss" will appear on the screen, each associated with one of the two shapes. The wins and
      losses are independent of each other, i.e. both can also appear with the same shape. If the
      chosen shape is associated with a win this leads to a 10 pence financial gain; a loss is
      minus 10 pence. The cumulative total is shown continuously in the bottom centre of the screen
      throughout the task. Participants start with a total of £1.50. This task is designed to
      assess the extent to which participants choices are relatively influenced by win vs. loss
      outcomes. Participants will perform 6 task blocks of 80 trials. In the first and sixth block
      ("both volatile blocks"), the wins and losses each have a 75% probability of being associated
      with one of the shapes. The shape the wins or losses are associated with changes over time.
      In the second to fifth task blocks, one outcome is associated with one shape in 75% of the
      trials. The shape the wins or losses are associated with changes over time. The other outcome
      is associated with both shapes in 50% of the trials. Each participant performs two
      "wins-volatile" and two "losses-volatile" blocks in alternating order. Half of the
      participants perform a "win-volatile" block first, and the other half a "loss-volatile" block
      first.

      Testing sessions: Participants will be asked to fill out mood and anxiety questionnaires. At
      the beginning of the first session the Trait subscale of the State Trait Anxiety Inventory
      (STAI)(Spielberger, 1983) will be completed. In both sessions, before and after performing
      the task participants will complete the State subscale of the STAI and the Positive and
      Negative Affect Scales (PANAS)(Watson, Clark, & Tellegen, 1988)). The researcher will explain
      the computerised task, and the participant will get the opportunity to practise the task. The
      researcher will then set up the tDCS equipment with the anode over the left dorsolateral
      prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) and the cathode over the right DLPFC, in the F3 and F4 EEG
      electrode positions. The researcher will briefly test the tDCS to ensure that the participant
      is comfortable with the stimulation. The participant will perform one ("both volatile")
      baseline block of the task without tDCS. In the 'online' condition, tDCS will be applied
      during the task - for a duration of 20 minutes at 2 mA during the second and third task
      blocks. After the stimulation ends, participants will perform the remaining task blocks 4 and
      5 (to test for persistence of any effects post-tDCS), followed by a repeat of the "both
      volatile" block performed at baseline. In the 'offline' condition, all procedures will be the
      same except that stimulation will be applied after the baseline ("both volatile") block and
      before the remaining blocks, while participants sit at rest.

      Statistical analysis:

      To test hypothesis 1, that bifrontal compared to sham tDCS applied during the task will
      increase the learning rate from win outcomes, we will run a repeated measures analysis of
      variance (ANOVA) on the learning rates in the "wins-volatile" and "losses-volatile" blocks,
      including the within-subject factors tDCS Condition (bifrontal vs. sham), Valence (win vs.
      loss outcomes), Volatility (wins-volatile vs. losses-volatile blocks) and Time (first vs.
      second half of the four task blocks). Baseline learning rates for wins and losses in the
      first task block of the first session will be included as covariates.

      First, we will test for an interaction effect between tDCS Condition and Valence. To test our
      key prediction, we will run a priori planned contrasts of real vs. sham tDCS on win learning
      rates. Since in our previous study, the tDCS-induced increase in win learning rates was most
      pronounced in the losses-volatile condition, we will contrast the real-sham win learning rate
      separately for the losses-volatile and wins-volatile conditions.

      To test hypothesis 2 that bifrontal compared to sham tDCS will increase the proportion of
      win-driven choices, we will run an ANOVA on the proportion of win-driven choices including
      the factors tDCS Condition, Volatility and Time. We will test for a main effect of tDCS
      Condition, as well as for an interaction effect between tDCS Condition and Volatility. The
      interaction effect will be followed up by planned contrasts of bifrontal versus sham tDCS,
      separately for the wins-volatile condition and the losses-volatile conditions.

      To compare the effect of online versus offline bifrontal tDCS on the win learning rate and
      the proportion of win-driven choices (hypothesis 3), we will run ANOVAs on the combined
      dataset (online and offline condition), adding the factor "Stimulation Time" (before vs.
      during task performance). For learning rates, we will test for a main effect of Stimulation
      Time and/or an interaction between Stimulation Time and tDCS Condition and/or Valence.
      Follow-up ANOVAs will separate the data by Stimulation Time and analyse each dataset as
      described for Hypothesis 1 above, to test for an effect of tDCS on win learning rates. The
      effect in each condition (whether significant or not) will be quantified and contrasted
      across the two Stimulation Time conditions, to test the hypothesis that online but not
      offline tDCS will increase win learning rates. The same analysis approach will be used for
      the proportion of win-driven choices.

      Regarding our secondary hypothesis that online bifrontal compared to sham tDCS might improve
      participants' ability to adjust their learning rate to the volatility context, we will
      conduct exploratory analyses, using ANOVA to test the effect of tDCS on the difference in win
      and loss learning rates between volatile and stable blocks (i.e. dependent variables will be:
      Win delta LR (win learning rate in wins-volatile blocks minus win learning rate in
      losses-volatile blocks) and Loss delta LR (loss learning rate in losses volatile blocks minus
      loss learning rate in wins volatile blocks). We will test for an interaction between
      Stimulation Time and tDCS Condition on Win and Loss delta LRs. This will be followed up by
      planned contrasts within and between the online and offline tDCS Conditions, as described
      above for hypothesis 3.
    
  