
    
      An aneurysm is most commonly defined as a permanent focal dilatation of an artery to 1.5
      times its normal diameter. While the abdominal aorta is the most common site of aneurysm
      formation, the popliteal artery (PA) represents the second most common site of aneurysm
      formation, accounting for more than 70 percent of all peripheral aneurysms. A popliteal
      artery aneurysm (PAA) is a focal dilatation of the popliteal artery (red arrow). PAAs are
      rare in the general population but more commonly found in patient populations with other
      aneurysms, such as abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA). Within the general population, PAAs are
      predominantly found in men and are extremely rare in women. There are few studies on the
      prevalence of PAAs in healthy individuals, but 14-19% of male and 12% of female AAA patients
      have PAAs. There is no clear correlation between the diameter of the AAA and the prevalence
      of PAA. There is furthermore a lack of consensus of the precise arterial diameter that
      defines a PAA.

      It is paramount to identify and treat PAA patients before acute symptoms develop, given the
      high risk of major complications associated with acute presentation, such as major
      amputation. Unfortunately, there is a lack of knowledge of the natural history for PAAs,
      which is why surgical procedures are recommended mainly based on clinical experience and
      guidelines developed from insufficient scientific information. The preventive purpose, more
      specifically to prevent the risk of acute symptom development, should be evaluated against
      the frequency of complications inflicted by surgical treatment, so called "surgical risk".
      For this reason, it is important to evaluate the patients' health-related quality of life
      (HRQoL) before and after treatment in order to determine how the surgical treatment affect
      patients. In general, the Health-Related Quality of Life (HRQoL) is therefore emerging as an
      important outcome measure for interventions designed to improve patient's health, well-being,
      or both. There is very limited prior knowledge of HRQoL outcomes following surgical treatment
      of PAAs and the PAA patient's HRQoL, and whether-and to what extent- it becomes affected by
      the surgical treatment, is yet unknown. The surgical treatment in PAA patients and patients
      with peripheral arterial disease (PAD), are comparable whereas the underlying pathologies are
      distinct. Thus, peripheral arterial disease patients commonly experience substantial symptom
      relief following a surgical intervention (i.e. lower limb pain is alleviated, or ischemic
      wound healing is promoted). By contrast, PAA patients are often asymptomatic prior to
      surgery. It is therefore conceivable that a surgical intervention in PAA patients translates
      to a lower HRQoL after surgery than what is observed following bypass surgery for PAD.
      However, this needs to be further explored and confirmed in prospective studies.

      Aim To investigate whether the QoL of PAA patients compared to PAD patients after surgical
      and potential changes over time.

      Hypothesis Compared to PAD patients, femoropopliteal/femorodistal bypass surgery
      interventions undertaken on PAA patients result in a more pronounced negative HRQoL impact.
    
  