
    
      Hepatic encephalopathy (HE) is a potentially reversible disorder characterized by
      neuropsychiatric abnormalities and motor disturbances that range from mild alterations of
      cognitive and motor functions to coma and death (1-2). This condition has been linked to the
      combination of gut flora alterations, which increase the production of gut-derived toxins
      such as ammonia and indoles, and porto-systemic shunts, leading to endotoxemia associated to
      systemic and cerebral inflammation (3-4). The subclinical expression of HE is defined minimal
      hepatic encephalopathy (mHE) (5-7). The latter condition is characterized by the presence of
      various quantifiable neurophysiological and neuropsychological deficits that are only
      recognized by the use of specific diagnostic tools such as the paper-and-pencil tests and its
      variants as well as critical flicker frequency (CFF) (8-11).

      The visual test based on CFF measures the frequency (Hz) when impression of fused light turns
      to a flickering one (5,11). This neurophysiological test has an elevated specificity and
      reproducibility, with only little biases due to training effects and daytime variability
      (7,11-13). CFF has also shown the ability to predict the risk of developing overt HE in
      cirrhotics undergoing transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt (TIPS) (14,15).

      HHT or Rendu-Osler-Weber disease is a genetic disease with an autosomal dominant inheritance
      pattern, characterized by widespread telangiectases that can involve several organs including
      the intestinal tract and the liver (16). There are two main types of the disease, HHT1 and
      HHT2, which are caused respectively by mutations in ENG gene on chromosome 9 coding for
      endoglin for HHT1and mutations in ACVRL1 gene on chromosome 12 for HHT2 (17,18). These two
      types of the disease account for most clinical cases but mutations in MADH4 gene on
      chromosome 5 (encodingSMAD4), have been recently described, and a new type HHT3 has been
      reported (17). HHT2 is associated with a high rate of liver involvement (18).

      Liver involvement by HHT is characterized by widespread diffuse liver vascular malformations
      that give origin to arteriovenous, arterioportal and portovenous shunts. The prevalence of
      hepatic involvement in HHT can reach 78% (19). Less commonly, patients may also develop
      porto-systemic encephalopathy (PSE) (20). However, there are no studies on the possibility
      that patients with HHT might develop mHE, a highly plausible hypothesis considering the
      presence of diffuse macroscopic and microscopic porto-systemic shunt in this pathological
      condition.
    
  