
    
      Increased surgical preparedness is linked to improved surgical satisfaction and
      patient-reported outcomes. Interventions that increase preparedness for surgery are needed.
      The impact of a provider-initiated preoperative telephone call on surgical preparedness is
      unknown. The objectives of this study are to compare patient preparedness between women who
      receive a preoperative provider-initiated telephone call plus the usual preoperative
      counseling in the clinic versus usual preoperative counseling alone. The investigators
      hypothesize that a provider initiated preoperative telephone call will increase surgical
      preparedness and satisfaction, as well as improve perioperative outcomes. The investigators
      will test our working hypothesis by using the approach of randomizing patients undergoing
      surgery for SUI and/or POP to either a provider-initiated telephone call three days before
      surgery plus usual preoperative counseling or usual preoperative counseling alone. The
      rationale for this aim is that successful completion of the proposed research will contribute
      a missing, fundamental element to our understanding of preoperative counseling. It is our
      expectation that a preoperative telephone call three days before surgery will result in
      improved surgical preparedness. Such a finding would be of importance because it would
      provide evidence to support a novel method in preoperative counseling that positively impacts
      patient care.

      Patients enrolled in the ancillary sexual function study will be scheduled for one-on-one
      telephone interview 2-4 months after surgery. Major themes of the interviews will be used to
      better describe the patient experience of return to sexual activity after surgery.

      The investigators are also planning on performing a cost analysis. A provider-initiated
      telephone call before surgery requires the allocation of new resources that may result in
      additional perioperative costs. However, if telephone calls improve perioperative outcomes,
      an overall decrease in perioperative costs may be observed due to a decrease in direct and
      non-direct costs. Direct costs are attributable to the use of a health care intervention or
      illness and can be further classified in medical and non-medical costs. Medical care costs
      include emergency room visits, hospital admissions, unplanned clinic visits, clinic telephone
      calls. Non-medical costs include transportation, gas, and parking. Indirect costs include
      lost wages for the patient or caregiver. The objective of aspect of the study is to determine
      the difference in cost-effectiveness between women who receive a provider-initiated telephone
      call 3 days before surgery plus the usual preoperative counseling in the clinic versus the
      usual preoperative counseling alone from the patient and societal perspectives. The
      investigators hypothesize that preoperative telephone calls will be more cost-effective for
      both patients and society. The investigators will test our working hypothesis by using the
      approach of resource costing method. It is our expectation that preoperative telephone calls
      will improve perioperative outcomes resulting in overall cost to both the patient and society
      that will compensate for the additional perioperative costs associated with a telephone call
      before surgery.
    
  