
    
      Acetaminophen has antipyretic and moderate analgesic properties, but largely lacks
      anti-inflammatory activity. While its mechanism of action is not entirely understood, it is
      probably both an isoform nonspecific and partial cyclooxygenase (COX) inhibitor in humans at
      doses commonly taken for mild pain and pyrexia, such as 1000 mg. Although no inhibition of
      platelet aggregation is observed at this dosage, platelet thromboxane formation by COX is
      depressed by roughly 40%. Epidemiological studies suggest that at higher doses, 2000 mg and
      above, acetaminophen exhibits a gastrointestinal adverse effect profile indistinguishable
      from traditional, nonspecific NSAIDs. Thus, it is possible that maximal COX inhibition is
      achieved at higher doses. Interestingly, complete COX inhibition by non-selective COX
      inhibitors has the potential to antagonize the irreversible platelet inhibition induced by
      aspirin. In contrast to reversible inhibitors, aspirin acts by acetylation of a serine
      residue in the substrate binding channel of COX. For example, ibuprofen, a reversible and
      non-selective COX inhibitor, is thought to prevent aspirin from gaining access to this target
      site. This study investigates, whether COX inhibition by acetaminophen is dose dependent in
      humans and whether acetaminophen interacts with the irreversible COX inhibition by low dose
      aspirin. It addresses the dose-related effect of acetaminophen on COX activity and assesses
      potential pharmacological interactions with low dose aspirin in normal healthy volunteers.
      The primary hypothesis is that administrating acetaminophen before aspirin would antagonize
      the irreversible effects of aspirin, as assessed by the measurement of serum thromboxane B2
      24 hrs after the administration of the first study drug on day 6 of combination therapy.

      The second aim will determine the effects of acetaminophen on oxidant stress and
      cyclooxygenase activity in patients who smoke. While the structural interaction of
      acetaminophen with COX is unknown, it may inactivate the enzyme by a molecular mechanism
      different from other NSAIDs. Thus, acetaminophen, which is a good reducing agent, might act
      to reduce COX from its active, oxidized form. When uninhibited, the peroxidase component of
      this bifunctional enzyme oxidizes its catalytic center to generate a tyrosyl radical that is
      required for its activity. Indeed, some reducing agents have the capacity to prevent COX
      activation in vitro. If reduction were the basis for COX inhibition by acetaminophen in vivo,
      it would be expected to be less pronounced under conditions of high peroxide tone, as occurs
      in inflammation. Indeed, acetaminophen, which is a phenol derivative, may act as a free
      radical scavenging antioxidant like other phenolic compounds, such as vitamin E and has been
      shown to alleviate oxidative damage in model systems. This study explores the potential
      antioxidant effect of acetaminophen in smokers. Such individuals represent a human model of
      oxidant stress. Novel approaches to the quantitative assessment of free radical induced
      damage to lipids are applied, which are elevated in smokers. Additionally, it is determined
      whether COX inhibition by acetaminophen is conditioned by oxidant tone in vivo.

      The third aim, will compare the degree of COX inhibition by acetaminophen with that of a
      thoroughly characterized nonselective COX inhibitor, ibuprofen.
    
  