
    
      Purpose: This proposal is aimed at studying the effect of an individual's iron status and
      iron supplementation on the growth and viability of the malarial parasite Plasmodium
      falciparum. The overall goal is to provide evidence to support the development of
      evidence-based programs to improve global health policy on iron supplementation in areas of
      the world with high malaria transmission. Current WHO recommendations include routine
      supplementation of women and children. Recently however, the wisdom of this policy when
      applied to areas afflicted with high rates of malaria has come under scrutiny. This proposal
      will study the effects of red blood cells (RBCs) and sera from iron overloaded patients (with
      hereditary hemochromatosis), iron deficient patients, and iron replete individuals taking
      oral iron supplements. This proposal will attempt to identify the mechanism by which the
      human host's iron status and iron supplement use affects the growth and viability of the P.
      falciparum parasite in red blood cells.

      Participants: Healthy adult volunteers, adults with iron deficiency anemia, and patients with
      hereditary hemochromatosis will be enrolled in this study. Fifteen individuals will be
      recruited under each of the above three settings. This study involves only subjects over 18
      years of age and both males and females will be included.

      Procedures (methods): Participation in the study involves undergoing a series of screening
      tests and donation of blood and either a single time point (for hemochromatosis patients) or
      a total of three pre-specified time points (for healthy volunteers and those with iron
      deficiency). The healthy individuals will be asked to take oral iron supplements once daily
      (325 mg ferrous sulfate) for the duration of this study. Patient's blood will be separated by
      centrifugation into RBCs and sera, both of which will be used for in vitro studies on the
      impact of iron status on the growth and viability of Plasmodium falciparum.
    
  