
    
      -  This is prospective, randomized, controlled research to compare the efficacy of these
           two drugs in emergancy department.

        -  The clinical trial was conducted in the ED of Pamukkale University Medical Faculty
           Hospital.

        -  Study personnel (emergency physicians and nurses) were trained before the study.

        -  When oral drugs (paracetamol, zolmitriptan was being recommended, an eligibility
           checklist was completed by the attending physician.

        -  If there were no exclusion criteria, written informed consent was obtained and baseline
           information, including initial headache pain score ratings with VAS and NRS were
           recorded.

        -  The need for identification and enrollment of participants by staff with conflicting
           work pressures resulted in recruitment of a convenience sample of patients.

        -  All patients eligible for the study were randomized to one of two groups:

        -  First Group: paracetamol 1000 mg was given oral to 100 patients,

        -  Second Group: Zolmitriptan 2,5 mg was given oral to 100 patients which determined to be
           applied as a group.

        -  Drugs were prepared according to the computer-generated random number sequence to assign
           treatment allocations.

        -  The allocation list was kept by the emergency nurse. Patients received the paracetamol,
           zolmitriptan medication schemes according to their random allocations.

        -  After enrollment and recording of baseline information, the next numbered study drug was
           obtained, and administered as oral.

        -  Randomization was achieved by using computer software to generate random numbers. During
           the intervention, participants were monitored by an oxygen saturation (SpO2) monitor, an
           automatic sphygmomanometer (blood pressure), and a rhythm monitor (heart rate and
           rhythms)

        -  One researcher blinded to patient allocation observed the whole procedure and recorded
           the Headache scores.

        -  Headache scores were recorded at 0, 15, 30, and 60 min on a VAS of 1 to 100 mm and NRS
           of 1 to 10. Patients with nausea are treated with 15 minutes of 10 mg metoclorpramide
           slow infusion in 150 cc saline solution.

        -  Rescue medication (1 mcg/kg fentanyl ) was given İntravenöz to patients if pain VAS
           scores ≥ 50 mm in 60 minutes after study drug administration.

        -  All other medications required during the study also were recorded.

        -  During the study, pulse rate, systolic blood pressure, diastolic blood pressure,
           respiration rate and oxygen saturation (SpO2) were recorded at baseline (0 min), 15, 30,
           and 60 min.
    
  