
    
      Chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (CTEPH) is a rare but potentially
      life-threatening disease of the pulmonary circulation. Management of CTEPH requires precise
      differential diagnosis, long life anticoagulation when confirmed and qualification for
      surgical treatment by an experienced multidisciplinary team. The gold standard of treatment
      in operable patients is pulmonary endarterectomy (PEA), which is highly effective in
      restoring functional status and improving life expectancy. Nevertheless, even in the leading
      CTEPH referral centres almost 50% patients remain on medical treatment alone, with grim
      perspectives regarding life quality and expectancy. Recently, balloon pulmonary angioplasty
      (BPA) has emerged as a promising new interventional option in non-operable CTEPH.

      The development BPA was far from rapid. It took 13 years from the first case-report to the
      publication of a first series of 17 patients treated with BPA in Boston/US and another 13
      years until the results of first European series of 20 patients has been reported from
      Oslo/Norway. In Poland BPA was started to perform in non-operable CTEPH patients in 2013,
      motivated by their expected poor prognosis, when compared to those to whom surgical PEA was
      offered.

      The aim of this study is an analysis of efficacy and safety of BPA procedure.

      The BPA is performed by two senior interventional specialist - cardiologist and radiologist
      with extensive experience in coronary, pulmonary and general vessel interventions supported
      by perfusion nurse. All patients undergoing BPA are given informed consent before the first
      BPA intervention. The limited experience with and experimental nature of BPA are emphasised
      to candidates.

      A standard BPA procedure is typically performed from the right femoral vein, with
      anticoagulation of unfractionated heparin in periprocedural period. A long (70 or 90 cm)
      sheath is introduced into the pulmonary trunk with support of pigtail catheter. Selective and
      super-selective catheterisation of lobar arteries, segmental and when appropriate
      subsegmental arteries is performed to demonstrate variety of clots: "webs", "rings",
      "occlusions", "pouch" lesions and reduction of parenchymal opacification after injection of
      vascular contrast medium. Balloon catheters (diameter 1.25-6.0 mm) are positioned over the
      selected lesion and dilated for several seconds. Immediate selective angiography is performed
      after dilation to confirm satisfactory results which presented the improvement of contrast
      medium distribution and venous return. Control angiography is done to rule out residual
      stenosis or signs of vessel injury. Following BPA procedure, patients are moved to ICU for 48
      h surveillance.

      Right before the initiation of BPA and during 3-6 months after last session, a full workup is
      made, including: World Health Organization (WHO) functional class, 6-minute walking test
      (6MWT), concentration of biomarkers (NT-proBNP, Troponin T, sST2), cardiopulmonary exercise
      test, echocardiography, electrocardiography and right heart catheterization including
      measurements of right atrial pressure (RAP), pulmonary artery pressure (PAP), pulmonary
      capillary wedge pressure (PCWP), cardiac output (CO), cardiac index (CI), pulmonary vascular
      resistance (PVR), mixed venous oxygenation (MVsat.O2) and systemic oxygenation (AOsatO2).
      Additionally patients fill in the Short Form 36 (SF36) quality of life questionnaire before
      initiation of BPA and 3-6 months after last session.
    
  