
    
      Once HAART has been initiated, participants will be expected to be assessed at weeks
      1,2,3,4,6,8,10,12,14, and 16. Detailed adherence and dispensing records for all
      antiretroviral medications for each participant will be maintained. Adherence will be
      assessed primarily on the basis of pharmacy refill records, as well as self-report.
      Subsequently participants will attend monthly clinical follow-up visits at weeks 20, 24, 28,
      32, 36, 40, 44, 48, and 52. Standard laboratory monitoring will be performed at that time,
      and will include complete blood count (CBC), differential, basic chemistry, liver and kidney
      profile, as well as CD4 cell count and plasma HIV-1-RNA level, consistent with current care
      guidelines. All patients will also undergo urine toxicology screens at baseline and quarterly
      (weeks 12, 24, 36, and 52) in order to assess any effects of engaging in HAART programs on
      substance use. Follow-up will also include an adverse events assessment (ADE) from a
      standardized list of signs and symptoms noted by either the patient or practitioner or
      identified through laboratory testing. At baseline and each quarterly visit, participants
      will complete the Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale (CES-D) where a score of
      16 correlates with risk of depression. This tool has been validated in our population in a
      prior study. Participants will also complete the Addiction Severity Index questionnaire, a
      validated instrument used to examine severity of psychosocial problems in seven domains
      including drug and alcohol use . Composite scores are derived, and higher scores reflect
      greater problems. Past 3-month versions of the HIV Risk Behavior Scale will also be
      administered at baseline and at quarterly visits. This scale assesses injection drug use and
      sexual behaviors, and responses are coded on a 6-point scale with higher values indicating
      higher risk.

      Participants who are randomized to receive a reinforcer for clinic follow-up will receive the
      reinforcer at the end of each clinic visit. When the reinforcer is linked to plasma viral
      load, subjects in the reinforcer arm will be notified within a week of the plasma viral load
      result, and of any reinforcement earned. Subjects can elect to come in at any time to receive
      the reinforcement, or they can wait until their next monthly appointment and receive the
      earnings at that time.

      For participants who do not present for laboratory and clinical follow-up within two weeks on
      either side of their scheduled quarterly visit, an extensive investigation into the client's
      whereabouts through street outreach as well as a search of hospital records for
      hospitalization and the provincial vital statistics database for possible deaths will be
      prompted. Those who discontinue therapy or who are lost to follow-up at or before 52 weeks
      will be considered therapy failures in the analyses.

      A final visit 24 weeks after the week 52 visit will be performed. This will involve the same
      procedures as the quarterly study visits during the first year, including standard laboratory
      tests and urine toxicology, ADE assessments, and CES-D, Addiction Severity Index and HIV Risk
      Behavior Scale questionnaires. Participants who fail to present for laboratory and clinical
      follow-up within 2 weeks of the expected date of this visit will be sought as described
      above.
    
  