
    
      The combination of preoperative (chemo)radiotherapy and total mesorectal excision (TME) has
      been shown to reduce the risk of local recurrence in patients with resectable adenocarcinoma
      of the rectum. The improved local control rates come at the price of an increased risk of
      surgical complications, including a postoperative death rate of 2-8 percent which may reach
      30 per cent at 6 months in those aged over 85 years, as well as long-term impact on
      anorectal, urinary and sexual function. Patients with cancers in the low rectum in close
      proximity to the sphincter muscles, may require a permanent stoma, which can be associated
      with high psychological morbidity.

      Preoperative chemoradiotherapy followed by a delay to resection can produce pathological
      complete responses. One review of phase II and III studies identified an overall pCR rate of
      13.5%, but even higher rates of pCR have been observed with doses of radiotherapy exceeding
      45 Gy . Certainly patients who proceed to radical surgery after achieving a pCR with chemo
      radiation do have favorable long-term outcomes. But do patients whose tumor has already been
      sterilized by chemo radiotherapy need to proceed with radical surgery?

      A number of studies have now emerged highlighting the rationale of a 'wait and see' policy
      for patients who achieve a complete clinical response (cCR) after chemo radiotherapy. The
      majority of the clinical data supporting this approach have come from Brazil. The Brazilian
      data suggests that observation of such patients yields survival rates similar to those of
      patients who undergo radical surgery with confirmation of pCR. More recent studies from the
      United Kingdom and the Netherlands appear to support the feasibility of this approach. To
      date there is no published prospectively collected data of a wait-and-see policy from a North
      American Centre.
    
  