
    
      Background:

      Platinum-based chemotherapy is the standard of care for advanced unresectable malignant
      mesothelioma. New options for treatment are necessary in patients with advanced disease that
      have progressed on platinum-based therapy. The insulin-like growth factor (IGF) pathway is
      being studies in various malignancies including mesothelioma. IMC-A12 is an anti-IGF-1R
      monoclonal antibody that has shown activity in patients with various malignancies.

      Objectives:

      Primary Objective:

      - To determine the clinical response rate (partial response (PR)+complete response (CR)) to
      IMC-A12 monotherapy in patients with advanced mesothelioma.

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  To determine response duration, progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival
           (OS).

        -  To assess safety of IMC-A12 in patients with mesothelioma

      Exploratory Objectives:

        -  To evaluate tumor IGF-1R expression and correlation with response

        -  To correlate response to therapy with changes in fludeoxyglucose 18F-positron emission
           tomography (FDG-PET) imaging.

        -  To monitor serum mesothelin and cancer antigen 125 or carbohydrate antigen 125 (CA-125)
           levels prior to and during therapy.

      Eligibility:

        -  Patients with histologically confirmed malignant pleural or peritoneal mesothelioma who
           have previously been treated on at least one platinum-containing chemotherapy regimen
           with progressive disease documented prior to study entry, or have refused cytotoxic
           chemotherapy.

        -  Measurable disease by modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST)
           criteria for pleural mesothelioma or by RECIST criteria for peritoneal mesothelioma.

        -  Adequate renal, hepatic and hematopoietic function.

        -  No major surgery, radiotherapy, chemotherapy or biologic therapy within 28 days of
           IMC-A12 therapy

      Design:

        -  Patients will receive IMC-A12 at a dose of 20 mg/kg intravenously once every three
           weeks.

        -  Treatment with IMC-A12 alone will continue until disease progression.

        -  Toxicity will be assessed every cycle by the Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program (CTEP)
           Version 4.0 of Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE).

        -  Tumor response assessments will be performed every 2 cycles.
    
  