
    
      It is estimated that up to 80% of young adult women in the United States are dissatisfied
      with their appearance, particularly their weight. Young women's perception of the ideal body
      type is influenced by many factors, including peers, parents, and the media. Body
      dissatisfaction is associated with an increased risk of depression and eating disorders,
      making programs to reduce body image issues in young women important. Programs that target
      eating disorder prevention through promoting healthy behaviors and critiquing the thin ideal
      may be an effective means of increasing body satisfaction among young women. Particularly, a
      dissonance-based eating disorder prevention program that assesses the thin ideal through
      verbal, written, and behavioral exercises may be the best means of addressing body image
      concerns. This study will evaluate the effectiveness of dissonance-based eating disorder
      prevention programs in reducing body dissatisfaction among young women with body image
      concerns.

      Participation in this study will last 2 years and will involve both parent and daughter
      participants. Study participation for parent participants will include three 15-minute
      interviews conducted at baseline and Years 1 and 2. The interviews will focus on their
      daughters' social adjustment, performance in school, relationships with others, hobbies, and
      related topics. Daughter participants will still be allowed to partake in the study even if
      their parents do not complete all three interviews.

      All potential daughter participants will first complete a 20-minute interview regarding their
      eating habits and mental health. Eligible participants will then be assigned to one of three
      programs designed to improve body image satisfaction:

        -  Program 1 will consist of the distribution of an educational brochure about a healthy
           body image.

        -  Program 2 will involve four 1-hour meetings during which participants will complete a
           series of verbal and written exercises. The exercises will aim to increase body image
           satisfaction by helping participants to think critically about the thin ideal and to
           discuss some of the problems associated with the pursuit of this ideal.

        -  Program 3 will include eight 1-hour meetings during which participants will also
           complete a series of verbal and written exercises. The exercises will aim to increase
           body image satisfaction by helping participants to think critically about the thin ideal
           and by promoting healthy eating and exercise habits.

      Participants in all programs will complete brief surveys and interviews about their attitudes
      and behaviors at baseline, at treatment completion, and at three other points during the 2
      years from baseline.
    
  