
    
      The individualized goal-directed therapy (IGDT), with focus on level of venous return, will
      be implemented in two steps in the intervention group. First, preoperative optimizing of
      venous return will be performed 45 minutes before surgery in a preoperative room with TTE.
      Second, after induction of anaesthesia perioperative fluid therapy will be guided by
      utilizing the FloTrac-device.

      Preoperative rehydration with 6 ml colloid fluids (Volulyte™, Fresenius Kabi Ab, Sweden) /kg
      estimated ideal body weight (IBW) will be administrated if low level of venous return is
      detected by TTE. After a colloid bolus the second TTE is performed to check the level of
      venous return. If remaining hypovolemia is found additional colloids 3ml/ kg IBW will be
      given.

      In OR, before pneumoperitoneum, prophylactic i.v. antibiotics will be administrated in total
      550ml crystalloids (NaCl 0.9%, Fresenius Kabi Ab, Sweden) to all patients. Infusion of
      buffered glucose solution (25mg/ml, Fresenius Kabi Ab, Sweden) at rate 1.5ml/kg IBW/h will be
      initiated to all patients. Stroke volume variation ≥ 12 % is used as a threshold for
      administration of additional colloids 3ml/kg/ IBW during surgery.

      Postoperatively infusion of buffered glucose solution (50mg/ml) is administrated at fixed
      rate 100ml/h to all patients. In addition, during the stay at the postoperative ward unit 850
      ml crystalloids (antibiotics, paracetamol and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs) are
      infused.

      Perioperative ephedrine and/or phenylephrine is used as i.v. injection when necessary to
      ensure adequate perfusion pressure (MAP ≥ 65 mmHg), cardiac index (≥ 2.0) and heart rate (≥
      50/min) in addition to i.v. fluids in both groups. In principle hemodynamic parameters will
      be gathered always after five minutes minimum from possible administration of i.v. ephedrine
      or phenylephrine. Moreover, if pre-existing systolic left ventricular failure is detected in
      preoperative TTE, infusion of dobutamine 3 - 4ug/kg IBW will be started 10 minutes before
      induction of anaesthesia.

      In the control group perioperative cardiovascular monitoring will be conducted by ECG,
      non-invasive blood pressure and Sp02 measurements.
    
  