
    
      Intensive care units take charge of patients who present serious pathological states with an
      immediate vital risk in an emergency situation. Their treatment requires extensive
      coordination of human means and sometimes the use of complex procedures and technical means.
      Moreover, caregivers face the extreme situations of patients and their families coping with
      death, illness, pain and uncertainty (Weibel et al., 2003).

      In this context, numerous stress factors that can have psychological consequences on the
      professionals and their effectiveness at work are inherent in intensive care (Donchin, 2002;
      Tummers et al., 2002).

      In numerous studies, perceived stress proves to be more predictive of the subsequent health
      state of the individual than real stress (Consoli et al., 2001). More precisely, the authors
      have shown the influence of perceived stress on mental health (Ramirez et al., 1996b),
      psychical health (Chang et al., 2007), burnout (Bourbonnais et al., 1999), job
      dissatisfaction (Golbasi et al., 2008), absenteeism (Hackett & Bycio, 1996), turnover (Hayes
      et al., 2006) and more recently on the security of care (Endacott, 2012).

      Identifying the factors of perceived stress is important in terms of mental health at work
      and the security of care. Studies on perceived stress have made it possible to elaborate
      stress scales specific to each profession (Borteyrou et al., 2013), with the aim of being as
      close as possible to the professionals' experience. However, to our knowledge, no stress
      scale for intensive care units has been published.

      This study aims to construct and validate an international professional perceived stress
      scale specific to intensive care units: the PS-ICU Scale (Perceived Stressors in Intensive
      Care Units). Secondary objectives: To identify the factors of perceived stress having an
      impact on mental health, job satisfaction and the quality of care. To measure the impact of
      cultural and organizational dimensions on perceived stress in intensive care specific to each
      country. To measure the impact of socio-demographic variables on perceived stress. To measure
      the impact of coping abilities on perceived stress.
    
  