
    
      The interventions will be delivered in Emergency Departments or Intensive Care Units.

      The intervention under investigation will be High flow nasal therapy. Investigators will
      deliver HFNT to enrolled patients using any available device able to produce it. The flow
      will be initially set at 60 liters per minute and temperature at 37° C. The target will be an
      oxygen saturation (SpO2) of 88-92%. In case of patient not tolerating these settings, flow
      and temperature will be titrated to the maximum tolerated level. The intervention will last
      until one of the following conditions: 1) physician in charge decide to interrupt HFNT and
      start NIV because the patient shows signs of persisting worsening respiratory failure; 2)
      physician in charge decide to interrupt HFNT and perform endotracheal intubation and invasive
      mechanical ventilation because patient shows one or more of these conditions: respiratory
      arrest, respiratory pauses with loss of consciousness, psychomotor agitation making nursing
      care impossible, heart rate < 50 with loss of alertness, hemodynamic instability with
      systolic arterial blood pressure <70 mmHg, development of conditions requiring intubation
      either to protect the airway or to manage copious tracheal secretions, inability to tolerate
      the devices; 3) clinical improvement defined as all these conditions: normal mental status,
      hemodynamic stability, respiratory rate below 25 per minute, absence of activation of
      accessory respiratory muscles and paradoxical abdominal motion, no dyspnea arterial pH >
      7.35, Arterial partial pressure of carbon dioxide (PaCO2) < 70 mmHg and Arterial partial
      pressure of oxygen (PaO2) > 55 mmHg with an inspired oxygen fraction (FiO2) < 0.35.

      In case of temporary interruption of the intervention for any cause, patients should receive
      oxygen supplementation with Venturi mask with a target of SpO2 88-92%.The comparator will be
      non invasive ventilation (NIV). NIV must be delivered by full or oronasal mask. The
      ventilator settings will be decided according to the usual practice: maximal tolerated
      inspiratory pressure to obtain a measured or estimated expired tidal volume of 6-8 mL·kg-1 of
      body weight and a positive end expiratory pressure (PEEP) between 3 and 5 cmH2O. An interface
      rotational strategy will be allowed among only different types of masks.

      The intervention will last until one of the following conditions: 1) physician in charge
      decide to interrupt NIV and perform endotracheal intubation and invasive mechanical
      ventilation because patient shows one or more of these conditions: respiratory arrest,
      respiratory pauses with loss of consciousness, psychomotor agitation making nursing care
      impossible, heart rate < 50 with loss of alertness, hemodynamic instability with systolic
      arterial blood pressure <70 mmHg, development of conditions requiring intubation either to
      protect the airway or to manage copious tracheal secretions, inability to tolerate the
      devices; 2) clinical improvement defined as all these conditions: normal mental status,
      hemodynamic stability, respiratory rate below 25 per minute, absence of activation of
      accessory respiratory muscles and paradoxical abdominal motion, no dyspnoea arterial pH >
      7.35, Arterial partial pressure of carbon dioxide (PaCO2) < 70 mmHg and Arterial partial
      pressure of oxygen (PaO2) > 55 mmHg with an inspired oxygen fraction (FiO2) < 0.35.

      In case of temporary interruption of NIV for any cause, patients should receive oxygen
      supplementation with Venturi mask with a target of SpO2 88-92%.
    
  