
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the efficacy of a randomized controlled trial to improve long term
      fatigue/physical dysfunction, depression/distress and health surveillance behaviors in adult
      3 to 25-year hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) survivors using an internet only or
      internet and phone-based problem-solving and activation training compared with survivors
      randomized to a delayed internet access control.

      II. To determine the reach, utilization, and implementation costs of a web-based,
      individually tailored intervention, disseminated through widely used patient information
      websites, targeting a national cohort of adult 2-25 year HSCT survivors. (Phase III/IV) III.
      To determine, in a randomized controlled trial, the efficacy of a nationally disseminated,
      internet-based, individually tailored intervention to improve long-term fatigue, distress and
      health promotion behaviors in HSCT survivors, compared with survivors randomized to a delayed
      internet access control. (Phase III/IV)

      OUTLINE: Patients with elevated fatigue, depression, and/or distress at baseline are
      randomized to 1 of 3 arms (ARMS I, II, or III). Patients without elevated fatigue, depression
      or distress at baseline are randomized to 1 of 2 arms (ARMS II or III).

      ARM I (FULL WEBSITE ACCESS WITH PROBLEM-SOLVING TRAINING [PST]; FIRST STUDY ONLY; CLOSED TO
      ACCRUAL): Patients receive full access to INSPIRE website for 6 months, which offers an
      individually tailored greeting home page with links to information on each of the target
      areas identified as being elevated on baseline assessment and how to manage the
      complications; a bulletin board with input from other survivors that is solicited, edited,
      and posted weekly; resource pages; and an opportunity to send secure messages with questions
      or comments. Patients also undergo 4-8 phone-based PST sessions with a behavioral health
      specialist.

      ARM II (FULL WEBSITE ACCESS WITHOUT PST): Patients receive full access to INSPIRE website for
      6 months as in ARM I.

      ARM III (DELAYED WEBSITE ACCESS): Patients do not have access to INSPIRE website for 6
      months. After 6 months, patients receive full access to INSPIRE website for 3 months.
    
  