
    
      Rational: Rheumatoid arthritis (RA), the most common inflammatory joint disease, is often
      associated with irreversible joint destruction and can involve the prognosis of patients. If
      treatments to stabilize the disease are now available, research continues to try to
      permanently cure the disease. It is well established that the B cells have a pathogenic role
      in RA. More recently, it has been shown that B cells could also have regulatory functions
      through the secretion of interleukin 10 (IL-10). They are called the B regulatory cells
      (Breg). In the mouse model the most commonly used of rheumatoid arthritis, collagen-induced
      arthritis (CIA), the transfer Breg helps prevent the development of CIA and cure established
      arthritis. The investigators have recently shown that Breg were decreased in patients with RA
      compared to controls and that the rate of Breg was inversely correlated with disease activity
      and autoantibody levels. These results thus suggest that the lack of IL-10 secretion by B
      cells plays an important role in the pathophysiology of RA. Nevertheless, in humans, the Breg
      remain poorly understood. The project's main objective is to better characterize the B
      capable of producing IL-10 both in subjects with RA and controls. Understanding which induces
      the secretion of IL-10 by B could allow to consider new therapeutic approaches in autoimmune
      diseases, including in RA.

      Objectives:

      Principal: To identify nutrient transporters and chemokine receptors differentially expressed
      between Breg and other B cells in patients with RA.

      Secondary:

        -  To identify genes and surface proteins differentially expressed between Breg and other B
           Lymphocytes (BL) in patients with RA.

        -  To identify nutrient transporters, chemokine receptors, genes and surface proteins
           differentially expressed between Breg and other BL in healthy subjects.

        -  To compare the expression of nutrient transporters, chemokine receptors, genes and
           surface proteins between Breg Breg controls and subjects with RA.

      Methods:

      Design: Cross-sectional study involving bicentric rheumatology services in Montpellier and
      Nîmes to recruitment; our research team at the Translational IGMM Nîmes and immunology
      laboratory for biological analyzes.

      Population:

        -  RA: patient meets the criteria ACR (American College of Rheumatology) -EULAR (European
           League Against Rheumatism) 2010, naïve and biotherapy with corticosteroids less than 10
           mg / day, stable for at least a week.

        -  Controls: matched for age and sex to RA patients, with no systemic disease.

      Endpoints

        -  Main: the average flow cytometry fluorescence intensity nutrient carriers and the
           percentage of BL expressing the different chemokine receptors

        -  Secondary: transcriptome analysis and proteomics surface with cytometric confirmation of
           protein expression of RNA and proteins identified.

      Number of subjects: 50 controls and 50 RA patients (10 each for each of the 3 methods of
      comparison Breg / B IL10- and 10 each for each of the two stages of validation). Each patient
      will have a visit. The expected study duration is 2 years.

      Statistical analysis: Comparing ratios B + IL-10 / IL-10-B between RA patients and controls
      by Student or Mann-Whitney tests.

      Expected Results and Prospects: This project will allow us to better define and understand
      the Breg in patients with RA and in controls. If the investigators can find specific
      extracellular markers for Breg, this will simplify the further study of these cells.
      Understanding allowing BL becoming regulator and this explains the lack of IL-10 by the BL in
      RA could open new therapeutic perspectives.
    
  