
    
      The objective of this study is to determine the performance characteristics of two rapid
      diagnostic tests.

      Approximately 3000-4500 subjects in total will be enrolled in the study into four different
      study populations. In Population 1, which is "at risk" group of about 2000-3000 subjects,
      roughly 2/3 will be individuals who are at risk of infection with HIV or hepatitis B or C, or
      who have signs or symptoms of hepatitis. Approximately 500 of these individuals are expected
      to be known HIV-positive individuals.

      The remaining three study populations will be comprised of individuals with known infection
      with HIV (Population 1A, ~500 individuals), HBV (Population 1B, ~500 individuals), and HCV
      (Population 1C, ~500 individuals).

      Both Multiplo HBc/HIV/HCV and Reveal HBsAg will be used to test finger stick whole blood,
      venous whole blood and plasma samples from each subject in Population 1. Plasma samples
      (repository or fresh) will be used to fulfill the requirements for Populations 1A, 1B, and
      1C.

      For all enrolled subjects, the plasma sample will be tested with the following FDA-approved
      assays: EIA for anti-HIV-1/2, anti-HCV, anti-HBc total, anti-HBc IgM, anti-HBs, and HBsAg.
      The efficacy of Multiplo will be determined by comparing the results with patient infected
      status for HIV-1/2, HBV and HCV. The efficacy of Reveal will be determined by comparing the
      results with patient infected status for HBV.

      The primary analysis will involve comparison of Multiplo HBc/HIV/HCV and Reveal HBsAg results
      for each of the test markers (anti-HIV-1/2, anti-HCV, anti-HBc, and HBsAg), in each sample
      matrix (finger stick whole blood, venous whole blood and plasma) with the patient infected
      status as determined by separate algorithms for HIV, HBV, and HCV. The percent positive and
      percent negative agreement will be determined relative to patient infected status for each
      marker and sample type, with corresponding two-sided 95% confidence intervals.
    
  