
    
      Improving treatment adherence among active substance users requires addressing many health
      barriers beyond substance use alone.(Dr N. Zaller Ph. D, Gillani, & Rich, 2007; Simoni,
      Amico, Pearson, & Malow, 2008; Willenbring, 2005) Behaviors like smoking and drug use, and
      experiences like poverty, poor social support, stigma, fear of HIV disclosure, depression,
      and anxiety, all reduce antiretroviral (ART) adherence and engagement in care, while
      accelerating disease progression.(Atkinson & Petrozzino, 2009; Bouhnik et al., 2002;
      Hendershot, Stoner, Pantalone, & Simoni, 2009; Mugavero et al., 2009; Shuter & Bernstein,
      2008; Simoni, Frick, & Huang, 2006; Tucker, Burnam, Sherbourne, Kung, & Gifford, 2003; Villes
      et al., 2007) Improving multiple health behaviors that are related to nonadherence is a
      promising approach that will be used in the current project. Emerging evidence supports
      simultaneously targeting multiple health behaviors.(Prochaska et al., 2008) Unfortunately,
      few interventions address the range of issues that undermine adherence to HIV care.

      Extending a program of research by the investigative team, this project will develop a
      patient-centered eHealth intervention; specifically, an Internet intervention, targeting
      multiple issues and nonadherence in HIV.

      The specific aims are:

        1. To develop a prototype of a patient-centered eHealth (Internet) intervention targeting
           adherence and a set of behaviors and experiences known to undermine adherence among
           non-urban PLWH.

        2. To evaluate the prototype for usability, feasibility and acceptability among PLWH and
           HIV care clinicians, modify it using PLWH and clinician feedback, and finalize it for
           pilot testing

        3. To pilot test the finalized intervention to determine whether it warrants a subsequent
           randomized clinical trial.

      The pilot test will:

        1. evaluate the feasibility of the eHealth intervention by examining access, usage, refusal
           vs. enrollment, retention vs. dropout, etc. using both web-tracked process data and
           interviews

        2. provide preliminary data on the impact of the eHealth intervention on knowledge and
           usage of strategies of adherence and each targeted experience and behavior that
           undermines ART adherence

        3. test variables likely to be used as primary outcome markers in a subsequent RCT for
           their variance in this population (i.e., adherence by pharmacy refill rate, rate of
           missed HIV care visits, rate of drug-using days, and rate of risky drinking days)

      If the pilot test of the new patient-centered eHealth intervention shows an impact on
      knowledge and use of strategies, and it proves to be feasible and acceptable, it will be
      tested in a subsequent RCT.
    
  