
    
      Eggs are well-known to be a balanced source of protein, energy, fatty acids, and
      micronutrients and increasingly identified as an opportunity to improve nutrition of poor
      populations. A recent trial in Ecuador showed dramatic improvements in child growth after
      consumption of eggs for only six months. This efficacy trial also showed that culturally
      appropriate strategies, taking local norms, values, and expectations into account, are
      important. Furthermore, small-scale egg production has proven to be an effective intervention
      to increase egg consumption among children. Few implementation studies have been done
      globally, and none in South Asia, to assess the effectiveness of using behavior change
      programs to motivate households to increase egg consumption.

      Despite significant reductions in under-nutrition over the last several decades, Nepal
      persists as a nation with one of the highest prevalence of child undernutrition globally.
      There is substantial room for improvement in important nutrition-related behaviors, including
      poor diets. According to the 2016 Nepal Demographic and Health Survey (DHS), only about
      one-third of children 6 to 23 months of age receive a minimum acceptable diet, less than half
      (47%) eat foods from at least 4 of 7 food groups to attain minimum dietary diversity (DD),
      and not even 10% consume eggs. The Government of Nepal (GoN) and development partners have
      prioritized multi-sectoral (integrated) nutrition as a key development agenda. Suaahara II, a
      USAID-funded program (2016-2021), aims to reduce under-nutrition particularly among women and
      children in the 1000-day period between conception and a child's second birthday, a crucial
      window of opportunity during which interventions have optimal impact on child growth and
      development. Operational in 42 of Nepal's 77 districts, Suaahara II uses a district-wide
      approach and interventions cover nutrition, health, family planning, agriculture, governance,
      gender equality, and social inclusion.

      Suaahara II's social and behavioral change communication (SBCC) interventions, using lessons
      learned from the first phase of Suaahara, prioritize 10 key behaviors for which
      knowledge-to-practice gaps persisted at the end of Suaahara I. Two of these 10 behaviors
      focus on dietary diversity: 1) mothers should eat a diverse diet, including eggs and meat,
      and 2) young children should eat a diverse diet, including eggs and meat. Suaahara II's SBCC
      approach includes a combination of interpersonal communication (IPC) (e.g., home visits for
      1:1 counselling with Suaahara II frontline workers); community mobilization (e.g., health
      mothers group meetings; food demonstrations and key life event celebrations); mass media
      (i.e., an interactive weekly radio program known as Bhanchhin Aama); and as of 2018, a series
      of 35 SMS messages sent to 1000-day households (other than those residing in Kanchanpur, the
      trial district) to reinforce the promoted 10 key behaviors as well as regular contact with
      the health system.

      The SMS messages started after monitoring data showed that over 95% of beneficiary households
      own a phone, including more than two-thirds of mothers. Each message is sent at a specific
      time to align with key times when a key nutrition-related health service contact point or
      important nutrition-related practice is needed during the 1000-day period (e.g., a reminder
      to go for antenatal care; an encouragement to continue exclusive breastfeeding for another
      two months when the child is 4 months). In pre-testing of this intervention in 2 districts
      with 1000-day mothers, Suaahara II found acceptability and interest to be high and a
      preference for text over voice messages as mothers noted that they can keep the former as
      record and messages were read when they had time providing them with flexibility; messaging
      could be as often as weekly; and mothers showed the messages to others and discussed about
      the content, even though not prompted to do so. The cost of sending SMS messages in Nepal is
      also lower than other behavior change methods which include costs for staff, travel, jobaids,
      and so on. For these reasons, SMS push-messaging has potential to be an effective tool for
      behavior change. Evidence of intervention effectiveness is lacking, however, and is
      particularly needed in Nepal where the Ministry of Health and Population is prioritizing the
      use of SMS push messages as part of their SBCC strategy for implementation of the
      Multi-sectoral Nutrition Plan.

      While SMS messaging is promising, various mHealth, and more recently mNutrition, literature
      reviews have noted the lack of rigorous research designs to assess effectiveness of these
      interventions. Some mHealth studies have shown positive results; for example, in Zanzibar a
      trial showed that mobile messaging can improve antenatal care attendance. These studies are
      few, and mNutrition studies even fewer. To the investigator's knowledge, no studies have
      assessed the effectiveness of using mNutrition interventions to improve diets in South Asia.
      Recent formative research in Sri Lanka, however, suggests the potential effectiveness of
      using mobile phones to improve infant and young child feeding.

      Growing mobile phone ownership in Nepal offers a potential mechanism for delivering nutrition
      messages to target groups in a time-saving and cost-effective way. While not everyone
      currently owns a phone, ownership is increasing even among quite remote populations. Given
      the combination of poor dietary diversity, limited reach of the health system, and having one
      of the fastest growing rates of mobile phone ownership among low- and middle-income
      countries, Nepal is an ideal setting for testing the use of SMS messages to promote ideal
      dietary practices.

      This study aims to use the rigor of a randomized controlled trial (RCT) to address a gap in
      the evidence base regarding the effectiveness of using short message service (SMS) text
      messaging to improve dietary practices. The main research question is: are SMS messages,
      added to a large-scale behavior change program, an effective means of improving diets among
      children under 2 years of age? To assess the comparative effectiveness of delivering
      nutrition-related SMS messages, a two-arm trial will be used to compare the following two
      strategies: 1) Suaahara II standard multi-sectoral nutrition interventions, without any text
      messages, and 2) Suaahara II standard multi sectoral nutrition interventions plus a text
      message campaign targeting all adult household members of households in the 1000-day period
      between conception and a child's second birthday.

      The c-RCT will involve a baseline survey in April/May 2019 and an endline survey in Nov-Jan
      2021 (delayed due to covid-19, as originally planned data collection in April/May 2020 was
      not possible). The design is longitudinal at the cluster level but not at the household or
      individual level to be able to assess households with children aged 12-23 months at both
      baseline and endline. An SMS message intervention will begin in the trial district
      (Kanchanpur) only after data collection for the baseline has completed and will involve
      sending monthly text messages primarily about egg consumption and dietary diversity. About 4
      months after the implementation starts, a mixed-methods process evaluation will be conducted
      to assess fidelity of program implementation and identify any challenges or bottlenecks to be
      addressed.
    
  