
    
      There is now evidence that blood pressure, vascular function and inflammation are intimately
      associated with cardiovascular disease. It is also clear that several dietary components
      including polyphenols and L-citrulline can modify blood pressure control. However, based on
      the studies available so far, it is difficult to draw firm conclusion on the potential impact
      of a dietary supplement combining polyphenols and L-citrulline on ambulatory blood pressure
      in pre-hypertensive subjects at risk to develop hypertension and cardiovascular disease. To
      the best of our knowledge, no study has yet investigated the chronic impact of combined
      polyphenols and L-citrulline on both ambulatory blood pressure and vascular
      function/inflammation.

      The present supplementation based on polyphenols and L-citrulline may represent for
      pre-hypertensive subjects a new dietary modality to manage blood pressure as part of healthy
      eating.

      The study will be undertaken according to a double-blind, parallel, randomized, placebo
      controlled design and will be conducted at the Institute of Nutrition and Functional Foods
      (INAF) of Laval University. A total of 73 adult men and women will be recruited based
      primarily on blood pressure criteria in the Quebec City metropolitan area. Participants will
      be randomly assigned to a 6-week period of supplementation with Nitric Oxide Ultra capsules
      or placebo (cellulose capsules). Participants in the NO Ultra group will be supplemented with
      764 mg/day of cranberry and grape seed extracts (containing polyphenols) and 2 g/day of
      L-citrulline. Participants will have to take daily 2 capsules (NO Ultra or placebo) between
      breakfast and lunch and 2 capsules (NO Ultra or placebo) between lunch and dinner.
      Specifically, capsules will be taken with water and no foods, and at least one-hour apart
      meals. Office and 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure, blood lipids, cutaneous and plasma
      markers of vascular function, plasma inflammation biomarkers and anthropometric
      characteristics will be measured at the beginning and at the end of the study.
    
  