
    
      Rationale: Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a condition with high impact both on the individual
      and society. In the context of comparing the effectiveness of existing healthcare
      interventions in the elderly, RA is a condition highly relevant to the community since it has
      a strongly negative impact on the quality of life of the individual, is particularly frequent
      in the elderly, and is associated with significant costs. RA management remains challenging:
      there is an urgent unmet medical and societal need for improved treatment strategies that are
      effective, safe and affordable. Evidence based information on the glucocorticoid (GC)
      harm/benefit balance will have a high impact on RA treatment strategies and on treatment
      strategies for the many other inflammatory disorders for which GCs are considered. The
      Glucocorticoid Low-dose Outcome in RheumatoId Arthritis Study (GLORIA) is a 5-year project
      funded by the European Commission under the Horizon 2020 Program, designed to address these
      needs.

      Objective: The primary objectives of the GLORIA project are twofold:

        1. To assess the effectiveness, safety and cost-effectiveness of low-dose GC therapy (5
           mg/day) compared to placebo given for two years as co-treatment for elderly RA patients
           (≥ 65 years) in a pragmatic randomized trial;

        2. To assess study medication adherence through a medication packaging solution, and test
           the effectiveness of smart device technology to improve adherence.

      Other objectives of the GLORIA project are: to deliver an outcome prediction model for
      individual patient outcome, to tailor treatment strategies for elderly RA patients with
      comorbidities; and deliver data to support:

        1. better guidelines on RA treatment in the elderly;

        2. more accurate information for elderly RA patients, their physicians and researchers;

        3. improved strategies for trial design and conduct in the elderly.

      Study design: The GLORIA study is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled pragmatic
      multicenter clinical trial to assess the effectiveness and safety of a daily dose of 5 mg
      prednisolone or matching placebo in elderly RA patients. Patients will be randomized into two
      arms: the experimental arm (receiving prednisolone 5 mg/day) or the control arm (receiving
      placebo). The design emulates the routine care setting: eligibility criteria are very
      liberal, assessments and procedures are tailored to represent standard of care, and
      concurrent antirheumatic treatment is allowed next to the trial medication with minimal
      limitations. Furthermore, all patients will have an adherence monitoring device loaded into
      the cap of the drug bottle; adherence data will be monitored throughout the trial. In
      addition, to test the effect of adherence reminders, a substudy (another trial) will be
      nested in the main GLORIA trial.

      Substudy design: The substudy is limited to patients with a smart device (smartphone, tablet,
      etc) who have completed at least 3 months of the main study on treatment. The experimental
      arm of the substudy will receive an application loaded onto their smart device that
      communicates with an adherence monitoring device loaded into the cap of the drug bottle and
      delivers reminders to improve adherence. The control arm of the substudy will not have this
      application and reminders. The substudy has a duration of three months.

      Study population: Patients of 65 years of age and older with RA according to the 1987 or the
      2010 classification criteria of the American College of Rheumatology (ACR) and the European
      League Against Rheumatism (EULAR), requiring antirheumatic therapy because of inadequate
      disease control, as evidenced by a disease activity score of 28 joints calculated with
      erythrocyte sedimentation rate (DAS28) ≥2.60.

      Substudy population: Patients in the main study who have completed at least 3 months on
      treatment, in possession of and familiar with a smart device.

      Intervention: In this two-armed clinical trial, patients will be randomized to either the
      experimental arm or the control arm. The experimental arm will receive prednisolone 5 mg/day
      added to existing antirheumatic treatment. The control arm will receive matching placebo
      added to existing antirheumatic treatment. Treatment duration is two years per patient.
      Subsequently, study drug is tapered in linear fashion to zero in 6 weeks by inserting
      increasing numbers of non-treatment days. Patients experiencing a flare at that time can
      restart open label prednisolone at the discretion of the treating rheumatologist.

      Co-interventions: As part of standard of care all patients will receive Calcium 500
      mg/Vitamin D3 800 IU. Besides the study medication, almost all treatment is allowed; both
      treatment for comorbidities, as well as antirheumatic treatment. This includes biologic and
      nonbiologic disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs), non-steroidal anti-inflammatory
      drugs (NSAIDs), short term oral or parental GCs for comorbidities and acetaminophen. However,
      it is advised not to start other antirheumatic therapy (DMARD, biologic) or give
      intra-articular or intramuscular GC injections, especially not in the first 3 months, but it
      is allowed if clinically judged as unavoidable. In such cases, preferred administration is at
      baseline.

      Substudy intervention: All patients will have an adherence monitoring device loaded into the
      cap of the drug bottle that will be equipped with a wireless transmitter, which not only
      tracks adherence but can also communicate real time with a smart device of the patient
      (smartphone, tablet, etc.), through special software to remind patients of the time of
      medication. In the substudy, patients with a smart device will receive an application loaded
      on their smart device that communicates with the adherence monitoring device loaded into the
      cap of the drug bottle. The app sends a reminder message to the patient when it's time to
      take the medication and in case of non-adherence the app also sends an alert message to
      inform the patient he or she has forgotten to take the medication. Eligible patients will be
      randomized to either the experimental arm that receive reminders on their smart device, or to
      the control arm that will not receive reminders, for a period of 3 months.

      Main study endpoints:

        -  To measure benefit, primary endpoints are a) signs and symptoms: the time-averaged mean
           value (estimated from linear mixed models) of the DAS28; b) damage progression: change
           from baseline after 2-years in total Sharp/van der Heijde damage score of hands and
           forefeet radiographs.

        -  To measure safety, the primary endpoint is the total number of patients experiencing at
           least one serious adverse event, or one clinical event related to the disease or its
           therapy.

        -  Other major outcomes are cost-effectiveness, cost-utility, and medication adherence.

      Assessment takes place at varying intervals, and includes seven clinic visits and 3
      assessments by telephone.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: GLORIA is a pragmatic trial, with measurements that are almost all part of
      standard of care, and therefore there are no additional risks associated with these
      measurements. However, the intervention in this trial is that patients are randomized to
      either standard of care with low-dose GCs or standard of care without low-dose GCs for a
      duration of two years. It is known that GCs have strong favorable effects on disease
      activity, of which patients randomised to the control arm (placebo) cannot benefit. However,
      side effects of GCs are known as well, and patients in the experimental arm (prednisone 5
      mg/day) might suffer from them. Although side effects predominantly occur when GC are used in
      high doses for long periods of time, elderly are more likely to suffer from adverse effects
      of the disease and its therapy than younger patients. However, elderly are underrepresented
      or even excluded from many clinical trials, so it is difficult to estimate their risk: this
      forms the rationale for the trial. To reduce risks, participants are monitored and patients
      with a low probability of benefit and patients with a high probability of harm will be
      excluded from participation to this trial. For the substudy to measure adherence through an
      innovative application, no additional risks are expected: if the application appears to be
      successful, patients randomised to the intervention can only benefit from it since it
      improves their medication adherence; in case the application is not successful, for patients
      not randomised to the application or for patients without a smart device, no difference is
      expected with the 'normal' situation, in which patients do not have access to an adherence
      application.
    
  