
    
      Neuropathic pain (NP) affects 40 to 70% of people with SCI and is a very disabling clinical
      condition. The definitions of NP as well as its neurophysiology are widely discussed in the
      literature. Many treatment options have been offered, but provide limited effects, leaving
      people with SCI with a reduced quality of life.

      Pain is a very complex experience that depends strongly on cognitive, emotional, and
      educational influences. Despite intensive investigations, the cause of neuropathic pain often
      remains unknown. A careful assessment of the pain including the use of tools to objectively
      measure pain will help with the diagnosis and the quantification of the damage. These tools
      include: 1) Laboratory testing that uses quantitative tests and measures objective responses
      in neurophysiology, sensory evoked potentials...etc.; 2) Quantitative sensory testing, that
      tests the perception of pain in response to external stimuli; 3) Bedside examination:
      physicians assessment on location, quality and intensity of pain; 4) Pain questionnaires,
      depending entirely on the subject's self-reported experience.

      When spinal cord injury occurs, the spinal somatosensory circuit is thought to generate
      aberrant nociceptive impulses that the brain interprets as pain. Thalamic circuits may also
      serve as amplifiers of nociceptive signals. Sensory deafferentation after injury to the
      spinal cord produces extensive and long-lasting reorganization of the cortical and
      subcortical sensory maps. It has been suggested that pain and phantom limb sensations are the
      consequence of those cortical plasticity change. Therefore, strategies aimed at reversing or
      modulating the somatosensory neural reorganization may be valuable alternative approaches to
      neuropathic pain. Immersive virtual reality (IVR) is an emerging approach to the treatment of
      neuropathic pain conditions in SCI. Despite promising initial studies, IVR therapy has not
      yet been made widely available to individuals with SCI, because equipment is expensive and
      can be difficult for clinicians to use, especially those with limited experience with
      technology. However, with the development of 'plug and play', low-cost IVR devices such as
      the Oculus Rift, Gear VR and Google Cardboard, IVR no longer requires such specific technical
      knowledge. As a result, IVR is now a feasible and affordable treatment option for neuropathic
      pain.

      The investigators believe that IVR neurorehabilitation exploits the idea of inducing
      activation in action observation, motor imagery, and processing systems, which in turn,
      should activate downstream cortical areas involved in movement and motor imagery. Also,
      perturbations of the somatosensory system associated with central pain can be reversed or
      modulated by employing motor imagery and related task execution combined with visual
      illusions. The investigators hypothesize that SCI patients using immersive IVR training will
      show improved reduction of neuropathic pain that will outlast the training sessions and
      transfers into daily life.
    
  