
    
      This is a single-center, open-label, randomized, prospective, controlled trial evaluating the
      efficacy and safety of infliximab (IFX) as first line therapy in children with
      moderate-to-severe CD. The estimated duration of the study is 36 months, including a
      recruitment phase of 12 months, a treatment phase of 12 months, composed by an induction
      phase of 8 weeks and a maintaining phase of 40 weeks, and a follow-up phase of 12 months. The
      study protocol is defined in accordance with Declaration of Helsinki and approved by the
      local ethical committee. Written informed consent will be obtained from all children's
      parents; children older than 12 years will sign a statement of assent. Children aged between
      6 and 18 years with active CD confirmed by recognized clinical, radiological, endoscopic and
      histological criteria will be considered for the trial if they will satisfy the following
      criteria: 1. diagnosis of CD; 2. PCDAI>30; 3. duration of disease less than 1 year from the
      time of diagnosis (early CD). Exclusion criteria will be: any prior treatment with
      immunosuppressive agents (azathiorpine/6-mercaptopurine [AZA/6-MP], methotrexate,
      cyclosporine) or anti-TNFα, stenosing CD, pre-existing systemic disease, hepatic or renal
      dysfunction, systemic infection, suspected pregnancy, a history of active or past
      tuberculosis, or contraindication to corticosteroid (CS) therapy. Children who will have
      received any CS within 4 weeks before randomization will be also excluded. Patients who will
      have received 5-ASA will be eligible if the drug will be kept with a stable regimen for more
      than 4 weeks before the beginning of the study. Early CD will be arbitrarily defined as
      disease duration of <1 yr from the time of diagnosis. Eligible patients will be randomly
      allocated to receive a 8-week course of IFX plus AZA (top-down arm - TD) or CS plus AZA
      (step-up arm - SU). Randomization group assignments will be generated using a
      computer-generated randomization schedule by an independent statistician unaware of the
      patient's clinical history. Patients randomized on TD arm will receive an induction regimen
      of three consecutive i.v. infusions of IFX (Remicade, 5 mg/kg) at weeks 0, 2, and 6 plus AZA
      (2 mg/Kg per os/day). During maintaining phase, patients will receive subsequent infusions of
      IFX (5 mg/kg every 8 weeks), starting 8 weeks after the end of the induction phase (week 14).
      For each intravenous infusion, IFX will be reconstituted according to the instructions given
      on the package insert. Patients who will not respond to the induction regimen at week 8 will
      receive no further treatment with IFX. At 12 months AZA will be discontinued and patients on
      TD group will continue IFX monotherapy until the end of the study. Patients randomized on SU
      arm will receive methylprednisolone (1 mg/Kg/day per os. for 2 weeks then tapering of 5
      mg/week then stop) plus AZA (2 mg/Kg/die per os/day). During the trial, other drugs will be
      not allowed, including immunosuppressive agents, other biological agents, other CS, such as
      budesonide. 5-ASA and sulfasalazine will be allowed, if begun before the enrollment. Disease
      recurrence will be treated with IFX in the TD group, and with repeated CS in the SU group.
      Clinical assessment will be performed through PCDAI at baseline, every 4 weeks after starting
      treatments during the induction, every 8 weeks during the maintaining phase (48 weeks), and
      every 12 weeks during the follow-up phase. The PCDAI (Pediatric Crohn's Disease Activity
      Index) is a multi-item score, based on recall of preceding week's symptoms, laboratory
      parameters (erythrocyte sedimentation rate, haematocrit and albumin), and physical
      examination score <=10 indicates inactive disease, 10-30 mild disease, and >30
      moderate-to-severe disease. Clinical response to treatment require a 25-point decrease in
      PCDAI score. Clinical remission is defined as the absence of symptoms related to CD and a
      PCDAI <=10. From each patient blood samples to determine full blood count, erythrocyte
      sedimentation rate (ESR), C-reactive protein (CRP), serological values of albumin, urea,
      iron, creatinine, electrolytes, pancreatic and liver function tests will be taken before
      starting the randomization, every 4 weeks during the induction phase, and every 8 weeks
      during maintaining phase. All patients will undergo ileo-colonoscopy before, 8 weeks (end of
      the induction phase) and 48 weeks (end of the maintaining phase) after the beginning of the
      treatments. Endoscopy will be performed with a pediatric endoscope after deep sedation with
      propofol (induction dose: 1 to 2 mg/kg; repeated dose: 0.5 to 1 mg/kg). Endoscopies will be
      performed by experienced operators who will be unaware of the patient's clinical history,
      treatment program and clinical and bioumoral responses to the therapy. During
      ileo-colonoscopy, at least two biopsy samples will be taken from ileum and from each colonic
      segment for routine histological assessment. Biopsies will stained with haematoxylin and
      eosin and read by experienced gastrointestinal pathologists, unaware both of endoscopic
      features and clinical history. Mucosal healing will be evaluated through CDEIS (Crohn's
      Disease Endoscopic Index of Severity). CDEIS is based on the presence, at the level of
      terminal ileum and colon, of deep or superficial ulcerations, extension of ulcerated surface
      and presence of ulcerated or nonulcerated stenosis. Histological evaluation will be done by a
      scoring system previously validated used for ileal and colonic histology, combining both
      acute changes (infiltration of mononuclear and polymorphonuclear cells, erosions ulcerations)
      and chronic changes involving the mucosal architecture. The final histological colonic score
      will be obtained by the mean of the scores of each of the colonic segments.
    
  