
    
      Main objective: to measure the physiological impact of two auricular stimuli on the same
      innervation territory but with opposite actions according to traditional therapies.

      An identical physiological response on both stimulation points would be an argument against
      the topographical precision adopted by traditional therapies; conversely, a different
      physiological response would suggest the existence of a somatotopy nestled in the same
      innervation territory.

      Secondary objectives:

        -  Determine, by sinus variability analysis, the intensity of the sympathetic and
           parasympathetic cardiac response of mechanical stimulation of the ear concha.

        -  Determine the existence of a blockage of the sympathetic reaction on cutaneous
           vasoconstriction after mechanical stimulation of the ear concha.

        -  Measure the relationship between sinus variability and paradoxical skin vasodilation
           after exposure to cold, as considered in the protocol.

      To explore the justification for the topographical precision adopted by traditional
      therapies, we designed an experiment that consists of studying the autonomous, sympathetic
      and parasympathetic response to two stimuli performed over two different times.

      The sympathetic stimulation will be done by immersing the right hand up to the wrist in a tub
      of cold water maintained at 5°C Mechanical parasympathetic stimulation will be performed on
      the ear in two different locations, by placing an adapted needle through an introducer to
      respect a standardized insertion depth.

      The autonomous response will be measured by sinus variability, which responds to a double
      innervation, sympathetic and parasympathetic, and by the capillary skin response, which
      responds only to a sympathetic innervation.

      The capillary skin response is measured by the amplitude and latency of the paradoxical
      vasodilation reflex following thermal stimulation, in this case the immersion of a limb's tip
      in cold water.

      The study will consist of 3 sessions, as shown in the figure below. This is a prospective
      crossover study.

      During the first session, the inclusion and non-inclusion criteria will be checked, then a
      water immersion test will be carried out to ensure the good tolerance of this test and then
      determine the basic values.

      In the absence of acclimatization, the paradoxical vasodilation reflex is highly
      reproducible. During the second and third sessions, a mechanical stimulation will be done to
      the ear during the skin immersion test.
    
  