
    
      Patients will be registered for through the study Web site. Following Web site registration,
      patients will receive an electronic informed consent form. Informed consent is a process that
      is initiated prior to the individual's agreeing to participate in the study and continues
      throughout the individual's study participation. Consent forms will be Institutional Review
      Board (IRB)-approved and the participant will read and review the document electronically.
      Participants must sign the informed consent document prior to participating in the registry.
      Participants will be informed that participation is voluntary and that they may withdraw from
      the study at any time, without prejudice by emailing the study team.

      As a real-world data registry, any adult men and women currently in the United States and
      willing to provide written informed consent and:

        -  who are feeling sick but have not tested positive for COVID-19, or

        -  who are feeling sick and have tested positive for COVID-19, or

        -  who are not feeling sick but want to participate can enroll

      Patients unwilling or unable to provide informed consent will be excluded.

      DATA MANAGEMENT A registry database will be maintained with identified registry data elements
      captured into the REDCap Cloud EDC system, a commercial eClinical Platform that is 21 CFR
      Part 11 Validated, HIPAA & FISMA compliant, and WHODrug and MedDRA certified. All access and
      activity in the system is tracked and can easily be monitored by the Administrator. The
      system has a login audit feature that tracks who has logged into the system, the date and
      time of login, and the IP address of the connection. The system also tracks failed logins and
      automatically locks a user's account after several failed attempts. The REDCap Cloud system
      has a robust audit trail that shows all changes to any records within the system including
      who made the change, the date and time of the change, the field that was changed, the old
      value of the field and the new value of the field. Access can be monitored via a dashboard or
      email alerts. Data management activities will follow standard operating procedures.

      STUDY RECORDS RETENTION In the event that patient authorize the collection of additional
      medical records, those records will be maintained in xCures' HIPAA compliant box storage
      platform hosted on Amazon's HIPAA-compliant cloud servers. Source information, including
      medical records will be abstracted into a study database and not made available in their
      original format outside the study team. Study data including source records and case reports
      forms will be maintained in electronic format indefinitely. De-identified databases derived
      from the study records may be made available to other researchers and may be retained by
      those organizations indefinitely based on the terms of the agreement under which the data was
      provided.

      SOURCE DOCUMENTS Source data can include clinical findings and observations, or other
      information incorporated into the registry database to support analysis of data. Source data
      is all information from which information in the registry database is derived in original
      form (or certified copies of an original record). Examples of these original documents and
      records include but are not limited to the following: electronic medical records, clinical
      and office charts, laboratory notes, memoranda, correspondence, subjects' diaries or
      patient-reported questionnaires, data from automated instruments, such as ECG machines,
      photographs and other imaging (DICOM) files, slides, pharmacy records, and the reports
      documenting medical interpretation of those files.

      Data may be entered into the eCRF either manually by the study team performing data
      abstraction from the EMR or electronically using direct entry of data into the or from an
      electronic import of data. Patients may also enter information directly into the eCRF using a
      patient-facing survey functionality either over the Web or using a smartphone app. Data
      elements originating in EMR may be automatically transmitted directly into the eCRF using a
      suitable API. Source data derived in that manner may have an intervening process, such as
      abstraction by third-party including software including processing using machine learning
      algorithms prior to transferring to the eCRF. xCures will retain source records in a secure
      that will be maintained separately and securely from the eCRF. However, metadata tagging may
      be employed to electronically map source data back from the eCRF to the source data record to
      create an audit trail.

      DISCONTINUATION OF PARTICIPATION

      Participants can withdraw from the registry at any time by sending a written request to
      xCures. Withdrawal from the study means that no additional data will be collected from the
      patient and does not constitute revocation of the right to use the data collected prior to
      withdrawal for the purposes described herein. xCures may discontinue the study at any time
      for any reason. In the event the registry is discontinued enrolled participants may receive
      an email notification and a public posting on the study Web site will be made, if possible.
    
  