
    
      The association between Helicobacter pylori infection and development of gastric cancer has
      been established by epidemiologic studies. Conversely, eradication of H. pylori showed no
      significant reduction of the incidence of gastric cancer in a large-scale, double-blind,
      randomized controlled trial. Eradication of H. pylori to prevent cancer was only effective in
      the subgroup without precancerous lesions (i,e, dysplasia, intestinal metaplasia, and
      atrophy). In contrast, randomized prospective study in Japan showed that H. pylori
      eradication after endoscopic resection of early gastric cancer significantly reduced
      metachronous gastric cancer. To solve this conflicting issue is critical because gastric
      cancer is the second leading cancer incidence worldwide, particularly Korea, Japan, and China
      have highest cancer incidence, and its incidence might decrease by H. pylori eradication
      treatment.

      With respect to therapeutic modality, endoscopic resection for early gastric cancer is
      currently the established treatment of choice in Korea and Japan because it has been proven
      to be both minimally invasive and effective in the curative treatment of early gastric
      cancer.

      Endoscopic resection has also been performed in the gastric dysplasia because dysplasia has
      to some extent malignant potential although firm evidence is lacking. In comparison with
      surgical resection, endoscopic resection conserves remnant stomach. Accordingly, patients
      treated with endoscopic resection have higher possibility for metachronous gastric cancer
      than those treated with surgical resection.

      So far, it has not yet been clearly established whether H pylori eradication for gastric
      tumors (early gastric cancer and gastric dysplasia) could reduce metachronous cancer. We
      performed randomized controlled, open-label trial on the effect of new cancer development
      after H pylori eradication for gastric tumors.
    
  