
    
      This is a randomized controlled trial involving non-diabetic residents of East Los Angeles,
      most of whom are low-income, mostly immigrant Mexican Americans. The family
      environment-focused health behavior change intervention is being carried out by extensively
      trained community health workers (promotores) familiar with the community in East Los
      Angeles. The comparison condition is a more traditional health education approach to teaching
      residents about practical early cancer detection strategies designed to reduce risk of death
      from cancer.

      The hypothesis being tested is that home environment-focused health behavior change will
      reduce risk of arterial stiffness, an early-in-life predictor of heart disease. The community
      health workers will provide most of the health promotion counseling. The promotores will
      provide up to 16 counseling sessions to a designated adult family member without diabetes.
      The sessions will focus on improving the home environment in order to reduce television
      viewing, increase fruit and vegetable intake, decrease intake of refined carbohydrates,
      prompt more frequent monitoring of body weight and increase daily physical activity. The
      lifestyle change goals will be tailored to the families' capacity for change and will be
      consistent with the Dietary Guidelines for Americans, especially the MyPlate.gov messages,
      the Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension (DASH) diet and at least 30 minutes of daily
      moderate physical activity.

      Secondary outcomes include: aerobic fitness, fruit and vegetable intake as assessed by food
      frequency questionnaire, endothelial function, body mass index, waist circumference, blood
      pressure, a metabolic syndrome score, and quality of life. Relative to the cancer early
      detection condition, the lifestyle change intervention is expected to improve fitness,
      increase fruit and vegetable intake, improve endothelial function, improve BMI, reduce excess
      waist circumference, improve blood pressure, and improve quality of life.

      If results confirm hypotheses, the results will support investing more public health
      resources into environmental and policy strategies design to make it easier for populations
      to adhere to the Dietary Guidelines for Americans and the Physical Activity Guidelines for
      Americans.
    
  