
    
      1. Background:

           Crohn's disease (CD) is a chronic intestinal inflammation, affecting approximately
           130,000 Canadians. Its incidence and prevalence is rising worldwide. The disease
           etiology is unknown; however its pathogenesis is thought to be mediated by commensal gut
           bacteria, affected by environmental factors in a genetically susceptible host. It is
           well established that susceptibility to CD has a strong genetic component with up to 12%
           of the patients having family history of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Genome-wide
           association studies (GWAS) have identified more than 230 single nucleotide polymorphisms
           (SNPs) associated with IBD. However the risk-associated SNPs seems to account for only a
           portion of the observed IBD heritability, as many healthy individuals and relatives of
           Crohn's patients who carry these risk alleles never develop disease.

           The gut microbiome, which is also implicated in the CD pathogenesis, also has a certain
           degree of inheritance.. Up to a third of the intestinal bacteria are heritable, raising
           the possibility of specific host genetic variants shaping the individual variability in
           microbial profiles. A study with 582 healthy individuals found that a high genetic risk
           for IBD was associated with a decrease in the relative abundance of the
           butyrate-producing Roseburia. Diet independently can affect the gut microbiome in short-
           and long term. Population-based studies in IBD indicate strong association of high
           dietary intakes of total fats, n-6 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) and meats with
           increased risk of IBD, while high intake of fruits and vegetables decrease that risk.
           Animal studies have described the mechanisms underlying the pathogenesis of high-fat
           diets in colitis, including decreased Paneth cell area and less production of
           antimicrobial peptides by Paneth cells in the small intestines; reduced goblet cell
           number and less secreted mucin by goblet cells in the small intestines; reduced levels
           of tight junction proteins as occludin in the ileum, further illustrated by increased
           small intestinal permeability; increased IL-6 secretion in colon; and finally expanded
           abundance of pathobionts, such as Atopobium and Proteobacteria in stool. These data
           suggest that a high-fat diet (as an example of Western diet) has significant effect on
           the intestinal immunity and barrier function together with induction of dysbiosis and
           pathobiont expansion that can finally predispose to the development of inflammatory
           bowel disease.

           N-6 PUFAs have been identified as a risk factor for IBD. Canadians currently consume
           5-10% dietary energy from n-6 PUFA, due to increased consumption of vegetable oils
           recommended by Canada's Food Guide. Meanwhile consumption of n-3 PUFAs (docosahexaenoic
           acid and eicosapentaenoic acid) with anti-inflammatory actions, represent only 0.15%
           dietary energy. Both n-6 and n-3 PUFAs are precursors of eicosanoids that regulate
           inflammation but in polarizing means. N-6 PUFAs, promote the production of
           pro-inflammatory series 2 prostaglandins (like prostaglandin E2, PGE2), thromboxanes and
           series 4 leukotrienes and also exacerbated murine colitis in several models. In
           contrast, n-3 PUFAs have anti-inflammatory properties that lead to the series 3 PGE,
           series 5 leukotrienes, and resolvins, which reduce translocation of inflammatory
           mediators to the site of injury. However clinical studies have shown conflicting results
           on the use of fish oil as source of n-3 PUFAs in IBD. Previously it was shown that fish
           oil can cause enrichment with gut pathobionts, and worsened mortality during infectious
           colitis in mice when added to n-6 PUFA rich diet, but not if combined with other fatty
           acids, revealing the importance of the background diet. Therefore a diet with reduced
           n-6 PUFA but higher fibre intake is proposed to be protective in IBD.

           Increased small intestinal permeability or so called "leaky gut" has been associated
           with many chronic conditions as obesity, type 2 diabetes and IBD. Increased intestinal
           permeability is also one of the potential pathogenetic risk factors for CD identified in
           up to 20% of our 10 years' longitudinal study population of healthy first-degree
           relatives (FDR) of Crohn disease patients. Furthermore, certain diets such as high-fat,
           high-glucose or high-fructose diets can also cause barrier dysfunction and increase the
           gut permeability, thus increasing the risk of developing metabolic endotoxemia and
           chronic intestinal inflammation. In contrast, reducing small intestinal permeability
           attenuates experimental colitis. These findings suggest that reduction of the gut
           permeability may reduce the risk factors leading to development of CD in FDR of CD
           patients.

           Studies conducted with animal models and healthy volunteers described reduction of gut
           permeability following consumption of β-fructans. However, the prebiotics efficacy in
           experimental IBD is also dependent on the background diet composition. We recently found
           that β-fructans protective effect in HLA-B27 rat colitis is modulated by n-6 and n-3
           PUFAs intake. These data highlight that β-fructan type prebiotics are beneficial, but
           also suggest that background dietary lipid composition can modulate clinical outcomes.
           Since most Canadians consume a high n-6 / low n-3 PUFAs diet we propose that a
           combination of fatty acids including n-3 PUFAs will overpower n-6 PUFAs effect on
           β-fructans and (further) improve clinical response.

        2. Study Hypothesis and Aims:

      Based on the β-fructans efficacy in reducing intestinal permeability and regulating gut
      immunity shown in experimental models and clinical studies with healthy participants as well
      as the effect of diet on gut microbiome, colitis development and prebiotics activity, we
      hypothesize that β-fructans alone or in combination with high n-3 PUFAs/low n-6 PUFAs diet
      (similar to a Mediterranean diet) can reduce increased small intestinal permeability and
      prevent chronic intestinal inflammation in FDR of CD patients, associated with improved
      intestinal microbiota metabolism.

      In order to fulfill this hypothesis the following aims are proposed:

        1. To assess if oral administration of β-fructans and /or dietary changes can improve small
           intestinal permeability (measured by urinary excreted lactulose and mannitol) in those
           FDRs with abnormal permeability.

        2. To assess which protective mechanisms are associated with the permeability changes such
           as alterations in circulating zonulin, glucagone-like peptide 2 (GLP-2) and plasma
           endotoxin, as well as changes in gut microbiota composition and short chain fatty acid
           production.

        3. Study Design:

      Participants (FDR of CD patients; 32 total) with confirmed increased small intestinal
      permeability (defined as a ratio of lactulose/mannitol 0.025 or greater) will be randomized
      to receive either a 12 g daily dose of β-fructans (Prebiotin, oligofructose-enriched inulin
      in ratio 1:1, equivalent to Orafti-Synergy1, supplied by Jackson GI Medical), or placebo
      (maltodextrin) as well as dietary intervention for 12 weeks. In order to control n-3 and n-6
      PUFAs intake, participants will receive nutritional counselling by a registered dietitian.
      The Mediterranean diet pattern (MDP) (also called below "Low n-6 PUFA diet") with increased
      n-3 PUFA, saturated fatty acids (SFA) and monounsaturated fatty acids (MUFA) and reduced n-6
      PUFAs food intake will be adopted as suitable low n-6 PUFA diet. Participants who will not be
      assigned to "Low n-6 PUFA diet" will be advised to follow the Canada's Food Guide
      recommendations ("Control diet"). Thus this placebo-controlled study will involve 4
      intervention groups with 8 participants in each arm: 1) Prebiotin + "Low n-6 PUFA Diet"; 2)
      Prebiotin + Control Diet; 3) Placebo + "Low n-6 PUFA Diet"; 4) Placebo + Control Diet.

      The intestinal permeability will be evaluated using lactulose/mannitol ratio (at weeks 0 and
      12), as well as serum/plasma markers for intestinal permeability including zonulin,
      glucagone-like peptide 2 (GLP-2) and lipopolysaccharides (LPS) (weeks 0, 6 and 12). We will
      also study the effect of prebiotic product and diet on fecal microbiota composition and
      activity (as fecal short-chain fatty acids and bile acids) (weeks 0, 6 and 12). Attention
      will also be paid to the safety and tolerability of these prebiotics in FDR using
      questionnaires related to adverse events/dyspepsia and gastrointestinal habits (weeks 0, 3,
      6, 9 and 12).

      Since diet is also part of the intervention study and thought to play role in the intestinal
      permeability and prebiotic activity, all participants will receive dietary counselling and
      will be expected to adhere to recommended diet. Long-term dietary intake correlates with the
      bacteria taxa in the individual, so is important to quantify this prior to the dietary
      intervention. Participants will complete the on-line version of the Canadian Diet History
      Questionnaire II (C-DHQ II) which is a food frequency questionnaire to assess their pre-study
      diet (habitual diet) over the past year. In order to assess compliance to the diets the
      participants will complete the Canadian adaptation of the Automated Self-Administered 24-hour
      (ASA24-Canada-2016) which is a validated 24 hours dietary recall. The research dietitian will
      review recalls and provide feedback to participants based on results - in order to support
      changes to the diets. Additionally, participants will complete the Mediterranean Dietary
      Serving Score (MDSS). The MDSS is a validated instrument used to measure MDP adherence based
      on the consumption of food servings and food groups. The ASA-24 and MDSS will be completed at
      0, 3, 6, 9, and 12 weeks of the study.

      The study will be for 12 weeks from baseline where study participants will receive prebiotics
      treatment or placebo (maltodextrin) in addition to dietary counselling and intervention.

      Oral intake of oligofructose-enriched inulin in a rat model of colitis as well in ulcerative
      colitis (UC) patients was able to increase fecal bifidobacteria and increase potentially
      protective butyrate-producing bacteria and their butyrate production in the colon and to
      alter cytokine production in the colon to favour a more anti-inflammatory profile. In the
      current proposed study we will assess if such microbiota changes driven by prebiotics and
      diet will also be associated with reduction of "leaky gut" in the healthy population at risk
      for CD development. We will therefore measure small intestinal permeability at the start and
      at the end of the study, as well as collect stool, blood/serum and urine specimen throughout
      the trial.

      Increased small intestinal permeability can also be caused by some broadly used medications
      such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) including aspirin and ibuprofen.
      Virtually all studies agree that all conventional NSAIDs increase intestinal permeability in
      the human within 24 h of ingestion and that this is equally evident when they are taken long
      term. In order to control for this confounding factor, we will exclude individuals who take
      NSAIDs on daily basis. In addition, we will request participants to stop taking NSAIDs 1 week
      before the screening permeability test.
    
  