
    
      Fibrotic tissue is known to be the substrate for the appearance of scar-related reentrant
      ventricular arrhythmias (VA) in chronic ischemic cardiomyopathy (ICM). Late gadolinium
      enhancement cardiac magnetic resonance (LGE-CMR) has proven to be a useful technique in the
      non-invasive characterization of the scarred tissue and the underlying arrhythmogenic
      substrate. Previous studies identified the presence of significant scarring (>5% of the LV
      mass) is an independent predictor of adverse outcome (all-cause mortality or appropriate ICD
      discharge for ventricular tachycardia or fibrillation) in patients being considered for
      implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) placement. Parallelly, the presence of
      heterogeneous tissue channels, which correlate with voltage channels after endocardial
      voltage mapping of the scar, can be more frequently observed in patients suffering from SMVT
      than in matched controls for age, sex, infarct location, and LVEF. However, the lack of solid
      evidence and randomized trials make LVEF still the main decision parameter when assessing
      suitability for ICD implantation in primary prevention of SCD. (7,8) In a recent,
      case-control study, the investigators identified the BZC mass as the only independent
      predictor for VT occurrence, after matching for age, sex, LVEF and total scar mass. This BZC
      mass can be automatically calculated using a commercially available, post-processing imaging
      platform named ADAS 3D LV (ADAS3D Medical SL, Barcelona, Spain), with FDA 510(k) Clearance
      and CE Mark approval. Thus, CMR-derived BZC mass might be used as an automatically
      reproducible criterium to reclassify those patients with chronic ICM at highest risk for
      developing VA/SCD in a relatively short period of time (approx. 2 years).

      On the other hand, catheter ablation has become an essential tool in the treatment of
      ventricular arrhythmias in patients with structural heart disease (SHD). VT ablation
      techniques have evolved towards substrate-based approaches that permit to abolish multiple VT
      circuits irrespective of their inducibility or hemodynamic tolerability, improving outcomes
      with respect to clinical VT ablation. Moreover, VT substrate ablation procedures performed
      during sinus rhythm and CMR-guided have proven to be safe, with very low procedure related
      complications.

      The investigators hypothesize that preventive VT substrate ablation in patients with chronic
      ICM, previously selected based on imaging criteria (BZC mass) for their likely high
      arrhythmic risk, is safe and effective in preventing clinical VT events.
    
  