
    
      Research Methods

      A. Outcome Measure(s):

      This is a randomized, double-blind study designed to evaluate the effectiveness of ketamine
      versus placebo in addition to usual care used during dressing changes in 30 thermally injured
      subjects. The primary outcomes are the opioid and benzodiazepine requirements surrounding
      dressing changes, pain profiles, hemodynamic changes, and pain-related anxiety scores related
      to ketamine use versus placebo. Secondary outcomes are exploratory and will evaluate the
      inflammatory markers, IL-1β and IL-6, and their presence in regards to ketamine versus
      placebo as well as their associations with ASD, depression, and PTSD.

      B. Description of Population to be Enrolled:

      The study methodology will follow the CONSORT guidelines. A total of 30 critically ill burn
      patients with a total body surface area (TBSA) ≥ 5% requiring dressing changes that will be
      performed in the hydro procedure room will be enrolled over 18-24 months from the 9-bed
      burn-trauma ICU (B-TICU) at the UCH. Patients will only be enrolled if they can receive
      dressing changes in the burn treatment room because these patients are alert and oriented,
      not sedated, and are able to communicate with health care providers and respond to questions
      regarding their perceptions of pain and anxiety. Subjects will be randomized in a
      double-blind manner to receive placebo (n=15) or ketamine (n=15) in addition to usual care
      used before, during, and after dressing changes.

      C. Assessment of Outcomes

      Primary Hypothesis 1: Adjunctive ketamine safely reduces short-term pain and anxiety
      surrounding dressing change events in conscious thermally injured patients compared to usual
      care.

      Aim 1a: Comparatively evaluate the opioid and benzodiazepine requirements before, during, and
      after dressing changes between placebo and ketamine.

      When a subject is scheduled for a dressing change in the burn treatment room, the subject's
      active medication list will be evaluated for analgesic, anxiolytic, and neuropathic
      medications. Every hour, starting 4 hours prior to the beginning of the dressing change
      procedure, each drug, dose, and route will be recorded for administered medications. Opioid
      medications will be converted to fentanyl equivalents and benzodiazepine medications will be
      converted to midazolam equivalents as fentanyl and midazolam represent the most commonly
      administered agents. Documentation will continue every hour up to 4 hours after the end of
      the procedure. This will be repeated for every dressing change.

      Aim 1b: Comparatively evaluate patients' perceived pain levels before, during, and after
      dressing changes between placebo and ketamine.

      When a subject is scheduled for a dressing change in the burn treatment room, the subject
      will be asked to rate their pain score using the Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) [anchored by 0
      representing no pain and 10 being the worst pain the patient has ever experienced]. The VAS
      instrument will be administered by the investigator or designee within 4-12 hours prior to
      the dressing change procedure. Subjects will then be asked to rate their pain using the VAS
      within 4-12 hours after the end of the procedure. This will be repeated for every dressing
      change.

      Aim 1c: Comparatively evaluate patients' pain-related anxiety surrounding dressing changes
      between placebo and ketamine.

      When a subject is scheduled for a dressing change in the burn treatment room, the subject
      will be asked to rate their pain-related anxiety score using the Burn Specific Pain Anxiety
      Scale (BSPAS). The BSPAS instrument will be administered by the investigator or designee
      within 4-12 hours prior to the dressing change procedure. Subjects will then be asked to rate
      their pain-related anxiety score using BSPAS again within 4-12 hours after the end of the
      procedure. The BSPAS is a 5-item assessment with questions relating to: feeling of worry,
      emotions surrounding dressing changes, anticipation or anxiety related to pain surrounding
      procedures, and feelings of being "on edge" due to experiencing pain. Each question is scored
      on a visual analog line starting at 0 and ends at 100, two anchors of reference for the
      subject. This tool was designed to detect anticipatory anxiety in burn patients and has been
      used in studies with the ability to distinguish acute anxiety in burn patients related to
      dressing changes. This will be repeated for every dressing change.

      Aim 1d: Comparatively evaluate the occurrence of hypo- or hypertension, tachycardia,
      neurologic agitation / disassociation, over-sedation, and the need for open-label ketamine
      between placebo and ketamine.

      Blood pressure and heart rate will be monitored hourly for four hours before, during, and
      after the end of the procedure. Hypotension will be defined as a systolic blood pressure ≤90
      mmHg or a decrease of systolic blood pressure of ≥40 mmHg, hypertension will be defined as a
      systolic blood pressure ≥180 mmHg or an increase of systolic blood pressure of ≥40 mmHg, and
      tachycardia is defined as a heart rate ≥120 beats/minute or an increase of ≥20 beats/minutes.
      The administration of fluid boluses or vasopressor therapy will also be recorded. It is
      anticipated that these therapies will not be required. The Richmond Agitation Sedation Scale
      (RASS) score will be used to determine neurologic disassociation (RASS score of +2 to +4
      indicating agitation or combative) and over-sedation (RASS score of -3 to -5 indicating
      moderate to deep sedation). The RASS score is performed as routine care every hour and it
      will be recorded for four hours before and after the end of the procedure. Open label
      ketamine may be administered by the burn ICU physician if patients have received both doses
      of study drug and subjects report pain scores of ≥7 (out of 10) despite the administration of
      ≥400 mcg fentanyl equivalents (this represents the 75th percentile of fentanyl required in
      the medication usage evaluations conducted at UCH) or a RASS score of -4 to -5, indicating
      levels of sedation deep enough to warrant caution against administering additional doses of
      opioids or anxiolytics. The use of open label ketamine will be recorded and comparatively
      assessed.

      Secondary Hypothesis 2: Adjunctive ketamine administration alters cytokine levels,
      specifically interleukins IL-1β and IL-6, during dressing changes compared to usual care.

      Aim 2a: Comparatively evaluate the magnitude of change in serum concentrations of IL-1β and
      IL-6 levels during dressing changes between placebo and ketamine.

      When a subject is scheduled for a dressing change in the burn treatment room, venous blood
      samples of 10 mL will be obtained from an indwelling catheter 4-12 hours before and after the
      procedure to evaluate the level of IL-1β and IL-6 in the serum. Blood samples will be
      centrifuged for 15 minutes at 3000rpm with plasma immediately separated and stored at -80°F.
      Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA) will be used to determine IL-1β and IL-6
      concentrations after all subjects have completed the study.

      Secondary Hypothesis 3: Ketamine when used as an adjunct during burn dressing changes reduces
      the incidence of long-term psychometric outcomes when compared to usual care.

      Aim 3a: Comparatively evaluate the incidence of ASD between placebo and ketamine after
      dressing changes.

      Within seven days of the final dressing change procedure, an investigator will facilitate the
      completion of the Stanford Acute Stress Reaction Scale (SASRS). The SASRS instrument will be
      administered by the investigator or designee. The SASRS consists of 30 items. Ten questions
      are related to dissociation, six to re-experiencing of trauma, six to anxiety and increased
      arousal, six to avoidance of the trauma, and two to impairment in functioning. The questions
      can be modified to pertain to a specific event (i.e. burn dressing changes). Each question is
      scored from 0 to 5. Also, the instrument contains an additional three questions specifically
      associated to ASD. They involve an event description, how traumatic the event was, and for
      how long the subject had his or her most severe symptoms in relation to the event. In order
      to have a positive score for ASD, the subject must score a 3 or higher for at least three of
      the dissociative symptoms and at least one symptom of each of the following: re-experiencing,
      increased anxiety and arousal, avoidance, and impairment of functioning. This scale has
      demonstrated reliability and validity and has been used in burn-related studies to assess for
      ASD with positive results.

      Aim 3b: Comparatively evaluate the incidence of anxiety and depression between placebo and
      ketamine prior to hospital discharge.

      Within 3-7 days prior to the projected date of discharge, the investigator or designee will
      administer the Hospital Anxiety Depression Scale (HADS). The HADS instrument will be
      administered by the investigator or designee only. The HADS consists of 14 questions, seven
      for anxiety and seven for depression. Each item is scored from 0 to 3, with a cut-off
      cumulative score of 11 for both subscales indicative of anxiety or depression. This scoring
      tool has been used for 30 years, possesses excellent reliability and validity, and avoids
      reliance conditions that are also common somatic symptoms of illness such fatigue, insomnia,
      and hypersomnia.

      Aim 3c: Comparatively evaluate the incidence of PTSD between placebo and ketamine prior to
      hospital discharge.

      Within 3-7 days prior to the projected date of discharge, the investigator or designee will
      administer the Impact of Events Scale-Revised (IES-R). The IES-R instrument will be
      administered by the investigator or designee only. The IES-R evaluates subjective distress
      caused by traumatic events and will be used to assess manifestations of PTSD. It is not
      diagnostic but possesses excellent reliability and validity for manifestations of PTSD. The
      IES-R has three subscales (eight items on intrusion, eight items on avoidance, and six items
      on hyperarousal). Each item is scored on a four point scale: 0 = "not at all," 1 = "a little
      bit," 2 = "moderately often," 3 = "quite a bit," and 4 = "extremely often." The total score
      of each subscale may be averaged and a cumulative score of 30 is indicative of the presence
      of PTSD.

      Aim 3d: Assess possible associations between the cytokine levels and ASD, anxiety,
      depression, and PTSD.

      Statistical associations between IL-1β and IL-6 values with SASRS, HADS, and IES-R will be
      investigated.

      C. Data Analysis Plan:

      A total of 30 subjects will be evaluated (15 in each study group) based on a power of 0.8 and
      a significance level of 0.05. Data obtained from medication usage evaluations at the UCH were
      used to estimate the mean and standard deviations for the change in cumulative fentanyl
      equivalent doses for the four hour period before vs. after dressing changes. Using standard
      deviations of 130mcg, 12 subjects are required in each study group to show a desired
      difference of 150mcg between groups when comparing the magnitude of change in the fentanyl
      dose before vs. after the procedure. While all dressing changes will be evaluated, it was
      assumed for this analysis that only one dressing change per subject will occur. An additional
      three subjects per study group will be enrolled to ensure a total of 24 subjects assuming an
      upper limit of 20% for a possible drop-out rate. Thirty subjects provides power of 0.8 at a
      significance level of 0.05 to detect a 50% decline in patients reporting moderate pain (by
      VAS or BSPAS) or anxiety (by SASRS) assuming the baseline rates exceed 80%.

      Mean, median, standard deviation, and interquartile ranges will be determined for all
      continuous data. The primary analyses will include all randomized subjects based on intent to
      treat regardless of whether they completed the study. Additional analyses will be conducted
      based on subjects completing the protocol (i.e. those withdrawn from the study prior to
      completing the protocol or receiving open-label ketamine will be excluded) and those
      completing treatment. Statistical analysis of continuous data between groups will use the
      student T test or the Mann-Whitney U for parametric and nonparametric data, respectively.
      Statistical analyses of continuous data within a study group will use the paired student T
      test or the Wilcoxan Rank test for parametric and nonparametric data, respectively.
      Statistical analysis of proportions will use the Chi-square test or Fisher's Exact test for
      parametric and nonparametric data, respectively, with appropriate corrections for small
      sample size. Pearson product or Spearman Rank Order will be used for correlation analyses of
      IL-1β or IL-6 with the results of the psychometric scoring tools. The study is designed to
      investigate the primary hypothesis and the related specific aims. All secondary hypotheses
      are exploratory to investigate consistency of data and analyses will be interpreted
      cautiously.
    
  