
    
      Context :

      It is now well documented that alcohol and tobacco reduce the effectiveness of a treatment,
      increase the side effects, favor the recurrence and/or secondary cancers and affects the
      quality of life of patients treated for cancer, including breast cancer. The announcement of
      the disease could create a window of opportunity for change in lifestyle for patients. The
      2014-2019 French Cancer Plan emphasizes the need for the implementation of prevention and
      risk reduction related to alcohol and tobacco. A screening, brief motivational and referral
      to treatment program, specifically dedicated to oncology can be public health approach aiming
      to reduce the harmful consequences of substance misuse and improving the prognosis and
      quality of life of consumers at risk.

      Main objective :

      Evaluate effectiveness of a brief motivational intervention for alcohol and/or tobacco in
      short (3 month) and medium (6 month) terms in breast cancer patients, in a prospective
      randomized pilot study.

      Secondary objectives :

        -  Determine the behavioral and psychopathological specific characteristics of the patient
           linked to change process and maintain.

        -  Define a brief intervention for alcohol/tobacco consumption model adapted and integrated
           to patient treated for cancer according to psychosocial factors highlighted.

      The investigators will seek to highlight the benefit of a motivational brief intervention
      versus standardized educational advice. The specificity of these interventions is to be
      integrated in an interview integrating a systematic screening of the emotional distress of
      the patient, of these concerns as well as of his perceived need for aids.

      Method :

      This is a randomized clinical trial comparing two interventions. The trial includes 200
      primary breast cancer patients with a positive AUDIT-C score and/or are tobacco consumers,
      randomly placed in two groups :

      G1 : Motivational Intervention group (N = 100) : Participants in the intervention group
      benefit a one-session brief motivational intervention administered by a psychologist. This
      intervention consist in a single adapted motivational interview lasting 20-30 minutes, based
      on the principles of the trans-theoretical model and on the manual for motivational therapy.
      It is carried out by the same psychologist, trained and supervised for this type of
      intervention.

      G2 : Educational advises group (N = 100) : Participants in this group benefit of brief
      educational advises (10 minutes interview maximum), and received a pamphlet on the health
      effects of alcohol and tobacco consumption. For obvious ethical reasons, the investigators
      selected an intervention in the form of advice concerning the effects of the product and the
      submission of specific documentation (criteria not retained in the context of the brief
      intervention model). It did not seem possible to evaluate patients without offering them the
      possibility of a low threshold intervention.

      Detailed scripts for each modality of intervention are realized.

      Measurement :

      Three sets of measurements are taken at baseline, 3-month and 6 month follow-up.

      Primary Outcome measures:

        -  Tobacco consumption (frequency and number of cigarettes/day),

        -  The Alcohol Use Disorder Identification Test (AUDIT)

      Secondary outcome measures :

        -  Distress : Canadian Partnership Against Cancer, Implementation of screening for distress
           Guide, 2009 : Edmonton Symptom Assessment Scale (ESAS), Distress Thermometer (DT) and
           Problems checklist,

        -  Mood Rating : (MADRS (Montgomery-Åsberg Depression Rating Scale), MA.Thy.S
           (Multidimensional Thymic Assesment of State), and HAMA (Hamilton Anxiety Scale).

        -  Nicotine dependance (Fagestrom test)

        -  Quality of life : QLQ-C30

        -  Motivation to change : CQ (Change Questionnaire)

        -  Empowerment : HEIQ (Health Education Impact Questionnaire)

      Study procedure :

      SCREENING-PRE-INCLUSION: Screening of distress and alcohol/tobacco consumptions is realized
      when the patients arrive in the oncology department for their chemotherapy treatment, by a
      research assistant-psychologist. Researchers propose to eligible patients to participate to
      the study. This first contact permits to check the absence of non-inclusion criteria; to
      ensure the informed consent of the person (an information and consent note will be given to
      him) and according to these elements, to define the provisional timetable for participation
      in the research.

      T0 - INCLUSION AND RANDOMIZATION The research assistant retrieves the signed consent,
      ensuring a time available to return if necessary and carries out the research
      interview/assessment. The randomization is realized following this interview.

      INTERVENTION: Brief intervention (G1 : Brief motivational intervention or G2 : educational
      advices) are conducted by the research assistant-psychologist, at the Institut Bergonié or by
      telephone if needed.

      T1: MONITORING - FOLLOW-UP(3 months) Assessments are repeated, when the patient comes at the
      Institut Bergonié, by telephone if necessary.

      T2: MONITORING - FOLLOW-UP (6 months) Assessments are repeated, when the patient comes at the
      Institut Bergonié, by telephone if necessary.

      Randomization procedure :

      The randomization procedure is done via the TENALEA server, managed by the Epidemiological
      and Clinical Research Unit (UREC) of the Bergonié Institute.

      Expected results :

      Highlighting:

        -  The efficacy of motivational brief intervention on alcohol and tobacco consumption in
           patients treated for breast cancer ; versus educational advices intervention.

        -  Psychosocial risk factors involved in maintaining problematic consumption or in the
           rapid relapse of tobacco/alcohol consumption.
    
  