
    
      Asthma is estimated to affect 5.2 million people in the United Kingdom (UK), half of whom
      experience severe symptoms at some point in their lives, and 500,000 of whom may be
      unresponsive to currently available therapies (Asthma UK; "living on a knife edge" 2004).
      Severe Asthma probably accounts for 80% of asthma-related health expenditure (Chung KF, Eur
      Res Mon 2003, 23: 313). In this regard it is estimated to directly cost the NHS (National
      Health Service) £1 billion per year but also poses considerable hidden societal costs through
      disability, missed schooling and lost work days.

      While Severe Asthma is a significant health-economic problem, the availability of effective
      treatments in clinical practice remains limited. However there is a growing realisation of
      the heterogeneity of asthma, which is not a single condition, but composed of numerous
      potential phenotypes (Wenzel S Nat Med 2012 18(5):716-25) some of which may show association
      to more severe disease status. In this regard recent adoption of unbiased statistical
      techniques such as cluster analysis has consistently demonstrated presence of severe asthma
      clusters in both adult and paediatric populations. These clinical phenotypes may show
      specific pathophysiological associations leading to classification of endotypes. Accompanying
      this growing understanding of the diverse nature of asthma is the realisation that there are
      also a diverse range of treatment responses dependent on the underlying nature of an
      individual's disease. This naturally leads to the concept of personalised therapy regimes for
      patients with Severe Asthma that better target their individual disease. Omalizumab is the
      first biological asthma treatment to meet that need in patients with severe allergic asthma.
      Numerous potential biological agents are in development that show promise in targeting
      patients with particular disease phenotypes/ endotypes such as mepolizumab, lebrikizumab and
      dupilimumab.

      The organisation of Clinical Services for Severe Asthma is undergoing major change with the
      initiation of Specialised Commissioning of such Services by NHS England in 2014. A core
      requirement for Specialist Centres being Commissioned under this process will be the
      maintenance of accurate clinical disease registers which link to the BTS Difficult Asthma
      Registry and support collaborative research studies in the future.

      The Difficult Asthma Clinics at Southampton and Portsmouth currently care for 1000 and 400
      patients with problematic disease respectively. The two asthma services already collaborate
      as the Wessex Asthma Network to provide education across the Wessex region. Both services in
      their roles as Commissioned Specialist Clinical Centre for Severe Asthma receive regional
      referrals from a wide geographical area. We intend to initiate a comprehensively assessed
      Difficult Asthma Cohort by inviting all patients in our clinics to participate and contribute
      data gained through their clinical assessment. This would support ongoing contribution to
      research via the BTS Difficult Asthma Registry. In addition, a real-life clinical
      characterisation of Difficult Asthma would provide the basis for a better understanding of
      the nature of that disease relevant to clinical practice. It would also provide opportunity
      to develop a better endotype defined understanding of Difficult Asthma that facilitates
      stratified development of more effective treatment strategies. The Cohort will become a
      resource for future therapeutic studies in Difficult Asthma with Cohort participants being
      invited to consent separately into those studies based upon their characterisation through
      the Cohort.
    
  