
    
      All patients booked for pacemaker clinic 6w following a new implant for heart block will
      receive an information sheet with their appointment letter. Potential participants will
      attend the National Institute of Health Research Clinical Research Facility at Leeds General
      Infirmary. Each participant will sign a consent form and undergo a baseline echocardiogram, a
      quality of life assessment (EQ5D-5L), and blood tests including B-type natriuretic peptide
      measurement. The investigators will record demographic and clinical variables including
      co-morbidities and current medication.

      Patients will be allocated in a 1:2 allocation stratified for atrial rhythm (atrial
      fibrillation or sinus rhythm) to either standard care (sham programming) or intervention
      (protocolised pacing-avoidance programming. Patients will be called at 1w to ensure short
      term acceptability and safety and then reviewed at 3m after the implant. At that visit, a
      pacing check will establish the amount of RV pacing required. Those pacing >40% despite
      optimised programming will be asked to undergo a cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) scan and
      will be randomly allocated to Lisinopril 5mg (ACEi) or no treatment. They will take one
      tablet daily and the dose will be increased 2 weekly to the maximally tolerated dose or 20mg
      daily. This will be supervised by the HF nurse. All patients will be reviewed at a further 6m
      (9m after their pacemaker procedure) with a repeat echocardiogram, blood test for BNP, QoL
      assessment, and those in phase two (lisinopril or not) will undergo a repeat CMR scan.

      Choice of endpoints Left ventricular remodelling is a widely accepted surrogate endpoint in
      clinical studies, and therapy-related changes in LV structure and function are related
      morbidity/mortality outcomes. A 5% increase in mean LVEF was associated with an odds ratio
      (OR) of 0.86 [95%CI 0.77-0.96] for one-year mortality. LV end diastolic volume (LVEDV) also
      demonstrates a reliable link to mortality outcomes. A decrease of 10ml is associated with an
      OR of 0.95 [0.94-0.97] for one-year mortality, whilst a decrease in LV end systolic volume
      (LVESV) of 10ml is associated with an OR of 0.96 [0.93-0.98] for mortality at 1yr. The
      investigators will also measure change in indexed volumes such as LVESVi which is frequently
      used in pacemaker studies. A reduction in LVESVi of ≥15% is associated with better outcome in
      recipients of a CRT device.

      Safety and patient tolerability The protocol of minimising unnecessary RV pacing was well
      tolerated. ACEi are well-tolerated with fewer than 15% of HF patients unable to tolerate any
      dose of short-acting enalapril. We expect a lower rate of discontinuation since patients will
      not have HF and lisinopril is longer-acting. In the Assessment of Treatment with Lisinopril
      and Survival study (ATLAS), there was adverse effect rate of 4.6% and symptomatic hypotension
      in 1%. Higher doses were associated with a greater effect, and the discontinuation rate was
      not related to dose. The investigators conservatively estimate that 10% patients will not
      tolerate ACEi.

      Statistical considerations In estimating sample size, the investigators have followed the
      rules of thumb for pilot studies proposed by Browne to use at least 30 subjects, and the
      suggestions of Julious to include at least 12 subjects per treatment arm, and Teare et al for
      70 subjects in total. The investigators have assumed that 20% will not have complete heart
      block at their 6w check, such that if they consent 75 patients, 60 will go through to
      randomisation, of whom 20 will be allocated standard care (group 1) and 40 will be randomly
      allocated to optimised pacing (group 2). Those in group 2 still pacing >40% in the RV, will
      be randomly allocated lisinopril or not in a 1:1 ratio. In addition to exploring the effects
      of an ACEi on pacing-induced remodelling using CMR in patients with no programming options,
      they will also be able to compare 6m remodelling in three groups using echocardiography:
      pacing <40% (n=25), pacing ≥40% (n=35), and pacing ≥40% but taking an ACEi (n=15).

      Feasibility In Leeds, 35% of 450 patients receiving an RV pacemaker have heart block (n=160).
      Around 20% will be excluded due to an ejection fraction <45% (n=32) and a further 20% (n=26)
      will already be taking an ACE inhibitor. This leaves a pool of 100 people annually who might
      be eligible. An anonymised study log of people receiving a pacemaker for heart block but
      excluded for other reasons will be maintained until recruitment is completed.

      Blinding The programming will be blinded but ACEi allocation will be open-label.
      Echocardiography and CMR scans will be performed/administered/reported by a blinded cardiac
      physiologist or CMR technician and physician. An unblinded cardiac physiologist will be
      available at each visit for programming questions.

      Data analysis:

      Statistical analysis plan The primary endpoint will be change in LVEF at 9m post-implant.
      Secondary outcomes will include other remodelling variables (LVEDV, LVESV), quality of life
      (EQ5D-5L), and estimated battery longevity at 9m. Patients will be analysed according to
      their randomised allocation and the difference between groups estimated using a general
      linear model adjusting for baseline LVEF. Analysis of other endpoints will use similar
      methods.
    
  