
    
      Drainage of pleural effusion and pneumothorax is a common feature in Resuscitation, Intensive
      Care Units (ICU) and Continuing Care Units (CCU). Although they are associated with a low
      incidence of complications (ranging from 0 to 8%), some of these can become fatal if they are
      associated with a visceral puncture (liver, spleen, lung parenchyma or heart by instance). It
      has been reported in the literature that complications were greater in case of drainage with
      large diameter drains set up by so-called "surgical-like" technique.

      The choice of the type of chest tube is usually guided by the indication of drainage or the
      habits and / or experience of the practitioner. In the case of liquid pleural effusions, it
      may be preferable to use small diameter drains, whereas in the case of suspicious thick
      effusions such as empyema or blood, it may be preferable to use drainage drains of a larger
      diameter. However, results of retrospective analyzes seem to suggest the versatile and
      effective use of small-bore chest tubes in any of these indications without increasing
      complications' rates such as clogging.

      However, no prospective randomized controlled trial (RCT) has studied this issue to date.
      Therefore, the investigators propose to perform a multicenter RCT in ICU and CCU patients
      requiring pleural drainage for any indication or underlying disease.

      This prospective RCT is intended to investigate tolerance and effectiveness of thoracic
      drainage conducted by Seldinger technique with small drains, or by a surgical-like technique
      with large armed drains. Furthermore, they want to estimate the respective costs, identify
      the difficulties related to both strategies, recognize associated practices
      (ultrasound-guidance, implantation site, operator's competence), and finally point out the
      secondary determinants of tolerance and effectiveness.
    
  