
    
      This is a pilot study in children and adults with severe hemophilia A that utilizes the
      TEG/ROTEM to personalize their prophylaxis treatment.

      Primary objectives:

      • Assess the feasibility of TEG/ROTEM-guided modification of the current prophylaxis regimen
      for individuals with severe hemophilia A. Specifically, to:

        -  Test and refine the operational protocol for using TEG/ROTEM to guide factor dosing

        -  Estimate the proportion of hemophilia A patients whose dose will be modified based on
           TEG/ROTEM results

        -  Monitor short term safety of patients whose dose has been modified.

      Secondary objectives

        -  Perform thrombin generation assays to provide additional evidence supporting the
           TEG/ROTEM-guided dosing.

        -  Obtain preliminary data on the economic impact of TEG/ROTEM-guided hemophilia A dosing
           regimens.

        -  Obtain preliminary data on the potential improvement of subject/family burden resulting
           from TEG/ROTEM-guided regimen using generic and specific quality of life tools.

      The study period will consist of screening, pharmacokinetic (PK) study and follow-up. For
      subjects whose prophylaxis treatment regimen is modified, the follow-up period will include 3
      follow-up clinic visits and 4 follow-up phone calls; these patients will remain on study for
      approximately 6 months following completion of the PK-study then will have an end of the
      study visit (visit 9). Subjects whose treatment regimen is not altered will end their study
      participation after Visit 2 and continuing with their current prophylaxis regimen.

      Study endpoints: A safety review will be conducted after the first 6 subjects complete 30
      days with the extended prophylaxis treatment. If no safety issues are identified, the study
      will proceed, and second safety review will be after an additional 8 subjects complete 30
      days of extended treatment. If a subject has two or more spontaneous bleeds in 30 days, the
      subject will be removed from the study. For subjects who did not have bleeds and completed at
      least 6 months of the study, ongoing prophylactic treatment will be decided by their treating
      physician.
    
  