
    
      Surgical fixation of intra-articular fractures is a technically demanding task that poses
      significant challenges to orthopaedic surgeons. Articular fragments may be comminuted,
      depressed, or impacted, and neighbouring soft tissue is often heavily compromised.
      Furthermore, aggressive surgical dissection is typically necessary to achieve adequate
      visualisation, and anatomical reduction often devitalises bone fragments and invites deep
      infection. The management of intra-articular fractures requires a well-designed preoperative
      plan and a skilfully executed surgical tactic to guarantee the best possible outcome.
      Multiplanar reformation (CT-MPR) and three-dimensional reconstruction (CT-3DR) are imaging
      techniques that have enhanced intraoperative visualisation, however, accurate analysis of
      complex fractures remains challenging.

      3D printing is a rapidly developing, low-cost technology that is already being applied across
      numerous contexts in orthopaedics and traumatology. 3D printed bone models can be produced
      from digitised CT data in a matter of hours, providing a dimensionally accurate
      representation of the patient's skeleton which approximates real-life visual and tactile
      experiences. When used in preoperative planning, these models have shown to improve surgeon
      communication and shorten surgical duration. Despite positive early results, few clinical
      studies have studied the effect of 3D bone model use on surgical outcome. The purpose of this
      randomised controlled trial is to compare the effectiveness of intraoperatively utilised 3D
      bone models in addition to conventional CT imaging on reduction quality and surgical duration
      versus CT imaging alone for patients undergoing surgical fixation of complex intraarticular
      fractures.

      Patients providing informed consent will be screened for eligibility. All eligible patients
      will be randomly assigned in a double-blind manner (participant and outcome assessor) to
      receive surgical fracture fixation with or without the addition of sterilised 3D-printed bone
      models to standard CT imaging for intraoperative visualisation.
    
  