
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether the preoperative geriatric assessment (GA)-gynecology (GYN) score
      will be associated with major post-operative complications in elderly patients undergoing
      open primary cytoreduction surgery.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To explore associations between individual variables of the preoperative geriatric
      assessment and major post-operative complications in patients undergoing open primary
      cytoreduction surgery.

      II. To assess the association between the preoperative GA-GYN score and cytoreducibility
      defined by extent of residual disease in patients undergoing open primary cytoreduction
      surgery.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES :

      I. To evaluate whether the preoperative GA-GYN scores obtained before and after neoadjuvant
      chemotherapy will be associated with major postoperative complications in elderly patients
      undergoing open interval cytoreduction surgery.

      II. To describe reasons why surgeons at centers where open cytoreduction surgery is the
      standard of care choose to perform interval surgery vs primary surgery, and to explore the
      association of the preoperative GA-GYN score with the decision to perform primary surgery or
      interval surgery or no surgery.

      III. To collect the following specific information on how elderly women with suspected
      ovarian, fallopian tube, primary peritoneal carcinomas or advanced stage papillary serous
      uterine carcinoma are treated at centers that consider open cytoreduction surgery the
      standard of care: (1) the percentage of patients treated with primary open cytoreduction vs.
      interval open cytoreduction vs. no surgery and (2) to ascertain the extent of cytoreduction.

      IV. To determine whether neoadjuvant chemotherapy will be associated with changes in the
      GA-GYN score to change by comparing the GA-GYN scores obtained before and after neoadjuvant
      chemotherapy.

      V. To determine whether 30-day readmission rates after cytoreductive surgery correlate with
      the GA-GYN score.

      OUTLINE:

      At time of consent and within 14 days of surgery, patients complete a pre-operative geriatric
      assessment that evaluates functional status, comorbid medical conditions, psychological
      state, social support, and nutritional status. Post-operative complications are also
      collected for 6 weeks after surgery or until the date patients initiate or restart
      chemotherapy whichever is first.
    
  