
    
      Patients will present to the pediatric ophthalmology clinic at Texas Children's Hospital. If
      during the course of their standard care visit it is determined by their pediatric
      ophthalmologist or optometrist that patching is indicated and that the patient meets
      eligibility criteria for the study, the eye doctor will explain to the patient's parents the
      need for patching according to the standard protocol and will then mention to them the study
      being conducted. If they are interested, an investigator will explain the study, allow
      patients and parents to ask questions, and will then seek written informed consent. Upon
      consent, a patient will be assigned an ID code that will be written on their signed consent
      form. Consenting parents will then be randomized into either the control group (taught to
      apply the patch using the standard method) or the study group ( taught to apply the patch
      using our modified technique). The standard technique refers to applying the patch evenly and
      flatly around the orbit, and the modified technique refers to pinching the middle of the
      superior and inferior edges of the patch before applying so that the patch is convex and the
      center is raised above the eye in an attempt to improve patient comfort. All patients will be
      provided with one box of sample patches. In order to mask parents in both groups, these
      patches will all have a small incision of 3 millimeters on the lateral edges so that parents
      will be uncertain if they are assigned to the control or study group. An incision of this
      size will not significantly alter the function of the patch in any way. Patients will have
      equal odds of being assigned to either the control or study group using a random number
      generator. Parents will not be told whether the method they are being taught is the standard
      or modified method, and their eye doctor will not be told whether or not the parents decided
      to enroll in the study. After using one full box of patches or after one month, whichever
      comes first, parents will complete a questionnaire about their compliance with the prescribed
      patching regimen and any difficulties they may have had in patching their child. We will use
      the Amblyopia Treatment Index Patching Questionnaire designed by the Pediatric Eye Disease
      Investigator Group, with the addition of several questions related to patients' comfort while
      patching. Patients will be instructed to return for standard follow-up care as determined by
      their eye doctor.
    
  