
    
      Design:

      The design of this study is a randomized control trial. The study population will include
      patients treated with lung SBRT at Sunnybrook Odette Cancer Centre (OCC) over a specified 1
      year time period who have consented to participating in the study.

      Methods:

      Patients who consent to the study will be randomized into either the control group or
      intervention group. Simple randomization will be completed using a computer-generated random
      number table. Baseline ESAS scores will be collected on the last day of radiation treatment
      for both groups. Patients in the intervention group will be telephoned by the CSRT 4-6 weeks
      after completion of their treatment to assess any symptoms. The CSRT will advise the patient
      on how to manage their side effects and address any anxieties the patient may feel based on
      published response care paths such as Cancer Care Ontario's Symptom Management Guide.
      Referrals to the attending radiation oncologist will be made if the patients response in the
      physical items of ESAS such as pain, nausea and shortness of breath increases to above 2 from
      their baseline or if they require medical management for a side effect such as esophagitis.
      If there is an increase in the emotional symptom scores to greater than 2, the CSRT will
      discuss supportive options and facilitate a referral to social work with the patients'
      permission. Each telephone call will be logged on a standard template. A second follow up
      telephone call will be made at 12 weeks post treatment if required in order to address
      treatment related side effects that were identified during the first call and any
      interventions that were recommended. When the patient returns to clinic for their first
      regularly scheduled follow-up appointment, ESAS will be completed as well as a questionnaire
      to assess their opinions regarding their follow up.

      Patients in the control group will have the standard follow up plan as outlined earlier (CT
      of the chest, abdomen and pelvis prior to follow-up with the radiation oncologist 4 months
      after the completion of their treatment) and will be asked to complete a questionnaire to
      assess their opinions regarding follow up during their clinic appointment. In order to
      control for an "attention effect" that may be seen in the intervention group, patients in the
      control group will get a placebo or sham telephone call initiated by a research assistant 4-6
      weeks after completion of their treatment. This telephone call will simply confirm their
      follow up appointment and should the patient bring up any issues, they will be referred to
      the appropriate nursing telephone line.

      Inclusion criteria:

      • Any patient treated with lung SBRT over a specified one year time frame.

      Exclusion criteria:

        1. Patients who are not 18 years of age or greater

        2. Patients whose first language is not English and require translation.

        3. Patients who have poor hearing and find it difficult to carry on a telephone
           conversation.
    
  