
    
      The National Health Service (NHS) in the United Kingdom is facing a 5% year-on-year increase
      in demand for urgent and emergency care services. In 2018/19, ambulance services in England
      provided a face-to-face assessment to nearly 7.9 million incidents, of which 7.6 million were
      conveyed to hospital. This conveyance rate of around 69% is occurring despite an increase in
      urgent cases and is placing increasing demands on already crowded emergency departments
      (EDs), leading to decreased availability of ambulances as turnaround times at hospitals
      increase. ED overcrowding is a significant issue for patients, resulting in poorer quality of
      care, increased healthcare costs and potentially, increased mortality.

      Yorkshire Ambulance Service have been early adopters of initiatives to address inappropriate
      conveyance, and have had paramedics working in the role of Emergency Care Practitioners
      (ECP), since 2004. ECPs consistently have non-conveyance rates double that of other
      paramedics in the Trust. More recently, the specialist paramedic (SP) role has been
      introduced, although the educational programme is less substantial than that of the ECPs, and
      non-conveyance rates have been no different to other paramedics within the Trust.

      In 2018, Health Education England funded a pilot scheme to rotate paramedics into a range of
      healthcare settings, with the aim of improving patient care and relieving pressures on
      primary care, ambulance services and other parts of the NHS in a sustainable way. This pilot
      also presents an opportunity to develop SPs and potentially, improve their rates of
      appropriate non-conveyance which may deliver patient and cost-benefits of the role as
      originally anticipated.

      This study aims to evaluate whether the paramedics who have rotated into primary care, are
      appropriately and cost-effectively increasing the level and trend of non-conveyance decisions
      compared to a matched control population of YAS paramedics.

      This study will use a dataset comprised of non-identifiable, routinely collected, ambulance
      service data to undertake a controlled interrupted time series analysis. This is one of the
      strongest quasi-experimental designs to detect change in the level and trend of paramedic
      appropriate non-conveyance decisions. The cost-effectiveness analysis will examine the cost
      per appropriate non-conveyance achieved for patients receiving care from paramedics who have
      completed a 10-week rotation in a GP surgery compared with those receiving care from
      paramedics who did not take part in the primary care rotational pilot.
    
  