
    
      Neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses (NCLs), commonly known as Batten disease, represent a group of
      the most common (1 in 12,500) heritable neurodegenerative storage disorders of childhood.
      Mutations of at least 8 different genes are responsible for various forms of NCL. The
      infantile form of NCL or INCL is the most severe disease. It is caused by mutations in the
      palmitoyl-protein thioesterase-1 (PPT1) gene. PPT1 is a lysosomal enzyme that cleaves
      thioester linkages in S-acylated proteins and its deficiency leads to abnormal lysosomal
      accumulation of fattyacylated- proteins (ceroids) leading to INCL pathogenesis. Since
      thioester linkages are labile, drugs with nucleophilic property are likely to mimic PPT1 and
      may have therapeutic potential for INCL. We previously reported that cysteamine,
      phosphocysteamine, cysteamine bitartrate (cystagon) and N-acetylcysteine disrupt thioester
      linkages in a model PPT1-substrate, C(14) palmitoyl-CoA, releasing C(14) palmitic acid. The
      results of our laboratory studies have shown that cysteamine mediates the depletion of
      intracellular ceroid deposits and prevents their reaccumulation. For the last 9 years, we
      have been conducting a clinical trial to determine whether a combination of Cystagon
      (Cysteamine bitartrate) and N-acetylcysteine (mucomyst) is beneficial for INCL patients. In
      parallel with these studies, using an animal model of INCL we found that this combination
      therapy reduces oxidative stress caused by high levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in
      the brain of mice lacking the PPT1 enzyme. To date, we have admitted a total of 10 patients
      (5 females and 5 males) to this protocol; however, one male patient was lost to follow-up.
      Thus, we have treated 9 patients (5 females and 4 males) and these patients showed no adverse
      reactions to these drugs except for one patient who initially had mild gastrointestinal
      discomfort which went away when cystagon was stopped and restarted from the lowest dose and
      this mild adverse effect did not recur. Compared with the published natural history of INCL,
      our preliminary results show that although several parameters of disease progression are
      slowed due to the treatment it does not completely arrest the neurodegenerative process. We
      are currently analyzing all the data gathered so far and a manuscript describing the results
      will be prepared for submission to a peer-reviewed journal.
    
  