
    
      Background

      Clinical Background

      Aortic stenosis is the most common valvular heart disease and an important public-health
      problem. It is present in approximately 25% of all adults aged >65 years. Decisions about
      surgical or interventional aortic valve replacement are based on symptoms and measures of
      valvular and ventricular function using echocardiography. Such valvular affections are the
      result of a chronic progressive disease, usually starting with hemodynamically
      non-significant aortic sclerosis, and then progressing to severe stenosis over years. There
      is no uniform pattern of progression. Instead, marked differences not only between
      individuals, but also during the time course of the disease can be observed. Aortic sclerosis
      progresses to mild aortic stenosis in <15% of patients over 2 to 7 years. Once moderate
      stenosis is present (jet velocity >3 m/s), the average progression is 0.3 m/s per year, but
      still highly variable. When peak jet velocity exceeds 4 m/s, survival free from symptoms and
      valve replacement is significantly reduced.

      In the past, several prospective studies have been performed to enhance the predictability of
      disease behavior. Some determinants of rapid progression and adverse outcome have been
      identified, such as: age, gender, cardiovascular risk factors, B-natriuretic peptide,
      stenosis severity, degree of valvular calcification and others. Although it appears that
      progression is more rapid in degenerative calcific disease than congenital or rheumatic
      disease, predicting progression individually is still prone to large errors even when
      considering these determinants. Therefore, regular clinical follow-up is mandatory in
      patients with asymptomatic aortic valve affections. In patients with aortic sclerosis without
      severe stenosis, it is desirable to find a strong predictor of rapid disease progression.
      This would allow anticipating cardiovascular deterioration by identifying individuals at
      particular risk.

      Background of Tissue Calcification

      From a biochemical and histological point of view, aortic sclerosis is a valvular disease
      characterized by focal plaque-like lesions containing microscopic calcifications. Because
      calcium and phosphate concentrations in serum are near supersaturation, the balance of
      inhibitors and promoters critically influences the development of calcification. The serum
      protein fetuin-A is a major systemic inhibitor of calcification. Together with additional
      blood components, fetuin-A prevents the supersaturated calcium and phosphate from
      precipitating by forming soluble colloidal protein-mineral nanoparticles and is therefore an
      integral part of the defense system preventing calcifications. Low serum concentrations of
      fetuin-A are associated with a reduced capacity to inhibit calcification in vitro.
      Calcification takes place when this humoral line of defense is overwhelmed.

      Koos et al. showed that serum levels of the calcification inhibitor fetuin-A are associated
      with the progression of aortic valve calcifications and major adverse clinical events,
      independent of the renal function and inflammation.

      A novel in vitro blood test developed by Pasch et al. provides an overall measure of
      calcification propensity by monitoring the maturation time (T50) of calciprotein particles.
      First published clinical data indicate that the T50 test is a helpful biomarker for the
      prediction of future vascular calcifications.

      Study Endpoints

        -  Index test (parameter to be evaluated): T50-Test

        -  Comparator tests (tests to define disease status):

      Primary:

      Progression of peak aortic jet velocity over one year (m/s per year)

      Secondary:

      Progression of peak aortic jet velocity >20% in one year (dichotomized primary comparator)
      Combined endpoint: death, hospitalizations, aortic-valve replacement, heart failure, angina,
      syncope

      Inclusion Criteria

        -  Patient referred to routine clinical echocardiography at the Department of Cardiology,
           Inselspital Bern

        -  Aortic sclerosis with or without stenosis

        -  Written informed consent

      Exclusion Criteria

      The goal is to recruit a population comprising a large variety of clinical conditions.
      Exclusion criteria are:

        -  Age <18 years

        -  Aortic valve replacement scheduled within 1 year after inclusion

        -  Any aortic valvular disease other than degenerative sclerotic, bi- or unicuspid valves

        -  Known disease with expected survival <1 year

        -  Known malignant tumor

        -  Subvalvular obstruction (in LVOT) with mean pressure gradient >10mmHg

      Echocardiography

      Patients will be examined by standard echocardiography including a comprehensive assessment
      of cavity and wall dimensions, ventricular and valvular function, morphologic appraisal and
      pressure predictions. In particular, peak aortic jet velocity will be recorded using CW
      Doppler from the window yielding the highest velocity signal. Aortic stenosis severity will
      be measured using peak flow velocity (m/s). Progression will be expressed as peak flow
      velocity change per year (m/s per year). Aortic valve sclerosis will be assessed visually
      from a short axis according to Rosenhek: 1, no calcification; 2, mildly calcified (small
      isolated spots); 3, moderately calcified (multiple larger spots); and 4, heavily calcified
      (extensive thickening and calcification of all cusps).

      T50-Test The addition of calcium and phosphate to serum triggers the formation of primary
      calciprotein particles (CPP, see figures 2 and 3). As nano-suspension of calcium-phosphate,
      these particles represent a defense mechanism of the serum against calcification. Primary
      CPPs undergo spontaneous transition to secondary CPPs. The formation of these particles
      represents calcification. In the T50-Test, the time elapsed for the transformation of 50% of
      the particles is measured and is specific for individual sera.

      The blood-sample will be taken immediately after completion of the echocardiographic exam.

      Objective

      The purpose of this study in patients with aortic sclerosis with and without stenosis is to
      establish an independent predictor of progression of aortic valve obstruction using a new
      calcification propensity measure in the serum.

      Methods

      Recruitment 200 consecutive patients referred for a routine clinical echocardiographic exam
      showing varying degrees of aortic sclerosis will be included.
    
  