
    
      Pulmonary embolism (PE) is a major cause of mortality and morbidity in our society with more
      than 150.000 deaths every year in the US. Usually mortality occurs in the first hour after
      symptoms onset (up to 11%) and may further increase up to 17% at 3 months follow-up.

      In case of massive PE (MPE) mortality dramatically increases up to 30% despite important
      improvements recently made in precocious diagnosis and aggressive medical treatments (i.e.
      i.v. thrombolysis).

      Quite often (up to 40%) in case of PE there is at least one relative fibrinolysis
      contraindication, and less frequently these contraindications are absolute. In these quite
      rare cases, where thrombolytic therapy is absolutely contraindicated, a surgical
      thrombo-embolectomy is advised, however this kind of challenging surgery is not available
      world-wide and it still remains associated with a prohibitive high rate of mortality.

      A less invasive alternative remains the percutaneous thrombectomy, which may further be
      divided into:

        -  Aspiration thrombectomy,

        -  Fragmentation thrombectomy,

        -  Rheloytic thrombectomy. The first transvenous percutaneous pulmonary embolectomy was
           performed more than 30 years ago; however, it is only recently that, thanks to new
           developed technologies, phyisicians manifest an increased interest in developing this
           promising less invasive procedure.

      The angiojet rheolytic thrombectomy (ART) catheter (Angiojet : Possis medical ; Minneapolis,
      MN, USA) utilizes high velocity saline jets for thrombus aspiration, maceration and
      evacuation through the Bernoulli principle. Nowadays this technology is successfully utilized
      daily in the coronary and peripheral artery fields (i.e. thrombus aspiration during coronary
      or arterial angioplasty).

      Due to its safety and efficacy, demonstrated in randomized trials including patients with
      coronary artery disease, several recent reports also confirmed the usefulness of this ART
      also in extra-coronary domain (peripheral arterial and venous diseases).

      Massive PE, as the thrombotic coronary artery occlusion, is a life threatening clinical
      manifestation, therefore several centers began to manage it associating mechanical (i.e.ART)
      clot removal and pharmacological (i.e. lysis).

      The first small, retrospective non randomized series suggest the safety and efficacy of this
      technology, confirming its feasibility compared with the actual proposed treatment of MPE
      (i.e. i.v. or in-situ pulmonary thrombolysis).

      The first in man utilization of the Angiojet rheolytic thrombectomy for treating acute
      massive PE dates 1997, however in-vitro tests also revealed that Angiojet is able to
      successfully remove thrombus up to 14 days old, thus enlarging its usefulness also in
      sub-acute cases (i.e.>14 days old thrombus).

      Despite the fact that indication of an i.v. fibrinolysis is worldwide accepted in case of MPE
      and that established lysis protocols are nowadays available, mortality remains unacceptably
      high (up to 30%) and bleeding related morbidity a major concern. In fact in large PE
      registries, up to 20% of the patients experienced major bleedings complications, and in 3% of
      the cases this was intracranial.

      Of interest in case of sub-massive PE (sub-MPE), which is also associated with a quite high
      mortality (up to 8%) some disagreement concerning the best treatment modality still persists.
      Several authors support an intensive treatment modality favourizing the systemic i.v.
      thrombolysis; however, others suggest a more conservative attitude (anticoagulation alone
      with fibrinolysis only in case of clinical deterioration). These cases of sub-MPE may be very
      challenging, because an established consensus of the definition of sub-MPE combining
      clinical, radiological and cardiological criteria are still lacking. Furthermore the
      thrombolytic regimen is not complication-free, suggesting that, before performing an i.v.
      thrombolysis, the physician in charge of the patient has to seriously take in consideration
      all the absolute and the relative contra-indications of such a treatment. (i.e.recent
      surgery, active peptic ulcer, intra-cerebral bleeding, pregnancy, neoplasm, see Table 1).

      The ongoing debate on how to improve mortality in patients with MPE and concerning the
      correct managing of patients with sub-MPE suggests that in both cases, there is an urgent
      need of improving the actual treatment modalities.
    
  