
    
      On day 5 of the Hormonal Replacement Therapy (after 5 days of progesterone administration),
      coinciding with the day of hysteroscopy indicated by the physician according to the routine
      clinical practice, samples of endometrial fluid (EF) and endometrial biopsy (EB) of patients
      with RIF will be obtained. These samples will be used for the diagnosis of CE by both classic
      and molecular methods. Specifically, EF sample will be analyzed by molecular techniques using
      Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) for the detection of infectious agents. EB sample will be
      divided into three parts, one of them will be used for molecular analysis (as control of the
      bacterial content present in the EF), another part will be subjected to microbiological
      analysis and the third part will be analyzed using histological techniques. In this way,
      comparisons will be made between the different diagnostic methods of CE in the two sample
      types (EF and EB) and the efficacy values of the new diagnostic test (sensitivity,
      specificity, positive and negative predictive values and Receiving Operating Characteristic
      curves) will be obtained using the microbiological diagnosis as a reference (gold standard
      method).

      Patients with a negative outcome for CE (approximately 40%) will continue with the expected
      assisted reproduction treatment (ART) according to the clinic's standard protocol and
      patients with a positive outcome for CE (approx. 60%) will receive antibiotic treatment
      according to usual clinical practice (time and type of antibiotic will be different according
      to the microbiological diagnosis). Once this treatment is completed, the improvement of these
      patients will be confirmed obtaining a second sample of EF and EB. The Assisted Reproductive
      Treatment (ART) will be performed once the specialist considers it appropriated.

      Finally, reproductive rates will be correlated with the diagnosis of CE. Therefore, an
      observational analytical study, in which a comparison of the ART results before and after its
      diagnosis of CE, will be carried out. The reproductive impact of an altered endometrial
      microbiota will be assessed analyzing the implantation rates, pregnancy and ongoing
      pregnancy.
    
  