
    
      This protocol examines the neurobiology of fear and anxiety using various approaches. During
      fear conditioning in which a phasic explicit cue (e.g., a light) is repeatedly associated
      with an aversive unconditioned stimulus (e.g., a shock), the organism develops fear to the
      explicit cue as well as to the environmental context in which the experiment took place.
      Experimental evidence suggests that cued fear and contextual fear model different aspects of
      anxiety. Studies in patients indicated that contextual fear may model an aspect that is
      especially relevant to anxiety disorders. However, the neural basis for the expression of
      contextual fear has not previously been elucidated in human imaging studies.

      One important determinant of contextual fear is predictability: contextual fear increases
      when a threat (e.g., electric shock) is unpredictable, as opposed to when the threat is
      predictable. The aim of this study is to compare the neural substrates underlying fear evoked
      by predictable versus unpredictable shocks. Animal studies have indicated that conditioned
      responses to predictably cued threat and to less explicit threat are separate processes
      mediated by distinct brain structures. Psychophysiological data suggest that the proposed
      procedure can differentiate between these two responses. Hence, we anticipate that this
      procedure will allow us to compare brain correlates of these responses in humans.

      Another objective is to study effects of threat of shock on processing and learning of threat
      cues in the amygdala, the visual and auditory systems, and motivation/reward systems. This
      will be investigated by means of event-related magneto-encephalography (MEG) and fMRI
      measurements using various paradigms.

      Finally, a last project will examine how pharmacologic manipulation of gamma-aminobutyric
      acid (GABA) levels with the benzodiazepine alprazolam affects the relationship between GABA
      concentration (quantified with magnetic resonance spectroscopy, MRS), visual-and
      auditory-induced gamma oscillations (measured with MEG), and fMRI BOLD response.
    
  