
    
      INTRODUCTION Long-term anticoagulant treatment with adjusted doses of vitamin K antagonists
      is highly effective in preventing recurrent events after a first episode of unprovoked Venous
      ThromboEmbolism (VTE), even if the optimal duration of this therapy is still uncertain. Since
      the risk of recurrency is greatest in the first year after the initial thrombotic episode and
      gradually diminishes thereafter, the benefit of an extended course of anticoagulant treatment
      may be offset over time by the persisting risk of clinically important bleeding.

      A potential clinically relevant approach for establishing the optimal duration of Oral
      AntCoagulant Therapy (OAT) is that of predicting the individual risk for thrombotic
      recurrency after the index Deep Vein Thrombosis (DVT). Although the current scheme for
      establishing the duration of OAT is based on the nature of index DVT (idiopathic or
      provoked), some new data starting to select other parameters to optimize this decision.
      Recently, the use of D-dimer has been proven to be effective for selecting OAC duration;
      however, this investigation evaluated only patients with idiopathic DVT and, moreover, the
      use of D-dimer can not be easily handle by most of Institutions.

      In earlier prospective studies conducted in patients with symptomatic DVT, the presence of a
      residual thrombus was associated with an increased risk of thrombotic recurrencies either in
      idiopathic or provoked venous thrombosis. Interestingly, recurrent events occurred not only
      in the previously affected veins but also in other sites, thus suggesting that Residual Vein
      Thrombosis (RVT) may express a pro-thrombotic status. Based on these findings, the detection
      of RVT may be, therefore, of help in establishing the duration of anticoagulation. Recently,
      we have conducted a randomized, prospective, follow-up study in patients with a first episode
      of symptomatic DVT treated with OAT for 3 months in whom OAT duration was based upon RVT
      findings. In patients without RVT, the risk of recurrent DVT was low even if the treatment
      was stopped after only 3 months.

      To further confirm our preliminary data and to enforce the safety of withholding OAT after 3
      months in patients without RVT, we conducted a prospective study in patients with idiopathic
      DVT of the lower limbs.

      METHODS Study patients. Patients with a first episode of documented unprovoked and provoked
      proximal DVT will be eligible for the study if they had completed at least three months of
      OAT (target INR 2.5, range 2.0-3.0). Unprovoked DVTs are defined as thrombotic episodes
      occurred in apparently healthy individuals. Patients with active cancer, limited life
      expectancy, antiphospholipid antibody syndrome, or an other known thrombophilic status (such
      as antithrombin deficiency), serious liver disease, those who lived too far from the center
      will be excluded from the study. The study has been approved by the institutional review
      boards of all participating centers. All enrolled patients will provide written informed
      consent.

      Study Design. This is a multicenter prospective study in patients with a first episode of
      symptomatic proximal DVT detected by Compression UltraSonography (C-US) and receiving OAT
      [warfarin (Coumadin, Bristol Myers Squibb) for 3 months. At this time, subjects who agreed to
      participate have a physical examination to assess baseline clinical conditions and to exclude
      contraindications. C-US of the proximal deep vein system in both legs will be performed,
      measuring the diameters of any detectable thrombus in the Common Femoral Vein (CFV) and
      Popliteal Veins (PV). Images will be obtained in transverse section only. Lumen
      compressibility will be then evaluated on CFV and PV by gentle pressure of the probe, as
      previously described. Briefly, the major and the minor diameters of the vein segment are
      measured and recorded before and after compression. C-US findings are scored as "absence of
      RVT" when residual thrombus occupied, at maximum compressibility, less than 40% of the vein
      area. Patients without RVT will not continue anticoagulation (Group B), whereas those with
      RVT will continue OAT (INR 2.0-3.0) for at least additional 9 months.

      Study outcomes and Follow-up. From the assignment visit, patients will be followed up for at
      least one year after OAT discontinuation; during the follow-up period, patients will be
      contacted by the clinical centers every 3 months. C-US will be performed only when recurrent
      symptomatic DVT is suspected. The study outcome is the composite of confirmed recurrent
      venous thromboembolism (including DVT and/or fatal or non-fatal pulmonary embolism) and major
      bleeding events from the index DVT to the last day of follow-up. In cases of suspected DVT
      recurrence the results of ultrasonography will be compared with the previous examination. A
      diagnosis of recurrent venous thrombosis is made if a previously fully compressible segment
      (contralateral or ipsilateral) became incompressible. In absence of a previous normal C-US,
      DVT recurrence is diagnosed if a previously non-occlusive thrombus shifted to occlusive
      thrombus, provided the vein area before compression had increased > 4 mm); in undetermined
      cases, contrast venography was performed. In patients with suspected pulmonary embolism,
      diagnosis of recurrence is based on objective algorithms using clinical probability,
      ventilation-perfusion lung scanning/helical computed tomography, compression ultrasonography
      and/or D-dimer if indicated. The diagnosis of clinically relevant haemorrhage will be made in
      case of decrease of haemoglobin levels > 2.0 gr/dl, retroperitoneal, intracranial or
      life-threatening. Patients has been instructed to contact the clinical center immediately if
      symptoms developed suggestive of venous thromboembolism or bleeding. All suspected outcome
      events and all deaths will be evaluated by a central adjudication committee whose members
      were unaware of the name of the subject, the enrolling center, the C-US findings and the
      assigned group.

      Statistical analysis. Baseline differences between groups will be assessed by the chi-square
      test (Yates' correction) for categorical variables and t-test or Mann-Withney U test for
      continuous variables, as appropriate. Data will be analyzed on intention-to-treat basis.
      Kaplan-Meier survival curves are plotted to estimate the cumulative incidence of symptomatic
      recurrent venous thromboembolism and major bleeding. Patients who during the study will
      develop clinical conditions interfering with the study outcomes (such as ischemic heart
      disease, cancer, stroke, superficial vein thrombosis, etc) and left the assigned group will
      be regularly followed-up and included in analysis. Hazard ratios and their 95 percent
      confidence intervals will be calculated using the Cox's proportional hazards model. The data
      will be analyzed using the Prism statistical software package (Version 3.0, GraphPad Software
      Incorporated, San Diego, CA) and the SPSS statistical package (Version 14.0, SPSS Inc.,
      Chicago, IL).
    
  