
    
      At the end of some retinal surgeries, a gas bubble is placed in the eye. In surgeries for
      retinal detachment, this gas bubble helps to keep the tear(s) in the retina sealed up while
      the eye is healing and prevent the retina from re-detaching. In macular hole surgeries (a
      defect in the center part of the retina), the gas bubble helps to seal up this hole in the
      center part of the retina. The gas bubble (sulfur hexafluoride) will slowly disappear from
      the eye over the course of approximately 2 weeks.

      In some cases, the gas bubble disappears more quickly than the surgeon would wish. Several
      eye drops are currently available which help to lower the eye pressure in conditions such as
      glaucoma where the eye pressure is unacceptably elevated and is causing or may cause vision
      loss. These drops have been shown to keep the eye pressure controlled after surgery with
      injection of a gas bubble in the eye. However, little is known about the effect of these
      drops on the duration of the gas bubble. The goal of this study is to see if these glaucoma
      eye drops have any effect on the amount of time the gas bubble remains in the eye.

      After surgery with a gas bubble (sulfur hexafluoride) is completed, patients will be randomly
      assigned (like a flip of a coin) to receive a glaucoma drop (dorzolamide-timolol) or no
      glaucoma drop. These drops are currently available from pharmacies with a prescription and
      are not "experimental." However, the use of these drops in this protocol is not to treat
      glaucoma but represents an "off-label" use. Patients assigned to receive a glaucoma drop will
      be provided with the medication. All patients will receive the standard post-operative drops
      regardless of which group they are assigned to. Patients will be taken care of before and
      after the surgery like any other patient undergoing this procedure. The investigators expect
      that you will be enrolled in this study for 3 months.
    
  