
    
      1. Background The Parkinson's Disease Nurse Specialist (PDNS) can fulfill a pivotal role in
           the multidisciplinary team of people with PD. The PDNS was introduced in 1989 in the
           United Kingdom to bridge the gap between medical management and the unique personal
           needs of patients. To obtain greater uniformity in care delivery by a PDNS and to
           facilitate the efficacy of nursing care in PD, the Dutch Guideline 'Nursing care in
           Parkinson's disease' was published in 2016. The main roles of the PDNS are clearly
           described in the Guideline, and include 1) providing information, education and
           instruction; 2) supporting the patient and caregiver in the promotion of
           self-management; 3) supporting psychosocial care questions; 4) prevention; 5)
           specialized diagnostic strategies and therapeutic nursing interventions; and 6)
           multidisciplinary collaboration.

           Based on expert opinion from healthcare professionals, the Dutch guideline advises that
           every person with PD could benefit from PDNS care, including those in early-stage
           disease where delivery of information, education about medication compliance and support
           in self-management are critical. So far, only three studies have evaluated PDNS care and
           they have found inconsistent results. Overall, they indicate that PDNS care may improve
           patient wellbeing, physical functioning and general health status and reduce anxiety and
           depression, but definite conclusions could not be drawn. Moreover, there is little
           evidence that shows that quality of life actually improves with PDNS care and to date,
           no studies have been performed that evaluated the cost-effectiveness of PDNS care.

           Currently, most hospitals in The Netherlands offer PDNS care, since it is advised in the
           Dutch Multidisciplinary Guideline. However many centers still lack the nursing capacity
           to offer PDNS care to all patients because the scientific evidence is inconclusive. This
           situation creates an undesirable inequality in access to care and presumably leads to
           avoidable disability and costs (e.g. from early admissions to nursing homes or crisis
           admissions to the hospital). Therefore, the investigators aim to study the
           cost-effectiveness of specialized nursing care provided by a PDNS as compared to no PDNS
           care for people with PD.

        2. Study design The NICE-PD study is an 18-month, single-blind randomized controlled
           clinical trial that will be performed in eight community hospitals in the Netherlands. A
           total of 240 people with PD will be included (120 in each group) and equally distributed
           over the participating hospitals. The investigators have selected hospitals where, due
           to lack of sufficient PDNS staff, only a proportion of PD patients currently has access
           to PDNS care. This provides the investigators with a unique opportunity to identify
           patients who at present have no access to PDNS care, and to randomize them within
           hospitals (at the patient level) between PDNS care and no nursing intervention.

           Eligible patients will be allocated randomly to either PDNS care or usual care in a 1:1
           ratio, using a computer-generated list of random numbers. To ascertain an equal
           representation of patients, the investigators will stratify for disease duration
           (according to pre-defined subgroups, i.e. disease duration <5 years, 5-10 years and >10
           years). The PDNS intervention will be carried out according to the Dutch 'Guideline
           Nursing care in PD'. A blinded researcher will perform the clinical assessments at
           baseline (t0), after 12 months (t1) and after 18 months (t2). Patients and caregivers
           will also be asked to complete a set of questionnaires at t0, t1 and t2. Finally, every
           three months patients and their caregivers will complete an online questionnaire about
           healthcare utilization, costs and productivity loss.

        3. Intervention

           The PDNS intervention will be performed according to the Dutch 'Guideline Nursing care
           in PD' published in 2015. The intervention is not standardized, but tailored to the
           patients' and caregivers' needs. This includes the following:

             -  Assessment of individual care needs of people with PD and their caregivers. The
                PDNS performs a specific nursing assessment related to the medical, physical,
                psychological and social domains.

             -  Development of a patient-centered treatment plan that supports the patient and
                caregiver in self-management. The PDNS composes a multidisciplinary plan, based on
                the results of the individual assessment, and as prioritized by the patient and
                caregiver (shared decision making). The treatment plan is developed according to
                the national self-management framework.

             -  Specific nursing interventions. The intervention varies across disease stages and
                is tailored to the specific problems and needs of individual patients and their
                caregivers. The Guideline on PDNS care describes general- and specific nursing
                interventions. General interventions consist of providing information and
                education, disease management (e.g. considering advanced treatment options such as
                DBS) and monitoring (e.g. of caregiver burden). Specific nursing interventions are
                described for the following areas: mental functions, fatigue, sleep, urogenital
                functions, sexuality, medication adherence, orthostatic hypotension, caregiver
                burden, coping, mobility, self-management and dietary issues (table 2 provides
                examples of such interventions).

             -  Collaboration with other healthcare professionals. The PDNS stimulates and supports
                multidisciplinary collaboration between healthcare professionals based on the
                individual patient-centered treatment plan. The PDNS also plays a pivotal role in
                the timely referral to other healthcare professionals.

           The PDNS will keep a pre-defined electronic study report according to a structured
           format for each PD patient, documenting the individual care needs, present symptoms,
           performed interventions and (changes in) the individual care plan. This report will be
           started at the initial assessment and updated at every follow-up contact with the
           patient, e.g. at the outpatient clinic, during a telephone consultation or at a home
           visit. This data will be purposefully collected for a possible process analysis at the
           end of the study.

           Patients will have regular contact with their PDNS about the progress and realization of
           the personal goals, both during face-to-face contacts and by telephone, and sometimes
           during additional home visits. The frequency and type of contact will be optimized for
           each patient depending on disease stage and individual patient needs. The Guideline on
           PDNS care advises that each patient has a minimum of one contact with the PDNS each
           year. Currently in the Netherlands, patients are seen on average twice a year by their
           PDNS, with an additional two interim telephone consultations per year.

           The control group will receive ongoing/ usual care which is otherwise comparable, but
           without a nursing intervention. This involves regular consultations with a neurologist
           in their own community hospital (typically 2-4 times per year, depending on patient
           preferences and health status). In addition, control patients will have no other
           restrictions considering any other medical treatments (e.g. by a psychologist or social
           worker). Importantly, many important elements of care (including in particular the
           treating neurologist) remain comparable between the two intervention arms because of the
           randomization at patient level within hospitals.

        4. Clinical assessments At baseline, t1 and t2 all patients will visit their own hospital
           for the study assessments which are performed by a blinded researcher (PDQ-39,
           MDS-UPDRS, and TUG). Furthermore, the patients and their caregivers will complete
           additional home questionnaires. In addition, every three months, patients will receive a
           questionnaire at home regarding healthcare utilization, costs and productivity loss over
           the past three months. Caregivers will complete a cost questionnaire including
           healthcare utilization, costs and productivity loss specifically related to caregiver
           burden. Patients can choose if they want to fill out digital or paper questionnaires.

        5. Data analysis The economic evaluation investigates, alongside the clinical trial, the
           value for money of full implementation of the PDNS into PD care from a societal and
           healthcare perspective. The investigators will take all relevant costs into account. The
           cost-effectiveness timeframe adheres to the clinical study protocol and evaluates
           cost-effectiveness up to 18 months after randomization. Cost will be measured using a
           healthcare utilization questionnaire (e.g. including medical consultations, hospital
           admissions, medication, travel costs, etc.) and a questionnaire measuring productivity
           loss while working of both patients and caregivers. Per item of healthcare consumption,
           standard cost-prices will be determined using the guideline for performing economic
           evaluations. If standardized prices are not available, full cost prices will be
           determined using activity based costing. Costs will be analyzed using a mixed model
           approach or a general linear model approach with a gamma distribution using a log link
           to account for possible skewness of the cost data.

           The investigators will use a PD-specific quality of life measure (PDQ-39) and a generic
           health-related quality of life scale (EQ5D) to evaluate the quality of the health status
           of patients. The potential difference in Quality-Adjusted Life Years (QALYs) measured
           with the EQ5D will be analyzed with a regression approach. The investigators will use a
           linear mixed model with repeated measurements to test for differences in quality of life
           (measured with the PDQ-39) between both groups. The same analysis will be used to
           measure differences between groups in the secondary outcome measures. The investigators
           will include study center as a random effect and fixed effects for group, time and the
           interaction between group and time. Each of the outcomes will be included as dependent
           variable. Statistical analyses will be performed based on the intention-to-treat
           principle.

           Besides the overall cost-effectiveness evaluation, the investigators will perform a
           pre-planned subgroup analysis based on disease duration (diagnosis made <5 years, 5-10
           years or >10 years ago) to obtain more insight into the nursing interventions used in
           each disease stage and the effects of PDNS care in these different groups of patients.
           This subgroup analysis will be performed because, for example, for the more severely
           affected patients the nursing intervention is expected to become more intensive and
           possibly more effective, but also more expensive. When different patterns of this kind
           are found, this should be investigated further in future trials that are powered
           adequately to address such group differences.

        6. Discussion The investigators hypothesize that offering PDNS care will lead to higher
           quality of life with equal healthcare costs. Increasing direct medical costs (for nurse
           staffing) are expected to be offset by a reduced number of (telephone) consultations
           with the general practitioner and neurologist. These short-term goals are the focus of
           the present NICE-PD proposal. In addition to the short-term effects, the investigators
           also expect long-term benefits, which are out of scope of the present project. Examples
           of potential long-term benefits include a reduction in the number of nursing home
           admissions and fewer emergency visits to the hospital, which would lead to a substantial
           cost reduction.

      In conclusion, this study will generate new insights into the cost-effectiveness of
      specialized PD nursing interventions for people with PD. If positive results are found, a
      large shift in the organization of PD care is needed to warrant equal access to PDNS care for
      every person with PD.
    
  