
    
      The central hypothesis of this study is that immune responses to vaccination can be
      quantified by proteomic profiling of serum (and other clinical fluids), and that the host
      responses to different infectious agents are unique and can be 'fingerprinted' by proteomics.
      Using influenza virus vaccination, this study proposes to use mass spectrometry platforms to
      profile and characterize proteins from serum samples obtained from recipients. These samples
      will be used to develop a proteomic profiling system for monitoring vaccine response and,
      eventually, early detection/diagnosis of infection. The long-term goal of this approach is to
      develop tools useful for reducing the morbidity and mortality of influenza from natural and
      potential bioterrorism-related infections by improving measures of vaccine efficacy and early
      diagnosis. The primary objective is to use surface-enhanced laser desorption/ionization
      time-of-flight (SELDI-TOF) mass spectrometry and matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization
      time-of-flight (MALDI-TOF) mass spectrometry proteomic profiling tools to analyze a series of
      serum samples obtained from cohorts of young and elderly subjects, before and after trivalent
      split-virus influenza vaccination, to identify surrogate markers reflective of the immune
      response. The secondary objective is to use concurrent T-cell activation, cytokine assays,
      and hemagglutination inhibition (HI) serologic assays to correlate cellular and humoral
      responses to influenza vaccination with protein profiling changes. Comparisons of the protein
      profile data with the T-cell activation, cytokine assays, and HI results will be evaluated
      using multiple classification algorithms, and potential biomarker proteins will be identified
      by sequencing with either a MALDI-TOF or electrospray ionization mass spectrometer. Study
      Participants will include healthy adult volunteers between the ages of 21-40, between the
      ages of 60-89, or 90 years and older, who are living independently in the communities
      surrounding the 3 study sites in Virginia. There will be 5 study visits, and subjects will be
      in the trial for up to 1 month. The primary endpoint of the study is to identify surrogate
      markers reflective of the immune response and to correlate these markers to cellular and
      humoral responses (demonstrated with T-cell activation, cytokine assays, and the HI serologic
      assays) to influenza vaccination. The secondary endpoint is safety. Data on the following
      solicited local reactions (injection site pain, bruising, redness, tenderness, and
      induration) and solicited systemic reactions (fever, headache, malaise, myalgia, cough, runny
      nose, chills, vomiting, arthralgia, rash, and diarrhea) will be collected from Day 0-Day 14
      and categorized as none, mild, moderate, and severe. Unsolicited adverse events (including
      serious adverse events) will be collected and categorized throughout the study by severity,
      duration, and relatedness to the vaccine.
    
  