
    
      ABSTRACT

      Background Preliminary evidence suggests that meditation and exercise may work through
      interacting psychological and physiological pathways to influence the immune system and
      reduce infectious respiratory disease.

      Methods In this study, women and men aged 50 and older will be randomized to: 1) an 8-week
      behavioral training program in mindfulness meditation, 2) an intensity, duration and
      location-matched 8-week exercise training program, or 3) a waiting list control group. Sample
      size will be N=150 enrolled, with N=50 in each group. The main patient-oriented outcome will
      be severity-adjusted total days of acute respiratory infection (ARI) illness, as
      self-reported on the Wisconsin Upper Respiratory Symptom Survey (WURSS-24), a validated
      questionnaire outcome measure. Nucleic acid based viral identification will verify all
      symptomatic infections, and the cytokine IL-8 and nasal neutrophil from nasal wash will serve
      as biomarkers of illness severity. Biomarkers of immune function will include antibody
      response to influenza immunization (serum IgG, mucosal IgA) and cytokines IFN-γ and IL-10
      from cultured ex vivo lymphocytes. Questionnaire measures assessing perceived stress,
      positive and negative emotion, optimism, and anxiety will be analyzed as potential mediators
      of immunomodulation and illness prevention.

      Timeframe / logistics This will be a 2-year project, with 2 cohorts conducted during a single
      cold season. The first cohort of N=60 will be randomized and begin interventions in September
      2009. The second cohort of N=90 will be randomized and begin interventions in January 2010.
      Tri-valent influenza vaccination will occur on week 6 of behavioral interventions in both
      cohorts. Blood for antibody titer and ex vivo cytokine assay will be drawn at baseline, at
      the end of the 8-week session, and once again 3 months later. Nasal swab for IgA will be done
      at the same times. Participants will be followed with telephone contact every 2 weeks, with
      monthly questionnaire instruments, and with daily self-assessments during ARI illness
      episodes.

      Analysis ANOVA-based models will assess effects of meditation and exercise on immune markers
      and ARI illness. Psychological measures will be assessed as potential mediators of effects of
      meditation and exercise on ARI illness. Generalized estimating equations, random-effects
      pattern-mixture models, and hierarchical linear models will be used to assess longitudinal
      effects, interactions, and covariate mediation.

      Section 2. Specific Aims

      2.1. Background Acute respiratory infection (ARI) is a leading cause of morbidity and
      mortality. Influenza is the most pathogenic of the many viruses involved, and hence merits
      special attention. Protective and ameliorative immune mechanisms are poorly understood, but
      are associated with various indicators of mental as well as physical health.

      A broad literature suggests that regular exercise affects the immune system, positively
      influences mental health, and protects against ARI illness. A separate and smaller body of
      evidence suggests that mindfulness meditation may lead to lower stress levels and better
      mental and physical health. Published evidence from our own study suggests that meditation
      may enhance antibody (serum IgG) response to influenza vaccination (flu shot) [1].

      2.2. Methods & Aims The proposed randomized controlled trial (RCT) will test for effects of
      meditation and exercise on incidence and severity of ARI illness during an 8-month
      observation period. Participants (N=150) will be randomized to 1) an 8-week training program
      in mindfulness meditation, 2)an attention, duration and location-matched program in moderate
      intensity exercise, or 3) a waiting list control group. Each ARI illness episode will be
      assessed by a validated questionnaire outcomes instrument, verified with nucleic acid based
      multiplex viral identification system, and assessed for inflammation with IL-8 assay and
      neutrophil count from nasal wash. Immunological measures will include antibody response to
      flu shot (both serum IgG and mucosal IgA) and cytokine indicators of TH1 (IFN-γ) and TH2
      (IL-10) immune response, as measured in stimulated ex vivo lymphocyte cell culture.
      Psychological domains to be assessed include perceived stress, positive and negative emotion,
      anxiety, and optimism. Immune biomarkers and psychological domains will be assessed as
      consequences of behavioral interventions, and as predictors of ARI illness. Finally, we will
      attempt to disentangle the mediating effects of psychological health on immune mechanisms and
      ARI illness. For example, one hypothesis is that meditation influences the immune system
      through reduction of stress-related immune dampening mechanisms. That hypothesis would
      receive support if perceived stress and ARI illness were lowest in the meditation group, and
      if perceived stress associated more strongly with immune biomarkers and ARI measures than did
      measures of other psychological domains. We expect that both exercise and meditation will
      improve psychological health, influence immune biomarkers, and reduce ARI illness burden.
      However, current evidence is not sufficient to estimate the relative magnitude of these
      effects, nor to confidently predict whether cellular and/or antibody-mediated immune
      mechanisms will be implicated.

      2.3 Null hypotheses - 2.3.1 Compared to control, an 8-week training program in mindfulness
      meditation will not lead to statistically significant reductions in number of
      severity-weighted days of ARI illness. 2.3.2 Compared to control, a matched 8-week exercise
      training program will not lead to significant reductions in ARI illness. 2.3.3 Meditation
      training will not enhance either antibody response to flu shot (serum IgG, mucosal IgA), or
      cytokine expression linked to TH1 and TH2 cell-mediated immune pathways (IFN-γ, IL-10). 2.3.4
      Exercise training will not enhance either antibody response to flu shot or cytokine
      expression from cultured lymphocytes. 2.3.5 Mindfulness meditation training will not lead to
      improvements in measures of psychological health (perceived stress, positive and negative
      emotion/affectivity, anxiety, optimism). 2.3.6 Exercise training will not improve these
      psychological measures. 2.3.7 Immune biomarkers will not predict ARI outcomes. 2.3.8
      Psychological measures will not predict ARI outcomes. 2.3.9 The effects of meditation and
      exercise on psychological measures, immune biomarkers, and ARI illness will not be
      distinguishable from each other. 2.3.10 Observed effects of meditation and exercise on ARI
      outcomes will not be explained by either psychological measures or biomarkers of immune
      mechanisms.

      2.4 Justification Influenza and other acute viral infections are responsible for tremendous
      health burden. Antibody-mediated immunity, responding to vaccination or natural exposure, is
      only partially effective in conferring protection. Current evidence suggests that
      cell-mediated immune mechanisms are important in this process. Both antibody-mediated and
      cell-mediated immune mechanisms have been linked to psychological domains, and appear to
      decline with aging. Preliminary evidence suggests that both mindfulness meditation and
      moderate intensity exercise may be at least partially effective in modifying immune response
      and reducing infectious illness burden. No studies have compared these 2 quite different
      behavioral intervention techniques. This proposed research would provide new knowledge
      regarding effects of meditation and exercise training on ARI illness, and immunological and
      psychological pathways involved.
    
  