
    
      Dysphagia is estimated to occur in up to 76% of acute stroke patients1,2 and by 2030 the
      prevalence of stroke is estimated to rise by 21%.3 Serious health complications may result
      from the presence of dysphagia following stroke, including the development of aspiration
      pneumonia, malnutrition, and mortality.4-6 Developing pneumonia post-stroke results in a
      significantly increased relative risk (2.99) of death within 30 days of hospital discharge.1
      Compensatory approaches to intervention, including postures or diet modification, are
      commonly used but do not enact lasting change in swallowing function. Early and intensive
      therapy approaches are suggested for attainment of optimal swallowing outcomes.7 The tongue
      is the primary propulsive force for movement of the bolus through the oral cavity and pharynx
      and into the cervical esophagus during swallowing. Patients post-stroke demonstrate lower
      than normal maximum isometric lingual pressures, measured as pressures produced when the
      tongue is pushed as hard as possible against the palate.2 Progressive resistance training for
      the tongue and related oropharyngeal musculature has been shown to improve swallow physiology
      and quality of life for patients post-stroke.8 Previous studies have examined Isometric
      Progressive Resistance Oropharyngeal (I-PRO) therapy facilitated by the Iowa Oral Pressure
      Instrument (IOPI) for lingual strengthening. The recently developed SwallowSTRONG® device
      consists of a customized, adjustable mouthpiece that provides pressure readings from embedded
      sensors allowing for consistent tongue placement, immediate knowledge of performance levels,
      and automatic calculation of therapeutic strengthening targets. Results from a
      federally-funded Department of Veterans Affairs Clinical Demonstration Program that employed
      use of device-facilitated (DF) I-PRO therapy showed improved swallowing-related outcomes in a
      group of patients with oropharyngeal dysphagia resulting from a variety of medical
      etiologies.9 The effects of this therapy approach on various aspects of swallowing function
      and health status in a group of post-stroke patients have yet to be examined. In addition,
      ideal treatment duration for use with stroke patients is unknown.

      The long term goal of this work is to develop more effective, evidence-based treatments that
      improve overall health status related to swallowing-specific changes for patients with
      dysphagia. The preliminary group data generated will provide the basis for a line of work
      dedicated to determination of effective treatments for patients post-stroke.

      Specific Aims include: 1) determine differences in swallowing physiology and bolus flow
      measures a) between a group of unilateral ischemic stroke subjects undergoing DF I-PRO
      therapy and a control group and b) between two durations of treatment (8 and 12 weeks); 2)
      examine changes in level of oral intake and swallowing quality of life in post-stroke
      patients undergoing I-PRO therapy as compared to a control group and as they relate to
      treatment duration response at 8 weeks and 12 weeks; and 3) evaluate effects of DF I-PRO
      therapy on overall health status reflected by the number of pneumonia diagnoses and overall
      hospital readmission rates in post-stroke subjects undergoing DF I-PRO therapy compared to
      controls.

      In order to address these aims, thirty patients who have suffered unilateral ischemic stroke
      will be recruited. Subjects will be randomized to receive either 1) 12 weeks of DF I-PRO
      therapy plus compensatory treatment or 2) compensatory treatment only. Assessments will take
      place at baseline, 8 and 12 weeks. The primary outcome measure will be changes in maximum
      isometric tongue pressures. Details regarding specific outcomes most influenced by this
      approach and dose response effects will inform the clinical practice of Speech-Language
      Pathologists and facilitate strengthening regimens to become more standard for the treatment
      of stroke related dysphagia.
    
  