
    
      This pilot study will provide feasibility on use of wearable technology for tracking and
      self-monitoring physical activity (PA) as well as preliminary data to support our overall
      approach for promoting PA and improving disease status in a Hispanic women population. A
      larger application will be submitted to the NIH, DoD, or other federal agency focused on
      investigating the impact of PA on chronic neurological diseases in a diverse and inclusive
      Hispanic population in LA County.

      2.1.1 Specific Aim 1 establishes feasibility of this approach by measuring adherence and
      change in PA using a Fitbit alta HR activity monitor in Hispanic women with chronic
      neurological diseases. Adherence will be determined through: (i) the average hours/day of
      use; and (ii) the length of time (percent of total study days) of usage throughout the
      16-week study. Adherence defined as (i) 5 or more days/week of use and (ii) 10 or more hours
      of use during the day.

      2.1.2 Specific Aim 2 tests the hypothesis that an increase in physical activity will be
      correlated with a decrease in LA County (LAC) Facilities health care use (hospital and clinic
      visits). Physical activity will be assessed by change in either: (i) the average number of
      steps/week; and (ii) average time spent in sedentary, light, or moderate to vigorous
      intensity based on MET (metabolic expenditure) of physical activity/week. Methods: Changes in
      PA outcome metrics over the 16-week period will be correlated with the total number of
      hospital/outpatient clinic visits. Total hospital use will be determined through the LAC/DHS
      (Department of Human Services) electronic medical records and will include outpatient
      provider visits, emergency room and urgent care visits, total hospitalizations, and days
      spent in hospital.

      2.1.3 Specific Aim 3a tests the hypothesis that increase in physical activity is associated
      with an increase in the quality of life (QOL). Physical activity will be measured through:
      (i) the average number of steps/week; and (ii) average intensity of physical activity/week.
      QOL will be determined through measures of self-rated health and well-being. These Spanish
      validated surveys will include illness perception questionnaire and health and well-being
      questionnaire
    
  