
    
      The purpose of this study is to assess the role of the patellar taping on muscle activation
      during seven proprioceptive exercises in women with the patellofemoral pain syndrome.

      Forty voluntary young women (from 18 to 35 years) with three or more clinical symptoms of
      patellofemoral pain syndrome will be recruited. The participants will answer a clinical
      questionnaire in regard to knee pain and a specific patellofemoral questionnaire titled: the
      Anterior Knee Pain Scale (AKPS). All participants will sign an informed consent form approved
      by the North of Parana University Ethics Committee for Research on Human Subjects. The sample
      will be randomized in two groups: (G1) the experimental group that will use a rigid patellar
      taping (n = 20) for the correction in lateralization of the patella and stabilization of the
      knee. The lateral stabilization will be made with self-adhesive taping positioned in the
      lateral border of the patella and tensioned in relation to the medial portion of the femur
      condyle, which allows an edge of the medial board patella and a stretching of lateral
      structures of the knee. All procedure will follow the recommendation from McConnell studies
      with regard to the patellar femoral syndrome; and (G2) the placebo group that will use a
      rigid patellar taping (n = 20), but without no correction of lateralization of the patella
      and/or stabilization of the knee. The taping will be placed incorrectly such as in the
      vertical position of knee and without any tension or traction around structures and patella.
      A computer will be used to generate the randomization sequence of the participants. The
      allocation will be printed in cards by sequentially numbered in opaque envelopes.

      Before performing the exercises, a maximum voluntary isometric contraction will be performed
      for the knee extensor muscles (e.g. specifically the VMO and VL) and hip abductor muscles
      (e.g. GM) in order to normalize the signal EMG for determining of the level muscular activity
      during each exercise, with the correct taping and/or placebo. All participants, after
      randomization, will perform seven proprioceptive exercises on one leg-stance position in
      different surfaces: 1) static position in force platform, 2) dynamic in flexion-extension
      knee on a force platform, 3) anteroposterior sway on rectangular rocker board, 4)
      mediolateral sway on rectangular rocker board, 5) unipodal standing on a swing apparatus, 6)
      unipodal standing on a mini-trampoline, and 7) unipodal standing on bosu balance ball. Each
      exercise has a time of 15 seconds performance, while sway centre of pressure parameters will
      be computed (exercise #1 and #2), and EMG surface will recording (VMO, VL, GM) for all seven.
      First, one baseline measure (without taping) will be performed and immediately after with the
      use of taping (intervention or placebo).

      An ANOVA two-way will be performed to compare the two groups (G1 and G2) and two times
      (before and immediately after with taping) and the effects of interaction (Groups x Times).
      The size effect also will be computed to determine the rate of the changes observed.
    
  