
    
      Description of the Clinical Lokomat Therapy program:

      This is a 12-week program with 3 to 5 sessions per week. Each session includes: 15-20 minutes
      of patient set-up (set-up time becomes about 5 to 10 minutes after a few sessions), 5-10
      minutes of warm-up, 20-40 minutes of Lokomat therapy, 5-10 minutes of cool-down, and 5-10
      minutes to remove the patient from the system. During the Lokomat sessions, heart rate and
      blood pressure are monitored by the therapist and recorded. Work performed is measured and
      recorded in the Lokomat computer for time, speed, amount of weight bearing, and distance.

      Description of the Research Component:

      A pre and post, prospective study design will be employed. Baseline measurements (Please see
      below and Table 1 for detailed descriptions) will be performed prior to start of the Lokomat
      therapy program and then again after completion of the 12-week program. A chart review will
      be performed at baseline only for documentation of medical history and medications. In a
      subset of patients a muscle biopsy will be performed for gene expression at baseline and week
      12.

      As part of Clinical Care, during each of the Lokomat therapy sessions the following
      information is collected:

        1. Work (total time, speed, distance, amount of weight bearing)

        2. Heart rate (HR)

        3. Blood Pressure (SBP, DBP)

        4. Perception of exertion (Borg Scale)

        5. Lipid profile (pre and post)

        6. Albumin (pre and post)

      For Research purposes the following is being proposed:

      Review and record work, HR, BP, Borg Scale from all clinical sessions

      Baseline and Week 12 measurements (performed on a separate days or prior to the sessions):

        1. Resting energy expenditure (REE)

        2. Body Composition [dual energy x-ray absorptiometry (DEXA) ) - [scans include total body,
           dual femur, and the knee], partial body potassium counting (PBKleg), bioelectrical
           impedance analysis (BIA), anthropometric and skin fold measurements]

        3. Fasting blood draw for plasma glucose and insulin (FPG, FPI), lipid profile,
           testosterone, sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG), insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1),
           bone markers, coagulation factors, platelet aggregation, 2 hour standard oral glucose
           tolerance testing (OGTT) with insulin levels.

        4. Autonomic and blood pressure regulation studies [resting and tilt table provocation, for
           heart rate and blood pressure variability (HRV, BPV), arterial blood flow, and venous
           occlusion]

        5. Disability-specific quality of life (QOL) and activities of daily living surveys
           [GI-Bowel survey, brief pain inventory (BPI), fatigue survey, spasticity scale, mini
           mental status exam (MMSE)]. These disease-specific QOLs will include the question "How
           do you rate your general health and well-being over the past week?" A Lickert scale
           response will be incorporated.

        6. Functional Mobility Assessment

        7. Muscle biopsy for gene expression (subset of patients only).
    
  