
    
      Variceal hemorrhage is a lethal complication in patients with cirrhosis and portal
      hypertension. Identification of varices needing treatment in compensated cirrhosis is,
      therefore, of great therapeutic and prognostic importance. The gold standard for diagnosing
      gastroesophageal varices and evaluating the risk of variceal hemorrhage is
      esophagogastroduodenoscopy. According to the Baveno VI consensus, for those with high-risk
      varices (HRV), either non-selective beta blockers or endoscopic band ligation is recommended
      for the prevention of the first variceal bleeding. However, the invasiveness and
      uncomfortableness during the esophagogastroduodenoscopy procedure has hindered its use in
      clinical practice, especially in patients with compensated cirrhosis. Sufficient accurate
      non-invasive tools for detection of HRV are warranted to safely avoid the use of
      esophagogastroduodenoscopy.

      Advanced technologies including next-generation sequencing and MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry
      have the potential to be applied in this field. The latter is a widespread adopted tool in
      clinical microbiology for rapid, accurate and cost-effective identification of cultured
      bacteria and fungi. Recently, microbiome and peptidome have been proved their roles in the
      end-stage liver disease (e.g. cirrhosis, hepatocellular carcinoma), which may exhibit
      predictive capacity of HRV. In the present study, the investigators aim to conduct a
      prospective, multicenter diagnostic trial in 12 sites (The First Hospital of Lanzhou
      University; Zhujiang Hospital of Southern Medical University; Nanfang Hospital of Southern
      Medical University; Xingtai People's Hospital; Zhongda Hospital, Medical School, Southeast
      University; The Third People's Hospital affiliated to Jiangsu University; Guangdong Second
      Provincial General Hospital; Tianjin Infectious Disease Hospital; Lishui Municipal Central
      Hospital; The Second Hospital of Anhui Medical University; Xi'an Gaoxin Hospital; The Sixth
      People's Hospital of Shenyang) in China, 1 site (Ankara University School of Medicine) in
      Turkey and 1 site (King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital affiliated to Chulalongkorn
      University) in Thailand to evaluate the diagnostic performance of the
      microbiome/peptidome-based model for HRV detection in compensated cirrhosis.
    
  