
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Assess the safety and feasibility of erlotinib hydrochloride, paclitaxel, and
           carboplatin in combination with accelerated hyperfractionated radiotherapy in patients
           with stage IIIA or IIIB non-small cell lung cancer.

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose and recommended phase II dose of erlotinib
           hydrochloride in these patients.

        -  Assess the safety and tolerability of long-term maintenance erlotinib hydrochloride
           after completion of adjuvant chemoradiotherapy in these patients.

      Secondary

        -  Evaluate the clinical and pathological response rate in these patients after neoadjuvant
           erlotinib hydrochloride, paclitaxel, carboplatin, and radiotherapy.

        -  Assess the impact of erlotinib hydrochloride on disease-free survival, overall survival,
           locoregional control, and distant metastatic control in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label, phase I dose-escalation study of erlotinib hydrochloride
      followed by a non-randomized phase II study.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of erlotinib hydrochloride until the maximum
      tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2
      of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

        -  Phase I:

             -  Neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy: Patients receive oral erlotinib hydrochloride once
                daily on days 1-28 and paclitaxel IV over 1 hour and carboplatin IV over 30 minutes
                on days 1, 8, and 15 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
                toxicity. Patients concurrently undergo radiotherapy twice daily on days 1-5 and
                8-12. Patients with complete response, partial response, or stable disease proceed
                to surgery. Patients who develop a medical contraindication to surgery (i.e.,
                medically unresectable) receive a second course of erlotinib hydrochloride,
                paclitaxel, carboplatin, and radiotherapy as above within 2 weeks after completion
                of neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of erlotinib hydrochloride until the maximum
      tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2
      of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

        -  Surgery: Within 4 weeks after completion of neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy, patients
           undergo surgical resection and then proceed to adjuvant chemoradiotherapy.

        -  Adjuvant chemoradiotherapy: Within 6-8 weeks after surgery, patients receive a second
           course of erlotinib hydrochloride, paclitaxel, carboplatin, and radiotherapy as in
           neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy.

        -  Maintenance therapy: All patients receive oral erlotinib hydrochloride once daily for 2
           years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

             -  Phase II: Patients receive treatment as in phase I with erlotinib hydrochloride at
                the MTD.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 42 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  