
    
      The administration of 100% oxygen for 3-5 minutes may replace the nitrogen content in the
      lung cavity (de-nitrogenation) with higher alveolar concentrations of oxygen (greater then
      95%). Elevation of oxygen reserve in the lung and oxygen partial pressure in the blood
      circulation may thus delay the development of hypoxemia (oxygen desaturation; defined as the
      tissue oxygen saturation below 90%) up to 10 minutes after apnea.

      On the other hand, there is currently no clinical evidence indicating that preoxygenation
      with lower oxygen partial pressures (i.e. FiO2= 50-60%) during the induction of anesthesia
      increases the incidence of hypoxemia or other complications. Most recently, two elegant
      large-scale clinical trials reported that the supplement of oxygen to patients with acute
      myocardial infarction or acute ischemic stroke did not provide any clinically beneficial
      effects in the prognosis of diseases. The results of these two important trials did not
      support the routine supplement of oxygen in these acute diseases. In addition, high
      concentrations of oxygen therapy are potentially deleterious, as oxygen toxicity may result
      in direct tracheobronchial and alveolar damage, absorption atelectasis (lung tissue collapse)
      and central nervous system toxicity. In cellular levels, hyperoxia increases the production
      of reactive oxygen species, such as the superoxide anion, the hydroxyl radical, and hydrogen
      peroxide, which in turn may cause cellular apoptosis and inflammatory response. Therefore,
      oxygen therapy in clinical settings has been recognized as a two-edged sword and excessive
      oxygen supplement should be guided closely for its potential toxicity.

      Currently, there is no clinical evidence that supports the routine administration of 100%
      oxygen prior to intubation is essential or beneficial. In the contrary, it also remains
      undetermined if lower fractions of inspiratory oxygen during the induction period of
      anesthesia may attenuate lung injury or other cellular damage derived from the oxygen
      toxicity. Therefore, the findings of this proposed clinical study may provide fundamental
      evidence for the use of different oxygen concentrations in clinical anesthesia during the
      induction period, and determine the effects of inspiratory oxygen concentrations on the
      general postoperative outcomes after general anesthesia.

      This is a randomized, open-label, observer-blind and non-inferiority clinical trial.

      The research model of study is two-group parallel interventional study. The control group is
      preoxygenation with 100% oxygen during the induction phase of anesthesia; the experimental
      group is preoxygenation with 60% oxygen during the induction phase of anesthesia. The
      anesthetists in-charge are not blinded to the concentrations of oxygen use during induction
      of anesthesia, but the persons who collected study data will be unaware of the treatment.
      Block randomization will be generated using a generator software and the assignment of
      treatment will be sealed in the envelops.

      This study anticipates in enrolling 1500 participants.
    
  