
    
      Advanced degenerative arthropathies of the knee ultimately manifest as pain and a loss of
      function leading to impaired gait and activity. Total knee arthroplasty (TKA) is a procedure
      that aim to eliminate pain, restore the function of the joint and ultimately improve the
      ability of the patient to move and live an active life. TotalKneeArthroplasty has a history
      of success, but as the orthopedic and healthcare sectors evolve, a greater level of scrutiny
      and expectation for success will be applied to surgeons and device makers alike. In response
      to these elevated levels of scrutiny and expectation more advanced methods will likely be
      required to better capture and understand how a TotalKneeArthroplasty impacts patient
      function both on an individual, patient by patient, basis as well as on device design and
      surgical technique basis.

      The present study is aimed at performing a preliminary evaluation to provide:

      More advanced insight into a patient's functional recovery and rehabilitation with the
      potential for phisician's to intervene earlier and with greater specificity to any challenges
      encountered by the patient Objective evidence of the quality and value of the intervention on
      an individualized basis. Study objectives Any change in gait as a result of arthroplasty and
      dynamics of gait recovery during acute recovery and rehabilitation timeframe. Outcome
      measures will be gait cycle and ground: foot interaction dynamics which will be observed
      longitudinally and compared to the healthy contralateral limb (ground: foot interaction
      dynamics) as well literature data (gait cycle).

      Primary objective:Evaluation of gait cycle and ground in primary TotalKneeArthroplasty
      patients compared to the healthy contralateral limb.

      Secondary objectives:Easy of use. Qualitative user (Phisician and patient) feedback on
      experience using and wearing the insoles Study design:This is, single arm, prospective,
      single center, pilot study to measure the pre-operative and post-operative gait and ground:
      foot interaction dynamics of 6 subjects who are undergoing TotalKneeArthroplasty .

      Data that will be collected at baseline (pre-op) besides the standard clinical data
      (VisualAnalogueScale, KneeSocietyScore SatisfactionForm-12, Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis
      Outcome Score(KOOS)) include: gait and ground: foot interaction dynamics during a prescribed
      in clinic activity as well as during activities of daily living.

      Data that will be collected about the clinical follow-up include: gait and ground: foot
      interaction dynamics during a prescribed in clinic activity as well as during activities of
      daily living; user feedback regarding their experience using and wearing the insoles.

      Total study duration for study participants will be 6 months with follow-up visits planned
      at: daily until discharge, 1 week, 2 weeks, 3 weeks, 3 months and 6 months. Full enrollement
      is estimated to require 1 months, therefore the total study duration is expected to be 7
      months.

      Subjects will be included in 1 Italian site. Data and user feedback will be analyzed
      continuously as they become available throughout the study period.

      Patients selection:Once a subject has completed the informed consent procedure and signed the
      Informed Consent Form, the PI or delegated study research staff can complete the screening
      process with the subject. All potential subjects who undergo the screening process will be
      documented on a Screening and Enrollment Log, on which reasons for exclusion from or denial
      to participate should be noted.
    
  