
    
      Enlarged prostate represents the most common cause of lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) in
      elderly men including irritative, obstructive urinary symptoms or even urinary retention that
      significantly affects the quality life (QoL).

      Transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP) represents the standard surgical technique for
      the management of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) with a prostate size less than 80 ml.
      However, considerable morbidities are associated with larger sizes.

      Endoscopic enucleation of the prostate (EEP) has been recognized as a treatment option for
      large prostatic adenomas, since first described by Hiraoka et.al, in 1986, it started to gain
      popularity despite the long learning curve. Many studies have evaluated its efficacy against
      the gold standard open prostatectomy in large prostate size more than 80ml and showed its
      safety and efficacy.

      EEP represents an anatomical surgical technique resembling a surgeon's finger in open
      prostatectomy where any energy source that provides adequate haemostasis could be used. Many
      studies concluded that EEP relies on the surgeon's skills rather than the energy source
      itself. Holmium laser enucleation of the prostate (HoLEP) was first described by Gilling in
      1998 and was proven to be effective with no prostate size limitation with adequate
      haemostasis, recently it has been approved as a standard treatment for large prostatic
      adenoma, bipolar enucleation of the prostate (BPEP) has been introduced as an alternative
      energy source with a promising outcome with equal safety and efficacy.

      Few studies evaluated both techniques, one study was done by Shoma et al. showing no
      statistical difference regarding safety and efficacy between both techniques, another study
      conducted by Enikeev et al. reported earlier recovery and catheter removal with HoLEP
      compared to BPEP. However, cost-effectiveness was never been evaluated before between both
      techniques especially in developing countries.

      With such scarce information, the investigators aimed through this study to compare these two
      energy sources in the enucleation procedure of the prostate in terms of safety, efficacy, and
      cost-effectiveness in the management of BPH in large prostatic adenoma more than 80 ml.
    
  