
    
      Objective:

      Functional genetic polymorphisms have been identified that influence the morphology and
      function of brain regions that have been implicated in addictive and neuropsychiatric
      disorders. This protocol aims to integrate genotyping with both structural and functional
      brain imaging to investigate the impact of specific functional polymorphisms on morphology
      and function of the amygdala and the hippocampus and on behavior mediated by these brain
      regions. Functional polymorphisms of the BDNF, SLC6A4, and DISC1 genes will be studied, as
      these are logical candidates to influence variability in brain morphology and function. The
      overall hypothesis is that variation in morphology and function of the amygdala and the
      hippocampus is explained, at least in part, by specific genotype differences.

      Study Population:

      The study population will consist of healthy male and female adult volunteers (18-50 years
      old).

      Design:

      After being medically cleared and giving written informed consent, each participant will
      undergo a structural MRI scan of the brain to be used for volumetric measurements of the
      amygdala, hippocampus, prefrontal cortex, and intracranial cavity. Each participant will
      undergo an fMRI scanning session, which will include an emotional context memory task
      specifically designed to require functioning of the amygdala and the hippocampus. A venous
      blood sample will be collected for genotyping of BDNF, SLC6A4, and DISC1 polymorphisms.
      Additionally, other functional polymorphisms that may influence brain structure may also be
      evaluated, in exploratory fashion. If participants have already had a blood sample collected
      for the genetics portion of another Neuroimaging Research Branch study, they may not need to
      have another sample taken.

      Outcome Measures:

      This protocol will provide no direct benefits to research participants. Understanding the
      relationship between genetic polymorphisms and brain morphology and their association to
      brain function and behavior may provide further clues to the neurobiological mechanisms
      underlying addictive and neuropsychiatric disorders. The potential risks are related to
      acquiring MRI scans in general. Medical supervision will be provided throughout the study.
    
  