
    
      ACE-Plus is a one-on-one dual-session intervention for males aged 16 to 20 within foster care
      or preventive services settings which promotes condom use and knowledge of dual methods of
      contraception. The goal of ACE-Plus is to promote correct and consistent condom use of male
      latex condoms during penile-vaginal sex and to promote male engagement (e.g., discussion,
      decision-making) with their female partners in the use of female-centered contraception
      methods.

      Over 200 males aged 16 to 20 were recruited into this study (called My Plan) by 9 foster care
      agencies in New York City from June 2016 through November 2019. The foster care agencies were
      selected by Cicatelli Associates, Inc. in New York City, a non-profit organization which
      oversaw the implementation of the study. These agencies represent a convenience sample which
      agreed to participate and deliver either the treatment condition (Ace-Plus) or a benign
      control condition (On Track). Agency staff received a five-day training regarding the
      implementation of both programs prior to youth engagement and also received additional
      refresher trainings and technical assistance as needed.

      Agency staff screened potential study youth to ascertain eligibility. To be eligible for
      inclusion in this study, interested youth must have been born with a penis, been aged 16 to
      20, have had vaginal intercourse at least once, and could not be currently participating in
      any other teen pregnancy prevention program. Targeted youth were either in foster care or
      preventive services. Screening occurred until 238 males were enrolled and completed a
      baseline assessment.

      After youth met the screening criteria and agreed to participate, agency staff obtained
      written parental consent (from biological parents) and youth assent for each male age 16 or
      17 to participate in the study. Participants who were 18 to 20 years old provided their own
      written consent. Staff obtained written consent for freed minors from the Commissioner of
      Administration for Children's Services in New York City. Consent forms included consent for
      both program participation and participation in the evaluation. Both English and Spanish
      consent forms were utilized.

      All study procedures were approved by three Institutional Review Boards: the Administration
      for Children's Services in New York City, the New York State Office of Children and Family
      Services, and Advarra® - a national IRB.

      After a youth was deemed eligible to participate and had proper written consent and assent,
      he completed a baseline survey via SurveyMonkey at the foster care agency. Randomization
      occurred at the time of the final question on the baseline survey, which prompted the youth
      to draw a chip from a bag. The color of the chip determined group assignment. Trained agency
      staff oversaw this process to ensure accuracy.

      Assigned youth then received the first of two one-hour sessions, with the second session
      occurring 10 to 14 days after the first. This is an intent-to-treat randomized controlled
      trial which includes all randomized youth regardless of dosage.

      Follow-up assessments were completed 3- and 9-months after the end of session two. The
      evaluators followed-up with participants via email, text, phone, and regular mail to have
      them complete the 3- and 9-month follow-up surveys. A $50 stipend was provided to youth at
      the end of session two, for completion of the 3-month follow-up survey, and for completion of
      the 9-month follow-up survey.
    
  