
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Accrual, risk distribution, and surgical quality will be used to determine the feasibility
      of a prospective multi-institutional study of transoral surgery for HPV positive (+)
      oropharynx cancer followed by risk-adjusted adjuvant therapy.

      II. To assess the oncologic efficacy following transoral resection and adjuvant therapy in
      patients determined to be at "intermediate risk" after surgical excision, the 2-year
      progression free survival (PFS) rate will be examined.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the patient distribution with various histologic risk features. II. To assess
      and compare early and late toxicities associated with transoral surgery (TOS) and the
      different doses of adjuvant postoperative radiotherapy (PORT).

      III. To evaluate swallowing function before and after TOS and risk-adjusted adjuvant therapy.

      IV. To evaluate quality of life (QOL), swallowing perception and performance, voice outcomes,
      and head and neck symptoms.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To correlate tumor TP53 mutation and other associated mutation profile with pathologic
      findings, with PFS and other outcome parameters in patients with resectable HPV-associated
      oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma (OPSCC) after the above treatments.

      II. To evaluate radiation resistance markers, including excision repair cross complementing 1
      (ERCC1) single nucleotide polymorphism and protein expression, and correlate them with
      treatment efficacy.

      III. To investigate the usefulness of biomarkers in predicting progression-free survival and
      biomarkers, including tumor ERCC1, epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), plasma
      cytokine/chemokines, cellular immunity to HPV, and oral HPV deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA).

      OUTLINE: Patients are classified by risk status (low risk, intermediate risk, or high risk)
      and assigned to the appropriate treatment group. Patients classified as intermediate risk are
      randomized to 1 or 2 treatment arms.

      ARM A (low risk): Patients undergo transoral surgical resection of the oropharyngeal tumor.

      ARM B (intermediate risk): Patients undergo transoral surgical resection of the oropharyngeal
      tumor. Patients then undergo low-dose intensity modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) once daily
      (QD) five days a week for 5 weeks.

      ARM C (intermediate risk): Patients undergo transoral surgical resection of the oropharyngeal
      tumor. Patients then undergo standard-dose IMRT QD five days a week for 6 weeks.

      ARM D (high risk): Patients undergo transoral surgical resection of the oropharyngeal tumor.
      Patients then undergo standard-dose IMRT QD five days a week for 6-7 weeks. Patients also
      receive cisplatin intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes or carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on
      days 1, 8, 15, 22, 29, 36, and 43 during radiation therapy.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and
      then every 6 months for 1 year.
    
  