
    
      The Myelodysplastic Syndromes (MDS) are an heterogeneous group of clonal disorders of the
      hematopoietic stem cell characterized by ineffective hematopoiesis leading to peripheral
      cytopenias, and variable risk of progression to more advanced disease and/or transformation
      to acute myeloid leukemia (AML). The disease affects predominantly elderly individuals
      (median age 69 years); the overall incidence is about 4 per 100,000 individuals but this
      rises to > 30 per 100,000 in the over 70 year age population.

      Therapy for MDS has included hematopoietic growth factors (in primis EPO, in combination or
      not with granulocyte-colony stimulating factor- G-CSF or granulocyte-colony stimulating
      factor-GM-CSF), differentiating agents, immunotherapy, low dose chemotherapy strategies,
      AML-like induction regimens, traditional cytotoxic agents, and hematopoietic stem cell
      transplantation (HSCT) strategies. With the exception of HSCT, which can result in long-term
      survival in 23% to 50% of patients (Ref. 10) therapy for MDS has not consistently shown a
      survival advantage, and also modest results have been obtained in an attempt to improve
      anemia and/or the other cytopenias, and to decrease the number of red blood cell (RBC)
      transfusions. Furthermore, MDS is primarily a disease of older patients who cannot tolerate
      aggressive therapy and therefore cannot receive HSCT.

      No therapy has thus been considered standard for MDS, and supportive therapy, including RBC
      transfusions, platelet transfusions and antibiotic therapy has often been focus of care,
      especially in the older patient population.

      VELCADE™ (bortezomib) for injection is a small molecule proteasome inhibitor developed by
      Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc., (MPI) as a novel agent to treat human malignancies. VELCADE
      is currently approved by the US FDA for the treatment of multiple myeloma patients who have
      received at least 2 prior therapies and have demonstrated disease progression on the last
      therapy. VELCADE is a modified dipeptidyl boronic acid derived from leucine and
      phenylalanine; its chemical name is N pyrazinecarbonyl L phenylalanine L leucine boronic acid
      and has a molecular weight of 384.25 daltons.

      Data from non clinical and clinical studies conducted to date support the development of
      Velcade for the treatment of human malignancies.
    
  