
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To screen cancer patients across different histological sites to identify those with
      functional defects in the Fanconi anemia (FA) pathway in their tumors.

      II. To establish the safety and practicality of treating patients with FA deficient tumors
      with the poly (adenosine diphosphate [ADP]-ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibitor ABT-888
      (veliparib) as protracted monotherapy.

      III. To establish the safety and practicality of treating patients with FA deficient tumors
      with the combination of mitomycin C (MMC) and ABT-888.

      IV. To select a dose of ABT-888 protracted monotherapy and a dose-schedule of the combination
      of mitomycin C and ABT-888 in patients with FA deficient tumors for phase 2 trials.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate for germ-line FA repair deficiency and BRCA mutations in peripheral blood
      mononuclear (PBMC) in patients receiving ABT-888 treatment.

      II. To evaluate in PBMC samples for foci produced by the histone variant gamma-H2A histone
      family, member X (H2AX) in patients receiving mitomycin C with or without ABT-888 in order to
      assess any possible effect of ABT-888 in the cellular sensing and processing of mitomycin
      C-induced deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) double strand breaks.

      III. Quantify the number of patients with antitumor responses.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of veliparib. Patients are assigned to 1 of 2
      treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive veliparib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive veliparib PO BID on days 1-7, 1-14, or 1-21. Patients also receive
      mitomycin C intravenously (IV) over 10-20 minutes on day 1. Courses repeat every 28 days in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 12 weeks.
    
  