
    
      Study design:

      Phase 2 proof of concept study Study Type: Interventional (Clinical Trial) Estimated
      Enrollment : at least 200 participants Since the investigators have no current data on
      pre-exposure prophylaxis to calculate sample size statistically, so a minimum of 50
      participants in each arm will be recruited including 20% attrition rate. The investigators
      will be recruiting a minimum of 200 participants in the study , that is at least 50 in each
      of the four arms.

      Allocation: Randomized Intervention Model: Parallel Assignment Study model: Parallel group
      interventional study Location: SZABMU/PIMS Study duration: a minimum of 12 weeks from
      recruitment

      Materials and Methods:

      Participants will be recruited after approval from Ethical Review Board .A written informed
      consent will be taken from all participants. Participants fulfilling the eligibility criteria
      will be randomized to 4 arms.

      Arm Intervention /treatment

      Experimental group 1: Hydroxychloroquine 400 mg twice a day 1,followed by 400 mg weekly for a
      total of 12 weeks Drug: Hydroxychloroquin HCQ 200 mg, oral

      Experimental group 2:Hydroxychloroquine 400 mg on day 1 followed by 400mg once every 3 weeks
      for a total of 12 weeks Drug: Hydroxychloroquin HCQ 200 mg, oral

      Experimental group 3:Hydroxychloroquine 200 mg on day 1 followed by 200 mg once every 3 weeks
      for a total of 12 weeks Drug: Hydroxychloroquin HCQ 200 mg, oral

      Control Group : Placebo 200mg will be given on day 1 followed by Placebo 200mg every three
      weeks for a total of 12 weeks.

      Base line characteristics of all participants will be recorded including age ,gender,role of
      healthcare personnel, comorbidities, and drugs the participant is using.

      Samples will be collected for complete picture blood, liver and renal function tests and
      electrocardiogram. These tests will also be conducted every month till the end of the trial
      and the participants will be monitored for any adverse effects.

      During the study duration all participants will self- report any symptoms related to COVID 19
      and any adverse reactions from the drug. Participants having COVID 19 symptoms at any time
      will be tested by the gold standard test PCR for SARS-COV-2 using nasopharyngeal and
      oropharyngeal swabs.

      All participants at the end of the study will have PCR for SARS-COV-2 and if available IgM
      and IgG serology to find out if they had any infection, did not get infected at all or only
      had asymptomatic or mild infection.
    
  