
    
      Being a direct extension of the central nervous system and the only place in the human body
      where the vessels of the central circulation can be visualized directly, the eye provides a
      unique window to investigate the central circulatory system. Several studies have
      demonstrated that retinal blood vessels show structural and functional alterations in
      patients with dementia. These measurements are based on fundus pictures and are hence limited
      to the larger retinal vessels.

      Until recently, intravenous injection of a contrast agent was necessary to visualize the
      retinal microvasculature in detail. While indispensable for the diagnosis of some ocular
      vascular diseases (arterial/venous occlusion, neovascularization,…) the invasiveness of
      fluorescein angiography (and the risk of an allergic reaction) limits its use as a screening
      tool to detect alterations in the microvascular network of the retina and choroid.

      Optical coherence tomography (OCT) is a non-invasive diagnostic tool capable of generating
      cross-sectional coupes of the retina and choroid. Novel algorithms allow to render a
      3-dimensional model of the ocular microcirculation based merely on the motion contrast of the
      circulating blood. Since OCT is fast, easy to perform and completely non-invasive, this
      technique lends itself for screening purposes.

      Auto-fluorescence retinal imaging is an imaging modality that is commonly used in
      ophthalmological practice to assess retinal pigment epithelium and photoreceptor function by
      quantifying the relative amount of auto-fluorescent lipofuscin. The images can be acquired
      using the OCT device but require pupil dilation. Using visible light of 488nm, it is a safe
      imaging technique with no short or late term side-effects to the patient. A recent study has
      described abnormal auto-fluorescence patterns in patients with cerebral amyloid deposition.

      Hyperspectral fundus photography is comparable to regular fundus photography but uses an
      image sensor that can acquire images at multiple different wavelengths (unlike the classical
      red-green-blue colour sensors that are used in conventional cameras). Apart from a different
      image sensor, the device is identical to a regular fundus camera. Recent studies have emerged
      that describe a unique hyperspectral signature of aggregated retinal amyloid deposits.

      The proposed study aims to investigate whether retinal or choroidal vascular parameters
      measured using OCT and the quantification of retinal amyloid deposits using auto-fluorescence
      and hyperspectral retinal imaging, could be useful to identify different subpopulations of
      cognitive intact, MCI and dementia patients.
    
  