
    
      Cerebrovascular diseases are the third cause of mortality around the world. Seventy-five
      percent of the cases correspond to ischemic stroke, and the remaining 25 % to hemorrhagic
      infarct. The social impact of Stroke is high as it is the first cause for disabilities. After
      Stroke, several mechanisms of secondary damage act to spread the damage to the surrounding
      tissue. Those mechanisms include: 1) Excitotoxicity after excitatory amino acids' release 2)
      Overproduction of free radicals 3) Exacerbated inflammatory response and 4) Apoptosis. Many
      neuroprotective strategies have been tested to cope with the already mentioned damaging
      processes with poor clinical results. Many clinical trials have failed to provide
      neuroprotection to patients after acute stroke. Then, the need for safe drugs with clinical
      efficacy to prevent Stroke disability consequences is highly recognized. Dapsone is safe and
      relatively free of adverse reactions, we propose a clinical trial to assess the safety and
      efficacy of using this drug in patients with ischemic brain stroke.

      Methods: A double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized clinical trial of dapsone is to be
      conducted from 2009 to 2010. Three-hundred patients with a CT or MRI documented ischemic
      stroke in the anterior cerebral territory are to be included. Patients with 4 to 20 points of
      the National Institute of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) will be randomly allocated to receive
      either a single total dose of 250 mg dapsone or placebo within the first 12 h after stroke.
      For the follow-up, NIHSS on days 0, 2, 7, 30, 60 and 90, modified Rankin scale (mRS) on days
      0, 30, 60 and 90, and Barthel index (BI) at day 90, will be all applied. Adverse reactions
      will be also recorded. The Primary clinical outcome of the patients will be assessed at 90
      days after stroke by obtaining the shift analysis from the baseline levels of the scales mRS
      and NIHSS. Secondary clinical outcome will be the BI at day 90. An interim analysis of the
      data will be performed when the study have recruited one-hundred patients.

      Statistical analysis will be performed with the intention-to-treat approach.
    
  