
    
      Inter Dialytic Weight Gain (IDWG) ascribed to fluid retention is one of the major clinical
      problem that patients in hemodialysis need to cope with between 2 subsequent hemodialysis
      especially in patients with no residual renal function. Fluid retention is associated with
      morbid conditions such as lower-extremity edema, ascites, pulmonary vascular congestion or
      edema, hypertension, and worsening heart failure. Gain weight above 2 kg between 2 subsequent
      hemodialysis found to be in higher risk of all-cause mortality and cardiovascular death
      .Lowering daily sodium intake found to mitigate fluid retention ,however there are only a few
      researches that check it. 2IDWG also associated with poorer quality of life. Dietary sodium
      restriction recommendation since the beginning of hemodialysis are based on association of
      this restriction with balance of hypertension and fluid retention. Sodium intake recommended
      for patients in hemodialysis is limited to 2 grams a day. Nevertheless, there are only a few
      studies that examine the efficiency of this restriction because of the complexity of
      measurement of sodium intake. One recently published study which used a 24-h recall to
      measure sodium intake, found a direct correlation between IDGW and mortality form any reason.
      In spite of this complexity, IDWG has been found to be in a direct relation with patients'
      nutrition status.

      One of sodium-related issues is malnutrition. Malnutrition in dialysis is a risk factor for
      patients' morbidity and mortality. Higher sodium intake is associated with higher calorie and
      protein intake, while adherence to restriction of sodium intake is poor in hemodialysis. This
      is a reason for high importance to study effects of sodium restriction in people with more
      than 2.5 kg (or 4% of dry body weight) IDWG while following up their nutritional status
    
  