
    
      This prospective, single-site, randomized, then open-label study is designed to develop a
      detailed transcriptional and epigenetic profile of the immune response to pneumococcal
      vaccination with conjugated and non-conjugated polysaccharide vaccines in the senescent
      immune system of older adults. This knowledge may lead to development of more effective
      vaccines through increased understanding of the effects of immunosenescence on mechanisms of
      immune response to pneumococcal vaccination in the elderly.

      Forty (40) healthy adults ages 60 and older that have never received pneumococcal
      vaccination, will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive Prevnar-13 (Pfizer), a conjugated
      13-valent vaccine or Pneumovax 23 (Merck), a non-conjugated 23-valent vaccine. Following
      randomized assignment of vaccine, the study will be open-label.The study sample will be drawn
      from the population of healthy elderly in the catchment area of UConn Health in Farmington,
      CT.

      The first six (6) study visits are planned to occur over 67 days at Days -7, 0, 1, 10, 28 (±3
      d) and 60 (± 5d). Participants will provide blood samples for transcriptional, epigenetic and
      biological analyses pre- and post-vaccination.

      One to two years after receiving the randomly-assigned vaccination, participants may opt to
      receive administration of a second pneumococcal vaccine with the vaccine that they did not
      receive by random assignment at Visit 2 (Day 0). This second vaccine will be provided at no
      charge to the participant. Administration of this vaccine will occur at an optional Visit 7
      for participants who choose to receive the second vaccine and will be scheduled at the
      participant's convenience one-two years after receiving the first pneumococcal vaccine.

      If the participant opts to receive the second vaccine within the study and attends optional
      Visit 7, blood samples for genomic and biologic analysis will be collected at the visit.
    
  