
    
      Study subjects will be competent adult patients who are scheduled to undergo elective aortic
      valve surgery for severe aortic stenosis. The process of informed consent will begin prior to
      the day of surgery either during a patient's preoperative surgery clinic visit with one of
      the cardiac surgeons for any patient having such a clinic visit or during the preoperative
      anesthesia evaluation prior to the day of surgery. At one or both of these times patients
      will be told of the study and given a copy of the informed consent for their reading. An
      opportunity for them to discuss the study at this time will be offered. Written informed
      consent will be obtained on the day of surgery, prior to surgery. Patients must not also
      require coronary artery surgery or be taking or receiving drugs that alter platelet function,
      including aspirin (within the past 2 weeks) or any of the modern a ADP receptor antagonists
      such as Plavix. As per current patient care guidelines at Strong Memorial Hospital, patients
      undergoing first-time single valve, non-coronary artery surgical procedures will be
      randomized to receive either epsilon aminocaproic acid (EACA) or aprotonin intravenously. It
      is anticipated that 1-3 patients will be initially enrolled as pilot subjects to get the
      study going smoothly and that 1-3 patients may not be completed or that their testing and/or
      data may be inadequate. Therefore, although the analysis will only use 40 subjects the
      protocol seeks permission to enroll a maximum of 24 subjects per group for a total of 48
      patients.

      The tests to be performed are:

        1. the PFA-100, a platelet related hemostasis test which is a high shear system test of
           platelet function

        2. the von Willebrand antigen test, an immunoassay

        3. factor VIII coagulant activity test.

        4. Ristocetin cofactor activity test.

        5. thromboelastography (TEG), a point-of-care test of hemostatic function which includes a
           measure of platelet function.

      (Reference ranges / coefficient of variation / SD's / for the tests are as follows:

      vWF-Ag: 50 - 160% normal activity / 2 - 5% / ~5%

      FVIII: 50 - 200% of normal / 4 - 7% / ~5%

      Ristocetin cofactor: 60-200% of normal / ~15% / ~10%

      PFA100 closure time: epinephrine <181 seconds and ADP <112 seconds / ~12% / 20 secs)

      Total blood volume required from each patient for the purposes of doing the research related
      tests will be approximately 30 mls (1 fluid ounces or 2 tablespoons). 10 mls will be drawn
      from each patient's arterial line, which is routinely placed for cardiac anesthesia & surgery
      care, at the following time points in their care:

        1. prior to induction of anesthesia

        2. 5 minutes after the loading dose of either EACA or aprotonin has been administered and
           prior to the administration of any heparin

        3. 15 minutes after the administration of protamine following termination of
           cardiopulmonary bypass.

      Thus, no additional "needle puncture" will be necessary related to the study. Each blood
      sample of 10 ml will be divided into one "blue-top" (citrated) tube (3 ml) and kept on ice,
      one "blue-top" (citrated) tube (3 ml) and kept at room temperature, and the remainder will be
      used to perform the TEG.

      IV. Data Analysis and Monitoring:

      Statistical analysis will be performed using either a 2-sample t-test or the Mann-Whitney
      Test, as appropriate, to compare the two patient groups at each of the three time points. A
      p-value of less than 0.05 will be considered significant. All tests will be two-sided.

      With a proposed sample size of N = 20 for each of the two groups, the study will have at
      least 80% power to yield a statistically significant result.

      V. Data Storage and Confidentiality:

      Data will be produced within the SMH hematology lab and then stored both on paper and on the
      computer in the Department of Anesthesiology and backed up on the network drive.

      The principal investigator will maintain the information in a password protected file on the
      computer in his (their) private office.
    
  