
    
      Background:

        -  End stage renal disease (ESRD) is the near-total loss of kidney function which can
           result from a variety of diseases. ESRD disproportionately affects African Americans;
           this group comprises 29% of all ESRD patients treated in the Medicare ESRD program, a
           proportion that markedly exceeds their representation in the general population.

        -  The Family Investigation of Diabetes and Nephropathy (FIND) study is an ongoing study to
           identify susceptibility genes for diabetic and other forms of nephropathy, and the
           Choices for Healthy Outcomes in Caring for ESRD patients (CHOICE) study is an ongoing
           prospective study to identify risk factors for cardiovascular outcomes in ESRD patients.
           Participants of these studies have already been recruited and characterized with respect
           to renal phenotypes; furthermore, DNAs from these individuals have already been
           collected and isolated. In this study, we intend to genotype markers suitable for MALD
           analysis in African Americans. The central hypothesis of the present study is that some
           renal disease susceptibility alleles are present at higher frequency in African
           Americans than in whites and that specific regions of the genome in African Americans
           contain marker alleles that are in admixture linkage disequilibrium with ESRD
           susceptibility alleles.

      Objectives:

        -  The overall objective of this study is to identify novel loci, genes, and gene products,
           that may partially account for excess risk of end stage renal disease (ESRD) in African
           Americans compared to whites.

        -  To achieve this goal, we will employ Mapping by Admixture Linkage Disequilibrium (MALD)
           analysis, a specialized form of linkage disequilibrium mapping, to perform a genome-wide
           association study in approximately 2,500 African-American participants from the FIND and
           CHOICE studies.

      Eligibility:

        -  Specific Inclusion/Exclusion criteria: African American

        -  Gender and minority inclusion. The FIND and CHOICE studies are open to both men and
           women of any ethnicity; however, due to the underlying principle of MALD analysis, this
           study will only include African-American participants of these cohorts.

      Design:

        -  Genotype 1536 African-American MALD markers (2 cM average spacing) utilizing DNA from
           approximately 2,500 African-American participants in FIND and CHOICE.

        -  Perform a genome-wide association analysis utilizing a 2 cM dense genetic map and
           identify chromosomal loci that are in admixture linkage disequilibrium with:

             -  ESRD in a case-control design

             -  ESRD attributable to diabetes in a case-control design

             -  Quantitative renal phenotypes

        -  Fine map putative chromosomal region in admixture linkage disequilibrium with ESRD with
           densely-spaced single nucleotide polymorphisms.

        -  A characterization of the MYH9 gene, its mRNA and the proteins encoded is planned for
           cases and controls. Gene sequencing of the region implicated will be undertaken.
           Characterization of mRNA products for quantities and alternative splicing will be
           evaluated. Experimental characterization of the MYH9 proteins for isoforms,
           post-translational modifications, interactions, and immunohistochemical staining will be
           performed.
    
  