
    
      Hydroxychloroquine has primarily been raised as a potential treatment of SARS-Cov-2 based on
      in vitro antiviral activity. A draft paper was released recently in March by Didier Raoult
      from Aix-Marseille University in France on a preliminary trial of 36 COVID-19 patients. In
      this trial, 6 patients were asymptomatic, 22 had upper respiratory symptoms, and 8 had lower
      respiratory symptoms. Between early and mid-March, they treated 20 of these patients with 600
      mg of hydroxychloroquine daily in a hospital setting. Some patient also received the
      antibiotic azithromycin. 16 patients served as the controls. They observed a significant
      reduction in viral load in patients with hydroxychloroquine. After 6 days, 70% of the treated
      patients were considered cured (no virus detected in their samples) compared to 12.5% of
      controls. All 6 patients who received both hydroxychloroquine and azithromycin were negative
      for the virus after 6 days. This was an unblinded, non-randomized trial.

      Vitamin C has multiple in-vivo effects on immune modulation that may, in sum, limit the
      development of the cytokine excess associated with critical illness. It is currently being
      studied in a clinical trial as a treatment for severe SARS-CoV-2 pneumonia in China and
      recommended as a supplement in standard treatment of COVID-19.

      There are no medications currently approved for treatment of COVID-19. Hydroxychloroquine is
      a known drug with low toxicity that may reduce progression of respiratory symptoms and
      resulting hospitalizations. This randomized control study will assess its potential as an
      off-label treatment in reducing the rates of hospitalization and subsequent mechanical
      ventilation from COVID-19 infection compared to standard of care treatment with Vitamin C. A
      randomized control trial with placebo is impractical due to the increasing availability of
      this medication to the public.
    
  