
    
      Lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS) is a common disease with a large impact on the quality of life
      of the patient. LSS is defined as narrowing of the spinal canal, nerve root canal or
      intervertebral foramina. Spinal stenosis is caused by degenerative changes in the lumbar
      spine, including thickening of the ligamentum flavum, osteophyte formation and disc
      protrusion. Pain is worse with standing upright and with exercise, and relieved with spine
      flexion or sitting down.

      In the Wakayama Spine Study, investigators found radiographic severe spinal stenosis, defined
      as narrowing of more than two-thirds of the spinal canal area, in 30,4% of all patients, but
      only 17,5% were symptomatic.

      Many of the patients suffering from LSS are pensioners, with an average age of 65 years. With
      current changes in demographics and the aging global population it is estimated that
      prevalence of LSS will increase to nearly 60% by 2025.

      In a Danish epidemiological study, degenerative spondylolisthesis was found in 2,7% of men
      and 8,4% of women above 50 years. Every year, more than 3500 patients aged 60 and above are
      referred to Center of Spine Surgery Middelfart for LSS. According to the national Danish
      surgical spine database, DaneSpine, 7936 patients with LSS had surgery during a period from
      2009-2013.

      Patients suffering from LSS and instability are treated with decompression and posterolateral
      spinal fusion with or without instrumentation. According to DaneSpine, this group of patients
      showed improvements on both physical and psychological parameters. In countries outside of
      Scandinavia, these patients are usually treated with decompression and posterolateral spinal
      fusion with supplementary pedicle screw fixation. Instrumentation with pedicle screws and
      rods provides an internal splint, preventing motion during fusion healing. The fusion rate in
      non-instrumented arthrodesis is reported to be as low as 30-45% In contrast the fusion rate
      with instrumented arthrodesis have been reported to be above 80%. Although some studies have
      shown similar outcomes after decompression with or without instrumentation, long-term follow
      up has shown that a solid fusion improves clinical outcome.

      In recent retrospective studies, the spinal sagittal balance, specifically the sagittal
      vertical axis (SVA) has been shown to affect the outcome of patients undergoing laminectomy.
      Decompression surgery has been shown to improve sagittal balance in patients with a
      preoperative imbalance, compared to patients treated with rehabilitation. The preoperative
      sagittal imbalance has not been shown to significantly affect health-related quality of
      life(HRQoL)outcomes although a residual imbalance after decompression is related to a poorer
      outcome. No prospective studies to our knowledge have compared the sagittal balance and
      outcomes in patients with spinal stenosis and spondylolisthesis, treated with decompression
      and spinal fusion with or without supplemental pedicle screw fixation.
    
  