
    
      Post-traumatic stress Disorder (PTSD) is a chronic and debilitating disorder that affects
      millions of people each year (Kessler et al., 2005). Although effective psychosocial and
      pharmacological treatments exist for this disorder, as many as 50 percent of individuals
      still experience symptoms after treatment (Schottenbaeur et al., 2008). Empirical literature
      suggests that cognitive deficits may play a role in maintaining symptoms in individuals with
      PTSD through a variety of mechanisms, including decreased cognitive control over intrusive
      thoughts (Verwoerd et al., in press) and dysregulation in neural circuitry linking prefrontal
      cognitive control functions and amygdala activity (McNally, 2007). The goals of the proposed
      research are to improve the candidate's understanding of cognitive mechanisms of PTSD
      symptoms while building skills in conducting treatment research. The application aims to test
      a novel methodology for approaching PTSD treatment based on modification of underlying
      cognitive mechanisms of the disorder. To this end, 50 participants with PTSD will be randomly
      assigned to an 8-session executive control training condition designed to improve working
      memory functioning or a control condition. The aims of this study are 1) To test the effect
      of a working memory training program on working memory performance and 2) To examine the
      effects of this program on PTSD symptoms. The research plan is complemented by a set of
      training goals for the candidate to achieve over the proposed award period. These include 1)
      training in the use of fMRI and neuropsychological assessment 2) additional coursework and
      seminars in cognitive science and biostatistics for use in future work, 3) experience with
      teaching in the undergraduate and graduate setting and presenting original work for
      publication in preparation for a career in academic research. Taken together, the research
      and training components of this grant application will facilitate the candidate's long-term
      goal of conducting treatment outcome and basic mechanism research in PTSD. Moreover, as per
      the strategic plan outlined by NIMH, this application is designed develop an innovative
      intervention based on prior clinical research and knowledge of cognitive and neurobiological
      features of the disorder, and will advance knowledge of mechanisms of fear learning. It is
      designed to target core cognitive features of the disorder in an effort to reduce symptoms.
      PUBLIC HEALTH RELEVANCE: Post-traumatic stress disorder impacts millions of Americans, and is
      associated with significant personal distress as well as societal cost. The current
      application is designed to examine the effect of a novel working memory training program on
      PTSD symptoms. This approach is promising in that it may be a cost- effective and accessible
      method for decreasing symptoms associate with this disorder.
    
  