
    
      Parents of infants living in poverty are at significantly elevated risk of a host of
      detrimental outcomes, including the development of child behavior problems, neglect and abuse
      of children, child learning problems and parental substance abuse. Research has found that
      early interventions to improve parenting practices were effective to ameliorate these
      outcomes. Yet, there exist major obstacles to the effective delivery of mental health
      services, particularly in rural areas. The need of rural families for mental health services
      is reaching crisis proportions due to the dearth of trained professionals. In addition, the
      meteoric rise of Internet use has created a new avenue for people to communicate and share
      ideas. These two trends are helping fuel the demand for mental health services and on-line
      support.

      Internet programs can be interactive and provide social support from peers and professionals.
      Through the use of recent advances in multimedia technology and software as well as the rise
      of computer networking via the Internet, there now exists an opportunity to provide such
      monitoring of outcomes and remote contact for rural locations. Prior developmental R34
      research ("Infant Net") successfully adapted and pilot tested an existing empirically proven
      parenting program, for delivery via the Internet, enhanced with weekly professional contact.
      This research provided 40 mothers of infants 3.5 to 7 months (at enrollment) with a computer,
      computer camera, Internet connection, and technical training/support for 6 months to evaluate
      the digital translation. Mother-infant dyads were randomized to Experimental or
      Computer/Control conditions. Results found significant change with infant-behavioral and
      positive trends were demonstrated in parenting behaviors. Mothers rated the both computer
      program and interaction with coaches to be very high. These encouraging developmental
      research results provide a very good empirical base for a fully powered randomized control
      trial to test effectiveness.
    
  