
    
      This is a 12-month, prospective, multicentre, case-control, observational study comparing
      effectiveness and safety of COVID-19 vaccine in patients with IBD treated with
      immunomodulatory drugs (cases) compared with those not treated with the aforementioned drugs
      (controls). The study should be regarded as observational because the participants will
      receive the intervention (Covid-19 Vaccine) as part of routine medical care (the
      administration will be performed outside the study and according to the times and modalities
      established by the Italian National Vaccination for the whole Italian population aged 18 and
      over). Then, we aim to assess the effect of this intervention in two predefined groups of
      individuals (cases and controls). All consecutive patients admitted at each IG-IBD centre
      that agree to participate in this study could be screened for inclusion. In case of patient's
      refusal to COVID-19 vaccination, this will be recorded in order to estimate the rate of
      adherence to the vaccination. Similarly, patients willing to vaccinate but unable to
      participate in the study due to logistic problems (for example; long distance from the IBD
      centre) will be recorded.

      After enrollment, each patient will be visited at baseline; the interval between basal visit
      and the subsequent vaccine shall not exceed 10 days. The vaccine will be administered to the
      patients according to the times and modalities established by the Italian National
      Vaccination Plan. After the last dose of the vaccine, each patient will enter a 12 month
      follow-up period. An additional follow-up period will be admitted, as required by clinicians,
      in order to further evaluate ongoing adverse events.

      At baseline, all enrolled patients will undergo a detailed assessment including:
      demographics, smoking status, body mass index, co-morbidities (presence of diabetes, arterial
      hypertension, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, heart disease, and so on),
      stratification of the disease according to the Montreal classification, activity of the
      disease (assessed with Harvey-Bradshaw Index for CD, and Partial Mayo Score for UC), current
      medications, laboratory parameters (haemoglobin, white blood cells, C-reactive protein,
      faecal calprotectin). Furthermore, all enrolled patients will be tested for the quantitative
      detection of IgM and IgG antibodies against SARS-CoV-2. In case of IgM positivity, patients
      will be invited to perform a nasopharyngeal swab for the detection of SARS-CoV-2 RNA. The
      safety of the vaccine will be assessed by considering the incidence of reported adverse
      events, which will be reported by the patients during the 10 days following the
      administration of the vaccine (single assessment in case of single-dose vaccine, double
      assessment in case of double-dose vaccines, i.e. one evaluation for each dose). After 2 and
      12 months from the last dose of the vaccination, the quantitative detection of IgM/IgG
      antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 will be repeated. The dosage of antibodies will be centrally
      performed at IEO in Milan. In addition, a proactive surveillance will be performed at 3,6,
      and 12 months - preferably combined with pre-scheduled direct visits, or alternatively via
      remote contacts - to detect new or suspected diagnosis of COVID-19. In case of active
      symptoms suspected for COVID-19 without an established diagnosis, patients will be invited to
      perform a nasopharyngeal swab for the detection of SARS-CoV-2 RNA. The proactive surveillance
      will also involve the occurrence of adverse events to the vaccine and the assessment of
      disease activity to detect flare-ups of IBD (see timeline).

      All data will be collected anonymously in a specifically arranged eCRF form inside the IG-IBD
      registry.
    
  