
    
      Adult cardiac surgery provides surgical treatment of valvular, coronary, and heart failure
      pathologies with the installation of ventricular assistance. Extracorporeal circulation (ECC)
      is one of the major technical advances associated with cardiac surgery to replace cardiac and
      pulmonary functions during surgery. However, ECC can lead to postoperative complications, the
      origin of which is linked to the patient's initial contact with the circuit and membranes of
      the ECC. This contact triggers a series of humoral and cellular reactions such as activation
      of the plasma contact system and complement, coagulation and fibrinolysis, activation of
      endothelial cells and leukocytes, as well as the release into the circulating blood of many
      mediators of inflammation such as cytokines TNF-α, interleukin IL -1β, interleukin IL6 and
      interleukin IL8. These reactions occur in the first hours after the ECC and the inflammatory
      syndrome post ECC fades by itself and usually disappears between the 4th and 6th
      postoperative day. Different technical and pharmacological modalities (biocompatibility of
      circuits, hemofiltration, leukocyte filter, antioxidants, anti-inflammatories, corticoids)
      have helped reduce the inflammatory syndrome post ECC, but their partial effectiveness
      highlights the need to better understand the molecular mechanisms of inflammation. post ECC
      in order to improve its prevention.

      If the inflammatory response post ECC is most often transient, certain conditions will
      maintain and intensify this response at the origin of postoperative complications, possibly
      leading to the patient's death. Among these situations, The investigators find the notion of
      emergency cardiac surgery, a patient's age> 75 years and a preoperative history of
      decompensated heart failure, renal failure or type 2 diabetes (T2D).

      Defined according to the criteria proposed by the World Health Organization (WHO) and the
      American Diabetes Association (ADA), DT2 is a major independent risk factor for morbidity and
      mortality from general surgery, and from surgery especially the heart. The risk of
      cardiovascular and infectious complications after cardiac surgery in T2D patients increases
      by 17% for each unit of glycemia above 6 mmol / L. Strict control of blood sugar during the
      perioperative phase, however, significantly reduces the risk of complications in T2D
      patients. Physiopathologically, the higher incidence of postoperative complications in T2D
      patients is attributed to the exacerbation of the postoperative inflammatory response and its
      deleterious effects on vascular function. A recent study confirms that the expression of
      messenger RNAs coding for the inflammation genes (IL-1β, IL8) and the transitional activation
      factors (MYC / JUN) is increased in T2D patients and that this chronic state of low grade
      preoperative would promote deregulation of the inflammatory response after cardiac surgery,
      and the occurrence of cardiovascular complications. The level of inflammation in T2D patients
      is also usually reflected by an increase in plasma levels of proteins in the acute phase of
      inflammation (C-reactive protein CRP, in particular) and other pro-inflammatory cytokines
      (TNF-α IL6). These different results suggest that the activation of the NOD-like receptor
      family pyrin domain containing 3, (NLRP3) inflammasome may play a central role in low-level
      chronic inflammatory status in T2D patients.

      The inflammasome NOD-like receptor family pyrin domain containing 3, NLRP3, is a
      multi-protein platform whose activation is involved in the signaling pathways of the innate
      inflammatory response in many inflammatory and infectious diseases, as well as metabolic
      pathologies like gout and type 2 diabetes. The assembly of the NLRP3 inflammasome results in
      the activation of inflammatory caspases allowing the cleavage of the pro-cytokines IL-1β and
      IL-18 into mature and active cytokines. Several studies show that T2D hyperglycemia is a
      pre-activation or priming factor for NLRP3 which potentiates the secondary activation of
      NLRP3 and the synthesis of the interleukins of IL-1β and IL18. During T2D, other metabolic
      signals such as the accumulation of free fatty acids, the release of cellular debris
      (damage-associated molecular patterns, DAMPs), and reactive oxygen species (ROS) are also
      responsible for the priming of NLRP3. Among the molecular motifs DAMPs, mitochondrial DNA
      (mtDNA) is a powerful activator of the NLRP3 inflammasome due to the ancestral bacterial
      origin of mitochondria.

      The role of the activation of the NLRP3 inflammasome in cardiovascular pathologies is now
      well established and its metabolic priming by hyperglycemia could explain the greater
      seriousness of these pathologies in T2D patients due to an exacerbated inflammatory response.
      Currently, there is no human data on the role of NLRP3 inflammasome activation in post-ECC
      inflammatory syndrome. The investigators envision that the extracorporeal circulation (ECC),
      responsible for cellular damage, is accompanied by a release of molecular patterns of DAMPs
      type at the origin of the activation of the NLRP3 inflammasome.
    
  