
    
      As Los Angeles County + University of Southern California Medical Center (LAC+USC) serves an
      indigent Latino population at increased risk for developing Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus (T2DM),
      Gestational Diabetes Mellitus (GDM) complicated 13% of deliveries at LAC+USC between
      2006-2007. While over 50% of GDM patients will develop overt diabetes mellitus within a
      decade of the incident pregnancy, less than half of these patients ever return for even one
      post-partum follow up visit at this institution (45%). Lifestyle Interventions and
      medications have been shown to delay or prevent the onset of T2DM. However, prevention is
      only possible if patients follow-up and individual risk assessment is made. While identifying
      the 2-hour glucose tolerance test as the appropriate postpartum screening technique for
      patients with a history of GDM, the Fifth International Workshop-Conference on Gestational
      Diabetes Mellitus did not identify strategies to improve follow up among this patient
      population. Promotoras (bi-lingual, bi-cultural lay community health workers representative
      of the Latino community base) have been successful in improving follow up for other areas of
      diabetes and women's preventive services but have not been studies in the context of GDM. We
      will develop the Es Mejor Saber training materials and program and pilot a randomized control
      trial (RCT),a total 216 subjects completing a GDM affected pregnancy will be randomized on
      the postpartum ward to the standard-of-care versus proactive follow-up with a Promotora. The
      Promotora will provide education, address barriers to follow-up, remind subjects of their
      appointments, and call them to reschedule if they miss appointments. In the first phase of
      the study, these appointments will include the OGTT and the initial postpartum visit. In the
      second phase, these visits will include referrals to internal medicine (for those diagnosed
      with T2DM) or nutrition counseling (for those found not to have diabetes). The primary
      hypothesis underlying this proposal is that the introduction of a Promotora providing
      education and pro-active follow-up into postpartum GDM management will result improve
      post-partum follow-up for screening, treatment, and preventive services when compared with
      the standard of care.
    
  