
    
      Classical randomized clinical trial (RCT) controlled by a placebo is considered as the
      gold-standard design when evaluating the efficacy of drugs and interventions, as a given
      treatment is scientifically sound only if it is superior to placebo. One of strongest threats
      to placebo is that a double-blinded RCT could not completely neutralize every human
      consciousness-distorted reality; behavioral aspects such as the belief on a given treatment
      may directly result in different placebo effects and produce different treatment placebo
      effect sizes. Any patient may create his/her own expectation on a situation having a chance
      of 50% placebo vs 50% treatment depending on the available information; beliefs may impact on
      working mechanism of pharmacological treatments, but also on placebos. One alternative
      emerged from debates by different scientific fields; the control for the participant's
      expectancy by using an active substance-perceived placebo. When compared to a traditional
      double-blinded placebo-controlled RCT design, the placebo-deceived design has the advantage
      of controlling expectation and anxiety biases in treatments having combined pharmacological
      and psychological effects, despite some obvious limitation.

      Mechanisms underpinning the ergogenic effect of placebos are unclear, but the suggestion is
      that the expectancy in using an ergogenic treatment/substance leads to psychobiological
      changes comparable to the actual treatment. A question that arises over RCT designs is how
      much effect on physical performance can be attributed to the actual substance and how much to
      the expectancy of receiving the actual substance. This question is relevant, as clinical and
      exercise settings have used double-blinded placebo-controlled RCT designs to investigate the
      ergogenic aids effects and mechanisms. However, participants may experience different placebo
      effect sizes in a double-blinded RCT design. This study will investigate ergogenic placebo
      effects and mechanisms elicited by double-blinded placebo-controlled RCT and deceived-placebo
      designs.

      This crossover study will investigate two different experimental designs. During the
      traditional double-blind RCT, participants will be informed that they will be randomly
      assigned to caffeine and placebo sessions, thereby having 50% placebo chances vs 50% caffeine
      chances. However, they will receive placebo capsules in both RCT sessions (non-informed
      substance/received placebo). In contrast, they will be precisely informed about their
      allocation (either caffeine or placebo trial) in the deceived-placebo design, however they
      will ingest placebo capsules in both sessions (informed caffeine/received placebo vs informed
      placebo/received placebo), thereby controlling caffeine pharmacological effects. A true
      caffeine trial (informed caffeine/received caffeine 6 mg·kg-1) will be performed as a
      positive control in the last session.
    
  