
    
      Systemic sclerosis (SSc) is a rare autoimmune chronic disorder characterised by vascular
      hyper-reactivity and fibrosis of the skin as well as internal organs. Intimal hyperplasia,
      endothelial dysfunction and occlusive vasculopathy are the underlying basis of these chronic
      vascular damages. The expression of the vasculopathy especially includes Raynaud phenomenon
      (RP), digital ulcers (DUs), gastro-intestinal involvement and pulmonary arterial hypertension
      (PAH). Sicca syndrome is clinically characterised by dryness of the eyes (xerophthalmia) and
      mouth (xerostomia). The prevalence of sicca symptoms is up to 70% in prospective series of
      SSc patients. Sicca syndrome is supposed to be primarily related to glandular fibrosis. The
      prevalence of primary Sjögren Syndrome (pSS) among SSc patients, as defined by the
      American-European Consensus Group criteria is around 15%. Sicca syndrome is therefore a
      frequent feature in SSc and constitutes an important cause of quality of life's impairment in
      SSc If studies have already evaluated clinical and histological alterations of minor salivary
      glands secondary to sicca syndrome in SSc , only few studies used the recent ACR(American
      College of Rheumatology) 2013 classification criteria for SSc to select patients.
      SGUS(Salivary Gland UltraSonography) evaluation in SSc has never been assessed to date.
      Potential alterations of MSG (Major Salivary Gland) echostructure in SSc have never been
      described to date. The performances and reliability of SGUS to assessed MSG involvement in
      SSc are still to be determined. As fibrosis of salivary glands is supposed to be the main
      mechanism involved in SSc-associated sicca syndrome, measuring salivary-gland elasticity
      using ARFI-ultrasonography in SSc patients could also constitute a relevant method to assess
      the fibrosis of MSG in this disease. A cross-sectional pilot study is therefore needed to
      explore these relevant questions about sicca syndrome in SSc.
    
  