
    
      This study used efficient research methods to screen four intervention components (Nicotine
      Patch, Nicotine Gum, Motivational Interviewing, Behavioral Reduction Counseling) that were
      designed to reduce smoking heaviness, enhance quitting success, and be easily translated into
      healthcare settings. These components were evaluated amongst smokers recruited in primary
      care who were unwilling to make a quit attempt, but who were willing to reduce their smoking.
      The main objective was to identify promising Motivation phase components for inclusion in a
      comprehensive chronic care smoking treatment.

      Recruitment and Enrollment:

      Participants were recruited from 11 primary care clinics in southern Wisconsin using existing
      rooming staff (i.e., medical assistants) who were prompted by electronic health record
      technology. During clinic visits, identified smokers were invited to participate in a
      research program to help them reduce their smoking. Interested patients were electronically
      referred to the research office. Research staff contacted interested patients and assessed
      eligibility. Eligible patients were invited to return to their primary care clinic to learn
      about the study, provide written informed consent, be randomized, and complete initial
      assessments. A database created a schedule of intervention and assessment contacts, which
      guided treatment delivery by case managers. The case managers in this study were bachelor's
      level research staff.

      There was an initial 6-week Motivation phase treatment period, and participants could choose
      to extend the treatment for another 6 weeks (so Motivation phase treatment lasted either 6 or
      12 weeks). Participants who chose to extend the treatment continued to receive the same
      components to which they were originally, randomly assigned. In addition, participants could
      elect to receive Cessation phase treatment at any point throughout the 6-month study period.
      Cessation phase treatment was identical for all participants and consisted of 8 weeks of
      nicotine patch + nicotine gum, and two brief phone counseling sessions.

      Study Design:

      This 2x2x2x2 factorial experiment had four factors each comprising an active (ON) condition
      and control (OFF) condition: 1) Nicotine Patch; 2) Nicotine Gum; 3) Motivational
      Interviewing; and 4) Behavioral Reduction Counseling, yielding 16 unique combinations of
      experimental conditions. Subjects were randomly assigned to one of the 16 experimental
      conditions, stratifying by gender. All treatment components were designed to be compatible
      with one another, and to be delivered with fidelity across all treatment combinations.

      Experimental Factors:

      Nicotine Patch vs. No Patch. Participants in the ON (active) condition were instructed to use
      14-mg patches daily for the 6-week intervention period.

      Nicotine Gum vs. No Gum. Participants in the ON condition were instructed to use 2-mg
      nicotine gum for the 6-week intervention period (≥9/day, 1 piece/1-2 hours) in place of
      smoking.

      Motivational Interviewing (MI) vs. No MI. Participants in the ON condition received an
      initial 20-minute in-person counseling session followed by three 20-minute counseling calls
      over the 6-week intervention period. As per Miller and Rollnick (50, 51), the counseling
      sessions included motivation-building exercises to reinforce intrinsic motivation and to help
      participants overcome ambivalence about quitting.

      Behavioral Reduction (BR) vs. No BR. Participants in the ON condition received an initial
      20-minute in-person counseling session followed by 6 weekly 20-minute counseling calls.
      During these sessions, participants set smoking reduction goals and developed reduction
      strategies (e.g., delaying smoking, eliminating smoking in specific situations). Participants
      were also instructed to record daily smoking, which case managers used to identify successes
      and challenges.

      Assessments:

      Participants completed baseline assessments of vital signs, demographics, and smoking history
      and dependence (e.g., the Fagerström Test for Nicotine Dependence). During study visits,
      adverse events, medication adherence, and smoking in the past week were assessed. The last
      was used to determine the primary outcome of cigarettes smoked per day (CPD) at 12 and 26
      weeks, as well as 7-day point-prevalence abstinence (no smoking for the past 7 days) at 26
      weeks post study entry. Smoking heaviness reflects both smoking reduction and abstinence, and
      thus captures the net impact of treatment.
    
  