
    
      Material abuse nowadays become a serious public health issue, among these, abusing of opioids
      is the most serious one. It cause HIV infection rate hiking up, recent years in Taiwan, it
      impairing people health as well. The successive 2 year methadone substitutive abstaining
      program makes HIV infection rate remarkable decreasing which proven this public health
      program is successful in controlling HIV spreading. However, methadone substitutive
      abstaining program can reduce physically and psychologically dependent with opioids for the
      opioid abusers, collateral benefit is reducing related criminal behaviors and dangerous
      contagious behaviors, such as sharing the hyperdermic needle.

      On the other hand, using methadone still causes sort of material dependent, for example, part
      of participants of methadone substitutive abstaining program still keep using heroin, the
      only change is the amount became lesser, even divert into another illegal drugs, compare
      before participating this program. In the other word, methadone substitutive abstaining
      program alleviate the dependence of drug abuser for the drug, but can not cure it once for
      all. In the pass, some study use methadone and other medicine to eradicate this dependence,
      still there is no effective way to approach it, it still has long way to go. Previous studies
      found N-acetylcysteine (NAC), a slimy solvent ingredient in human body, by means of
      extra-cellular glutamate exchange mechanism, not only maintain glutamate concentration inside
      the raphe, also alleviate motivation and behavior of addictive patient. From previous
      reports, N-acetylcysteine could be the silver bullet for the opiods addiction patients. The
      clinical use of N-acetylcysteine is well established for safety as well as tolerance.
      N-acetylcysteine is an acetyl-derivative of a human essential amino acid; molecular weight is
      163.2, a white crystal chemical. N-acetylcysteine has been used in clinical for years, types
      are intravenous injection, oral and spray, most of it was used for respiratory related
      disease, a phlegm reducer, such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and cystic fibrosis;
      besides, N-acetylcysteine can combine with toxic metabolite, acetaminophen, prevent lever
      necrosis of acetaminophen intoxication, therefore, is an antidote of acetaminophen
      intoxication. Other than FAD approved for clinical using, N-acetylcysteine seems has other
      clinical benefits such as illness of kidney from the developer, and can promote functions of
      central nerve system. N-acetylcysteine also considered as improving cognition amnesia and
      schizophrenia. Besides, oral N-acetylcysteine usually regards as helping health; it sells in
      grocery, it also accepted by public as diet supplement. According long term study of oral
      N-acetylcysteine for patients of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, only has some minor
      side-effects, mostly uncomfortable in intestines and stomach, for example, nausea, vomiting
      and diarrhea. As an antidote of N-acetylcysteine, some cases reported which caused
      hypertension, chest distress, rectum breeding, respiratory distress, headache, fatigue, fever
      and rash; those symptoms are intoxication of acetaminophen, it is hard to judge the
      side-effects came from which one. The side-effects of intravenous N-acetylcysteine include
      vomiting and diarrhea; some cases indicated 45 (8%) out of 529 patients of acetaminophen
      intoxication showed allergic reactions, most are skin hypersensitive reaction, such as rash,
      itch, 18 showed whole-body allergy include, bronchospasm, angioedema and vomiting etc. Those
      allergies can be alleviated by antihistamine, steroids and adrenalin. Other researchers found
      patients have 3 fold systemic allergy of asthma history than no history. In general, medicine
      allergic history will not increase danger of allergic reaction. One case report showed a 2
      year old girl, a acetaminophen intoxication patient, caused a serious epilepsy when treated
      with intravenous injection. Conclude that oral and intravenous of N-acetylcysteine are safe
      in clinical use, few cases could cause serious side-effects (especially for intravenous type
      of N-acetylcysteine), and it needs to be careful. From the result of animal test in 2008,
      gave N-acetylcysteine daily suppressed experimental animal addiction behavior, even still
      held valid 40 days after stopped injection. Another animal test using male Sprague-Dawley had
      similar results. According previous results, N-acetylcysteine was used for alleviation of
      addiction behavior proven in certain effectiveness, if combine with methadone substitutive
      abstaining program, should increase successful rate. In this study, double-blind prospective
      study will be used, in methadone substitutive abstaining program to compare N-acetylcysteine
      is be used or not. This experiment expects methadone come alone with N-acetylcysteine in
      opioid abstaining will be better results than control group of methadone alone in 6 month
      period.
    
  