
    
      Cyproterone acetate (CPA) 2mg, in combination with ethinyl estradiol (EE) 35mcg, is a
      medicinal product currently indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe acne in women
      of reproductive age. Due to the combination with ethinyl estradiol and the dosing, the
      preparations also act as effective contraceptives.

      In 2012, the French health authority conducted a national review of Cyproterone Acetate
      combined with Ethinyl Estradiol and highlighted serious thromboembolic events and extensive
      off-label use of these medicines as a contraceptive only. This triggered an Urgent Union
      Procedure at the beginning of 2013. The European Medicines Agency's Pharmacovigilance Risk
      Assessment Committee (PRAC) concluded that the benefits of Cyproterone Acetate combined with
      Ethinyl Estradiol (cyproterone acetate 2mg / ethinyl estradiol 35mcg) outweigh the risks,
      providing that several measures are taken to minimize the risk of thromboembolism. These
      medicines should be used solely for the treatment of moderate to severe acne related to
      androgen sensitivity and/or hirsutism in women of reproductive age. Since Cyproterone Acetate
      combined with Ethinyl Estradiol acts as a hormonal contraceptive, women should not take these
      medicines in combination with hormonal contraceptives. As one of the risk minimization
      measures, the Market Authorization Holders were required to conduct a number of studies
      including this drug utilization survey.

      This study is a multi-national, cross sectional, prospective, non-interventional, drug
      utilization study conducted in 5 countries. Study participants will be recruited by a network
      of health care professionals. Physicians will collect information from study participants
      based on questionnaires. This is a one-time survey with no follow-up.

      Bayer initiated this study and supports it by an unconditional grant to ZEG. Bayer is not
      actively involved in the study conduct.

      Prolongation of recruitment:

      At the beginning of May 2016 the recruitment was finished in 4 of the 5 European countries in
      which the study is conducted (Austria, Czech Republic, The Netherlands, and Spain). At that
      point in time, only few patients were enrolled in France because of a delayed recruitment
      start. Therefore, it was agreed to extend the recruitment phase in France till January 2017.
      This will ensure that information on the use of Cyproterone Acetate (combined with Ethinyl
      Estradiol) will be collected from all participating countries.
    
  