
    
      Macular edema occurs as a complication of cataract surgery in approximately 2% of all
      surgeries. In this condition, cystic, fluid-filled spaces develop in the outer plexiform
      layer of the retina resulting in a loss of vision. This condition is termed "Cystoid Macular
      Edema (CME)." In non-diabetics, the majority of such cases resolve spontaneously.

      Diabetic macular edema (DME) is an important cause of visual disability among patients with
      diabetes. It is widely recognized that cataract surgery often triggers severe CME in patients
      with pre-existing DME. This exacerbation begins immediately following cataract surgery; and
      unlike in non-diabetics the edema is likely to be protracted and poorly responsive both to
      traditional treatments for CME (topical NSAIDS) and DME (laser photocoagulation). Fluorescein
      angiography, a photographic test that evaluates the blood circulation in the back of the eye,
      has demonstrated that both CME and DME are associated with increased permeability of retinal
      blood vessels.

      The high rates and severity of post-cataract surgery CME in diabetic patients with DME render
      this population ideal for the study of potential agents to reduce the rate and severity of
      this condition (i.e., post-cataract surgery CME). Recent studies have shown that vascular
      endothelial growth factor (VEGF) plays a major role in vessel permeability. Pegaptanib
      (Macugen) is an FDA-approved drug for wet AMD. Pegaptanib is a selective VEGF antagonist that
      blocks the effects of VEGF; therefore pegaptanib might decrease vessel permeability and
      possibly decrease the incidence and severity of CME. We plan to conduct a controlled pilot
      study to investigate the effects of pegaptanib (up to 3 treatments of pegaptanib given prior
      to cataract surgery and as often as every 6 weeks for up to 12 weeks after cataract surgery)
      in diabetic patients with pre-existing DME who are undergoing cataract surgery and who are,
      therefore, at very high risk for development of CME. Should the pilot study indicate a
      potential benefit of pegaptanib in this setting, a larger, fully powered clinical trial will
      be proposed. An effective treatment or preventive measure for post-cataract surgery macular
      edema in patients with diabetic retinopathy would offer benefit to a large patient population
      nationally that is at high risk of vision loss.
    
  