
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose of docetaxel and flavopiridol in patients with
           previously treated locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer.

        -  Determine the dose-limiting toxicity, toxicity profile, and pharmacokinetics of this
           regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the activity of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the objective response rate in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine immune dysfunction produced by this regimen as measured by lymphocyte
           subpopulations, including T-cell activation/memory subsets and natural killer
           cell/lymphokine-activated killer cell functional subsets in these patients.

        -  Determine the ability of positron emission tomography scanning to predict response in
           patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the response duration, time to treatment failure, and overall survival of
           patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the quality of life of patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine whether this regimen is associated with the development of a prothrombotic
           state in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

      Patients receive docetaxel IV over 1 hour on day 1 followed by flavopiridol IV over 1 hour or
      IV continuously on days 2-4. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Sequential dose escalation of docetaxel is preceded or followed by sequential dose escalation
      of flavopiridol. Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of docetaxel preceded or
      followed by escalating doses of flavopiridol until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of the
      combination is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 6
      patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. Once the MTD is determined, 22 additional
      patients are accrued to receive flavopiridol and docetaxel at the recommended phase II dose.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, every 3 courses during study, and then at completion
      of study.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 49 patients (27 for phase I and 22 for phase II) will be
      accrued for this study within 2 years.
    
  