
    
      Fractional flow reserve (FFR) allows to evaluate the functional significance of coronary
      artery lesions, through the ratio of the mean coronary artery pressure after the stenosis to
      the mean aortic pressure during maximum hyperaemia. The actual widely accepted cutoff value
      is 0.80. Below this value, an intermediate coronary lesion is considered significant and its
      treatment with percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) is justified.

      The measurement FFR after stent implantation has a strong predictive value with respect to
      death, myocardial infarction, or need for repeat revascularization of the target vessel
      within 6 months. The higher the FFR, the lower the event rate. FFR cut-off of 0.90 might be a
      useful indicator in daily practice for optimal physiologic stent implantation. Nevertheless,
      the use of the FFR in the post stenting , is relatively low, because of costs of the pressure
      wire and the adverse effects related to the use of adenosine.

      A new method (QFR by Medis medical imaging) for evaluation of the functional significance of
      coronary stenosis is based on computer calculation of the FFR value. This calculation is
      performed by analysing the coronary angiogram and thus reduces or potentially eliminates the
      need for measuring FFR by pressure wires. The QFR method combines a 3D reconstructions of the
      target vessel based on two angiographic projections and the contrast flow velocity to compute
      the "FFR value". To perform QFR the investigators will acquire two angiographic projections
      with angle >25 degree that allow the 3D reconstruction of the vessel (see values below).

      Projections for left main (LM) and proximal left anterior descending (LAD) or proximal left
      circumflex (LCX): right anterior oblique (RAO) 20, Caudal 45 and anterior-posterior (AP),
      Caudal 10

      Projections for LAD/diagonal: AP, Cranial 45 and RAO 35, Cranial 20

      Projections for LCX/obtuse marginal (OM): left anterior oblique (LAO) 10, Caudal 45 and RAO
      25, Caudal 25

      Projections for Proximal+Mid right coronary artery (RCA): LAO 45, caudal (CAUD) 0 and AP,
      CAUD 0

      Projections for postero-lateral artery and posterior-descending artery (PLA/PDA): LAO 45,
      CAUD 0 and LAO 30, CAUD 30

      Finally, the investigators will assess the relationship between QFR value and adverse events.
      We will assess the best QFR value able to discriminate the cumulative occurrence of adverse
      events. In the study, we will include also ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction
      patients. This subset of patients will be analysed as independent cohort to obtain
      preliminary results and will be analysed in a independent study
    
  