
    
      Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM), a microscopically infiltrative disease, is the most common
      malignant brain tumor worldwide. Despite optimized standard of care treatment median survival
      and prognosis remain poor with a median survival of only 15% and five year survival after
      diagnosis of 5%.

      In this single arm single centre phase I/II trial the investigators will determine the
      overall and progression free survival of patients with newly diagnosed GBM when autologous
      WT1 mRNA loaded dendritic cell vaccination is added to standard of care treatment. During
      recruitment, the investigators will include 20 patients with newly diagnosed, histologically
      verified glioblastoma (WHO grade IV) who have received a total or subtotal resection of the
      tumor. Patients who underwent prior radiation or chemotherapy or with a history of other
      malignancy will be excluded. In addition to standard of care consisting of adjuvant
      chemoradiation with temozolomide and temozolomide maintenance patients will receive an
      intradermal vaccination with autologous WT1 mRNA-loaded dendritic cells commencing 1 week
      after radiotherapy. The dendritic cell therapy product will be generated and administered in
      the Antwerp University Hospital, more specifically the Center for Cell Therapy and
      Regenerative Medicine (CCRG) and the Division of Hematology, both headed by Prof. Zwi
      Berneman.

      Recruitment began in December 2015 and is intended to continue until the end of 2020 or when
      20 patients are enrolled. After a follow-up period (until 90 days after final DC vaccine
      administration or 24 months after apheresis , whichever occurs later), overall and
      progression free survival analysis will be performed and this will be compared with the
      published data of standard of care treatment without vaccination. In addition the
      investigators will look for feasibility, incidence of adverse events and immunogenicity.
    
  