
    
      A randomized, open-label trial with 2 parallel arms: standard antifungal therapy versus
      tamoxifen augmented antifungal therapy during the first 2 weeks (induction phase) of
      treatment. The study will recruit in two sites in Ho Chi Minh City: the Hospital for Tropical
      Diseases (HTD), and Cho Ray Hospital (CRH). 25 patients will be enrolled into the two study
      arms (intervention versus control). All anti-fungal administration will be directly observed
      by ward staff.

      Intervention arm: Induction phase treatment (days 1-14): Tamoxifen will be given orally in a
      dose of 300mg/day for the first 14 days following randomization. It will be administered by
      nasogastric tube where patients are unconscious. In addition patients will receive
      amphotericin 1mg/kg once daily iv and fluconazole 800mg once daily orally. The tamoxifen will
      be administered in the morning combined with amphotericin and fluconazole dose.

      Control arm: Induction phase treatment (days 1-14): Patients will receive amphotericin
      1mg/kg/day combined with fluconazole 800mg once daily for the first 2 weeks. Amphotericin and
      fluconazole will be administered simultaneously.

      The primary efficacy endpoint will be the rate of clearance of yeast cells from cerebrospinal
      fluid (CSF) over the first 2 weeks following randomisation. Patients will be followed for 10
      weeks, which is conventional in clinical trials in cryptococcal meningitis. After the first 2
      weeks of study treatment, all patients will receive fluconazole 800mg/day for 8 further
      weeks, until the study end. At this point, HIV infected patients will be switched to long
      term secondary prophylaxis with fluconazole 200mg/day as per standard practice. For HIV
      uninfected patients, the decision to continue antifungal treatment, and at which dose, will
      be made on a case by case basis by the attending physician in consultation with the patient.
    
  