
    
      The purpose of this study is to investigate the ability of an imaging device, developed by
      AdOM Advanced Optical Technologies Ltd. ("AdOM"). AdOM has produced an imaging device based
      on a standard fundus camera that uses white light, and as combined with new algorithms allows
      for a new reconstruction of three-dimensional images. The materials from which the Medical
      Instrumentation and Device are comprised are optical components (lenses), a broadband light
      source power, mechanical engines, beam splitters, and optical filters. The device will in
      addition contain camera sensors and a spectral detector. These elements are linked to a
      computer which includes control software and a user interface. The device allows a
      three-dimensional imaging of the ocular tissues, specifically the tear film layers and the
      retinal layers.

      In this initial study, the device will be used to assess the tear film which coats the
      corneal surface in healthy subjects as well as in moderate-to-severe Keratoconjunctivitis
      Sicca (KCS) or Dry Eye Syndrome (DES). The ability of the device to assess the retinal layers
      will be evaluated in the second phase of the study.

      The aqueous layer of the tear layer thickness is expected to be measured at an accuracy level
      of approximately one nanometer. All values will be measured over time and thus it will be
      possible to deduce the breakup time of the tear layer and the evaporation rate. It is
      possible that information will also be provided on the mucin layer and its level of
      sharpness.

      Using the device will include the following steps:

        1. Resting the head and fixing it with the assistance of the chin and forehead rests.

        2. Locating and focusing the device on the cornea or retina with the help of the examiner.

        3. Identifying the retinal and vitreous layers and pressing to start measurement or,
           alternatively:

        4. Identifying the tear film layers and pressing to start the measurement.

        5. Pressing on the button to end the measurement. The expected measurement duration is 20
           to 70 seconds. Analysis of the returned light will describe at each second the thickness
           of the layers and the continuity of the surface.

      Study population:

      A total of 20 healthy patients. A total of 40 adult male or female patients with
      moderate-to-severe KCS or DES.

      Conduct of the Study:

      This is a case-control, non-randomized observational study. The study will include two
      visits: a screening visit and a study visit.

      During the screening visit the patients will sign the informed consent form and a full
      medical history will be recorded. All ocular signs and symptoms will be evaluated and a full
      biomicroscopic examination will be performed. Disease activity will be assessed using the Dry
      Eye Symptom Score (DESS), Schirmer Test (ST), tear meniscus height (TM), tear break-up time
      (BUT), and fluorescein staining (FS).

      The second visit will be scheduled up to 4 weeks after the screening visit. During the second
      visit (the photography session), all ocular signs and symptoms will be evaluated and a full
      biomicroscopic examination will be performed. Disease activity will be assessed using the Dry
      Eye Symptom Score (DESS), Schirmer Test (ST), tear meniscus height (TM), tear break-up time
      (BUT), and fluorescein staining (FS).

      The tear film layer will be photographed by the investigational device and the participation
      of the volunteers in the study will end with the end of the photography session.

      Time frame: participants will be followed for the duration of their participation in the
      study which is expected to be up to 4 weeks.
    
  