
    
      Programmed cell death receptor 1 (PD-1) blockade is a well-tolerated novel cancer
      immunotherapy with monotherapy response rates of 20-50% in tumour types such as bladder,
      melanoma, renal and non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), along with durable benefit. However,
      other tumour types (such as pancreatic cancer) have been poorly responsive and it is likely
      that the activity of PD-1 blockade is limited in many patients by the presence of additional
      immunosuppressive tumour microenvironment interactions. The investigators have recently shown
      in preclinical studies that Focal Adhesion Kinase (FAK) inhibition can re-model multiple
      aspects of the tumour immune microenvironment, shifting the balance from inhibitory Tregs,
      TAMs, CAFs & MDSCs, to one which supports an active CD8+ T cell adaptive immune response,
      suitable for synergistic anti-PD-1 therapy.

      The current clinical study will explore whether FAK inhibition (defactinib/VS-6063) can be
      safely and tolerably combined with PD-1 blockade (pembrolizumab), with early indications of
      improved anticancer immunotherapy from this novel combination. The investigators will focus
      on three key tumour types, all cancers in clear need of improved therapies. NSCLC, aiming to
      augment the moderate monotherapy activity of PD-1 blockade; pancreatic cancer, aiming to
      release immunological activity in this otherwise resistant cancer; and, finally,
      mesothelioma, where emerging data suggests both agents may have monotherapy activity,
      including a potential additional mode of action via synthetic lethality of FAK inhibition in
      the ~50% of mesothelioma with NF2 mutation.

      Phase I/IIa clinical study of defactinib (VS-6063, FAK inhibitor) in combination with
      pembrolizumab (anti-PD-1) therapy, initially in an "all-comers" dose escalation phase, and
      subsequently in expansion cohorts at the optimal doses in patients with: (a) pancreatic
      cancer; (b) NSCLC; and (c) mesothelioma. Safety, tolerability and clinical activity will be
      explored, as well as extensive translational work to characterise the biological effects and
      explore potential predictive and pharmacodynamic biomarkers.

      PHASE I

      Dose-escalation in an "all-comers" phase I population, with treatment-refractory advanced
      solid malignancies, unselected by tumour type as follows:

      Cohorts 200 mg (IV) pembrolizumab every 3 weeks: plus 200 mg (oral) defactinib twice daily
      200 mg (IV)pembrolizumab every 3 weeks: plus 400 mg (oral) defactinib twice daily

      PHASE II

      Expansions in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma, non-small cell lung cancer & mesothelioma
      (each 15-16 evaluable patients).

      Pancreatic

      Pancreatic expansion for response assessment (single arm). Optional paired biopsies prior to
      treatment and after 14 days of treatment. Concurrent therapy with pembrolizumab + defactinib
      (VS-6063) from the start (c.f. NSCLC & mesothelioma expansions below). 15 evaluable patients
      with an interim futility assessment for clinical response and tolerability when data
      available from 6.

        -  Classic "stromal" cancer, where the tumour microenvironment is believed to limit the
           activity of multiple agents. However broad preclinical data for various approaches to
           re-modelling the tumour microenvironment to permit immunotherapy.

        -  Minimal single-agent anti-PD-1/PD-L1 activity, explores hypothesis of conversion to
           sensitivity and predictive biomarkers for this.

      NSCLC

      NSCLC paired-biopsy expansion for tissue biomarkers. Mandatory biopsies prior to treatment
      and after around 14 days of treatment. 1:1 randomised split of patients having their
      on-treatment biopsy after concurrent therapy, or after a defactinib (VS-6063) monotherapy
      run-in. 16 evaluable patients with an interim futility assessment for clinical response and
      tolerability when data available from 11.

        -  Moderate single-agent anti-PD-1/PD-L1 activity explores hypothesis of amplification of
           sensitivity and predictive biomarkers for this.

        -  Paired-biopsy assessment of proof of mechanism biomarkers (FAK signalling, tumour immune
           microenvironment).

      Mesothelioma

      Mesothelioma paired-biopsy expansion for tissue biomarkers. Mandatory biopsies prior to
      treatment and after around 14 days of treatment. 1:1 randomised split of patients having
      their on-treatment biopsy after concurrent therapy, or after a defactinib (VS-6063)
      monotherapy run-in). 16 evaluable patients with an interim futility assessment for clinical
      response and tolerability when data available from 11.

        -  Emerging single-agent immune checkpoint, as well as potential FAK-inhibitor activity,
           explores hypothesis of multi-modal combination activity (microenvironment, checkpoint
           and synthetic lethality), as well as predictive biomarkers for this.

        -  Paired-biopsy assessment of proof of mechanism biomarkers (FAK signalling, tumour immune
           microenvironment).
    
  