
    
      Recent trials have demonstrated that ganciclovir treatment of neonates with symptomatic
      congenital cytomegalovirus (CMV) disease involving the central nervous system results in
      improved hearing function (or maintenance of normal hearing function) and prevents hearing
      deterioration at 6 months. Furthermore, ganciclovir therapy may prevent hearing deterioration
      at 1 year. Ganciclovir recipients also have a more rapid resolution of their transaminase
      elevations and a greater degree of short term growth in weight and head circumference
      compared with untreated patients. Valganciclovir, the oral product of ganciclovir, has been
      developed as a syrup formulation and presents the opportunity to treat longer, but
      pharmacokinetic data are needed in infants first to assure the correct dose is being
      utilized. This Phase I/II, multi-center, open-label trial will assess the safety/tolerability
      and pharmacokinetics (ganciclovir concentrations) following administration of oral
      valganciclovir to neonates with symptomatic congenital CMV disease. A total of 24 patients
      will be evaluated. All patients entered into this study will receive 6 weeks (42 days) of
      antiviral therapy (defined as ganciclovir and/or valganciclovir). Two different dose
      determination strategies will be applied in this protocol. The first is an individual patient
      approach. The second is a group dose modification strategy. The primary endpoint is
      pharmacokinetics of ganciclovir following administration of oral valganciclovir syrup. The
      pharmacokinetics will be assessed by a population approach to PK data analysis. Secondary
      endpoints are: the pharmacokinetics of valganciclovir following administration of oral
      valganciclovir; the correlation of ganciclovir plasma concentrations following administration
      of intravenous ganciclovir and oral valganciclovir syrup with CMV whole blood viral load;
      lack of vomiting and/or diarrhea associated with the administration of oral valganciclovir
      syrup; and assessment of toxicity, such as neutropenia, associated with the administration of
      oral valganciclovir syrup.
    
  