
    
      Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a chronicle inflammatory disease with a non
      reversible diminution of the airway flow. COPD is caused most commonly from tobacco smoking,
      which triggers an abnormal inflammatory response in the lung. Worldwide, COPD ranked as the
      sixth leading cause of death in 1990. It is projected to be the fourth leading cause of death
      worldwide by 2030 due to an increase in smoking rates and demographic changes in many
      countries. COPD is responsible for 16000 deaths per year in France, 100 000 hospitalizations
      per year and the health care expenditure of COPD in France is 3.5 billion of Euros. Classical
      markers of the disease severity, the forced expiratory volume in one second, poorly
      correlates with dyspnea and prognosis. Therefore, many studies focused on the control of
      breathing in an attempt to understand the pathophysiological mechanisms involved in the
      progression of the disease. Breathing control is enhanced in patients with COPD due to the
      progressive failure of respiratory muscles (airflow obstruction, static and dynamic
      hyperinflation, positive intrinsic end expiratory pressure), the ventilation/ perfusion ratio
      abnormalities leading to the loss of the gaz exchange efficiency. Inspiratory command depends
      on the medulla automatic pathway and the voluntary corticospinal command. Indirect method of
      breathing control estimation suggested in COPD patients an increased excitability of neurons
      involved in the voluntary diaphragm activation and a reduced cortical reserve. This may
      represent an increase risk factor for acute respiratory failure. Until now, no study reported
      the central breathing control with cerebral fMRI in COPD patients. This pilot study also aims
      in estimating if the absence or diminution of the cortical reserve is a marker of disease
      severity. In addition correlations will be performed between activated neuronal signals with
      fMRI and ventilatory flow output recordings (chaotic analysis).
    
  