
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the 12-week major cytogenetic response (MCyR) rate in patients with imatinib
           mesylate-resistant Philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic phase chronic myelogenous
           leukemia treated with BMS-354825 vs imatinib mesylate.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the MCyR rate prior to crossover in patients treated with these drugs.

        -  Determine the durability of MCyR and time to MCyR prior to crossover in patients treated
           with these drugs.

        -  Determine the complete hematologic response (CHR) rate prior to crossover in patients
           treated with these drugs.

        -  Determine the durability of CHR and time to CHR prior to crossover in patients treated
           with these drugs.

        -  Determine the major molecular response rate prior to crossover, as determined by BCR-ABL
           transcripts in blood during treatment using quantitative reverse transcriptase
           polymerase chain reaction, in patients treated with these drugs.

        -  Determine post-crossover efficacy endpoints in patients treated with these drugs who
           crossover.

        -  Assess health-related quality of life prior to crossover in patients treated with these
           drugs.

        -  Determine the safety and tolerability of BMS-354825 in these patients.

        -  Determine the pharmacokinetics of BMS-354825 in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label, multicenter, randomized, crossover study. Patients are
      stratified according to study site and cytogenetic response to prior imatinib mesylate (yes
      vs no). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oral BMS-354825 twice daily in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients experiencing disease progression or
           persistent intolerance to BMS-354825 cross over to arm II after a 2-day washout period.
           After crossover, patients receive oral imatinib mesylate twice daily in the absence of
           further disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive oral imatinib mesylate twice daily in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients experiencing disease progression,
           intolerance to imatinib mesylate, lack of major cytogenetic response at 12 weeks, or <
           30% absolute reduction in Philadelphia chromosome-positive metaphases at 12 weeks cross
           over to arm I after a 1-week washout period. After crossover, patients receive oral
           BMS-354825 twice daily in the absence of further disease progression or unacceptable
           toxicity.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, at day 29, every 4 weeks for 24 weeks, every 12
      weeks for the remainder of study treatment, and then at the completion of study treatment.

      After the completion of study treatment, patients are followed for at least 30 days.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A minimum of 150 patients (100 in arm I and 50 in arm II) will be accrued
      for this study within 6-12 months.
    
  