
    
      The primary objective of the study is to determine the optimal intra-arterial drug treatment
      regimen for arterial lumen restoration post cerebral vasospasm following aneurysmal
      subarachnoid hemorrhage.

      The secondary objective is to evaluate clinical outcome at 90 days post discharge following
      optimal intra-arterial drug treatment for cerebral vasospasm.

      This study is a prospective multicenter randomized trial. The primary outcome measure is the
      Post infusion improvement ratio (PIIR) assessed 10 minutes after completion of the
      intra-arterial infusion. PIIR is a measure of arterial lumen diameter pre and post
      intra-arterial drug infusion in the presenting vasospasmic blood vessel.

      Modified Rankin score (mRS) at 3 months post hospital discharge will be recorded as a
      secondary outcome to assess clinical outcome.

      The interventions in this study are a part of routine standard of care (SOC) procedures for
      cerebral vasospasm treatment. Following surgical or endovascular intervention for aneurysmal
      Subarachnoid Hemorrhage (aSAH) if patients develop cerebral vasospasm refractory to maximal
      medical management, endovascular treatment by intra-arterial drug infusion of single drug
      agent or cocktail drug agents will be initiated.

      Study participants will be randomly assigned to one of the three treatment groups where one
      single drug agent or cocktail drug agents will be intra-arterially administered. Pre & post
      infusion vasospasmic vessel diameters will be compared. The change in diameter will be
      quantified based on the mean percentage change. Three months post hospital discharge, study
      participants will be followed up in clinic to evaluate clinical outcome.

      The study will require 330 patients in total. The patient population will be hospitalized
      patients presenting with cerebral vasospasm post aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage.

      Subjects will be stratified by randomization into 3 treatment groups.
    
  