
    
      The human retina is a light-sensitive tissue lining the inner surface of the posterior
      segment of the eye. It is a complex, layered structure containing the photoreceptors and
      several layers of neurons. Proper retinal function requires a smooth interface between the
      retina and the adjoining vitreous body (vitreous), a gelatinous and transparent substance
      occupying the cavity of the posterior ocular segment. The innermost of the retinal layers, a
      basement membrane called Inner limiting membrane (ILM), represents the boundary between the
      retina and the vitreous. Excessive contact between the ILM and the vitreous leads to
      vitreoretinal traction and represents a common cause of ocular pathology: The vitreous
      adheres to the ILM and shearing forces are conveyed to the retina. Vitreoretinal traction
      concentrates around the Macula lutea, the small area in the center of the retina which is
      responsible for central vision. It may be associated with significant visual disturbance as
      it creates retinal folds, provokes retinal edema and epiretinal metaplastic membranes through
      the liberation of inflammatory messenger substances and may ultimately result in the
      formation of macular holes. Macular holes tend to lead to sudden and often complete loss of
      central vision.

      Removal of the vitreous (vitrectomy) may improve vitreoretinal traction, but a complete
      relief of traction is only achieved if the ILM is removed from the retina in the area around
      the macula: At the end of vitrectomy, the surgeon grasps the ILM with a fine forceps and
      carefully peels it off the underlying retinal layers. This procedure is extremely delicate,
      as the ILM is transparent, extremely thin and in direct contact with highly vulnerable
      retinal structures. Vital dyes have been employed to make the ILM more visible and because
      some dyes have been described to improve "grip" of the ILM during its extraction. The most
      commonly used dye, Indocyanine green (ICG) is not approved for intravitreal use and a
      discussion on possible toxic side effects is ongoing. The approved alternative substance
      Brilliant blue G is employed only by a minority of vitreoretinal surgeons. It is our
      hypothesis, that the popularity of ICG is due to superior staining capacity and a stiffening
      effect which may make ILM removal easier for the surgeon.

      The first goal of this interdisciplinary and translational project, integrating Medical
      physics, Biomedical engineering, Nanosciences, Biochemistry, Neurobiology, Medical Image
      analysis and Clinical ophthalmology is to assess and quantify the helpfulness of existing
      dyes in terms of staining behavior and their influence on ILM "grip". In a second step, the
      project will analyze how new application protocols and the introduction of novel components
      to the molecular structure of vital dyes can improve staining as well as "ILM-grip" while
      guaranteeing favorable toxicity profiles Hypotheses

        1. A novel "Heavy BBG" (BBG D2O) stains the ILM better than conventional BBG. A replacement
           of part of the water molecules with Deuterium Oxide (D20) in the BBG solvent increases
           the dye's specific gravity. After injection into the vitreous, this new preparation (BBG
           D2O) would collect on the retinal surface, increasing local concentration and retinal
           exposure. We hypothesize that this alteration of the BBG molecular structure could
           improve staining properties without compromising its favorable toxicity profile. This
           new BBG has already been introduced by the manufacturer, but its intraoperative
           usefulness has not been objectively examined.

        2. The use of intraoperative light filters improves the recognizability of the contrasts
           generated by vital dyes. Most endoillumination lighting systems are equipped with light
           filters, originally intended to reduce intraoperative light toxicity. Anecdotal reports
           by numerous surgeons indicate, however, that the use of some filters improves the
           recognizability of the stained ILM. The green filter is regarded as particularly useful
           for this purpose. A systematic analysis of the effects of light filters on the
           usefulness of intravitreal dyes has not been undertaken to date.

        3. ICG and TB's photochemical properties improve "ILM grip" through an ILM cross-linking
           effect resulting in an alteration of ILM material properties. We expect increased
           intra-operative ILM compressive and tensile stiffness and reduced ILM thickness in
           Atomic force microscopy examinations, explaining why many surgeons describe facilitated
           intraoperative manipulation and extraction of the ILM. BBG is not known to dispose of
           photochemical properties and should not influence ILM material properties.

        4. Novel Modified ICG preparation stains equally well but is less toxic An alteration of
           the molecular structure in a way such that photochemical properties of the substance
           would be largely eliminated would strongly reduce oxidative stress and retinal toxicity.
           Synthetization of such a preparation is being prepared by our group. Staining properties
           are different from the original preparation in that the absorption maximum is shifted
           towards shorter wavelengths and the staining effect is bluish rather than green. The
           substance's affinity to the ILM its staining strength and its toxicity have not been
           studied, to date.
    
  