
    
      Asthma has high prevalence and morbidity among adolescents, especially urban Hispanic and
      African American teenagers. Despite this, few interventions have specifically targeted
      adolescents. School-based and web-based asthma interventions have shown to be effective with
      younger children, yet few have been developed and tested for adolescents. Investigators have
      developed Camp Air, an engaging dynamic e-learning intervention to help adolescents with
      uncontrolled asthma to manage their illness and to improve their asthma control. Camp Air
      consists of seven online modules with one module being completed each week over seven weeks.
      Each module provides a brief introduction to the topics and strategies focused on in that
      module followed by a set of interactive exercises and games for practice and personalized
      feedback. The investigators will conduct a two group randomized pilot trial with up to 80,
      9th - 12th graders with uncontrolled asthma in order (a) to assess the preliminary
      intervention effects of Camp Air, and (b) to evaluate the feasibility and acceptability of
      Camp Air. In order to evaluate CAMP Air's utility as both a school- and home-based
      intervention, adolescents will be enrolled from two sites: 1) NYC public schools (n=up to
      38), or 2) the national asthma community at large (n=up to 42). Investigators will also
      evaluate the reach, acceptability, generalizability, and sustainability of Camp Air using the
      RE-AIM approach. Investigators hypothesize that over one month post-intervention, relative to
      controls, Camp Air participants will show significantly greater improvement in asthma-related
      outcomes. Investigators also hypothesize that ratings and software usage indices will
      demonstrate that Camp Air is a feasible, usable, and acceptable intervention for use with
      adolescents. Investigators will also explore evidence of a dose-response in which
      participants who spend more time engaged with the e-training materials show greater positive
      change.
    
  