
    
      Passive immunization involves the administration of antibodies against a given agent to a
      susceptible individual for the purpose of preventing or treating an infectious disease due to
      that agent. A general principle of passive antibody therapy is that it is more effective when
      used for prophylaxis than for treatment of disease. When used for therapy, antibody is most
      effective when administered shortly after the onset of symptoms. The reason for temporal
      variation in efficacy is not well understood but could reflect that passive antibody works by
      neutralizing the initial inoculums, which is likely to be much smaller than that of
      established disease. As an example, passive antibody therapy for pneumococcal pneumonia was
      most effective when administered shortly after the onset of symptoms, and there was no
      benefit if antibody administration was delayed past the third day of disease.

      The therapeutic benefits of convalescent plasma were formally studied in animal models in
      early 20th century. It efficacy was first determined in 1916, when 26 poliomyelitis patients
      were treated with convalescent plasma from polio survivors. Subsequently, therapeutic and
      prophylactic significance was explored in influenza and measles. Transfusion of immune plasma
      is a standard treatment modality for various viral hemorrhagic fevers. Its efficacy in
      treating Ebola Virus Disease is also well established. Studies have reported reduction viral
      load in patients with H1N1 influenza. Of special attention is the meta-analysis, carried out
      by Mair-Jenkinset al, concluding effectiveness of passive immunization as a treatment option
      for severe viral acute respiratory infections caused by SARS corona virus, influenza A
      (H1N1), avian influenza A (H5N1) and Spanish influenza A. Efficacy of convalescent plasma has
      been anecdotally reported in SARS-CoV-2 infections.
    
  