
    
      The Department of Justice's Bureau of Justice Statistics (BOJS, 2000) reported in 2000 over
      225,000 veterans were incarcerated in the nations' criminal facilities; 1 in 5 of these
      veterans saw combat during service. Approximately 78,000 veterans annually will be released
      from incarceration with 30% of those released from incarceration are re-arrested within 3
      months, 44.1% re-arrested at one year, and 67.5% within 3 years. These numbers are higher
      with those with serious mental illnesses: 54.3% re-arrest rates at one year and 72% at 3
      years.

      The living status that many of these veterans with felonies return to is dire. In a survey of
      dually diagnosed and mentally ill offenders, 22% of mentally ill offenders and 43% of
      mentally ill offenders with substance addiction believed they would be homeless upon release.
      Ex-felons often return to more disadvantaged communities where employment is scarce (La
      Vigne, Mamalian, Travis, & Visher, 2003). Employers are reluctant to hire those with a
      history of incarceration due to biases against ex-offenders or due to legal liability
      (Connerley, Arvey, & Bernardy, 2001) or other biases (Holzer, 1996). Overall, employers have
      been shown to be less likely to hire ex-convicts than those with little work experience or
      those who are receiving welfare benefits (Holtzer, 1996).

      The goal of this study is to identify successful vocational re-integration modalities for
      mental health and/or substance dependent veterans recently released from incarceration and
      those with felony histories. Specific Goals are 1) test time to employment between manual
      conditions; 2) test total time employed over the 12 months following training period; and 3)
      test economic impact between manual conditions The study will be a controlled 3 group
      randomized design. The independent variable will be the amount of vocational services
      received. Veterans will be randomly assigned to one of three conditions: 1) Basic vocational
      services but no manualized vocational program; 2) self-study of the manualized program; and
      3) a full program consisting of the manualized program with vocational staff and peer
      vocational support specialists. All veterans enrolled in the study will have access to a
      Veteran's Employment Resource Center to provide infrastructure for job search.

      Three primary dependent variables will be used. The first is the time till employment. The
      second is the total time employed during the 12 months following training. The third will be
      the economic impact of the training through differences in services required (e.g. emergency
      room visits, food stamps, cost of shelters, costs of rearrests) and income earned. Type of
      job skills, job history, and time incarcerated are some of the variables that potentially
      will be statistically controlled.
    
  