
    
      Ten percent of patients with cirrhosis develop ascites. In 90% of patients, ascites can be
      treated with diuretics. The management of the remaining 10% with diuretic resistant ascites
      is challenging. Symptoms including abdominal pain, dyspnoea, nausea, vomiting, and anorexia
      have a detrimental impact on the quality of life. Repeated large volume paracentesis provides
      only temporary improvement of symptoms.

      Insertion of a tunnelated peritoneal catheter (PleurX) allows repeated intermittent small
      volume fluid drainage at home. The treatment may improve the management of ascites and have a
      beneficial effect on the quality of life.

      To evaluate the beneficial and harmful effects of the peritoneal catheter (PleurX) versus
      repeated large volume paracentesis for patients with cirrhosis and diuretic resistant
      ascites.

      Investigator initiated, randomised, single blind, parallel arm, controlled trial.

      Due to the nature of the intervention and the primary outcome measure, Investigators are
      unable to conduct the trial with blinding of the patients, the investigators or use blinded
      outcome assessment.

      Tunnelated peritoneal (PleurX) catheter versus large volume paracentesis. All patients will
      receive ciprofloxacin to prevent spontaneous bacterial peritonitis.

      The study investigators will include 32 adult patients with cirrhosis of any aetiology and
      diuretic resistant ascites.

      Gastrounit, Hvidovre University Hospital, Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology,
      Odense University Hospital, Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Aarhus University
      Hospital, and Centre for Hepatology, UCL Institute for Liver and Digestive Health, Royal Free
      Campus, University College London, UK 18 months. The total duration of follow up is six
      months. The primary outcome is paracentesis free survival. Secondary outcomes include
      cumulative number of paracentesis, cirrhosis-related complications, safety, quality of life,
      changes in metabolic and nutritional parameters, circulatory dysfunction, renal function,
      cardiac output, neuro-humoral changes.
    
  