
    
      Objective: Von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) disease is an autosomal dominant heritable disorder in
      which multiple benign and malignant neoplasms and cysts of specific histopathologies develop
      in the kidney, adrenal gland, pancreas, brain, spinal cord, eye, inner ear, epididymis and
      broad ligament. The disease affects about 7,000 individuals in the United States. Retinal
      capillary hemangiomas (RCH) are the most common and often the earliest manifestation of VHL
      disease and may lead to significant vision loss. In some such eyes, inexorable progression of
      RCH leads to blindness and phthisis bulbi despite aggressive treatment. Levels of vascular
      endothelial growth factor (VEGF), a potent mediator of angiogenesis and vascular
      permeability, have been shown to be elevated in multiple cell types deficient in the VHL
      protein (pVHL). Platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), which has an important role in
      stabilization of immature new vessels during angiogenesis, is upregulated in pVHL-defective
      cell lines and expressed in other pVHL-defective tumors. Anti-VEGF therapy alone had no
      beneficial effect on ocular VHL disease in two previous phase 1 studies. The objective of
      this study is to investigate the safety and possible efficacy of combination investigational
      treatment with serial intravitreal injections of E10030, a PDGF-B antagonist, and
      ranibizumab, a VEGF-A antagonist, in participants with severe ocular VHL disease.

      Study Population: Three participants with severe ocular VHL disease will receive the
      combination investigational treatment in one eye and will be followed for 104 weeks.

      Design: In this phase I/II, single-center, prospective, open label, non-randomized,
      uncontrolled, single group trial, one eye of eligible participants will be treated with
      investigational products, E10030, a PDGF-B antagonist, and ranibizumab, a VEGF-A antagonist.
      Participants will receive combination investigational treatment consisting of intravitreal
      injections of E10030 (1.5 mg in 0.05 mL) and ranibizumab (0.5 mg in 0.05 mL) every four weeks
      from baseline through Week 16 (totaling five treatments) and then every eight weeks through
      Week 48 (totaling nine treatments from baseline). All participants will be followed for 104
      weeks.

      Outcome Measures: The primary outcome for the study will be safety of the combination
      investigational treatment, assessed by tabulation of adverse events reported through Week 52.
      Secondary outcomes will include tabulation of adverse events at Week 104, and the following
      measures in the study eye at Week 52 and 104: the proportion of participants experiencing
      reduction in size of at least one RCH in the absence of other ablative treatment (assessed by
      fundus photography and fluorescein angiography (FA)); the proportion of participants
      experiencing moderate vision loss (defined as a loss of greater than or equal to 15 letters
      from baseline on Electronic Visual Acuity (EVA) testing); mean change in visual acuity;
      change in size of RCH (measured by fundus photography and FA); change in exudation (measured
      by fundus photography, optical coherence tomography (OCT) and FA); change in epiretinal
      proliferation, fibrosis or retinal traction (assessed by OCT and fundus photography);
      proportion of participants undergoing ablative treatment of RCH or ocular surgery; proportion
      of participants with successful ablative treatment of RCH; and the proportion of participants
      with appearance of one or more new RCH.
    
  