
    
      All patients will receive a general anaesthetic for their VATS procedure with full AAGBI
      monitoring and the WHO surgical safety checklist will be performed appropriately prior to
      skin incision. Induction of anaesthesia will be standardised by using propofol and the
      patient will be paralysed using the muscle relaxant atracurium. The amount given will be at
      the anaesthetist's discretion and dependent on the patient. Fentanyl at 2.5 mcg/kg will be
      used at induction of anaesthesia.

      A double lumen endotracheal tube will be placed so lung isolation can be performed when
      necessary for the surgery. Anaesthesia will be maintained using a volatile agent or a target
      controlled infusion of propofol depending on the preference of the anaesthetist. The patient
      will be positioned laterally with the operative side up. All patients will receive simple
      intra-operative analgesia in the form of 1 gram of intravenous paracetamol and diclofenac
      unless the patient is over 70 or has abnormal renal function. Extra opioid analgesia will be
      given as intravenous morphine and this will be titrated by the anaesthetist. The amount given
      will be documented as part of the trial data.

      Patients will be warmed to maintain a temperature between 36 and 37 degree Celsius using a
      warming blanket and warmed intravenous fluids. Anti-emetics in the form of ondansetron 4 mg
      and dexamethasone 4 mg will also be given unless there are any contraindications.

      Prior to surgical incision patients in both groups will receive 1mg/kg 0.25% bupivicaine
      divided into 3 PV injections between the fifth and tenth thoracic vertebrae. Only trained
      anaesthetists with experience of over 30 PV insertions will perform the injections. The
      landmark technique for these injections is as follows: The spinous process of the thoracic
      vertebra is palpated by the anaesthetist, a 20 gauge needle is inserted 2.5 cm lateral to
      this and is advanced perpendicularly to the vertical and sagittal planes until the transverse
      process is contacted. The needle is then walked off the superior border of the transverse
      process, advanced a further 1 cm and one third of the weight determined local anaesthetic is
      delivered after careful aspiration.

      Both groups will have a PV catheter placed at the start of the procedure and a bolus given
      straight away. As this is a double-blinded trial the anaesthetist will not know whether the
      bolus is local anaesthetic or saline solution.

      Pharmacy at the research site will provide the 2 premade syringes that will contain either
      local anaesthetic or saline. The contents of the syringe will be unknown to the anaesthetist
      as the label will be simply numbered as 1 and 2 to be given in order as the early (1) or late
      (2) bolus. If it is clinically required to obtain information on what has been given a record
      will be immediately available from pharmacy. The syringes will be made up as neat 0.25%
      bupivicaine or 0.9% Normal Saline solution. The equivalent volume of 1mg/kg 0.25% bupivicaine
      will be injected as a bolus.

      Both groups will also receive a 0.25mg/kg 0.25% bupivicaine intercostal block at closing and
      an infusion of 0.1% bupivicaine will then be commenced at 20mls/hr to continue over the post
      operative period. Intra-operatively the amount of local anaesthetic given will be under the
      maximum dose of 2 mg/kg. The maximum dose will not be reached even when the infusion
      commences due to the fact that time will have passed.

      The primary outcome measures that will be used are to review pain scores using VAS on
      coughing. This will start at arrival in recovery room, which will be described as time zero.
      It will then be reviewed at time 1,2,4,6,12 and 24 hours. The pain scores are routinely
      measured by the nurses after this type of surgery, the only difference for the study will be
      that these scores are measured more often, a timer will be placed with the patient to
      indicate when the scores should be taken.

      Secondary outcome measures will include morphine consumption, which will be noted
      peri-operatively then again at the time intervals described above. These will be recorded by
      the recovery staff initially and then continued by the ward nurses with the support of the
      research team.

      Other secondary outcomes measured will include cortisol levels the following day, which will
      allow review of the neuroendocrine response. The patient will have routine blood tests the
      morning after the surgery; the cortisol level will be added to this test so the subject will
      not have extra blood taken. Patient satisfaction scores will be recorded in the form of a
      questionnaire and will be recorded on the first 2 post-operative days. The length of hospital
      stay, readmission at 30 days, survival at 30 days and infection rates will also be noted.
    
  