
    
      Taiwan has more chronic kidney disease (CKD) per capita than anywhere in the world, leading
      to the highest expense of National Health Insurance. By reviewing previous studies, uremic
      toxins contribute critically to the detrimental effects of CKD on atherosclerotic peripheral
      artery disease (PAD). When recognized early and managed appropriately, mortality and
      complications of the participants with CKD and established PAD can be minimized. It is
      critical to identify novel biomarkers and mediators, which can help identify those with
      potential poor outcomes and facilitate the discovery/development of novel therapeutics for
      the participants with CKD and PAD. The OMICs studies support the theory that gut microbiome
      is a major contributor to adverse cardiovascular outcomes and progression of CKD. However,
      successful integration of multi-omics approach remains sparse. There is no report on the
      impact of gut microbiota on the host circulating long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) expression
      signature, other CAD/PAD potential marker, and the potential link between gut microbiota,
      circulating lncRNA levels changes and CKD/PAD. Additionally, although numerous studies
      indicated that probiotics or activated charcoal have benefits for CKD patients, few studies
      evaluated the effect of coadministration of activated charcoal/probiotics on the participants
      with CKD/PAD. The mechanisms of therapeutic effect on CKD/PAD patients with coadministration
      of activated charcoal/probiotics involving the cross talk among host, microbiota and
      metabolites still remain unclear. Thus, in the present study, investigators aim to develop
      novel diagnostic/prognostic markers and a new treatment with activated bamboo charcoal
      (ABC)/probiotics for therapeutic opportunities to prevent cardiovascular complications,
      amputation and death in CKD patients with established PAD. To identify the
      diagnostic/prognostic markers, the multi-omics (microbolome and metabolome) and lncRNA will
      be analyzed. The therapeutic impact of activated bamboo charcoal (ABC)/probiotics with
      optimal formulation, on the renal/endothelial/vascular function, cardiovascular (CV) outcome
      and mortality in CKD patients with PAD will be also determined to evaluate its therapeutic
      opportunities. Additionally, the possible mechanisms including the molecular pathway and the
      roles of microbiota associated with expression profiles of lncRNA and metabolome linked to
      adverse CV/limb outcome will be investigation. Through combination of innovative molecular
      biological techniques with new approaches for clinical research, investigators will develop a
      novel therapy by updated knowledge of the mechanisms of disease and by improved
      pharmacological technology for the CKD patients with established PAD. Investigators expect to
      demonstrate the clinical efficacy of ABC ± probiotics to improve symptoms and outcomes of CKD
      patients with PAD, and offer a possibility to develop a precision medicine with novel
      diagnostic/prognostic markers and special ABC/probiotic formula, which will ultimately lead
      to the improved clinical care and outcomes in this population.
    
  