
    
      Based on the results of the pilot study in VUmc *Free University Medical Center), in which 3
      out of 40 tested patients had a pathological FLCN mutation, the investigators decided to
      extend the study to a second center; Rijnstate Hospital Arnhem. In this hospital a
      retrospective search was performed; patients who were treated for primary spontaneous
      pneumothorax were included. In the dossiers the investigators searched for medical history,
      pneumothorax side and recurrence, diagnostic imaging, treatment, co-morbidity, complications
      of treatment, skin abnormalities, kidney disease, smoking behavior, medication, and familial
      incidence of pneumothorax and other diseases. Patients will receive a letter with explanation
      of the research and a questionnaire in which the investigators ask them their about the
      medical status, co-morbidity, pneumothorax (number and side), smoking behavior, use of drugs,
      familial incidence of pneumothorax and other diseases.

      The population will be formed out of patients who have returned the fully filled in
      questionnaire and who have given permission to receive information for further research. This
      further information will consist of an information letter on BHD syndrome and a consent form
      for a one-time visit to the out-patient clinic of Rijnstate hospital. Investigators expect
      that about 200 patients will return the fully filled in questionnaire and give their consent
      for further research. In a one-time visit in out-patient clinic, there will be given personal
      information on BHD syndrome and there will be performed physical examination for finding
      fibrofolliculomas. A pulmonary CT scan for evaluation of presence of lung cysts will be
      performed. Two samples of venous blood will be collected to access information on DNA
      diagnostics for pathogenic FLCN mutations. These are associated with the BHD syndrome. This
      last diagnostic testing will be performed in VUmc (Vrije Universiteit medisch centrum or Free
      University Medical Centre).
    
  