
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the minimally effective pharmacological dose (MEPD) of decitabine in patients
      with refractory or relapsed acute myeloid leukemia or with previously treated chronic
      lymphocytic lymphoma or small lymphocytic lymphoma.

      II. Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of valproic acid in combination with the MEPD
      of decitabine in these patients.

      III. Determine the MEPD of valproic acid in combination with decitabine in these patients.

      IV. Determine the qualitative and quantitative toxic effects of decitabine alone and in
      combination with valproic acid, in terms of organ specificity, time course, predictability,
      and reversibility in these patients.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the therapeutic response in patients treated with decitabine alone and in
      combination with valproic acid.

      II. Determine the pharmacokinetics of this regimen in these patients. III. Determine kinetics
      of methyltransferase activity and re-expression of select target genes in AML [p15, estrogen
      receptor (ER), WT-1, calcitonin, MYOD1] and in CLL/SLL [DERMO-1, DAPK, and ID4] known to be
      methylated in primary tumor cells.

      IV. Correlate baseline and post-treatment changes in DNA methyltransferases (MT1, MT3a, and
      MT3b) expression with achievement of decitabine MEPD, toxicity, treatment resistance, and
      disease response in these patients.

      V. Determine kinetics of HDAC enzyme inhibition and changes in the acetylation status of
      histones H3 or H4 following treatment with the combination. These parameters will be used to
      define the MEPD of the combination.

      VI. Examine baseline and post-therapy changes in the "histone code' in both AML and CLL cells
      by assessment of the acetylation and methylation status of histones H3 and H4 lysine residues
      using both Western Blot and Mass Spectrometry techniques.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study. Patients are stratified according to disease
      (refractory or relapsed acute myeloid leukemia vs chronic lymphocytic leukemia or small
      lymphocytic lymphoma).

      Patients receive decitabine IV over 1 hour on days 1-5 or 1-10. Treatment repeats every 28
      days.

      Cohorts of 6 patients receive escalating doses of decitabine until the minimally effective
      pharmacological dose (MEPD) is determined. The MEPD is defined as the dose at which at least
      5 of 6 patients meet gene methylation criteria and no more than 1 of 6 patients experiences
      dose-limiting toxicity (DLT).

      Once the MEPD is determined, patients receive decitabine at that dose level administered as
      above and oral valproic acid three times daily on days 5-21. Treatment repeats every 28 days.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of valproic acid until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2
      of 6 patients experience DLT. The MEPD of valproic acid is then determined using established
      gene methylation and toxicity criteria. Treatment continues for up to 24 months in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients are followed for survival.
    
  