
    
      COVID-19 is the disease caused by a new corona virus on December 2019 in Wuhan, China . On
      February 2020, the International Committee of Taxonomy of Viruses recognized the etiology of
      this infection and named it "SARS-CoV-2". World Health Organization (WHO) named the disease
      COVID-19 , and declared it a pandemic on March 11th 2020 .

      Pregnant women are at an increased risk for severe illness from COVID-19 compared to
      non-pregnant women . Additionally, pregnancy represents a vulnerable period, and this
      pandemic can negatively impact its outcomes . Therefore, pregnant women may be a group
      requiring special care in relation to the transmission of SARS-CoV-2 .

      The modulations of the maternal immune system in pregnancy may have consequences for the
      clinical course of COVID-19 , for the treatment and prevention of COVID-19 in pregnancy . In
      addition to the systemic immunological changes, the reduction in total lung capacity and
      inability to clear secretions occurring during pregnancy can make pregnant more susceptible
      to severe respiratory infections .

      There are higher levels of circulating coagulation and fibrinolytic factors during pregnancy
      which may be implicated in the pathogenesis of SARS-CoV-2 infection.

      COVID-19 disease has a similar spectrum of symptoms in pregnant woman as in non-pregnant
      woman . Although most of the symptoms are less frequent during pregnancy but pregnant women
      are more likely to need admission to an ICU and require invasive ventilation .

      Pre-existing maternal comorbidities such as increased maternal age, high body mass index,
      chronic hypertension and pre-existing diabetes are risk factors for the severity of
      infection.

      The overall data from cohort studies by Allotey et al. , showed 73 deaths (0.63%) in COVID-19
      positive pregnant women. The severe form of COVID-19 manifested in 13% of pregnant women,
      admission to an intensive care unit was required for 4% , 3% required invasive ventilation
      and 0.4% required extracorporeal membrane oxygenation .

      Hsu et al. study on COVID-19 symptom progression during pregnancy compared to non pregnant
      women showed that 8.3% of the COVID-19 pregnant women had severe disease of whom 86%
      progressed to a critical stage and were admitted to the ICU , another study by Blitz et al.
      showed no significant difference between the rates of ICU admission in hospitalized COVID-19
      pregnant and non-pregnant COVID-19 positive patients .

      Vertical transmission happens if an infected pregnant woman transmits the infection to her
      fetus / infant during the fetal , intra-partum or post-partum period . Kotlyar et al. in
      their systematic review and meta-analysis showed a pooled proportion of 3.2% for vertical
      transmission of COVID-19 infection .

      Other studies as Penfield et al. have shown a linkage of vertical transmission with maternal
      disease severity .
    
  