
    
      The objective of this study is to conduct a randomized controlled trial (RCT) to evaluate an
      innovative strategy among opioid use disorder patients being discharged from detox. This
      study will evaluate the extent to which remote motivational enhancement sessions via
      videoconference and the option for flexible daily dosing at home with MySafeRx can improve
      engagement and retention with B/N treatment after detox in a county where access to
      outpatient, take-home B/N prescriptions are more limited compared to in-person daily B/N
      dosing and treatment. This study seeks to expand our understanding about what works to
      prevent opioid overdose by incorporating a RCT evaluating the effects of remote motivational
      enhancement (RME) sessions provided via videoconferencing at an inpatient detox facility and
      during early treatment in order to increase treatment engagement with daily outpatient
      supervised-dosing of B/N. Participants will use an Android smartphone device to access the
      MySafeRx app and complete their daily motivational interview sessions. This study will
      generate new knowledge about the most effective way to prevent overdose and engage patients
      in B/N treatment with observed daily dosing.

      The primary aim of this study is:

      Engagement: To examine the effect of Remote Motivational Enhancement (RME) sessions +
      MySafeRx Inspire Flex versus information alone + ACTS Standard Care on early engagement in
      outpatient B/N treatment based on the number of daily doses of prescribed B/N during the
      first 5 weeks post-detox.

      Hypothesis: Participants enrolled in RME + MySafeRx Inspire Flex arm will be engaged in
      outpatient B/N treatment with significantly higher number of daily doses of prescribed B/N
      during the first 5 weeks post-detox than the information alone arm.

      Secondary Aims:

      Early Engagement: To examine the effect of RME + MySafeRx Inspire Flex versus information
      alone + ACTS Standard Care B/N treatment on early engagement in B/N treatment based on the
      proportion of participants a) who receive at least one outpatient B/N dose in first 7 days
      and b) who receive at least one outpatient B/N prescription at ACTS in the first 14 days post
      discharge from detox.

      Opioid-Related Deaths: To examine the effects of RME + MySafeRx Inspire Flex versus
      information + ACTS Standard Care B/N on number of opioid-related deaths (as measured by
      county coroner report and clinic report) during the 6-months after discharge from inpatient
      detox.

      Opioid Use (toxicology): To examine the differences in opioid use as measured by monthly
      urine toxicology for illicit opioids between MySafeRx Inspire Flex and information alone +
      ACTS Standard Care B/N treatment during a 24-week study period.

      Other Pre-Specified Outcomes:

      Overdoses: To examine the effect of RME + MySafeRx Inspire Flex versus information + ACTS
      Standard Care B/N treatment on the number of self-reported (with and without naloxone
      administered), county coroner reported, and clinic-reported opioid overdoses, throughout the
      24 weeks of the study follow-up.

      Opioid Use (self-report): To examine the differences in self-reported illicit opioid use
      between MySafeRx Inspire Flex information alone + ACTS Standard Care B/N treatment.

      Treatment Retention: To examine the effect of RME + MySafeRx Inspire Flex versus information
      alone + ACTS Standard Care on retention in B/N treatment based on active B/N prescription at
      12 and 24-week period.

      Mental Health Symptoms: To examine the differences in mental health symptomatology using the
      BSI between MySafeRx Inspire Flex versus information alone + ACTS Standard Care B/N treatment
      during the 24-week study period.

      For the current proposal, the investigators plan to recruit up to 120 B/N eligible patients
      during the high-risk period of transition out of detox into outpatient B/N treatment in order
      to be able to randomize 104 participants. Study participants will be recruited from the
      outpatient detox program at ACTS in Tampa, Florida. The investigators aim to recruit 2
      patients a week for the study and randomize, on average, one patient to the MySafeRx program
      each week. Study participants will participate in a baseline assessment and six follow-up
      assessments at week 4, week 8, week 12, week 16, week 20, and week 24. These assessments will
      be conducted by the project coordinator and will occur via phone or at the ACTS facility
      (baseline assessment will always occur at ACTS detox prior to discharge). To protect the
      privacy of this information, the assessments will be identified only by a code number linked
      to study participants with a key that is only accessible to the data analyst. Study
      assessments will take approximately one and a half hours to complete.

      Once the participant has consented, completed the baseline assessment, and a PI or Co-I has
      approved them to participate, they will be randomized to either MySafeRx or Standard Care.
      Given the study population, the investigators assume there will be some loss of participants
      at follow-up. The investigators have planned for this in the assessment of appropriate sample
      size, as well as in the data analysis procedures.
    
  