
    
      Sepsis is a disease which is triggered by an infection and represents one of the greatest
      challenges of modern intensive care medicine. With regard to targeted anti-microbial therapy,
      the earliest possible pathogen detection is of crucial importance. Until now, culture-based
      detection methods represent the gold standard for diagnosis, although numerous limitations
      characterize these. In this context, culture-independent molecular biological processes are
      an alternative. In particular, the concept of serum detection of circulating, free DNA
      employing next-generation sequencing (NGS) seems to represent a promising diagnostic
      procedure in patients with bloodstream infections. The applicant's extensive preparatory work
      suggests that NGS-based diagnostics using the SIQ score have higher specificity and
      sensitivity compared to traditional culture-based methods for detecting bloodstream
      infections. This preliminary work for the DigiSep trial with the help of interventional study
      design provides the optimal basis to establish this new concept as part of the national
      standard based on the best possible evidence. The DigiSep trial is intended to characterize
      the effect of the combination of digital precision diagnostics, expert exchange and
      culture-based standard diagnostics compared to a purely culture-based conventional diagnosis
      in the clinical picture of sepsis / septic shock. The study examines in 410 patients (n = 205
      per arm) with sepsis / septic shock whether the so-called DOOR-RADAR score (Desirability of
      Outcome Ranking / Response Adjusted for Duration of Antibiotic Risk Score) can be
      significantly improved, by application of the NGS. We also aim to also study whether the new
      procedure is cost-effective. It is postulated that the inpatient admission time, mortality
      rate, incidence of acute renal failure (ARF), the duration of anti-microbial therapy as well
      as the costs of complications and outpatient aftercare can be reduced. Also, a significant
      improvement in the quality of life of the affected patients can be expected.

      As part of the study, the essential data is collected once at the time of sepsis (= onset).
      The culture-based diagnostics include the guideline-oriented collection of 2 blood culture
      sets (2 x aerobic / 2 x anaerobic) to the onset and three days later. At the same time, serum
      samples are obtained for NGS-based pathogen diagnostics. Additional sampling for NGS-based
      diagnostics can be made up to day 14 after onset or whenever the attending physician
      establishes a clinical indication for the collection of further blood cultures. The
      aforementioned cultures vs NGS-based pathogen diagnostics are also accompanied by extended
      immunological monitoring from blood plasma samples as well as an NGS-based transcriptome
      analysis. The associated sampling takes place at the time of onset, 3, 7 and 14 days after
      the beginning of sepsis. Routine microbiological findings from other biological samples (e.g.
      surgical swabs, drainage secretions, tracheal secretions, tissue samples) are included in the
      evaluation if these were collected three days before or after the extraction of serum samples
      for NGS-based diagnostics. The clinical data collection is also carried out at the time of
      sepsis (= onset), 3, 7 and 14 days later, analogous to the above-mentioned sample collection.
      The final outcome evaluation takes place 28 days (= 28 d) after the onset of sepsis. The
      study-related burden on the individual study patient includes a total of 17 ml of whole blood
      for NGS-based diagnostics, the four samples of 7.5 ml of whole blood for immunological
      monitoring and the four samples of 2.7 ml of whole blood for transcriptome analysis. The
      minimum total volume, therefore, amounts to the collection of approximately 75 ml of whole
      blood within the first 14 days after the onset of sepsis. The sampling takes place with the
      collection of the blood cultures or within the framework of the daily routine blood samples
      so that no further venous punctures are required here. Infection parameters such as
      procalcitonin (PCT) are carried out within the framework of daily regular blood collection
      and therefore, do not require any additional vascular punctures. The same principle applies
      to the collection of blood cultures which are routinely obtained as part of standard
      diagnostics in patients with suspected or proven sepsis. The required blood samples of two 40
      ml of whole blood (each two sets of 2 x aerobic / 2 x anaerobic = 4 x 10 ml = 40 ml)
      therefore do not represent any additional burden due to the study. A further additional
      burden for the patient concerning invasive procedures or examinations is not expected in the
      study.
    
  