
    
      We prospectively evaluated for polyp detection in the ascending colon a cohort of consecutive
      patients addressed (intended) for complete colonoscopy in Alexandra University Hospital,
      Athens, Greece for a predetermined period (June 2017-June 2018). All colonoscopies were
      performed under conscious sedation by using midazolam and/or propofol and continuous
      monitoring for vital signs. The type of endoscopes used were adult high definition, with
      variable stiffness, colonoscopes Olympus Evis Exera CF-H185 and 190. Insufflation was
      performed by means of a CO2 insufflator (OLYMPUS - UCR). An irrigation pump (OLYMPUS - OFP2)
      was used if needed, either for washing or for water exchange technique according to the
      endoscopist judgement. Oral sodium and potassium sulphate in combination (Eziclen®) or PEG
      solutions (Klean Prep® or Fortrans®) were used for bowel preparation which was measured by
      means of the Segmental Boston Bowel Preparation Scale. Inclusion criteria were as follows:
      Patients older than 18 years, with a complete colonoscopy, for CRC screening or
      post-polypectomy surveillance or diagnostic assessment. Exclusion criteria precluded patients
      with previous colectomy or an abdominal surgery in the last 6 months, patients with polyposis
      syndromes or inflammatory bowel diseases and if they were unfit for polypectomy or the polyp
      specimen was not retrieved for histology. The protocol of ascending colon examination
      encompassed 2 phases: A first phase (1) divided in Forward view (1a) videlicet insertion from
      the right flexure to the caecum followed by a second forward view (1b) namely withdrawal till
      the right flexure and reinsertion to the caecum maintaining the endoscope straight and a
      second phase (2, Retroflexion) with U-turn of the colonoscope in the caecum till the right
      flexure and then redressing to the forward view and reinsertion to the caecum.

      Concerning endoscopy 2 seniors and 4 trainees participated in the study. All colonoscopies
      were performed with at least 2 operators, one senior and one trainee. The main investigator,
      the most experienced endoscopist in the department was present during all the procedures for
      the ascending colon examination (SM). Only 3 attempts were permitted for retroflexion
      achievement, performed by the main investigator if a younger trainee or senior
      gastroenterologist could not perform it. Polyps were mapped during both phases and were not
      removed until the end of the inspection. Polypectomy followed according to the previous
      mapping and all polyps were collected and sent for histological examination. The protocol of
      this non-interventional study as well as the informed consent for the patients were submitted
      and approved by the local ethical committee.

      Adenoma detection rate (ADR) was defined as the number of colonoscopies in which one or more
      adenomas were detected, divided by the total number of colonoscopies. ADR in the ascending
      colon as the number of colonoscopies with at least one adenoma in the ascending colon divided
      by the total number of colonoscopies. Adenoma miss rate (AMR) of the ascending colon was
      defined as the number of additional adenomas in ascending colon detected by retroflexed view
      divided by the total adenomas in ascending colon detected with two forward and retroflexion
      views. The per-patient miss rate was calculated as the number of patients with additional
      adenomas detected on retroflexion divided by the total number of patients who underwent the
      examination.

      Finally we evaluated two additional quality parameters in order to assess the contribution of
      retroflexion in adenoma detection: adenomas per colonoscopy (APC) calculated by dividing the
      number of detected adenomas by the total number of colonoscopies and adenomas per positive
      participant (APP) calculated by dividing the number of detected adenomas by the number of
      colonoscopies in which at least 1 adenoma was detected.
    
  