
    
      Study 1:

      Trial objective:

      Identification of biomarkers in blood and urine and to set the basis for a minimally invasive
      diagnostic program for SRM.

      Method:

      Sample collection:

      All blood samples will be collected in ethylendiamin-tetraacetate (EDTA) containing tubes.
      two samples are then centrifugated at 2000 G for 10 minutes to isolate plasma, which then are
      stored at -80oC. The remaining 2 samples are stored at -80oC as is. Total nucleic acid (TNA)
      will be extracted from concentrated urine and plasma samples as previously described using a
      NucliSENS easy MAG instrument. Extracted TNA will then be used for targeted immune- and
      oncologic profiling (mutations and expression) using next generation sequencing (NGS)-based
      RNA and DNA sequencing.

      The additional core sample from kidney tumor will be stored without preservatives for
      NGS-based DNA and RNA-seq analysis.

      Study 2:

      Trial objective:

      Identification of changes in circulating biomarkers after curative treatment in patients with
      biopsy verified renal cancer.

      Methods:

      Patient recruitment:

      Patients will be enrolled in study 2 in the same manner as study 1.

      Sample collection:

      In addition to the first four samples four additional blood samples (20 ml) will be taken 1
      month and 6 months after curative treatment from each patient. All samples will be coded and
      given an ID according to patient´s CPR number using the RedCap informatic coding system.

      Sample storage, preparation and analysis:

      Blood and urine samples will be handled in the same manner as in study 1. Statistical
      Analysis for study 1 and 2:

      Exploratory analysis of the data will be performed on molecular expression levels of specific
      sequences identified, an unsupervised hierarchical clustering will be fit and heat maps will
      be produced. Properties of clustered elements will be further matched with histopathological
      results to search for histological aggregation patterns.

      Expression levels of the sequences identified, in blood and urine will be compared by means
      of Whitney U test and Kruskal-Wallis test. Changes in levels of expression from pre-operative
      to post-operative will be evaluated with Friedman´s ANOVA and subsequent post-hoc pairwise
      comparison with Wilcoxon's signed rank test with Bonferroni correction.

      Receiver operating characteristic curve analysis will be further performed on pre-operative
      samples, to test for validity of the assays for each marker to discriminate between benignant
      histology and malignancy, with a cut-off for area under curve (AUC) of 0.75.

      Sample size The minimal sample size required for achieving a statistical power of 80% with a
      significance level of 0.05 and an expected dropout rate of 15% will be 155 patients.

      Calculations for sample size have been computed with the GPower software (Düsseldorf, DE).

      Study 3:

      Trial objective:

      To investigate the diagnostic value of mpMRI in determining malignancy in SRM.

      Method:

      Patient recruitment:

      After providing a written consent a mpMRI will be scheduled at the same day but prior to the
      primary biopsy. All mpMRIs will be performed locally and the pictures transferred to Odense
      University Hospital where a specialist radiologist, will examine the scans in a blinded
      fashion, meaning that he will be ignorant to the pathologist´s diagnosis. The result will be
      stored in a coded RedCAP database.

      MpMRIs are performed according to a standard protocol and include the following sequences: T1
      (with reduced affinity for fatty tissue) +/- contrast, diffusion weighted sequences and wash
      in/wash out.
    
  