
    
      This study will be scheduled between January - March 2021 at Selcuk University Department of
      Anesthesiology and Reanimation. A total of 70 patients from American Society of
      Anesthesiologists classification physical status of (ASA-PS) I-II, aged 6 months to 10 years,
      will be included in the study. Routine monitoring electrocardiogram (ECG), peripheral oxygen
      saturation (SpO2) and non-invasive blood pressure measurements will be made to patients into
      the operating room, and their basal levels will be recorded. All patients were transferred to
      the operating room without premedication. The patients will be assigned to two groups as
      in-plane technique (Group IP) and out of-plane technique (Group OP) according to the program
      randomization list. Routine anesthesia induction will be performed with 7-8% sevoflurane,
      100% oxygen until the patient loses consciousness with a face mask. Then, vascular access
      will be established and propofol 2-3 mg for general anesthesia induction. kg 1 and fentanyl 1
      μg. kg-1 IV will be used. After the eyelash reflex disappears without any neuromuscular
      blocker medication, a suitable laryngeal mask airway device will be placed into supraglottic
      area, and the patient will be connected to the anesthesia device for ventilation. For the
      maintenance of anesthesia, 2% sevoflurane, nitrous oxide will be stopped, and 50% oxygen +
      air mixture will be used. For caudal epidural block, the patient will be turned to the
      lateral position. After the asepsis of the perianal region is achieved, the sterile 8-18 MHz
      lineer USG probe for Group OP will be placed transversely in the midline to obtain a
      transverse view in the sacral hiatus. For group IP, the probe will be rotated 90 degrees and
      applied with the in-plane technique. After it is observed that there is no blood or
      cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) with aspiration, local anesthetic (LA) injection will be performed
      under hemodynamic and ECG monitoring by calculating the dose as 0.5 mg.kg-1 (0.25%
      bupivacaine) and the volume as 0.5 ml.kg-1. A successful block will be defined as the absence
      of significant motor movements after surgical induction, after heart and respiratory rates do
      not increase up to 20% above basal levels. In addition, block application time, number of
      needle attempts, success at first entry, ease of visualization, LA spread will be recorded
      and evaluated as the success rate.

      In both groups, the surgical caudal block will begin 10 minutes after anesthesia.
      Intraoperative opioids or sedative drugs will not be used. Mean arterial pressure, heart rate
      and oxygen saturation of the patients will be recorded every 5 minutes.

      At the end of the surgery, patients will be extubated and followed up in the postoperative
      recovery unit. Postoperative pain 10 minutes, 30 minutes, 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 6th, 12th, 24th
      hours FLACC pain scale (Face Legs Activity Cry Consolabity = face , legs, activity, crying,
      consolation). Time to first analgesia requirement, total analgesic consumption and
      postoperative complications will be recorded. In the evaluations made to patients in both
      groups, if the FLACC scale is> 4, rescue analgesia will be administered intravenously with 15
      mg.kg-1 paracetamol.
    
  