
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the efficacy of trastuzumab and pertuzumab (TP) (Arm 1) in HER-2 amplified
      metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) by comparing progression-free survival (PFS) on TP
      compared to control arm (Arm 2) of cetuximab and irinotecan hydrochloride (irinotecan)
      (CETIRI).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the overall response rate (ORR), including confirmed complete and partial
      response per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1, in treatment Arms 1
      and 2.

      II. To evaluate the overall survival (OS) in treatment Arms 1 and 2. III. To evaluate the
      safety and toxicity of TP compared to CETIRI.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the rates of PFS, OS, and ORR in patients who crossover to TP (Arm 3) after
      disease progression on CETIRI.

      II. To bank images for future retrospective analysis. III. To evaluate if HER-2/centromeric
      probe (CEP17) signal ratio and HER-2 gene copy number (GCN) are predictive of clinical
      efficacy for patients receiving TP versus CETIRI.

      IV. To bank tissue and blood samples for other future correlative studies from patients
      enrolled on the study.

      OUTLINE: Patients with HER2 gene amplification are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive pertuzumab intravenously (IV) over 30-60 minutes and trastuzumab IV
      over 30-120 minutes on day 1. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive cetuximab IV over 60-120 minutes and irinotecan hydrochloride IV
      over 90 minutes on day 1. Courses repeat every 14 days in the absence of disease progression
      or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with documented disease progression may optionally
      crossover to Arm I.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 3 years.
    
  