
    
      Acute hypoxemic respiratory failure (AHRF), and its more severe form termed the acute
      respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), is a catastrophic illness of multifactorial etiology
      characterized by a severe inflammatory process of the lung leading to hypoxemic respiratory
      failure requiring mechanical ventilation (MV). Pulmonary infections are the leading causes of
      AHRF and ARDS. Translational research has established a strong association between
      dysregulated systemic and pulmonary inflammation and progression or delayed resolution of
      AHRF.2 Glucocorticoid receptor-mediated downregulation of systemic and pulmonary inflammation
      is essential to accelerate disease resolution and restore tissue homeostasis, and can be
      enhanced with glucocorticoid treatment.

      The COVID-19 pandemic is a critical moment for the world, in which even industrially advanced
      countries have rapidly reached intensive care units (ICUs) saturation, and intensivists are
      forced to make difficult ethical decisions that are uncommon outside war zones. As with other
      bacterial or viral infections, severe pneumonia is the main condition leading to AHRF and
      ARDS requiring weeks of MV with high mortality (35-55%) in critically ill patients. There has
      been great interest in the role of corticosteroids to attenuate the pulmonary and systemic
      damage in ARDS patients because of their potent anti-inflammatory and antifibrotic
      properties.3 Corticosteroids have been off patent for greater than 20 years, they are cheap,
      and globally equitable. However, the efficacy of corticosteroids in AHRF (including ARDS)
      caused by infections remains controversial.

      Only two large randomized clinical trials (RCT) have shown that the administration of
      dexamethasone is able to reduce mortality in patients with AHRF. Villar et al in Spain
      observed that moderate doses of dexamethasone (10-20 mg/d x 10 days) caused a 15% absolute
      reduction of 60-day mortality in patients with established moderate-to-severe ARDS from
      multiple etiologies. Horby et al in the RECOVERY trial in Great Britain reported that
      dexamethasone at low doses (6 mg/d x 10 days) reduced 28-day mortality in patients with AHRF
      caused by COVID-19. These findings confirmed that corticosteroid therapy is associated with a
      sizable reduction in duration of MV and hospital mortality. These two RCTs will change
      clinical practice for the management of AHRF and ARDS. However, there is a reasonable doubt
      whether dexamethasone at moderate doses (10-20 mg/d) would cause a greater reduction in
      mortality than 6 mg/d. Our goal in this study is to respond this question.
    
  