
    
      Purpose of the research:To investigate the effects of exercises combined with action
      observation on balance and fall risk in individuals over 65 years of age.

      The hypothesis of the research is that action observation will be more useful in maintaining
      balance and preventing the risk of failling.

      Action observation therapy (AOT)is a novel rehabilitation technique, which involves
      observation of purposeful actions with the intention to imitate and then performing those
      actions. AOT can be described as the patient being asked to carefully observe actions
      presented through a video-clip or performed by an operator, in order to imitate, try, and
      execute them after observation .This may include the mirror neuron system (MNS) processes on
      the upper limb function resulting from the observation of actions (new motor skills) and
      actual execution of similar neural structures . Current evidence have been limited to
      investigating AOT effectiveness on upper and lower limb rehabilitation in both neurological
      and orthopedic disorders, patients with stroke and brain injuries, limb pain, Parkinson
      disease, and in the old women. However, despite the volume of our understanding, there is a
      dearth of current scientific evidence evaluating the efficacy of AOT combined with exercises
      on balance and risk of fall in elderly both in men and women.

      Study Power Analysis:The effect size was calculated using the G Power Package Program(G Power
      3.0.10) over the data of the reference article(Leem SH et al,2019).The sample size required
      for the study according to the calculated effect size was determined as 38 participants for
      %95 power and Type I error rate (alpha):0.05 were calculated.

      Study protocol:

      Participants will be randomly divided into two groups as experimental and control groups.

      Experimental group participants:(n=19) Action observation+ exercise combination Control group
      participants:(n=19) Only exercise

      Experimental group , the participants will be asked to carefully observe actions presented
      through a video-clip exercise for 15 minutes, and then do same exercises for about 30 minutes
      in 8-10 repetitions.

      The Control group (only exercise group), the participants will perform exercises for about 30
      minutes in 8-10 repetitions without a video-clip observation.

      Study program:3 days a week for 8 weeks Exercise difficulty:Borg Scale(0-10); it will be
      moderate. Exercise program:Exercises will be easy to learn but not complex in terms of recall
      and performans. Depending on the fitness of the person, %50-75 of the maximum heart rate
      (220-years),the exercise intensity will be preferred over the Borg Scale.

      The center where the research will be conducted ,İstanbul-Beşiktaş District Abbasağa
      neighborhood.

      Exercises;sitting and standing from easy to difficult; it will be advanced from those done
      with two feed touching the ground to those done on one foot and walking. It will include
      warm-up period, strengthening exercises ,static and dynamic balance exercises,flexibility
      exercises and cooling periods Each exercise will be performed 8-10 repetitions in small
      groups of 5-10 people.

      The study will be caried out in the Abbasağa garden park.

      Study date: December-2020/Devember-2021 Evaluation: All evaluations will be made as a
      Pre-test/ Post-test The detailed descriptions and characteristics of the participants will be
      summarized at baseline and after 8 weeks, and the differences between groups, intergroup
      differences will be statistically evaluated.

      Socio-demographic evaluation Blood pressure and heart rate measurement Mini-Mental Test
      İnternational Physical Activity Questionnaire Short Form(IPAQ-Short)

      Cognitive Level Tests :

      Montreal Cognitive Assessment(MoCA)

      Balance and Fall Risk Tests:

      Time Up&Go Test(TUG) 5 Times Sit & Stand Test Tinetti Balance and Walk Test Activity Specific
      Balance Confidence Scale(ABC) BORG Scale (0-10): To determine exercise intensity I have
      prepared '' Pain Location and İntensity" and "Fall Frequency Questioning"and "Participant
      Satisfaction" evaluation forms in the last year.

      Statistical evaluation: The evaluation of the all data will be done using the SPSS
      statistical package program.The data will be analyzed using the SPSS program with the
      significance level of p<0.05

      İstanbul Medıpol Unıversıty Non-İnterventional Clinical Research Ethıcs Committee Permission
      of the research was obteined(Number:10840098-772.02-E.58328,Date:10/26/2020).
    
  