
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine for patients with brain metastases meeting the inclusion criteria, whether
      there is an increase in the time to a composite endpoint of adverse outcomes including the
      first occurrence of either: local recurrence, leptomeningeal disease, or symptomatic
      radiation brain necrosis in patients who receive SRS prior to surgery as compared to patients
      who receive surgery prior to SRS.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine for patients with brain metastases whether there is improved overall survival
      for patients who receive SRS prior to surgery as compared to patients who receive SRS after
      surgery.

      II. To determine for patients with brain metastases whether there are improved patient
      reported outcomes including quality of life for patients who receive SRS prior to surgery as
      compared to patients who receive SRS after surgery.

      III. To determine if preoperative SRS increases rates of surgical morbidity including
      postoperative complications such as wound infection, need for longer hospital stays, or
      readmission compared to a surgery first approach for resectable brain metastases.

      IV. To determine for patients with brain metastases whether there is a higher rate of
      completion of planned therapies for patients who receive SRS prior to surgery as compared to
      patients who receive surgery prior to SRS.

      V. To determine for patients with brain metastases whether there is a shorter time to
      initiation or re-initiation of systemic therapy with pre-operative versus post-operative SRS.

      VI. To determine for patients treated with pre-operative SRS whether there is a longer
      interval to regional progression, any central nervous system (CNS) progression or need for
      subsequent intracranial treatment compared to patients receiving post-operative SRS.

      VII. To determine for patients with pre-operative as compared to post-operative radiation
      whether there is a decreased rate of radiation necrosis, including asymptomatic and
      symptomatic radiation necrosis.

      VIII. To determine for patients with pre-operative as compared to post-operative radiation
      whether there is a decreased rate of local recurrence.

      IX. To determine for patients with pre-operative as compared to post-operative radiation
      whether there is a decreased rate of leptomeningeal disease.

      CORRELATIVE RESEARCH OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the genetic and molecular alterations of brain metastases seen after
      radiation versus in the setting of resection alone, including early radiobiologic changes in
      tissue treated with SRS 24 to 48 hours prior, and to investigate detection rate of
      corresponding circulating deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and/or inflammatory markers in
      peripheral specimens.

      II. To investigate the usefulness of biomarkers and response to radiation in predicting local
      control and outcomes.

      III. To look at cell capture of tumor cells as well as cell free DNA in cerebrospinal fluid
      (CSF) sampled at the time of surgery, comparing patients receiving neoadjuvant treatment to
      those that have not.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM A: Patients undergo stereotactic radiosurgery on day 1. Within 4 weeks, patients undergo
      surgery.

      ARM B: Patients undergo surgery on day 1. Within 2 weeks, patients undergo stereotactic
      radiosurgery.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 2 weeks, every 3-4 months
      for up to 2 years and then periodically for up to 3 years.
    
  