
    
      Topical microbicides are designed to prevent the sexual transmission of HIV and other disease
      pathogens. PRO 2000/5 Gel (P), or PRO 2000, is a vaginal microbicide that has been evaluated
      in Phase I safety trials in Europe and the U.S. PRO 2000 Gel is easily manufactured, highly
      stable, and highly water-soluble. The aqueous gel formulation contains a synthetic carbomer,
      a lactic acid/lactate buffer, and preservatives. In vitro, PRO 2000 Gel has been shown to
      suppress infection by herpes viruses, Chlamydia trachomatis, Neisseria gonorrhoeae, and a
      wide range of HIV-1 isolates. This study will evaluate the safety and acceptability of PRO
      2000 Gel in HIV uninfected women in Pune, India. The study is a precursor to a larger Phase
      II/III study of PRO 2000 Gel.

      Participants in this study will be sexually active HIV uninfected women at either low or high
      risk for HIV infection. Male partners of these women will also be enrolled in the study.
      Participants will be asked to apply PRO 2000 Gel twice a day for 14 consecutive days between
      menses and to have vaginal intercourse with a single male partner, using study-provided male
      condoms, at least twice per week during the two weeks of PRO 2000 Gel use. Participants will
      have a screening visit, an enrollment visit, and 3 study visits during the two weeks of PRO
      2000 Gel use; each visit will last about 1 hour. Study visits will include a medical history,
      gynecologic exam, blood and urine tests, and product acceptability questionnaires. Colposcopy
      will be performed three times during the study. Participants will also be asked to complete a
      Daily Study Record about product use and sexual activity and questionnaires about their
      willingness to use the product and their perceptions of the product.

      Four weeks after using PRO 2000 Gel, participants will be asked to participate in a focus
      group to discuss product acceptability. Participants' male partners will also be asked to
      participate in focus groups about product use.
    
  