
    
      Mental disorders are a major cause of long-term disability and are a direct cause of
      mortality, with approximately 800,000 individuals dying from suicide every year worldwide - a
      high proportion of them arise from major depressive disorder (MDD). Knowledge of MDD has
      expanded in recent years by detecting that neuroplasticity may play a core role in the
      pathophysiology of the disease. Neuroplasticity in this context refers to the brain's ability
      to change and thus might be the presupposition for building up strategies against mental
      disorders.

      The best-characterized and most studied examples of neuroplasticity are the molecular and
      cellular adaptations underlying learning and exercise. Exercise improves cognition, has
      antidepressant effects and was also found to have positive effects on the brain structure as
      measured with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Further, research in older adults indicates
      that increased aerobic fitness can be neuroprotective and can enhance brain structure and
      function. Increase of gray matter volume in parietal and frontal brain regions and
      corresponding increases of diffusivity in white matter fibres were seen as early as after 2
      weeks of training a balancing task.

      On the other hand experimental studies found that stress and chronic exposure to high levels
      of glucocorticoids leads to depressive-like states. These states were accompanied by atrophy
      and loss of neurons in the adult hippocampus which is a temporal lobe brain region involved
      in learning, memory and mood regulation. Hippocampal damage, resulting from excessive
      exposure of the brain to glucocorticoids, leads to impaired feedback inhibition of
      hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis by glucocorticoids, causing unrestrained release of
      the axis - the "Glucocorticoid Cascade Hypothesis". Prolonged stress, or an excess allostatic
      load, is thus harmful and is probably important in the processes mediating dementias.
      Efficient stress responses are necessary to cope with changes in the environment and an
      ability to terminate the stress response is of central importance in the return to
      homeostasis. Individuals with depression have relatively high cortisol secretory tone with
      blunted diurnal secretory patterns of cortisol secretion, reflecting poor regulatory feedback
      in the hippocampus. Higher cortisol stress responses to awakening (CAR), conversely, are
      found in those who are chronically stressed, depressed or remitted from depression or bipolar
      disorder, and in adolescents who will later develop depression.

      Interestingly, the investigators found that structural changes of the hippocampus, a brain
      region involved in memory and emotion regulation, become more pronounced when a patient with
      depression develops a chronic disease course. Recently, they detected that hippocampal
      volumes from patients with MDD, who carry also a genetic risk-allele (SLC6A4, 5-HTTLPR), were
      smaller when they had a history of emotional neglect compared to patients who had only the
      genetic or the emotional neglect risk factor separately. In the context of neuroimaging,
      diffusion tensor imaging (DTI), which is a significant step forward for characterizing
      microstructural changes or differences, is highly interesting. Using high angular resolution
      diffusion imaging, the investigators found that unaffected healthy first degree relatives of
      patients with MDD with stronger fiber connections between prefrontal and temporo-parietal
      brain regions managed incidences of early life adversity without later developing depression
      suggesting that resilience may be associated with stronger connections. This line of research
      suggests that structural and functional brain changes are already there before the
      manifestation of the disease and that these changes seem to be related to the individuals'
      vulnerability.

      Thus, preventing these brain changes, normalizing the stress functions and increasing the
      resilience of individuals is a major challenge for the future in order to prevent major
      stress-related mental disorders. The ability of the brain to adapt suggests that it might be
      possible to increase resilience in order to protect an individual from becoming depressed. In
      addition to exercise and learning, cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) and remediation
      programs have been shown to have effects on brain structure and function in patients with
      manifest disorders like depression or schizophrenia and especially the combination of CBT
      with exercise and learning might result in most prominent outcomes. Neuroplastic brain
      changes have been reported with CBT. For example, behavioral activation therapy for
      depression, a psychotherapy modality designed to increase engagement with positive stimuli
      and reduce avoidance behaviors, resulted in decreased activations in prefrontal structures,
      including the paracingulate gyrus, the right orbitofrontal cortex, and the right frontal
      pole, while symptoms of depression improved. Elevated amygdala-hippocampal activity decreased
      and reduced ACC activity increased during 16 weeks of CBT in 16 patients with MDD. A recent
      review highlights the effects of brief working memory training across different studies on
      brain activation in multiple regions including the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, parietal
      cortex, and occipital cortex. Interestingly, cycling has been shown to increase the volume of
      the hippocampus in both patients with schizophrenia and healthy comparison subjects, with no
      change in the non-exercise group of patients. This suggests that CBT and exercise can have an
      impact on the recovery of the brain system from conditions like schizophrenia and MDD.

      Effects of a resilience program have never been investigated with neuroimaging, although it
      would be possible to achieve information about the structure of the white matter fiber
      bundles that connect certain brain regions. Psychological constructs that promote resilience
      - the ability to cope with stressful situations - include commitment, patience, optimism and
      self-esteem, in addition to the capacity to modulate emotions and to develop adaptive social
      behavior. These traits implicate the brain's cognitive-emotional interplay, which seems to be
      a critical determinant of the emergence of pathological rather than resilient phenotypes. The
      cognitive-emotional interplay and its functional brain connectivity can be studied using
      functional MRI. Interestingly, using functional MRI it has been shown that a bias between
      emotional and cognitive processing exists in patients with MDD.

      Aims:

      The aim of the current proposal is to carry out a 20 weeks lasting extensive resilience
      program in order to stimulate resilience in a healthy unaffected population that is exposed
      to normal day-to-day work stress in the hospital. The investigators will measure the
      effectiveness of this program by examining behavioral, diurnal cortisol secretion rhythms and
      stress responses, microstructural as well as functional neural changes.

      Hypotheses:

      The "Resilience" program stimulates resilience indicated by

        1. improved mood stability, better sleep quality and higher life quality

        2. increase of hippocampal and anterior cingulate cortex volumes

        3. increase of functional connectivity between frontal and limbic brain regions.

        4. increase of fractional anisotropy (FA), which is a measure for the functioning of white
           matter fibers, between limbic and frontal brain regions.

        5. increased gradient of the diurnal secretion in cortisol; and decrease in stress
           responses as measured by the cortisol awakening response

      Methods and Materials Participants Forty healthy volunteers, e.g. from Adelaide and Meath
      Hospital, Dublin (AMiNCH) staff, will be recruited. They will have no history of
      neurological, mental (axis I and axis II) or chronic internal diseases. Further exclusion
      criteria for all participants will be a previous head injury with loss of consciousness.
      Moreover, they will not be members of fitness clubs or engage in intensive day to day
      activity. The 40 healthy volunteers will be randomized to a 20 week "resilience" program, 45
      minutes exercise two times per week under the supervision of a physiotherapist as well as 2
      home session; or to a control group without this program, and a further two sessions of
      45-minute exercise/jogging will be completed each week Clinical assessments will be done
      weekly. Neuroimaging and salivary cortisol awaking tests will be carried out at baseline and
      after 20 weeks for both the resilience program group (N=20) and the control group (N=20).

      Clinical assessments The NEO-FFI personality questionnaire and structured clinical interview
      for DSM disorders (SCID)-I and II will be carried out initially to exclude and history of, or
      current, psychiatric disorder. Mood will be assessed using the Hamilton Depression Rating
      Scale (HDRS), the Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale (HAM-A), and the Beck Depression Inventory
      (BDI) at baseline and then bi-weekly. Moreover, current life stressors will be evaluated in
      an interview conducted according to Keller et al. on a weekly basis; Life quality
      (Study-Short Form 36-Item Health Survey (SF-36, QoL-Bref) and the Pittsburgh sleep quality
      index (PSQI), will also be carried out bi-weekly. Early life stress will be assessed using
      the childhood trauma questionnaire (CTQ). The NEO-FFI personality questionnaire and SCID-I
      and II will also be carried out at inclusion once. Handedness will be determined by the
      Edinburgh inventory.

      Neuroimaging techniques MRI images will be obtained with a 3.0 Tesla MRI (Phillips Achieva),
      located in the Trinity College Institute of Neuroscience (TCIN). MRI will be carried out
      using a 60 minutes imaging protocol.

      Diffusion Tensor Imaging (DTI): In vivo DTI will be acquired using a single-shot echo-planar
      imaging (EPI) sequence with SENSE parallel imaging scheme (SENSivitiy Encoding). The
      diffusion weighting will be encoded in 61 independent directions. After pre-processing in the
      program ExploreDTI, tractography with ExploreDTI and tract-based spatial statistics using
      TBSS (www.fmrib.ox.ac.uk/fsl/tbss/index.html, FSL) will be carried out. We have experience in
      using these technique and performing the analyses (25).

      Functional MRI: In order to identify functional changes in the emotion regulation system, we
      will apply an fMRI paradigm. We will use an Echo Planar Imaging (EPI), T2*-weighted
      gradient-echo imaging to visualise BOLD contrast (TR 2000 ms, TE 30 ms, flip angle of 90°,
      matrix 80 x 80, FOV 224 x 224 x 150 mm, resolution: 3.5 x 3.5 mm, slice thickness: 3.5 mm). A
      cognitive-emotional inhibition task, which is well established in our laboratory, will be
      used. Participants will be asked to process visual emotional stimuli either in emotional or
      cognitive way. This task is chosen specifically, because it is known to elicit activity in
      prefrontal cortex, amygdala, gyrus cinguli, orbitofrontal cortex, regions implicated in the
      pathophysiology of MDD. SPM8-based standard analysis, functional connectivity analysis (33)
      and Psycho-Physiological Interaction (PPI) analysis will be done.

      Structural techniques: Additionally, the aim is to track any structural changes and to
      confirm as well as extend recent findings in this area. Therefore, all subjects will be
      scanned with a T1-weighted 3D-MPRAGE sequence (repetition time, 8.5 ms; echo time, 3.5 ms;
      total acquisition time, 7 min 30 sec; number of acquisitions, 1; field of view, 250 x 256 x
      160 mm; resolution: 0.86x0.86x0.86 mm). Region of interest (ROI) analysis of the hippocampus
      and amygdala as well as optimised voxel-based morphometry (VBM) will be used for data
      analysis as previously done in our lab.

      Saliva cortisol samples These will be collected by participating subjects on two successive
      week-days, or working days. Subjects spit into a small plastic tube at wakening, and 30, 45,
      60 and 90 min later; and in the evening (12h after waking) and just prior to going to bed.
      The samples can be stored by participants in a domestic fridge and posted in batch in a
      prepared envelope to the research centre.

      Calculation of sample size The investigators have previously conducted a number of
      longitudinal imaging studies. Based on these experiences, 20 subjects in each group should be
      more than sufficient to obtain significant effects, where signal changes in the order of 0.2%
      to 0.3% are typically found in cognitive-emotional tasks or at least 5 % microstructural
      changes should be found in structural MRI or DTI. Thus, with 20 subjects the effects should
      be detectable.
    
  