
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Aim 1: Assess the feasibility of continuous long-term monitoring of inpatients with stroke
      using wearable sensors.

      The investigators will obtain quantitative health data from research-grade, wireless,
      wearable sensors (including MC10 BioStampRC) on individuals with subacute and chronic stroke
      in the inpatient setting, as well as healthy controls.

      The investigators will specifically check for variability in device data, as well as
      consistency and periodicity of sensor readings across the clinical study period. The
      investigators will analyze test-retest reliability and inter-rater reliability of using the
      wearable sensor technology for clinical and monitoring applications. Furthermore, the
      investigators will determine whether the sensors can distinguish biometric and activity
      characteristics between healthy controls and individuals with stroke.

      Aim 2: Quantify upper and lower extremity movement impairments, mobility-related activities,
      speech and swallowing activities, and clinical parameters during stroke recovery.

      The investigators will obtain continuous biometric and movement-based sensor data for
      clinical symptoms (e.g., muscle activation, heart rate variability, talk time, and gait
      quality) during the performance of validated clinical tests and during general inpatient
      activities (e.g., therapy, eating, and sleeping).

      The investigators will compare device data with clinically validated measures of movement and
      language function, such as the Modified Ashworth Scale or Western Aphasia Battery. The
      investigators will describe variation of device data in subgroups of subjects defined by
      clinician assessed clinically validated measures (10-Meter Walk Test, Mini-Mental Status
      Exam, etc.). The investigators will also assess the ability of the sensors to capture
      response to treatment, such as movement therapy, speech therapy, medication, and Botox by
      comparing sensor data before and after treatment. The investigators will provide evidence
      about the degree to which the measured variables are intercorrelated. Lastly, the
      investigators will evaluate and compare the state of recovery between patients at time of
      discharge using sensor-based outcomes.
    
  