
    
      Spinal cord injury (SCI), damage to any part of the spinal cord or nerves, often causes
      permanent neurofunction deficit, including strength, sensation and other body functions below
      the site of injury. WHO reported 15-40/million people suffer from SCI each year, about
      250,000 to 500,000 people. The majority of SCI victims are young patients, who are at the
      time of working age. As a result of that, SCI not only affects the physical and psychological
      health of those patients, but also bring huge economic burden to their families, as well as
      the society. The current treatments for SCI mainly include surgical operation,
      neuroregenerative medicine, physical therapy, chinese acupuncture and so on. However, none of
      these methods are efficient enough to make any functional recovery of neurological injury in
      patients, and most patients will have to face paraplegia or tetraplegia.

      The most challenge of SCI treatment are reported to be regeneration of axon and rewiring of
      the damaged spinal cord. The properties of strong proliferation and differentiation make stem
      cell transplantation possible to replace the damage axon and rebridge the injury spinal cord.
      Currently, evidences from animal experiments and pilot clinical studies have reported that
      umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cells transplantation was a potential method to treat spinal
      cord injury, but its safety and efficacy remain controversial.

      This study will conduct a multicenter, randomized, controlled trial for UC-MSC
      transplantation for the treatment of different phrases of SCI, including sub-acute, early
      stage, and late stage of chronic SCI. These three trials will investigate the safety and
      efficacy of intrathecal transplantation of UC-MSC in patients with SCI treatment. The study
      will be conducted at 3 hospitals in China, covering eastern, southern and western of Chinese
      mainland.

      The primary outcome is the changes of motor and sensory assessment before and after
      intervention using American Spinal Injury Association (ASIA) Score Scale. Secondary outcomes
      will include International Association of Neural Restoration Spinal Cord Injury Functional
      Rating Scale (IANR-SCIRFS), electromyogram test, residual urine test and adverse events.

      The enrolled participants will be followed up at baseline, 1, 3, 6 and 12 months after UC-MSC
      transplantation. Besides, the samples of serum and cerebrospinal fluid will be collected,
      before and after treatment, to explore the potential mechanism of UC-MSC transplantation for
      the treatment of SCI.

      The results of this study will, for the first time, provide high level of evidence as to the
      relative safety and efficacy of UC-MSC transplantation for the treatment of spinal cord
      injury.
    
  