
    
      This is an open-label, multicenter, dose-escalating study to determine the MTD and dose
      limiting toxicities (DLTs) of CEP 18770, a novel proteasome inhibitor. The study will also
      characterize the pharmacokinetics and the pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic relationship of CEP
      18770, and assess the safety and tolerability of CEP-18770 treatment as well as any effect on
      tumour response whenever possible.

      Patients will be treated intravenously with CEP 18770 on days 1, 4, 8, and 11 of a 21-day
      cycle period. Additional cycles may be administered, up to 6, as long as patients are
      maintaining their performance status and appear to be receiving clinical benefit from the
      study.

      Safety data will be collected for all patients in order to determine the toxicity and
      reversibility of toxicity of CEP 18770. Formal assessments will be performed throughout the
      study including at baseline, prior to each dose of study medication every week, and 30 days
      following the last dose of study drug. Patients with drug-related toxicities will continue to
      be reviewed until resolution or stabilization of the toxicity. Pharmacokinetic and
      pharmacodynamic parameters will also be assessed in each cohort of patients during cycle 1.
      Where applicable, tumour measurements will be documented and any observed anti-tumour
      activity will be evaluated.

      The study will follow a conventional MTD design with patients recruited in cohorts of 3
      patients, with criteria to expand to 6 patients. Enrolment for each cohort will begin when
      the required number of patients in the prior cohort have completed one 21-day cycle of study
      drug treatment at the current dose level without experiencing a DLT. Once the MTD has been
      determined, additional 10 patients will be treated at the MTD to further explore the toxicity
      of this dose, and its suitability for Phase II studies.
    
  