
    
      Coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) is the most common surgical procedure aimed against
      ischemic heart disease (IHD) in Sweden. Early and late success of CABG is the result of
      sustained patency of the bypass grafts. The choice of conduit (graft) for CABG has been shown
      to impact graft patency. The excellent early and late patency of in situ left internal
      thoracic artery (LITA) has stimulated the use of other arterial grafts, such as the radial
      artery (RA) and the right internal thoracic artery (RITA). However, target coronary
      vessels/lesions are limitations for the use of RITA and RA, and concerns regarding
      postoperative sternal wound infection with increases of early morbidity and mortality are
      reasons for limited use of bilateral ITA. The saphenous vein grafts (SVG), together with the
      left internal thoracic artery, are still the most commonly used conduits in CABG surgery.

      Vein graft failure is associated with recurrence of angina and one of the primary reasons for
      reintervention, either by redo CABG or percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). Early vein
      graft failure is not uncommon, and it was shown in the PREVENT IV multi-center trial6, that
      vein graft failure (occluded or stenosed) had occurred in 27% of all vein grafts at one year.

      Despite this, SVG remains as an important conduit for most patients in contemporary bypass
      surgery and every effort should focus on promoting short and long-term patency of SVG.
      Previous studies by Souza have demonstrated that harvesting the SVG with a pedicle of
      surrounding tissue and without vein graft distension, the so-called "No touch" technique
      (NT), significantly improve patency compared with conventional technique i.e. stripping the
      vein of all adventitial tissue and distension prior to implantation. An international multi
      center randomized controlled clinical trial, (SUPERIOR SVG, NCT01047449) including 12 centers
      and 250 patients, was recently presented and showed favorable but not significant results for
      No touch vein grafts compared to conventional vein grafts. The protocol did not include
      cardiac computed tomography angiography (CCTA) for every patient which is an important
      difference compared to our planned study.

      The major limitation regarding the putative benefit of NT technique of vein harvesting is
      that most of the data has all been derived from a single center. The surgical vein graft
      harvesting technique for NT grafts is more demanding. Therefore, there is a clear clinical
      equipoise to perform a multi-center randomized clinical trial to validate the excellent
      single-center results and determine whether the NT technique is reproducible, feasible and
      generalizable.
    
  