
    
      This is a single arm open label phase 1b clinical trial assessing the safety and efficacy of
      neoadjuvant zoledronic acid in patients with resectable any grade chondrosarcoma as measured
      by pathological characteristics and recurrence free survival. Prior to surgery, subjects will
      receive 1 standard dose of IV zoledronic acid given over 15 minutes. Surgery will be
      performed 21-31 days after the dose as per standard of care. The second standard dose of
      zoledronic acid will be given 3 weeks after surgery.

      Phase 1b:

      The Phase 1b portion of this study is to ensure the safety and tolerability of standard dose
      of zoledronic acid intravenously as assessed by incidence of dose limiting toxicities (DLT).
      Although the safety of use of this drug has been established in patients with bone metastases
      from solid tumors (breast, prostate) and in patients with hypercalcemia of malignancy and
      multiple myeloma, it has not been tested in patients with chondrosarcoma. Surgery will be
      performed between day 21 to 31 from the dose of zoledronic acid to allow its effect on the
      tumor and resolution of toxicities. A total of 6 patients will be enrolled in this run-in
      phase 1b. Patients will be followed post operatively as per NCCN guidelines with local and
      systemic imaging.

      Expansion Cohort:

      The phase 1b expansion cohort of the study will provide an estimate of the relative treatment
      effect of zoledronic acid on any grade chondrosarcoma specimens. Subjects will receive a
      total of 2 doses of zoledronic acid, one dose prior to surgery and the second dose 21 days
      after surgery. Patients will undergo standard of care surgery 21-31 days from the first dose
      of zoledronic acid. 9 subjects will be enrolled in this cohort for a total of 15 planned
      subject enrollment over 3 years. Patients will be followed post operatively for recurrence
      with imaging and survival and as per NCCN guidelines.
    
  