
    
      Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is characterised by airflow limitation and by
      both systemic and airway inflammation. Together these features lead to decreased physical
      activity which in turn worsens the patient's dyspnoea. In patients with COPD, physical
      activity levels are low compared to healthy controls and indeed lower than in patients with
      other chronic conditions such as arthritis and diabetes. For patients with COPD, decreased
      physical activity and breathlessness are significant predictors of mortality and morbidity.
      By reversing deconditioning pulmonary rehabilitation using supervised and home exercise
      programs leads to increased exercise capacity and health quality of life scores. In order for
      the benefits of pulmonary rehabilitation to be sustained in the long-term it is essential
      that there is a change in the patient's physical activity in their home life. While practice
      guidelines recommend that there is transference of exercise to the home setting it is unknown
      if this happens in reality. Addressing whether there is an increase in physical activity at
      home after pulmonary rehabilitation is the focus of this study.

      Physical activity can be measured in a number of ways, including direct observation, patient
      diaries and questionnaires, but one of the most successful are the performance based motion
      sensors such as pedometers and accelerometers. One such performance based motion sensor is
      the SenseWear accelerometer. The SenseWear has previously been used in patients with COPD,
      has been shown to be a reliable measure of physical activity performed in this population,
      other than those using rolators and it is objectively more accurate than questionnaires and
      diaries. The hypothesis of this study was that pulmonary rehabilitation leads to a sustained
      improvement in physical activity in patients with COPD. Physical activity was measured by the
      daily averaged activity recorded with a SenseWear armband at several time points in the year
      after a course of pulmonary rehabilitation.
    
  