
    
      Protokol version 1_01062017 Scientific protocol Caesarean delivery with or without an
      indwelling bladder catheter. A randomised trial.

      Background In 2015, approximately 20% of all pregnant women gave birth by caesarean delivery
      (CD) in Denmark.

      Preoperative preparations for CD include the placement of an indwelling urinary catheter. The
      rationale behind the procedure is to decrease the risk of surgical injury to a distended
      bladder and to avoid postoperative urinary retention, but the scientific evidence of the
      benefit to these matters is not compelling(1). On the other hand, the placement of an
      indwelling urinary catheter poses a considerable risk of urinary tract infection (UTI) (2),
      besides the costs associated with delayed ambulation, prolonged hospital stay and catheter
      associated discomfort to the woman (3, 4) A Cochrane review (1) on indwelling bladder
      catheter versus no catheter inserted at CD, found that indwelling bladder catheterization was
      associated with longer time to first spontaneous voiding and more pain/discomfort due to
      catheterization and/or with first voiding. Furthermore, the women with an indwelling catheter
      had longer time to ambulation and longer hospital stay. None of the included studies (n=3) in
      the review reported on bladder injury nor the prespecified criteria for diagnosing UTI and
      thus no result on UTI as a primary outcome could be obtained. In addition, none of the
      randomized trials on CD with or without an indwelling bladder catheter were carried out in
      countries with peri-operative procedures and handling of patients similar to those in Europe.

      In a prospective clinical study (5), there were no bladder injuries in 344 women undergoing
      elective CD without a catheter. UTI was significantly more prevalent in the catheterized
      group (6%) than in the non-catheterized group (0.58%), P<0.05). In retrospective studies on
      women undergoing CD with an indwelling catheter, the overall prevalence of bladder injuries
      is found to be around 0.3%(6, 7).

      The aim of this study is to compare the incidence of catheter associated culture- based
      urinary tract infection (UTI) after elective CD with or without preoperative placement of a
      urinary catheter.

      Statistics Sample size: A power calculation was performed based on a 5.7% incidence of UTI in
      the catheter group and 0.5% in the non-catheter group(4). With an alpha of 0.05 and a power
      of 80%, a total of 400 women would have to be included to detect a significant difference in
      the primary outcome.

      The association between the placement of an indwelling urinary catheter during caesarean
      delivery and the outcomes of interest will be explored using an Intention-to-treat (ITT)
      analysis. The investigators will perform comparative analyses using multivariate logistic
      regression with calculation of Odds Ratios with 95% confidence intervals with adjustments for
      significant differences in baseline characteristics. Subgroup analyses will be performed
      according to the number of previous CDs No interim analysis will be performed. A local trial
      steering committee will be appointed.

      Side effects, risks, and inconveniences for the project participants

      Any inconveniences for the women in the study with providing an extra urinary sample for
      bacterial culture are very small. Women in the indwelling catheter group receive current
      standard treatment. Women without a catheter may have an increased risk of:

        1. Urinary retention; a known side effect to surgical procedures and regional anaesthesia
           (9, 10). The women without an indwelling catheter might have a slightly increased risk
           of urinary retention, but with our postoperative surveillance all cases will be detected
           and treated in both groups of women.

        2. Intraoperative bladder injury; the overall risk is very low (0.3%). In women suspected
           of peri-operative bladder injury, both with or without an indwelling catheter, methylene
           blue will be installed into the bladder through an indwelling catheter, which will serve
           to identify the leak. In case of accidental bladder puncture, surgical repair will be
           performed immediately.

      On the other hand, women without a catheter may have a decreased risk of

        1. Urinary tract infection

        2. Delayed ambulation

        3. Prolonged hospitalization

      7. Biological material Urinary samples are collected from the study participants, for both
      urine dipstick analysis and for urine culture. After obtaining results from the urine
      culture, it will be destroyed. This is standard procedure at the Department of Microbiology.

      Information from patient records The participants' medical records are accessed for
      information on the predefined outcomes; urine test results, any voiding difficulties after CD
      and catheter removal, information on the surgery, time to ambulation, length of hospital
      stay, any sign or symptoms of an infection or fever during hospital stay and if there has
      been any contact to our department after discharge.

      Legal considerations The project will be reported to the Danish Data Protection Agency
      through the joint notifications, Region Midtjylland. The information collected from the
      project participants will be protected according to Danish law (Lov om behandling af
      personoplysninger and Sundhedsloven).

      Basic information (name, contact information, social security number, previous medical and
      pregnancy history) is provided by the participants upon inclusion.

      Financial compensation The project participants will not receive financial compensation for
      their participation.

      Participant information and inclusion Contact to potential participants is established at a
      joint information meeting for women booked for planned CD, where verbal and written
      information about the project will be provided, by a project assistant or a midwife from the
      delivery ward. Both the assistant and midwife are informed and taught personally by the trial
      doctor. Thus, women will have the opportunity for reflection at least 4 days before making
      any decision. Furthermore, the women are offered extended verbal information at the delivery
      ward, where they are welcome to bring an assessor.

      In any need of further information, the women will be given contact information on key
      persons responsible for the project.

      All study participants give oral and written consent at the day of the CD, after at least 4
      days of consideration in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki and Central Denmark
      Research Ethics Committee.

      The women are informed that their consent can be withdrawn at any time.

      Publication of project results Both positive, negative, and inconclusive results will be
      published in international peer-reviewed journals and at the website of the Regional Hospital
      of Randers.

      Ethical considerations With this study the investigators hope to evaluate the possible
      benefits of caesarean delivery without routine placement of an indwelling catheter in order
      to improve the course for women with a future CD.

      The investigators do think that the possible knowledge gained from the project will exceed
      any possible disadvantages experienced by the individual study participants.

      Information on patient compensation The Patient Compensation Association covers the trial.
    
  