
    
      The expected duration of this study is 36 months (18 months accrual period and 18 month
      follow up period). Enrollment into the screening or treatment phase of the study will be
      stopped when the actual subject numbers have been achieved.

      This single arm single institution, open label, prospective, phase II trial will evaluate the
      efficacy and safety of Nivolumab 240 mg IV every 2 weeks plus ipilimumab 1 mg/kg every 6
      weeks in patients with nonresectable/metastatic sarcoma or endometrial carcinoma with somatic
      deficient MMR as a selection tool.patients. Number of patients in the study will reflect the
      reconciliation between statistical requirements and incidence.

      Treatment will continue until disease progression, development of unacceptable toxicity,
      noncompliance or withdrawal of consent by the patient or investigator decision.

      All screening requirements must be completed within 28 days of the visit (except for Patients
      will be examined on cycle 1 day-1 and every 2 weeks, including complete blood count (CBC) and
      chemistry, until disease progression. CT/MRI imaging (contrast) will be performed every 6
      weeks for response evaluation for the first 48 weeks and every 12 weeks thereafter. Clinical
      benefit as well as individual categories of response (complete response (CR), partial
      response (PR), stable disease (SD) and progressive disease (PD) will be determined using
      Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors 1.1 (RECIST). Response duration endpoints,
      including median PFS, PFS at 12 and 24 weeks and OS will be assessed using the Kaplan-Meier
      method. Toxicity (AEs) will be recorded using the NCI- Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse
      Effects v 4.03 (NCI-CTCAE). Screening procedures will include immunostaining for MLH1, MSH2,
      MSH6 and PMS2 all performed on formalin fixed paraffin embedded (FFPE) tissue sections. In
      addition tumor DNA, extracted from FFPE tissue (after choosing optimal area by a
      Pathologist), will be submitted to FoundationOne for a later exploratory analysis.
    
  