
    
      Design: multicentric Aims of this study: to describe clinical and genetic basis of Joubert
      syndrome and cerebello-oculo-renal syndromes.Joubert syndrome (JS) is characterized by
      hypotonia, abnormal ocular movements and neonatal breathing dysregulation evolving into
      developmental delay, ataxia, oculomotor apraxia with variable mental retardation. The
      neuroradiological hallmark of JS is a complex midbrain-hindbrain malformation consisting of
      vermis hypoplasia/dysplasia, a deepened interpeduncular fossa, and thickened, elongated and
      mal-orientated superior cerebellar peduncles (Molar Tooth Sign, MTS). Other organs could be
      involved in JS (kidneys :nephronophthisis or cystic dysplastic kidneys; eyes : Leber
      Congenital Amaurosis, retinopathy, colobomas); liver : hepatic fibrosis; others: polydactyly,
      tongue hamartomas, situs inversus). Several associated central nervous system malformations
      were described : polymicrogyria, hydrocephalus, corpus callosum anomalies and encephalocele.
      This pleiotropic involvement identifies a large spectrum of cerebello-oculo-renal syndromes
      or JS Related Disorders (JSRD).

      Joubert syndrome and cerebello-oculo-renal syndromes (JS/CORS) are autosomal recessive
      conditions associated with a high risk of recurrence for further pregnancies (25%). In 2004
      mutations in AHI1 gene (Abelson helper integration site gene) were identified in 7-11% JS but
      the disease is caracterized by a wide genetic heterogeneity. At least five others genes are
      involved in JS/CORS : NPHP1, which homozygous deletions are responsible for a small
      percentage of JS (2%) and more recently CEP290 gene which exact mutations prevalence remained
      to be evaluated.

      Using molecular analysis of those three genes (sequencing of 29 coding exons of AHI1 and 54
      exons of CEP290, searching for NPHP1 homozygous deletions by PCR analysis) we project to
      study respective prevalence of mutations of those three genes and described associated
      phenotypes in 65 JSCORS patients. This work will allowed to described genotype-phenotypes
      correlation in JSCORS and to progress in the characterization of the underlying pathogenetic
      mechanisms. It will be the first step before identification of novel disease genes.
    
  