
    
      Despite the introduction of better-structured programmes for paediatric anaesthesia training
      and the development of some recommendations for paediatric anaesthesia services, the
      incidence of severe critical events in children is still unknown in Europe. Considering that
      the major life-threatening complications following general or regional anaesthesia are
      uncommon, it is therefore crucial to consider a large multinational, multicentre trial in
      order to establish a realistic statistical estimation and identify the risk factors for
      severe critical events. Thus, this prospective observational multicentre cohort study is
      designed to identify the incidence and potential risk factors of severe critical events in
      children undergoing anaesthesia in Europe.

      The study aims to include all children from birth to 15 years old scheduled for an elective
      or urgent diagnostic or surgical procedure under sedation or general anaesthesia with or
      without regional analgesia or under regional anaesthesia. This represents the denominator
      dataset for calculation of the incidence of severe critical events, which is the primary aim
      of the study. The anaesthesiologist in charge will record the occurrence of selected severe
      critical events during and up to 60 minutes after anaesthesia or sedation AND requiring
      immediate intervention. These severe critical incidents include: Laryngospasm, Bronchospasm,
      Pulmonary aspiration, Drug error, Anaphylaxis, Cardiovascular instability, Neurological
      damage, Perianaesthetic cardiac arrest and postanaesthetic Stridor. The secondary endpoint is
      represented by the risk factors and the consequences for the occurrence of these severe
      critical events including in-hospital mortality established up to 30 days or at discharge.
      Relevant aspects of the child's medical and family history will be recorded.

      Following sample size estimation, we plan to recruit at least 25 000 children over a period
      of two consecutive weeks including weekends and after-hours across the 30 European countries
      represented at the European Society of Anaesthesiology Council or part of geographical
      Europe. The 2-week recruitment period will be chosen by each site commencing on 15 March
      2014.The last possible inclusion date will be decided by the Study Steering Committee
      depending on the recruitment rate. Participating hospitals will be provided with data
      acquisition sheets that enable anonymous standardized recording of all patients' parameters,
      which will be used by the local institution to fill in the electronic case report form
      (eCRF).

      Descriptive statistical analysis will be performed for the primary endpoint (occurrence of
      severe critical events and 95% confidence interval). Univariate and multivariate analysis
      will be performed to test factors associated with the endpoint. Results of logistic
      regression will be reported as adjusted odds ratio (OR) with 95 % confidence intervals.
    
  