
    
      Inappropriate use of antimicrobials favours the spread and emergence of antimicrobial
      resistance and other adverse patient outcomes. Antimicrobial stewardship (AMS) programs aim
      to promote the appropriate use of antimicrobials. Most AMS interventions are based on manual,
      personalized peer review of antibiotic prescriptions by specialists and are therefore time
      and resource intensive. Informatics based, computerized approaches to AMS are a promising way
      to "automatize" AMS, but there have been only few randomized controlled trials analysing
      their effectiveness in the hospital setting.

      The primary research question of this study is whether a multi-modal, computerized antibiotic
      stewardship intervention (I) reduces overall antibiotic exposure (O) in adult patients
      hospitalized in acute-care wards of secondary and tertiary care centers (P) compared to no
      such intervention ("standard-of- care") (C) over a one year time period (T) (the letters
      refer to the corresponding constituents of the PICOT framework).

      The primary objective of the study is to use the methodological rigor of a parallel group,
      cluster-randomized, controlled superiority trial in three Swiss hospitals to answer the
      primary research question. Secondary objectives are to assess the impact of the intervention
      on quality of antibiotic use, patient, microbiologic and economic outcomes.

      The primary outcome will be the difference in overall systemic antibiotic use measured in
      days of therapy (DOT) per admission based on administration data recorded in the electronic
      health record (EHR) over the whole intervention period. Secondary outcomes will include
      qualitative and quantitative antimicrobial use indicators (including non-HIV antivirals and
      antifungals), economic outcomes and key clinical and microbiologic indicators and patient
      safety indicators such as changes in readmission rates, need for intensive care and
      mortality.

      The study hypothesis is that the multimodal intervention is superior to standard-of-care
      regarding the primary outcome, i.e. that the intervention leads to a statistically
      significant reduction in overall antibiotic use expressed as days of therapy per admission
      compared to no such intervention ("standard-of-care" antibiotic stewardship).
    
  