
    
      Endovascular treatment of intracranial aneurysms with detachable coils has been widely used
      since the introduction of GDCs in 1991 and has been proven to be effective in preventing
      rebleeding after aneurysmal rupture. The clinical and angiographic results of endovascular
      coil occlusion of intracranial aneurysms are positive, with an initial and final overall
      complete occlusion rate of 35.9%-76.8% and 38.3%- 87.8%. In the mid- and long-term, however,
      aneurysm recanalization may occur in as many as one-third of cases.

      The natural history of aneurysm recurrence after coil treatment is often benign, but bleeding
      from incompletely coiled aneurysms is a well-documented threat, moreover, the degree of
      aneurysm occlusion after treatment was strongly associated with risk of rerupture. Even if
      100% occlusion of the aneurysms after the initial treatment was obtained on immediate
      postembolization angiography, there was still a relatively high recanalization rate (26.4%)
      on long-term follow-up angiography. In a recent study, we have confirmed that there was still
      aneurysm perfusion of the aneurysm sac in a complete occluded aneurysm no matter on initial
      or follow-up rotate digital angiography. In addition, some authors have demonstrated that
      endothelialization of the aneurysm orifice following placement of GDCs can occur; however, it
      appears to be the exception rather than the rule.

      To overcome these disadvantages, the Willis covered stent, specially designed for
      intracranial vasculature, has been developed by our institution and the MicroPort Medical
      Company (Micro-Port, Shanghai, China). Our preliminary results demonstrated good flexibility
      and efficacy of the Willis covered stent in the treatment of cranial internal carotid artery
      aneurysms (CICA) in patients without an extremely tortuous ICA (Radiology 2009; 253:470-7),
      and also the covered stents have been proved to be more effective than re-coiling with regard
      to complete occlusion of recurrent aneurysms (J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry 2009;16:[Epub
      ahead of print]). Since 2005, we have performed a nonrandomized prospective trial of
      endovascular treatment CICA aneurysms with a covered stenting or coil embolization. So, we
      evaluate whether implantation of a primary Willis covered stent yielded angiographic and
      clinical results that superior to those with the currently recommended approach of coil
      embolization.
    
  