
    
      In recent years, a number of possible surgical procedures in ophthalmology has offered
      patients an alternative to spectacles or contact lenses. Several laser and non-laser
      refractive surgical procedures have been used to modify the shape of the cornea and correct
      myopia, hyperopia, astigmatism, and presbyopia. Introduction of the excimer laser to reshape
      the cornea has resulted in remarkable developments in the correction of refractive errors.
      Combined with other advanced ophthalmic instruments, laser refractive eye surgery has
      resulted in a substantial increase in the safety, efficacy, and predictability of surgical
      outcomes.

      Refractive surgery has enabled individuals to enter occupations they were previously
      precluded from due to their vision.Laser in situ keratomileusis (LASIK) surgery is one of the
      most common surgeries performed worldwide to correct refractive errors and reduce dependence
      on eyeglasses or contact lenses. In addition, patient satisfaction following LASIK is
      commonly reported as high and studies of the visual and refractive outcome of LASIK for the
      treatment of myopia and astigmatism have reported great success.

      LASIK, compared to photorefractive keratectomy (PRK), has low postoperative discomfort, early
      visual rehabilitation and decreased postoperative haze. LASIK involves an additional
      procedure of creating a corneal flap. This may result in complications related to the flap,
      interface and underlying stromal bed. The common flap-related complications include thin
      flap, button holing, free caps, flap dislocation, torn flap, incomplete cut, and flap striae.
      The interface complications of diffuse lamellar keratitis, epithelial ingrowth and microbial
      keratitis are potentially sight threatening. After LASIK, there is a long period of sensory
      denervation leading to the complication of dry eyes. The refractive complications include
      under-correction, over-correction, regression, irregular astigmatism, and visual aberrations.
    
  