
    
      Promoting the emotional functioning of preschool children prior to the transition to school
      has important implications for their adjustment and mental health. Parents can assist
      children to understand and regulate their emotions thereby better equipping the child as they
      face this often highly stressful and anxiety provoking period. In addition, we need more
      knowledge on how processes on both behavioral and physiological levels can contribute to
      explain the mechanisms underlying changes in child self-regulation influenced by parents and
      the home environment.

      Thus, a 2 x 2 intervention design pilot study of the Norwegian version of Tuning in to Kids
      (N-TIK) comparing intervention and wait-list participants will examine:

      i) Does N-TIK lead to better parent-reported parent emotion coaching? ii) Does N-TIK lead to
      better parent-reported child emotional competencies, mental health and adjustment? iii) Does
      N-TIK lead to improved child attentional and executive functions as measured by behavioral
      performance and changes in neural and pupillometric responses in experimental tasks? The
      intervention aims to improve the responsiveness of parents to emotions, both in themselves
      and their children. Theoretically, this is anticipated to lead to children developing greater
      awareness and knowledge of their own emotional experience, to reduced levels of emotionality,
      and to greater internal self-awareness of their emotions (cognitive awareness about emotional
      experience). These comprise some of the core emotional competencies relevant for enhancing
      the transition to school. In turn these competencies are anticipated to be related to greater
      emotional, cognitive and physiological regulation as assessed by experimental paradigms and
      physiological measures. For children at risk (due to limited emotional, cognitive,
      physiological and behavioural regulation), an intervention that assists their parents to
      learn specific skills that enhance their emotion-related parenting, these risks are likely to
      be mitigated.

      This study will be highly innovative on several counts. It will: gather preliminary evidence
      using a 2 x 2 intervention design for the effectiveness of an emotion-focused parenting
      program using a Norwegian sample; use cutting-edge behavioral and physiological measures to
      see whether participation in N-TIK leads to improved child attentional and executive
      functions - critical skills that assist with learning and self-regulation; integrate
      important disciplines within psychology by combining an intervention including preventive
      actions with emotional, neurocognitive and physiological approaches within adevelopmental
      psychological framework.

      Statistical Analyses Time 1 data will be examined to determine relationships between key
      constructs. ANCOVA will be used to examine changes over time and to compare Intervention and
      Wait-list participants on all outcomes.

      Ethical aspects The research will be carried out according to the Helsinki declaration, and
      we will go to great lengths to ensure proper ethical treatment. The potential risks involved
      in this study relate to where concerns might arise with parents, or where parents have
      specific difficulties with children: 1. Families who show significant levels of distress and
      difficulty during the program will have access to appropriate support and intervention
      services. If during the research period the investigators believe that either the children or
      the parents are experiencing serious psychological difficulties, if issues of abuse are
      suspected, or if parents themselves request support or intervention, the investigators will
      discuss with the family what appropriate professional intervention services are available,
      and assist in a referral. 2. Issues of confidentiality: Because many of the sample will be
      recruited from preschool classes, teachers and other parents will be aware of individuals who
      are part of the research and the groups. Teachers will not be given information gained from
      the parents. At the beginning of each of the six sessions, parents will be reminded that all
      material or issues discussed in groups remains confidential and should not be discussed with
      anyone outside of the group. Issues of confidentiality will only be broken should the
      research investigators feel that either a child or parent is at undue risk of being harmed/or
      harming others. Should this occur, parents and children will be fully informed about the
      processes involved in initiating assistance. 3. The specific methods used in this research
      are unlikely to be a potential risk to participants. The questionnaires used in the
      assessment have been widely used in previous research, and have been found not to cause undue
      concern. The home observation task requires the parent and child to read a story together and
      talk about the emotions in the story while being videotaped. This is not thought to be likely
      to cause undue concern. However, if parents find any material in the group, questionnaires,
      or home observation causes them any difficulty, they will be encouraged to talk with one of
      the two group leaders and/or to contact the research investigators, and they will be offered
      referrals to appropriate services should these be required. There are no risks associated
      with the laboratory assessment.4. The research involves a wait-list control group where half
      the participants are assigned to wait for a six-month period before receiving the
      intervention. Should any problems occur during this six-month period, the study investigators
      would refer the family for appropriate assistance. 5. Should any of the material or exercises
      performed in the group cause undue concern, immediate debriefing with the group leaders will
      be provided.

      The applicant, Dr Karevold, is an authorized clinical psychologist and thus legally obliged
      to follow the Health Personnel Act. All research activities will be performed accordingly to
      ensure participants' personal integrity and health. General guidelines for research will be
      followed.
    
  