
    
      Non Celiac Gluten Sensitivity (NCGS), or, better, Non Celiac Wheat Sensitivity (NCWS), since
      it is not known the real pathogenetic component(s) of grain, is a syndrome characterized by a
      cohort of symptoms, both gastrointestinal and extraintestinal, related to the ingestion of
      gluten/wheat-containing food in subjects who are not affected by celiac disease (CD) or wheat
      allergy. In detail, NCWS is distinguished by symptoms that typically take place soon after
      gluten/wheat ingestion, withdraw with gluten/wheat exclusion, and relapse following
      gluten/wheat challenge (i.e., double-blinded placebo-controlled, DBPC, gluten/wheat
      challenge, used for diagnostic purpose) within hours or days. The gastrointestinal clinical
      picture of NCWS is a combination of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS)-like manifestations, such
      as abdominal pain, bloating, diarrhea, or constipation, or alternation of diarrhea and
      constipation, and dyspepsia like-symptoms, such as postprandial heaviness, early satiety, and
      epigastric pain or burning. However, the possibility of extraintestinal manifestations in
      this condition has been suggested by some reports. In most cases, they are characterized by
      vague symptoms, such as headache, 'foggy mind', fatigue, joint and muscle pain, leg or arm
      numbness (i.e., fibromyalgia-like symptoms), even if more specific complaints have been
      described. A possible neurological involvement has been underlined by NCWS association with
      gluten encephalopathy, gluten ataxia, and gluten peripheric neuropathy. NCWS patients may
      show even psychiatric diseases, such as anxiety, depression, and psychosis. Other described
      extraintestinal manifestations are dermatitis, (eczema or skin rash), gynecological
      disorders, and anemia. In addition, the association of NCWS with autoimmune diseases, such as
      autoimmune thyroiditis, and presence of anti-nuclear or other autoantibodies has been
      demonstrated, suggesting that, similarly to CD, NCWS might be considered as an immune
      system-related disease, and this aspect should be of relevance. In conclusion, the novelty of
      this matter has generated an expansion of literature data about the clinical features of the
      disease, with the unavoidable consequence that some reports are often based on low levels of
      evidence. Therefore, only studies performed on large samples, with the inclusion of control
      groups, may be able to clearly establish whether the large information from the literature
      regarding extraintestinal NCWS manifestations could be supported by evidence-based
      agreements. Therefore, the aims of the present study were to: a) retrospectively evaluate the
      prevalence and kind of extraintestinal symptoms in a large cohort of NCWS patients, diagnosed
      by DBPC gluten/wheat challenge; b) to research for a possible relationship between the
      clinical, serological, genetic and histological characteristics of the NCWS patients and the
      number and kind of extraintestinal manifestations. As control groups, the researchers used CD
      and IBS patients unrelated to NCWS or other food allergies/intolerances.
    
  