
    
      Cardiovascular manifestations in patients with IBD mostly occur as immune-related
      consequences and include the following: pericarditis, myocarditis, venous and arterial
      thromboembolism, left ventricle impairment, arrhythmias and conduction disorders and
      valvulopathy .

      The prevalence of classical cardiovascular risk factors is relatively lower in IBD patients
      than in the general population . However, the risk of coronary heart disease is higher in IBD
      patients .

      The pathophysiology of cardiac involvement may be Systemic inflammation for prolonged periods
      that can cause platelet aggregation and endothelial dysfunction leading to the development of
      atherosclerosis and CVD .

      The chronic inflammatory condition found in IBD is the key element in the pathogenesis of
      arrhythmias.

      In IBD, inflammation causes mitral and aortic valvulopathies , excess TNF-α causes the
      thickening and shortening of the leaflets, resulting in regurgitation .

      Medications of IBD may be involved in pathogenesis of cardiac involvement as follows 5-ASA
      and its derivatives can cause myopericarditis . Atrial fibrillation and prolonged QT interval
      may occur during azathioprine use .

      Cyclosporine is associated with increased risk of hypertension, arrhythmias, acute coronary
      syndrome, and heart failure .

      Biological molecules are associated with increased arrhythmogenic risks . Primary preventive
      measures of arterial thromboembolism include maintaining the remission, strict control of
      cardiovascular risk factors .

      The diagnostic modalities to find out cardiac involvement include; The 12-lead
      electrocardiogram . Transthoracic echocardiography which represent the method of choice to
      evaluate both systolic and diastolic functions of Lt ventricle.

      Methodology:

      All Patints will be subjected to the followings :

      Full history taking including

        -  Duration of illness

        -  Symptoms of disease activity

        -  Symptoms of extraintestinal manifestation

        -  Family history of cardiac disease

        -  History of traditional cardiovascular risk factors
           diabetes,hypertension,Dyslipidaemia,cigarette smooking)

        -  Therapeutic history Examination

        -  Body mass index.

        -  Vital signs( pulse,blood pressure,temperature).

        -  Cardiac examination.

      Labaratory investigations

        -  Complete blood count - serum electrolytes

        -  ESR - CRP

        -  lipid profile - blood glucose level

        -  TSH,T3,T4

      ECG

        -  Ischaemic changes

        -  Any type of arrythmia

        -  Prolonged QT interaval

      Holter ECG

      Echocardiography

        -  Systolic and diastolic dysfunctions

        -  Wall motion abnormalities

        -  Valvular heart disease

        -  Ventricular hypertrophy

        -  Atrial and ventricular dimentions
    
  