
    
      We wish to perform a randomised double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial to examine
      the effects of EPO given at the time of primary angioplasty for acute myocardial infarction
      (MI) on myocardial infarct size. In this trial the null hypothesis is that there is no effect
      of EPO on myocardial infarct size, the alternative hypothesis is that EPO reduces myocardial
      infarct size.

      124 subjects with acute ST-elevation MI who fulfil the inclusion/exclusion criteria and give
      informed consent to participate in the study will be recruited from patients referred to the
      cardiac catheterisation laboratories at the Hammersmith Hospital and King's College Hospital.
      Subjects will undergo primary percutaneous coronary angioplasty (primary PCI) according to
      standard clinical protocols. Subjects will be randomised to either placebo or EPO at the time
      of primary PCI. EPO will be given as a bolus of 12ml containing 33,000U over 30 mins via a
      peripheral vein followed by an infusion of 24ml containing 67,000 U over 12 hours. Placebo
      will be identical to EPO without the active ingredient. After the PCI subjects will receive
      standard care on the coronary care unit. An additional 20ml of blood will be taken each day
      at the time of routine clinical venesection for storage and subjects will have gadolinium
      enhanced cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) performed before discharge to evaluate
      infarct size. Follow-up will be performed at 30 days (clinical, ECG and 20ml blood sample)
      and at 90 days (clinical, ECG and CMR scan and blood sample). The study will end at 90 days
      and patients will continue with standard clinical care under the direction of a consultant
      cardiologist.

      CMR will be performed in the Robert Steiner MR Unit/Imaging Department, Hammersmith Hospital
      using a 1.5 tesla scanner according to standard protocols. Each scan will last about 1h and
      information will be collected on tissue characteristics, left ventricular function, wall
      motion abnormalities, myocardial perfusion. Myocardial infarcts will be detected by late
      contrast gadolinium enhancement. Gadolinium will be used at doses up to 0.2mmol/kg and is
      safe with an incidence of mild and transient side effects including headache and nausea of
      ~1%. Scans will be performed with under continuous ECG monitoring with a doctor and at least
      1 other person present. Resuscitation facilities will be available at all times and the MRI
      facility is covered by an experienced 24 hour a day cardiac arrest team.
    
  