
    
      A total number of 15 elite-level runners (both male and female) and 80-100 soccer players
      (both male and female) will participate in the study.The day when participants (runners) will
      arrive at the lab early in the morning, after an overnight fast. They will have their blood
      pressure and orthostatic heart rate measured and they will also provide a blood sample.
      Immediately after participants' body composition will be assessed by dual energy X-ray
      absorptiometry (DXA). Then, they will perform the Meeusen test providing a second blood
      sample immediately after the test. During the subsequent 4-hour resting period, the
      participants followed by assessment of joint mobility, delayed onset of muscle soreness,
      flexibility and vertical jump performance after that lower limb peak torque by isokinetic
      dynamometer. A second Meeusen test will take place after the resting period with blood
      sampling post-testing. Then, participants will have a 3-hour rest, after which they will
      visit the lab again in order to perform the running economy testing protocol and a maximal
      lactate steady state test. Finally, participants will complete POMS-, quality of sleep- and
      symptomatology-related questionnaires and will be taught on how to complete dietary recalls.
      Over the subsequent 12-month period participants will provide the investigator with a
      detailed report of their training plan and a symptomatology questionnaire every month. These
      measurements take place for all participants in two different periods, in transitional
      period/baseline and in middle season (berore tha main race). If someone of participants
      manifest the symptoms of overtraining, they perform the protocol of measurements again. The
      day when participants (soccer players) will arrive at the lab early in the morning, after an
      overnight fast. They will have their blood pressure and orthostatic heart rate measured and
      they will also provide a blood sample. Immediately after participants' body composition will
      be assessed by dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA). The participants followed by
      assessment of joint mobility, delayed onset of muscle soreness, flexibility and vertical jump
      performance after that lower limb peak torque by isokinetic dynamometer. After resting, they
      will measurement the maximum oxygen uptake in stress test on the aisle. The next days, in
      football players take place in field tests, will measure the Speed in 10, 30 meters, Yo-Yo
      IE2 (Intermittent Endurance 2), Yo-Yo IR2 (Intermittent Recovery 2) and Repeated Sprint
      Ability (RSA). Finally, participants (soccer players) will complete POMS-, quality of sleep-
      and symptomatology-related questionnaires and will be taught on how to complete dietary
      recalls.These measurements take place for all participants in two different periods, in
      transitional period/baseline and in middle season (berore tha main race). If someone of
      participants manifest the symptoms of overtraining, they perform the protocol again.
    
  