
    
      This study is a randomised double blind controlled cluster trial of the effectiveness of
      multiple micronutrient supplements given by teachers to schoolchildren on improving their
      growth, nutritional status and educational achievement. The primary outcome measures are:
      gains in weight and height, haemoglobin concentration, cognitive function and educational
      achievement. Secondary outcomes are other anthropometric measurements and a decrease in body
      arsenic deposits. One hundred schools in Meherpur District, Bangladesh will take part in this
      study. Participation will be on the basis of informed consent. All pupils will be dewormed
      twice a year using a single dose of 400 mg albendazole; this will promote the bioavailability
      of the micronutrient supplements. The schools will be randomly allocated into two groups. In
      one group of 50 schools all children will be given by their teachers a single tablet of
      multiple micronutrients on every other school day each week, so for a total of 3 days a week
      or about 125 school days a year, depending on school and national holidays. This supplement
      will make a substantial contribution over a period of one year to each child's recommended
      intake of iron, iodine, zinc, vitamin A, vitamin B12, folate and four B-group vitamins. Some
      of these micronutrients, such as vitamin A and iron, can be stored in the body, in addition
      to meeting current nutritional requirements. Children in the other 50 schools will receive a
      tablet identical in weight, shape, size and appearance that contains the same four B-group
      vitamins as the multiple micronutrient supplement. The B-group vitamins are not expected to
      have a major effect on any of the outcome measures, but may provide some benefit to children
      in the comparison group. Both supplements are formulated according to UK and US
      pharmacopoeias by Acme Pharmaceuticals and are being purchased by Save the Children. Both
      supplements will be given free on three days a week to an estimated 30,000 pupils in all 100
      study schools for a period of two school years. The subjects for study will be up to 30
      randomly selected children in class 2 in the age range 7 - 8 years in all 100 schools. An
      equal number of boys and girls will be selected. The actual number will depend on enrolment
      in class 2 in each school. A baseline survey will be done before the supplements are started
      to measure the following: weight, height and other anthropometric measurements to assess
      growth; the prevalence of intestinal worm infections in a 20% sub-sample; the haemoglobin
      concentration in a drop of blood taken from a finger prick from a sub-sample of about 66% of
      all children; the concentration of arsenic in hair in a sub-sample of about 20% of all
      children; tests of cognitive function including concentration in all children; and tests of
      educational achievement in mathematics and language in all children. These measurements,
      analyses and assessments will be repeated two years later when the cohort of up to 1,500
      children in each study group are in class 4. The magnitude and statistical significance of
      differences in the mean differences in outcome values between study groups will indicate the
      impact of the multiple micronutrient supplement in comparison with B-group vitamins alone.
    
  