
    
      Drug abusing and dependent youth represent a greatly under-served population at high risk of
      presenting significant deleterious long-term outcomes for themselves, their families,
      communities and society at extraordinary long-term costs. Adolescent substance use has been
      linked to serious problems including automobile accidents, increased rates of risky sexual
      behavior which increases the youth's chances of contracting sexually transmitted diseases,
      high rates of physical and sexual abuse, and increased risk for school dropout. Further, drug
      use during adolescence predicts decreased college involvement as well as direct links to
      unemployment and job instability in young adulthood. In general, youth with substance use
      disorders represent a greatly under-served population in need of effective treatment;
      however, adolescents and their families seeking treatment are unlikely to receive an
      effective evidence-based intervention. Given this, there is a clear public health need for
      improving and expanding the delivery of evidence-based treatments for adolescent substance
      use. Despite this clear need, there is a large divide between science and practice. The
      proposed project has the potential to overcome a gaping need within the outpatient treatment
      sector, which is the largest purveyor of adolescent substance use treatment in the country.
      Specifically, the proposed SBIR Phase II project will commercialize a targeted internet-based
      Training Support System (TSS) which will make it possible for community-based agencies to
      adopt, implement, and sustain use of Contingency Management (CM), an evidence-based substance
      abuse treatment for adolescents and their families. This system includes an initial computer
      assisted training for individual counselors, individual- and agency-level performance
      assessment and feedback processes, remediation training and support, organizational-level
      consultation on funding structures, and clinical expert guidance for counselors. This
      entirely internet-based training and support system is the first of its kind. It provides a
      cost-effective training and support platform for community-based substance abuse treatment
      providers, enabling them to train staff in an evidence-based practice with the necessary
      ongoing support to ensure fidelity and rapid uptake of the practice. The Phase I aims focused
      on development of the TSS and initial pilot testing. The Phase II project's first aim is to
      finalize development of the TSS based on data collected in the Phase I pilot testing. These
      data-driven enhancements and changes will ensure high usability and commercialization
      potential of the TSS. The project's second aim is to conduct a randomized trial evaluating
      the efficacy of the TSS in community-based settings, including qualitative evaluation of the
      TSS and quantitative evaluation of (a) counselor knowledge, adherence, and satisfaction and
      (b) clinical outcomes and client satisfaction. Phase II will conclude with the development of
      a market-ready CM Training Support System for community-based counselors that will provide a
      cost-effective strategy for increasing the use of evidence-based interventions for youth who
      need them and rarely have access to them.
    
  