
    
      EoE is an increasingly recognized clinicopathological diagnosis, characterized by a marked
      accumulation of eosinophils in the esophageal mucosa.The presence of eosinophils and
      association of the disease with food allergy and allergic rhinitis suggests an atopic
      disease. Allergic diseases are associated with T-helper 2 lymphocytes (TH2) predominant
      cytokines such as interleukins 4, 5, 13 (IL4, IL5, IL13), which are known to induce IgE
      synthesis and promote eosinophilic infiltration. Granulocyte-Monocyte Colony Stimulating
      Factor (GM-CSF) and Transforming Growth Factor (TGF) - beta are cytokines which are
      associated with many eosinophilic disorders. Swallowed steroid is a conventional treatment
      that has been shown to improve symptoms and decrease number of eosinophils in the esophagus
      in patients with EoE. However, no studies have investigated the effect of swallowed steroid
      on markers of TH2 inflammation in adult patients with EoE.Currently repeated endoscopic
      biopsy of esophagus is the only tool to monitor response to treatment. Serum ultra- sensitive
      CRP is a non-invasive marker of inflammation in cardiovascular and gastrointestinal
      disorders. This study proposes to investigate the correlation of disease activity with this
      potential marker of inflammation in adult patients with EoE which has not been previously
      studied.

      Specific Aim #1: To measure the baseline level of a proposed panel of inflammatory markers:
      serum ultra-sensitive CRP and peripheral eosinophils, as well as tissue eosinophils, mast
      cells, CD4 cells, IL-4, IL-5, IL-13, GM-CSF and TGF-beta in the esophagus in adult patients
      with eosinophilic esophagitis.

      Specific Aim #2: To determine the impact of 8 week course of treatment with swallowed
      beclomethasone on the levels of the inflammatory markers measured in Specific Aim #1.

      Specific Aim #3: To determine the correlation between the levels of the proposed panel of
      inflammatory markers and symptoms of EoE before and after 8 weeks of treatment with swallowed
      beclomethasone.
    
  