
    
      Electronic alerts have been developed and employed at our institution and have been shown to
      increase compliance with both clinical and administrative tasks (O'Reilly et al, 2006;
      Kheterpal et al, 2007). The investigators have developed electronic alerts for the purpose of
      informing the clinician of potentially insufficient anesthesia based on minimum alveolar
      concentration (MAC). The algorithm is as follows:

        -  Every 5 minutes the alerting system checks every active case in our operating rooms. It
           takes approximately 1 second for this scan of all active cases to occur.

        -  Conditions for an "active case" are:

             1. data capture is possible (i.e., not a paper record)

             2. data capture is active (i.e., "patient in room" has been electronically entered and
                end-tidal [Et] CO2 is detected)

             3. case has been identified as a general anesthetic

             4. "anesthesia induction end" has already been documented

             5. request for recovery room bed or transport to an intensive care unit has not been
                documented

             6. surgical dressing completion has not been documented

        -  The alerting system checks the most recent value (within a specified time period) of:

             1. Et Sevoflurane (MAC=2.0)

             2. Et Isoflurane (MAC=1.2)

             3. Et Desflurane (MAC=6)

             4. Et Nitrous Oxide (MAC=105) and compares it to the MAC of each agent. It adds the
                resulting MAC values together for "current total MAC."

        -  The system then checks for a charted propofol infusion in mcg/kg/min and divides by 150,
           assuming that 150 mcg/kg/min is "1.0 MAC" for propofol. The analogous concept of MAC for
           propofol is "Cp50"- the plasma or blood concentrations at which 50% of patients do not
           move in response to a noxious stimulus. Since the investigators do not have the
           technology at our institution to calculate Cp50 or Cp50-awake, the investigators have
           chosen the above propofol dose as an initial value based on clinical experience. The
           resultant MAC equivalent is added to current total MAC.

        -  The system next checks for a dexmedetomidine infusion with a rate of 0.2 mcg/kg/hour or
           greater. If present, it multiplies the current total inhalational MAC by 2, as
           dexmedetomidine can reduce MAC by 50%.

        -  At this point, the "current total MAC" is defined as: Et Sevo /2 + Et Iso /1.2 + Et
           Des/6 + Et Nitrous /105 + propofol rate (in mcg/kg/min)/150. If dexmedetomidine is >0.2
           mcg/kg/hour, inhalational MAC is multiplied by 2.

        -  If this total mac < 0.50, it checks to see if a bolus of propofol, midazolam, etomidate,
           or thiopental has been given in the preceding 10 minutes.

        -  It alerts the clinician signed into the case within 30-60 seconds if total age-adjusted
           MAC < 0.50 AND no bolus has been documented in the last 10 minutes.

      This will be the protocol in the MAC-guided group. In the BIS-guided group an electronic
      alert will be sent if the BIS value is >60. If an alert is triggered, the clinician
      electronically signed into the case receives an alphanumeric page stating "Potentially
      insufficient anesthesia, please check vaporizers and intravenous lines."

      The investigators are collaborating with Washington University, the University of Chicago,
      and the University of Mannitoba, who will also be testing a MAC-based protocol in comparison
      to the BIS.
    
  