
    
      NeuroRx is developing NRX-101, a fixed-dose combination oral capsule composed of
      D-cycloserine (DCS) and lurasidone for the maintenance of remission from Severe Bipolar
      Depression with Acute Suicidal Ideation or Behavior (ASIB) in adults with Bipolar Depression
      following initial stabilization with ketamine. NRX-101 has been awarded Fast Track and
      Breakthrough Therapy Designation by the US Food and Drug Administration.

      In recent years, intravenous and intranasal ketamine have demonstrated rapid and potent
      effects in achieving remission from both depression and suicidal ideation in both bipolar
      depression and major depressive disorder. However ketamine is will understood to induce
      hallucination and other dissociative side effects, to be addictive and have high abuse
      potential, and to have potential neurotoxic effects. Moreover, ketamine can only be
      administered in a monitored hospital or clinic setting. NRX-101 was developed with the
      objective of seeking a safe, non-hallucinogenic, non-addictive, oral medication that might
      maintain the effects of ketamine in patients with severe depression and acute suicidal
      ideation and which might be considered as initial therapy for patients with depression and
      non-acute suicidal ideation. The D-cycloserine component of NRX-101 is believed to act by
      inhibiting the brain's NMDA receptor and raising levels of glutamate/glutamine (Glx) in the
      anterior cingulate cortex. Increased Glx, as measured by magnetic resonance spectroscopy, has
      been associated with clinical improvement following electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) and
      following administration of IV ketamine.

      Primary Objective:

      To test the hypothesis that following successful response to a single infusion of ketamine
      (NRX-100), treatment with NRX-101 is superior to lurasidone in maintaining improvement in
      symptoms of depression as measured by the MADRS-10 total score.

      Secondary Objectives:

      Key secondary: To test the hypothesis that following response to a single infusion of
      NRX-100, daily oral NRX-101 is superior to lurasidone in delaying time to relapse of
      suicidality or depression in patients with Severe Bipolar Depression and Acute Suicidal
      Ideation and Behavior (ASIB). Avoiding relapse will be defined as being relapse-free, without
      experiencing a 50% or greater return to pre-infusion baseline levels of depression, or
      suicidality, or the need to implement a new treatment plan.

        -  To demonstrate that following NRX-100 response, treatment with NRX-101 are less likely
           to suffer from akathisia than those treated with lurasidone.

        -  To demonstrate that following NRX-100 response, other efficacy advantages observed in
           NRX-100 responders are more favorable for NRX-101 vs. lurasidone

        -  To demonstrate safety and tolerability of NRX-101 vs. lurasidone.

        -  To demonstrate that following successful NRX-100 response, NRX-101 diminishes the length
           of stay for index hospitalization vs. lurasidone.

      Methodology: A multi-center, randomized, stratified, double-blind, adaptive trial conducted
      under a Special Protocol Agreement with the FDA that enrolls patients demonstrating
      successful response in NCT03396601. Randomization will be 2:1 favoring NRX-101 (n=48) vs.
      lurasidone alone (n=24).
    
  