
    
      This study has two parts: an observational study of PTNS (Part 1) and a randomized,
      controlled trial of maintenance PTNS compared to no maintenance PTNS (Part 2).

      Part 1: This is an observational study of the efficacy of PTNS therapy in women with
      bothersome OAB symptoms who have failed anticholinergic therapy. Subjects will be offered a
      standardized weekly regimen of PTNS for 12 weeks and asked to respond to surveys before and
      after treatment.

      Pre- and post- intervention assessments will include a 3-day diary to assess voiding volume
      and frequency, Pelvic Floor Impact Questionnaire, Short Form Health Survey (SF-12), Patient
      Global Impression of Severity (PGI-S), Overactive Bladder Questionnaire (OAB-q short form
      bother),and the Pelvic Floor Distress Inventory Short Form (Urogenital Distress Inventory UDI
      6 subset). Post-intervention assessment will include the above, as well as the Patient Global
      Impression of Improvement (PGI-I).

      Part 2: After the initial 12-week treatment, all women with PGI-I less than 4, defined as
      patient perception of bladder function as better, much better, or very much better after the
      treatment than before the treatment, will be randomized to monthly PTNS or no PTNS. Part 2 of
      the study will continue for an additional 42 weeks (i.e. 52 weeks total in parts 1 and 2).
      Subjects will be considered to have failed therapy if their PGI-I score is greater than 3. If
      they are currently receiving PTNS maintenance therapy and have a PGI-I score greater than 3,
      they will be withdrawn from the study and transferred to clinical care to pursue other
      treatment options.

      If they are in the no maintenance arm and have a PGI-I score greater than 3, then they are
      considered to have failed the no-maintenance treatment arm and may receive monthly PTNS
      treatment or pursue other treatment if they choose .

      Study questionnaires will be administered to patients at clinic visits. PGI-I questionnaires
      will be administered via mail (followed by a phone call if the questionnaire is not received
      within a designated amount of time).

      Sequence of Events

      Part 1:

      Initial urogynecology visit with history and physical (part of routine care). Identify
      patients interested in PTNS Offer participation in this study, at which point the subject
      visit transitions from routine care to a research visit.

      Complete questionnaires and diaries to confirm inclusion criteria for those patients who opt
      to participate in this study.

      Weekly PTNS sessions with nurse certified in PTNS administration for 12 weeks Telephone
      reminder to complete 3-day prospective voiding diary prior to MD visit.

      In-person clinic visit with MD at end of 12-week treatment.

      Part 2:

      Clinic visit with MD at end of 12-week PTNS treatment, with administration of questionnaires.
      If PGI-I <4, then randomization to monthly maintenance or no maintenance.

      Monthly RN visits for PTNS for those assigned to receive maintenance PTNS. Monthly
      administration of PGI-I by mail one week prior to scheduled PTNS treatment (or when it would
      be scheduled for those not randomized to receive it). If the questionnaire is not returned
      within one week, PGI-I will be administered by phone.

      MD visit at one year for evaluation, administration of questionnaires, and end of study
      interview.

      For patients who are already undergoing PTNS and therefore do not participate in Part 1 of
      the study, sequence of events will be as follows:

      Clinic visit with MD at end of 12-week PTNS treatment. Identify patients interested in
      enrolling in the study. Offer participation and sign consents, at which point the subject
      visit transitions from routine care to a clinic visit.

      Administration of questionnaires and voiding diary. If PGI-I <4, then randomization to
      monthly maintenance or no maintenance.

      Monthly RN visits for PTNS for those assigned to receive maintenance PTNS. Monthly
      administration of PGI-I by mail one week prior to scheduled PTNS treatment (or when it would
      be scheduled for those not randomized to receive it). If the questionnaire is not returned
      within one week, PGI-I will be administered by phone.

      MD visit at one year for evaluation, administration of questionnaires, and end of study
      interview.

      PTNS Procedure:

      In all study patients, PTNS will be performed per standard protocol by our trained clinical
      R.N. as follows. A 34-gauge needle is inserted approximately three fingerbreadths cephalad to
      the medial malleolus, between the posterior margin of the tibia and the anterior margin of
      the soleus muscle, approximately 3-4cm deep. A ground pad is applied on the same leg near the
      arch of the foot, and then the needle and electrode are connected to the Urgent PC stimulator
      (Urgent PC®, Uroplasty Inc., MN, USA), with an adjustable pulse intensity of 0-9 MA, a fixed
      pulse width of 200 microseconds, and a frequency of 20 Hz. The intensity is increased until
      the large toe starts to curl or the toes start to fan in order to assure correct placement,
      then turned down to an intensity the patient can tolerate. This treatment is performed in the
      clinic by a nurse trained in its administration, for 30 minutes weekly for 12 weeks. If the
      patient responds, then she is randomized to receive either 30-minute monthly maintenance
      treatment or no treatment.

      Outcome Instruments

      At baseline 12 weeks and 52 weeks,

      3-day voiding diaries with frequency and volume charts

      Questionnaires regarding quality of life and symptom improvement:

      A. OAB-q (Overactive Bladder-q Short Form)

      B. PFDI-SF (Pelvic Floor Distress Inventory Short Form)

      C. PFIQ-SF (Pelvic Floor Impact Questionnaire Short Form)

      D. PISQ-SF (Pelvic Organ Prolapse/Urinary Incontinence/Sexual Function Questionnaire Short
      Form)

      E. SF-12 Medical Outcomes Study Short Form

      F. PGI-I (Patient Global Impression of Improvement)

      At week 12 and one week before their maintenance PTNS (or when their maintenance PTNS would
      be if they were randomized to receive it), patients fill out a mailed PGI-I.

      Sample size

      The primary outcome is time to failure as measured by PGI-I greater than 3. Because there is
      data for success rates with and without maintenance PTNS but no specific data regarding time
      to failure, we will use success rates to power the study. For 80% power, and a confidence
      level 0.05, if we estimate that 80% of people who initially respond to PTNS (as determined by
      PGI-I < 4) will continue to have improvement after 1 year with 12 weeks of PTNS followed by
      maintenance PTNS [Cooperberg 2005] and 20% will continue to have improvement for one year
      after 12 weeks of PTNS only [Nuhoglu 2006], then we need 7 subjects randomized to maintenance
      treatment and 7 subjects randomized to no maintenance treatment in Part 2. Based on the
      literature, we can expect at least 60% of subjects to respond to the 12-week course of PTNS,
      so we will need 23 subjects enrolled in Part 1 of the study. A sample size of 23 subjects at
      the start of Part 1 provides 14 responders for Part 2. This should offer 80% power to detect
      a relative difference of 50% between maintenance PTNS and no maintenance PTNS. To buffer
      against a potential drop-out rate over the year of 30%, we will plan to enroll 32 subjects
      total.

      Secondary outcomes, including quality of life, condition-specific quality of life, and diary
      measures will be compared before and after the observational study, as well as at the end of
      the year. We will subcategorize subjects by whether or not they intended to remain on
      anticholinergic medications, whether or not they had detrusor overactivity based on
      urodynamic studies (if done), and whether those receiving PTNS after a year were originally
      randomized to receive maintenance PTNS or not.

      Data management

      At screening, each subject will be assigned a sequential study number. These will be
      de-identified and stored in locked file cabinets.

      Block randomization will be performed in groups of 8 with a random number generator, and odd
      numbers assigned to PTNS maintenance, even numbers assigned to no maintenance PTNS.
      Assignments will be put in sequentially administered envelopes.

      Statistical Analysis

      The two groups will be compared with respect to demographic and baseline variables (e.g. age,
      race, BMI, quality of life status, prior treatment, current OAB medications) using chi
      squared and t tests.

      Analysis of primary outcome will be a comparison of time to failure measured by PGI-I >3 in
      the group assigned to maintenance PTNS compared to the group not assigned to maintenance via
      chi-squared analysis. A cox regression model may be used to analyze time to failure on
      maintenance PTNS compared to no maintenance PTNS.

      Other statistical and qualitative analyses will be performed on secondary outcome measures as
      appropriate.
    
  