
    
      Febrile neutropenia (FN) is a major complication in cancer patients undergoing intensive
      chemotherapy. Endogenous flora is considered to be one of the main sources of infections in
      neutropenic patients. The first step in infection process is colonization of the intestine by
      pathogenic bacteria with their subsequent translocation through the intestinal mucosa and
      systemic dissemination.

      The alterations of the intestinal flora occurs due to chemotherapy and also due to the use of
      broad spectrum antibiotics, which suppresses anaerobic growth of the normal gut flora leading
      to a damage of colonization resistance. Competitive inhibition of gut mucosal colonization by
      pathogenic micro-organisms using synbiotics could represent one of the potential options for
      the prevention of febrile neutropenia in cancer patients. Compared with the existing
      selective bowel decontamination with quinolones and/or trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole,
      investigators may expect also reduction of the incidence of fungal and Gram-positive
      infections due to changes in the intestinal microflora. Based on the results of animal
      studies, probiotics could probably also lead to a reduction in the duration of neutropenia
      and boost immunity.

      Synbiotics represent combination of two components: probiotics and prebiotics. Probiotics are
      live microorganisms, which in form of drugs or food supplements administered at a sufficient
      dose help to maintain health beneficial microbial balance in the digestive tract of a human
      or other host. Prebiotics are food ingredients nondigestible for our digestive enzymes, but
      can be fermented by bacteria in our bowel and this way selectively stimulate growth or
      activity of specific saccharolytic bacterial strains.

      Lactic acid bacteria are currently widely used in prevention and treatment of certain
      infectious diseases. They stimulate the immune system, compete for substrate with pathogenic
      bacteria, produce bacteriocins, competitively inhibit bacterial adhesion sites, increase the
      transepithelial resistance and bind some mutagens.

      Current evidence supporting probiotic use as adjunctive therapy to anticancer treatment is
      limited, especially in cancer patients treated with chemotherapy. Some of the reports support
      their beneficial effects on certain aspects of toxicity related to chemotherapy and radiation
      therapy; however, large properly designed clinical trials are needed to assess their real
      position as a part of anticancer treatment.

      Eleven studies in cancer patients were included in meta-analysis to assess efficacy of
      probiotics. Results show that probiotics may reduce the severity and frequency of diarrhoea
      in patients with cancer and may reduce the requirement for anti-diarrhoeal medication, but
      still more studies are needed to assess the true effect. The importance of probiotics in the
      treatment of acute diarrhea is supported by meta-analysis of 34 randomized placebo-controlled
      studies, which showed significant reduction in diarrhea incidence with better effect
      especially in the pediatric group. Most of these studies were performed with the probiotic
      strain Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG (LGG). The duration of rotavirus diarrhea in children and
      diarrhea in immunocompromised HIV-positive patients was significantly shortened after
      administration of certain strains of Lactobacilli resp. Saccharomyces boulardii.

      Investigators can find only anecdotal reports about use of probiotics in patients with
      neutropenia. In experimental models with cyclophosphamide-treated mice preventive treatment
      with immunomodulatory lactobacilli was successfully used to protect against myelosuppression
      and immunosuppression. Lactobacilli were able to induce an early recovery of neutrophils in
      blood, improve phagocytic cells recruitment to infectious sites and increase the resistance
      against the opportunistic pathogen C. albicans. In another similar study administration of
      heat-inactivated strain of Enterococcus faecalis shortened the duration of
      cyclophosphamide-induced neutropenia and speeded up the restitution of neutrophil count. The
      important feature of the lactic acid bacteria is ability to produce fatty acids with short
      chain, which is an important metabolite for colonocytes and this way they may participate in
      the faster restitution of the mucosa after chemotherapy.

      Probiotics fall into the category of organisms classified as "generally regarded as safe".
      The safety concerns with probiotic administration in cancer patients are related mainly to
      risk of infection caused by probiotic bacteria and transfer of antibiotics resistance.

      Many probiotics strains are naturally resistant to antibiotics, but majority of this
      resistance is intrinsic (chromosomally encoded) and therefore nontransmissible. This could be
      a danger, when probiotics become infectious agents, on the other hand probiotic strains with
      intrinsically antibiotic-resistance may benefit patients, whose normal intestinal microflora
      has become greatly reduced or unbalanced due to the administration of various antimicrobial
      agents. For some strains (e.g. LGG) the plasmid-free status was proven, but at the same time
      it was shown, that some strains may carry potentially transmissible plasmid-encoded
      antibiotic resistance genes, which could lead to the formation of new antibiotic-resistant
      pathogens. Therefore, one of the key requirement for probiotic strains is that they should
      not carry transmissible antibiotic resistance genes.

      Despite the fact, that the incidence of infections caused by lactic acid bacteria is
      extremely low, there exists certain risk, that they can become pathogenic. In case reports
      probiotics are mentioned as causing local infections such as chest infections, digestive
      tract infections, urinary tract infections, and meningitis. Though reported lactobacilli
      bacteremia are very unusual and rare in the pediatric population. They were naturally more
      often observed in immunocompromised patients, such as in patients with bone marrow
      transplantation or in patients with AIDS, which also demonstrates low-virulency of these
      strains. Moreover, clinical isolates of L. rhamnosus captured in these cases had some
      significant phenotypical differences in one or more properties associated with virulence
      compared to those, which are used as probiotic strains. Concerns of iatrogenic infection are
      one of the main reasons for limited experience with administration of probiotics in
      granulocytopenic patients. In addition, due to chemotherapy it comes not only to neutropenia
      but also to local affection of gut mucosa and therefore hypothetically arise the possibility
      of bacterial translocation. This phenomenon is caused by a defective intestinal barrier,
      immunosuppression and also gut prematurity. It was described as the passage of viable
      indigenous bacteria from the gastrointestinal tract to extraintestinal sites and may result
      in the transfer of bacteria to other organs, thereby potentially causing bacteremia,
      septicemia, and multiple organ failure. However, evidence from animal model studies suggests
      that there is actually a reduction in the translocation of other bacteria when probiotics are
      given, as opposed to the transmigration of probiotic bacteria into the bloodstream.

      The concerns around bacteraemia/fungaemia or blood culture growth are significant in cancer
      patients, but this risk needs to be considered alongside any potential benefit. Systematic
      review including 17 studies with cancer patients identified only five such case reports of
      the 756 cases described consuming probiotics. Moreover such cases were noted also in patients
      not known to be consuming probiotics. In addition, there is no evidence from population based
      studies of any increased risk of bacteremia or endocarditis due to probiotics and their
      incidence still remained extremely low despite current widespread use of probiotic. Even
      findings of some small studies in groups of specific immunocompromised patients (e.g.,
      patients with HIV infection) support the safety of particular probiotic strains.

      One of the most recent systematic reviews identified 11,977 publications, of which 622
      studies (included 24,615 participants using a probiotics) were included in the review. Based
      on reported adverse events, randomized controlled trials showed no statistically
      significantly increased relative risk of the over all number of experienced adverse events
      (Relative risk (RR) = 1.00; 95% Confidence interval (CI): 0.93, 1.07, p = 0.999);
      gastrointestinal; infections; or other adverse events, including serious adverse events (RR =
      1.06; 95% CI: 0.97, 1.16; p = 0.201), associated with short-term probiotic use compared to
      control group participants; long-term effects are largely unknown. Case studies suggested
      that participants with compromised health are most likely to experience adverse events
      associated with probiotics. However, randomized control trials (RCTs) in medium-risk and
      critically ill participants did not report a statistically significantly increased risk of
      adverse events compared to control group participants. In conclusion authors of this analysis
      state, that the available evidence in RCTs does not indicate an increased risk; however, rare
      adverse events are difficult to assess. However, despite the substantial number of
      publications, the current literature is not well equipped to answer questions on the safety
      of probiotic interventions with confidence, especially in group of critically ill patients.
      Nevertheless, in specific probiotics group, as lactobacilli and bifidobacteria, some authors
      report that current evidence suggests, that the risk of infection with these probiotic groups
      is similar to that of infection with commensal strains and though consumption of such
      products presents a negligible risk to consumers, including immunocompromised hosts.
      Moreover, this potential risk needs to be always considered alongside any potential benefit.
      Despite limited data, it seems that probiotic bacteria as live microorganisms could be safely
      administered even in setting of neutropenia. Future research should focus on selection of
      most effective and safe probiotic strains and their combinations, and/or administration of
      probiotics with prebiotics to increase their success in maintaining colonization resistance
      and in prevention of the adverse events of anticancer treatment.

      In a comparable study phase I. probiotic strain was applied to 11 cancer patients to evaluate
      their benefits and safety. Subsequently, 14 patients with acute myeloid leukemia treated with
      chemotherapy were enrolled in phase II. None of reported febrile episodes was induced by
      probiotic strain and no severe adverse events were recorded. Despite limited number of
      patients, this was the first direct evidence of the safety of probiotics in patients
      receiving chemotherapy.

      One of the causes of failed efficacy of probiotics in the prevention of febrile neutropenia
      may be the presence of other entries of infection such as central venous catheters. Also, the
      efficiency of colonization, mucosal damage due to chemotherapy dose and specific probiotic
      strain may be the causes of this. Another reason may be the inability of one probiotic strain
      to compensate all changes in the intestinal microflora induced by chemotherapy. One way to
      solve this problem may be use of combination of multiple probiotic strains. Appropriate
      selection of strains is required, cause they must not behave antagonistically to each other.
      Other option is to use combination of prebiotics with probiotics. This can lead not only to
      acceleration of gut colonization by probiotics, but also to stimulation of endogenous flora
      growth, which may enhance colonization resistance at another level.
    
  