
    
      Rotator cuff injuries are the most common injury to the shoulder girdle. Patients present to
      the clinic with shoulder compression at an early age and with tears in older ages. Nearly 50%
      of the population can be torn in advanced ages. Repetitive trauma caused by overuse is blamed
      for rotator cuff tears. The narrowing of the subacromial distance causes compression in the
      anterior, tears and enlargement of the tears by extrinsic mechanism. In addition, the surgery
      to be performed according to the subacromial distance and the benefit to the patient from
      this surgery can be predicted. In studies conducted in normal population, subacromial
      distance was reported to be between 6-12 mm, measurements made under 6-7 mm were evaluated as
      pathologically and were defined as tears that would not benefit from repair.

      The reliability of this measurement, which guides the diagnosis and treatment, is important.
      The diagnosis of these diseases is made by imaging methods following the physical examination
      and then the decision of the appropriate treatment method is made. It is known that
      conventional radiographs constitute the first step of evaluation as a standard in almost all
      patients in orthopedic practice. Magnetic resonance imaging and ultrasound are often
      preferred for shoulder, shoulder circumference pathology and injuries, in relation to the
      examination findings after direct radiography at the diagnosis and examination stage. Drawing
      graphs on both shoulders from these images to provide comparative evaluation provides more
      detailed information in evaluation. The subacromial distance or acromiohumeral distance used
      in the evaluation of rotator cuff pathologies was defined as the shortest distance between
      the sclerotic inferior border of the acromion and the humeral head. The measurement of this
      distance can be made with direct graphy, mri, ct, and ultrasound. In the only systematic
      review on this subject, it was emphasized that this measurement can be made with ultrasound
      as the most reliable, and the evaluations made by direct radiography are worthless. In these
      inferences, the poor methodology of the studies made using direct graphy measurement was
      shown as the reason. Many studies have been carried out by standardizing the imaging, its
      importance has been proven by the inconsistent results of the study with non-standardized
      graphs.
    
  