
    
      Women tested positive for GBS during systematic vaginal screening at 35-37 weeks, will be
      proposed to participate to the study and will be included after reading the information
      letter and signature the consent form.

      INCLUSION (D0 at time of delivery)

      In the labor ward, two women's groups 1 and 2:

      Group 1 = Women tested positive for GBS pre-selected and included in the protocol (see
      pre-inclusion) Group 2 = Women without antenatal vaginal screening and at risk of neonatal
      infection.

      For both groups, at time of delivery:

      At the beginning of the labour performed vaginal swabs (PV0):

        -  one swab for GBS detection by real-time PCR using the Cepheid technique conducted in the
           labor ward by the midwife.

        -  the second swab for GBS detection by conventional bacteriological techniques and sent to
           the bacteriology laboratory.

      For all women included (Group 1 and Group 2 women with a positive GBS vaginal sample) will be
      achieved in the delivery room:

        1. To the mother: A blood sample of 5 ml at the time of the implementation of the IV line.

        2. A sampling of umbilical cord blood. Newborns of mothers included (group 1 and 2) will
           have a search for GBS (standard culture) in the stools and the pharynx prior to return
           home. Samples will be sent to the bacteriology laboratory and analyzed by classical
           bacteriological method (culture) and / or real-time PCR.

      For mothers, the collection of 3-5 ml of milk when breastfeeding.

      Monitoring schedule:

      Day 21 and day 60 post delivery:

      the following samples for search of GBS for will be performed to gather the primary endpoint:

      For the mother:

        -  Vaginal sample.

        -  Collection of 3-5 ml of breast milk when breastfeeding

      For the newborn:

        -  Sample collection of feces

        -  Swab of buccal cavity

      Processing bacteriological samples:

      All samples will be subjected to bacteriological analysis and DNA extraction for detection of
      GBS. GBS isolated will be identified and stored at - 80 ° C in a declared biological
      collection. DNA extracts will also stored at -20 ° C in a declared biological collection. All
      samples for microbiological analysis will be stored at - 80 ° C.
    
  