
    
      STUDY POPULATION Patients affected by Hodgkin's lymphoma, any stage, older than 69 years.
      Patients affected by Hodgkin's Lymphoma with concomitant cardiopaty, older than 18 years.

      AIMS OF THE STUDY

        -  To evaluate in elderly and/or cardiopathic HL patients, the cardiologic toxicity of the
           MBVD regimen, where liposomal doxorubicin (Myocet®) is substituted for doxorubicin in
           the conventional ABVD regimen

        -  To compare in a pair-match retrospective analysis the results obtained with MBVD with
           those obtained in patients comparable for clinical variables and treated with ABVD or
           with the reduced intensity VEPEMB schedule.

      STUDY DESIGN Multi-centre phase II study SAMPLE SIZE 50 patients

      STUDY PROCEDURES

        -  Histologic diagnosis of Hodgkin Lymphoma.

        -  Early Staging evaluation including:

             -  Blood tests

             -  CT, PET and bone marrow biopsy.

             -  Heart and lung function evaluation.

             -  Geriatric assessment.

             -  Quality of life evaluation.

        -  2 MBVD courses

        -  Early restaging with PET scan (PET-2)

        -  The subsequent treatment will be planned as follows:

             -  Stage I and IIA patients will go on with 1 more course of MBVD (total of 3 courses)
                followed by involved field radiotherapy (30 Gy-36Gy).

             -  Advanced stage (IIB-IV) patients will go on with 4 more courses of MBVD (total of 6
                courses). Radiotherapy limited to bulky or non complete responder areas (30-36 Gy)
                is optional.

        -  Final restaging including:

             -  Blood tests

             -  CT, PET

             -  bone marrow biopsy if positive at baseline.

             -  Heart and lung function evaluation.

             -  Geriatric assessment.

             -  Quality of life evaluation

      Follow up procedures will include:

        1. a clinical and laboratory evaluation (with troponin, proBNP / BNP, cardiology visit, ECG
           and echocardiogram) every 6 months in the first 2 years, then annually.

        2. CT scans will be planned annually.

        3. Compilation of geriatric evaluation scales every 6 months in the first 2 years, then
           annually.

      MBVD will be scheduled as follows (4 weeks):

      Myocet 25 mg/mq i.v. day 1 and 15 Bleomycin 10 mg/mq i.v. day 1 and 15 Vinblastine 6 mg/mq
      i.v. day 1 and 15 Dacarbazine 375 mg/mq i.v. day 1 and 15 Supportive treatment with G-CSF
      and/or Erythropoietin will be planned according to international guide-lines.
    
  