
    
      In this pilot RCT, investigators will assess the feasibility for older Veterans with cLBP and
      depression assigned to receive the behavioral intervention (n=25) versus the waitlist control
      (n=25). Follow-up will also include assessments at 6 months and 12 months post-intervention.

      Overview of Proposed intervention: The behavioral intervention is designed for older Veterans
      with cLBP and depression and will include 8 individual telephone sessions delivered by health
      coaches over a period of 10-20 weeks (up to 5 months total, accounting for additional time
      between sessions if needed). Exceptions may be made for highly motivated subjects who had
      unfortunate life circumstances arise.

      For the physical activity component of the intervention, investigators will provide an Omron
      pedometer to subjects, as previously used in VA research studies. The Omron pedometer will be
      set up by the research team (stride length, setting date/time) and will be mailed to the
      subject's home in between session 1 and 2. The health coach will remind the subject that this
      pedometer will arrive via United States Postal Service mail to their home and to call the
      research coordinator when it arrives. The research team will provide technical assistance and
      instructions to the subject regarding use of the Omron pedometer (to be worn on the waist
      band, daily, all day aside from showers/baths). The research team will also verbally show the
      subject how to press the mode and memory buttons to obtain weekly step counts for
      documentation/tracking physical activity. The subjects will be prompted by the health coach
      or research staff to report out weekly step counts during subsequent coaching sessions.

      In addition to the assessments outlined later in this protocol, specifically at 12 months,
      investigators will conduct in-depth semi-structured interviews with ~10-15 participants (8
      from both arms of the pilot trial, the health coaches, 2 primary care providers, and 1 mental
      health provider) using purposive sampling. The health coach/research coordinator will
      identify Veterans who are at higher risk for drop-out, were less engaged, or were
      particularly successful at achieving behavioral change. The purpose of this final interview
      is to learn about the barriers and facilitators to successful intervention delivery and
      participant retention from the Veteran, health coach, and provider perspective.
    
  