
    
      INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND:

      The incidence of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest (OHCA) in Denmark is approximately 4,000 per
      year, and the mortality remains approximately 90%. Furthermore, in the approximately 30% of
      patients who are resuscitated and admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU), the mortality
      within the first month remains between 50% to 70%. Accordingly, an increasing emphasis on
      post-resuscitation care has been addressed by contemporary guidelines.

      The high mortality after resuscitated OHCA has been attributed to a post-cardiac arrest
      syndrome (PCAS), which includes four mutually interacting components: a systemic inflammatory
      response (SIRS)-like syndrome, cerebral injury, myocardial dysfunction, and the persistent
      precipitating cause of the arrest. Despite repeated emphasis on post-resuscitation care, no
      specific therapies targeting PCAS have been implemented, with the exception of targeted
      temperature management (TTM), which has been recommended since 2003. Accordingly, research
      addressing mitigation of the PCAS seems intuitively beneficial.

      During and after OHCA, exposure to whole-body ischemia and reperfusion injury triggers
      activation of inflammatory cascades leading to a sepsis-like syndrome. A multitude of
      inflammatory markers have been associated with unfavorable outcome after OHCA, including
      procalcitonin (PCT), c-reactive protein (CRP), interleukin (IL) 6, and IL-10.

      Furthermore, the inflammatory markers interleukin 1β (IL-1β), IL-6, IL-10, and tumor necrosis
      factor α (TNF-α) have all been associated with the severity of PCAS, assessed by sequential
      organ failure assessment (SOFA) score. Importantly, levels of IL-6 have been shown to be
      independently associated with unfavorable outcome after adjustment for known risk markers.
      Further, the level of IL-6 was more strongly associated with PCAS severity compared to
      classical inflammatory markers such as CRP and PCT.

      Interleukin-6 is a pro-inflammatory cytokine secreted by T cells and macrophages. IL-6
      readily crosses the blood-brain-barrier and is a mediator of fever. Further, IL-6 is a
      mediator of the acute phase response and plays a role in activation of the coagulation
      system, increasing vascular permeability, and weakening papillary muscle contractions leading
      to myocardial dysfunction. As such, IL-6 is involved in pathological processes including
      tissue hypoxia, disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC), and multiorgan failure, all of
      which represent parts of the SIRS response. IL-6 has been suggested to play a role in
      ischemia-reperfusion injury in myocardial infarction (MI), and higher levels of IL-6 have
      been associated both with the magnitude of myocardial injury, mortality and adverse events in
      this group.

      Due to the role of IL-6 in many inflammatory diseases, IL-6 receptor antibodies (IL-6RA) have
      been developed. The first IL-6RA, tocilizumab, was approved for treatment of rheumatoid
      arthritis in 2009, and has later been approved for giant cell arthritis and chimeric antigen
      receptor (CAR) T cell-induced cytokine release syndrome. In addition to the approved
      indications, tocilizumab has been suggested to have other beneficial immune modulating and
      organ protective effects.

      In patients presenting with non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI), a one-hour
      infusion of 280mg tocilizumab decreased the inflammatory response assessed by CRP levels, and
      further decreased myocardial injury assessed by TnT levels. Importantly, no increased risk of
      adverse events was observed in patients receiving tocilizumab. Animal data suggest that
      tocilizumab is safe and effective for treatment of severe acute pancreatitis and associated
      acute lung injury. Further, tocilizumab had neuroprotective effects in a model of Alzheimer
      disease. In humans, tocilizumab has been suggested to be effective against the autoimmune
      neurological disorders neuromyelitis optica and autoimmune encephalitis.

      In summary, resuscitated OHCA is associated with a severe SIRS-like response, the magnitude
      of which has been associated with increased mortality and poor neurological outcome.
      Inhibiting the IL-6 mediated immune response may inhibit the SIRS-like response and may
      further inhibit ischemia-reperfusion injury leading to improved outcome.

      HYPOTHESIS:

      A one-hour infusion of the IL-6RA tocilizumab initiated as soon as possible after ROSC will
      reduce the SIRS-like response assessed by hsCRP levels after OHCA.

      SAMPLE SIZE:

      A total of 80 patients will be included, i.e. 40 being allocated to IL-6RA and placebo,
      respectively. Patients who die or become hemodynamically unstable immediately after
      randomization before the study drug has been prepared will be excluded from the modified
      intention to treat population and replaced by randomizing additional patients. Likewise,
      patients for whom the relatives refuse study participation when informed of the study and
      asked for consent (before the patients can be asked) will be excluded from the modified
      intention to treat population and replaced.
    
  