
    
      Based on data from the National Inpatient Sample from 2002-2012, patients undergoing elective
      primary ACDF, diagnosed with dysphagia (4% of total patients), had a two-fold increase in
      mean length of stay (4.03 compared to 1.56 days; p < 0.001) and a substantial increase in
      their total hospital charges (p < 0.001) versus those not diagnosed with dysphagia. There are
      very few level I studies which describe successful management of these complications.
      Steroids have shown promise, however, there exist concerns for consequent delayed bony
      fusion. Racemic epinephrine is a mixture of both the R and L isomers of epinephrine which
      theoretically results in a milder side effect profile and longer shelf-life versus the
      standard L-epinephrine. Traditionally, racemic epinephrine has been administered in a
      nebulized form for the treatment of severe asthma, laryngeal edema, and bronchiolitis. The
      most severe side effects that have been reported include tachyarrhythmias and paradoxical
      bronchospasms, although these reports are rare and limited mainly to single case reports or
      case series. It confers its therapeutic effect through Racemic α-adrenergic and β-adrenergic
      mediated vasoconstriction of mucosal vasculature decreasing edema and in the respiratory
      tract, inducing bronchodilation. The PI, has been utilizing nebulized racemic epinephrine at
      standard dosages (1 unit of 0.5 ml of 2.25% racemic epinephrine) for the treatment of severe
      post-operative dysphagia in patients undergoing ACDF for 20 years. The investigator has
      achieved marked success with this intervention with no notable associated complications.
      Despite being successfully utilized in this manner for many years in small pockets of the
      spine community, the use of prophylactic racemic epinephrine for the management of dysphagia
      has not been described in the literature. The investigators hope to be able to fill this
      important knowledge-gap with our study data.
    
  