
    
      A Phase II prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled and comparative clinical
      study evaluating hydrogel scar-management modalities for effective management of
      hyperproliferative scars and keloids. Unlike raised and, or hyperproliferative scars that
      result from aberrant wound healing, keloids are the result of inherited genetic mutations in
      a variety of proteins essential to orchestrated wound repair. Whereas hyperproliferative
      scars may have shared similar abnormalities throughout the repair of a primary injury, they
      are not predictors of subsequent scarring following scar revision. Keloids on the other hand
      will return upon excision, and in some cases larger in size than the excised scar tissue.
      Current treatment options for keloids as well as hypertrophic scars include intralesional
      corticosteroids, silicone gel sheeting, compression, surgery and adjuvants to surgery,
      including radiation and cryotherapy.

      Onion skin extract, silicone, and a variety of over-the-counter selfcare product options are
      available for patients with keloids and hypertrophic scars. Despite market approval, robust
      efficacy data to substantiate product claims is scarce. At best, comparative studies have
      been able to demonstrate significance between modalities/products. With only a limited number
      of investigator initiated studies with scar-patients the advancement in this niche, yet
      expansive, medical sector has been incremental across decades of research. This study is
      being undertaken to investigate the efficacy and safety of a FS2- moisturizer, and two
      market-approved scar topical therapies. The FS2- moisturizer is claimed to be substantially
      equivalent or superior to market approved Onion skin extract (Mederma), and silicone gel
      (Kelo-Cote)intended to manage and improve hyperproliferative closed scars. The study builds
      upon a recent study that investigated safety and efficacy of a petrolatum lotion vs.
      onion-extract gel vs. placebo in subjects with hypertrophic scars and keloids. There two (2)
      Study Arms and five (5) Treatment Groups. Treatment Groups consist of: placebo moisturizer
      cream base, Onion skin extract (Mederma), FS2-moisturizer formulations, silicone gel
      (Kelo-Cote), and an FS2-silicone gel.

      This is a double-blinded study, which means that neither the evaluating physician nor the
      subject will know which treatment is administered. A separate study team member will
      administer the treatment, as well as answer questions and discuss any problems prior to
      starting, and for the duration of, the study.

      Subjects will be assigned a Treatment Group from those listed above. Group selection and
      assignment will be made at random, with a 2 in 5 chance of receiving a market-approved
      therapy, and 1 in 5 chance of receiving the placebo. Subjects assigned the
      placebo-moisturizer will receive a standard hypoallergenic dermatological hydrating cream
      base. Subjects assigned the silicone gel, will receive a commercially available, active
      comparator.
    
  