
    
      Background

      Osteoarthritis is the most prevalent form of arthritis, with weight-bearing joints,
      particularly the knee commonly affected. Osteoarthritis is a leading cause of mobility
      disability and is associated with functional loss in adults. Total knee arthroplasty (TKA) is
      cost-effective and successful for those with end-stage knee osteoarthritis. In 2016/17, about
      67,169 TKAs were performed in Canada, an increase of 16% since 2012/13.

      Justification

      TKA aims to improve joint mechanics as well as knee pain and function. Patients indicate that
      their primary expectations following TKA are improved pain and walking ability. Most TKA
      implants are fixed bearing (such as Stryker and Zimmer) with no movement of the implant with
      knee motion. The Journey II TKA has a medial pivot function that may improve patient outcomes
      further, by replicating meniscal function. However, this has not yet been proven as it would
      require more specific measurement of knee kinetics and kinematics such as we propose here.

      The outcome of this study will provide information about knee pain, movements (kinematics)
      and forces (kinetics) and walking patterns after TKA using different implants. Through this
      study, we should be able to inform future research on rehabilitation protocols to alter knee
      movements after TKA, while enhancing patients' function and quality of life.

      Hypotheses

      Primary Hypothesis: We hypothesize that TKA performed using the Smith and Nephew Richards
      (SNR) Journey II TKA system will be superior to standard TKA prostheses (Stryker Triathlon
      Total Knee System and Zimmer Persona® The Personalized Knee) in terms of knee biomechanics
      (knee kinematics and kinetics) and spatio-temporal gait parameters at 1-year post-TKA using
      the Computer-Assisted Rehabilitation ENvironment (CAREN).

      Secondary Hypothesis: We hypothesize that the Smith and Nephew Richards (SNR) Journey II TKA
      will provide increased improvement from preoperative levels in pain and function in
      comparison to standard TKA prostheses.

      Objectives

      Primary Objective: The primary objective of this randomized, comparative trial is to
      demonstrate that TKA performed using the Smith and Nephew Richards (SNR) Journey II TKA
      system is superior to standard TKA prostheses (Stryker Triathlon Total Knee System and Zimmer
      Persona® The Personalized Knee) in terms of knee biomechanics (knee kinematics and kinetics)
      and spatio-temporal gait parameters at 1-year post-TKA using the Computer-Assisted
      Rehabilitation ENvironment (CAREN). We will evaluate these parameters for level treadmill
      walking.

      Secondary Objective: The secondary objective of this study will be to demonstrate that the
      Smith and Nephew Richards (SNR) Journey II TKA provides increased improvement from
      preoperative levels in pain and function in comparison to standard TKA prostheses. The new
      Knee Society Clinical Rating Scores (KSCRS) will be calculated preoperatively and at 1 year
      and 2 years postoperatively with the potential for longer-term follow-up. Patient
      questionnaires will be assessed preoperatively and at each postoperative interval.

      Study Design: A prospective, randomized, post-market, comparative design will be employed.

      Participants: A total of 60 participants will be enrolled in this study. Twenty (20)
      participants will receive the Journey II TKA System. Forty (40) participants will receive
      standard TKA: 20 will receive the Stryker Triathlon Total Knee System and 20 will receive
      Zimmer Persona® The Personalized Knee, which are commonly used in this zone.

      Randomization: This study will utilize a computer-generated 1:1 randomization scheme. The
      randomization schedule will be maintained and controlled by Collaborative Orthopaedic
      REsearch (CORe) at the University of Alberta. The investigators and research associates will
      not have access to this schedule. When an eligible patient meets the criteria for inclusion
      in the study and signs the informed consent form, the research associate will open a
      sequentially-numbered envelope that contains the group allocation. Baseline gait evaluation
      will be completed for randomized patients. Any deviation from the assigned treatment group
      will be reported as a deviation from the protocol. Participants deviating from the
      randomization assignment will continue to be followed, and data collected will be reported as
      per intention to treat principles.

      Estimated Study Duration: The enrollment period is estimated to last a maximum of 18 to 24
      months. Participants will be evaluated per the evaluation schedule until the 2 year follow-up
      time point (secondary objective). It is possible that the study will be extended to
      longer-term follow-up to evaluate long-term performance.

      Pre-operative visit

      During the preoperative visit, patients who are possible candidates for this study will be
      screened to determine if they meet the inclusion/exclusion criteria. If the patient is a
      candidate, the investigator will propose participation in the study to the patient, and the
      patient will be given a consent-to-contact form by the investigator. If the patient consents
      to be contacted, the research associate would contact the patient to provide more details
      about the study. If the patient is willing to proceed with the study, an approved informed
      consent form must be signed by the patient prior to participating in any study related
      activities.

      Once the patient has consented to participate in the study, preoperative data will be
      collected including: demographics, medical history, preoperative gait analysis and functional
      evaluation (KSCRS), EQ-5D - a standardized instrument that measures health-related quality of
      life, UCLA activity-level rating (UCLA), knee injury and osteoarthritis outcome score (KOOS),
      and the Forgotten Joint Score.

      Follow-up visits

      Gait analysis and patient-reported outcomes (PRO) data will be collected at the following
      postoperative intervals: 1-year (gait and PRO), 2 years (PRO) and potentially during
      longer-term follow-up (PRO).
    
  