
    
      Heart attacks are the leading cause of death in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
      Cardiovascular events occur more frequently than would be expected in patients with RA and
      traditional heart risk factors do not explain this increased risk. Further research is needed
      to pursue ways of reducing heart disease mortality and improving outcome in patients with RA.

      There is reason to believe that a class of cholesterol-lowering medications called statins,
      beneficial in cardiovascular disease prevention, may be able to reduce the irritation of the
      joints ("inflammation") associated with RA. Statins have been shown to reduce manifestations
      of inflammation in the blood of patients at increased risk for heart disease, and in the
      process reduce the risk of heart attack, stroke, and sudden death. Some similarities in the
      nature of both RA and heart disease may suggest potential benefits of statin therapy in both
      conditions.

      In addition to inflammation, another factor which may contribute to coronary heart disease
      (CHD) risk in RA patients is dysfunctional high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C,
      sometimes referred to as "good cholesterol"). Normally, HDL-C acts to counter a type of
      damage called "oxidation" within LDL-C which is a critical step in the development and
      progression of heart disease. Data from patients with RA and system lupus erythematosus (SLE)
      suggests that patients with active rheumatic diseases such as RA and SLE may have increased
      amounts of dysfunctional HDL-C, and therefore they may be at increased risk of heart disease.
      A blood test developed by Dr. Navab and colleagues at UCLA rapidly assesses this HDL-C
      function. This study will investigate both the level of HDL-C antioxidant function in
      patients with active RA as well as whether abnormal HDL function can be improved by statin
      use in this population. This research also evaluates the effects of atorvastatin on arthritis
      activity. We hypothesize that atorvastatin may improve both joint inflammation and the
      anti-inflammatory properties of HDL cholesterol.
    
  