
    
      Perioperative echocardiographic quantification of myocardial function is of great importance
      in patient management and is increasingly being recommended intraoperatively in spite of some
      unresolved or under-explored issues. One such issue is the perioperative measurement of
      diastolic function. Diastolic dysfunction and diastolic heart failure - or as commonly
      referred to "heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF)" - is responsible for
      some 35 to 50% of heart failures. Intraoperative measurements of diastolic function have a
      prognostic and management relevance for patients undergoing both cardiac and non-cardiac
      surgery. However, even recent guidelines on intraoperative transesophageal echocardiography
      (TEE) have neglected this topic, with the exception of the most recent, which briefly alluded
      to the role TEE can play in assessing diastolic function, but without addressing the issue of
      which measurements or views to use.

      The clinically prevalent echocardiographic view for assessment of intraoperative diastolic
      function by tissue Doppler imaging (TDI) is the midesophageal 4-chamber (ME 4C) TEE view.
      This view, which looks at the heart from the left atrium, is the standard view for evaluating
      intraoperative global cardiac performance. However, the Doppler angle for assessing diastolic
      performance is generally much greater than 20° and, as Doppler techniques are known to be
      angle dependent based on the Doppler equation, using this view may relevantly underestimate
      TDI velocities. Views from the apex of the heart (i.e. both the deep transgastric long axis
      view [dTG LAX] TEE view as well as the apical 4-chamber [AP 4C] transthoracic
      echocardiography (TTE) view) have a cosine angle towards the mitral annular plane excursion
      near zero, thereby allowing valid measurements according to the Doppler equation. However,
      TDI velocities are often - and potentially erroneously - reported from the ME 4C TEE view.

      The objective of this project is to address a number of important clinical topics regarding
      diastolic dysfunction in TEE.

      Two main objectives will be examined:

        -  Assess whether or not tissue doppler imaging (TDI) measurements of mitral annular plane
           velocities and systolic excursion in the midesophageal 4-chamber TEE view (ME 4C)
           significantly underestimate diastolic cardiac performance compared to the deep
           transgastric long axis TEE view (dTG LAX) due to intrinsic misalignment of the doppler
           beam.

           [i.e. is there a technological limitation?]

        -  Assess whether or not the difference in mitral annular plane velocities and systolic
           excursion between the ME 4C and dTG LAX will be underestimated using TDI compared to
           values derived from speckle tracking echocardiography (STE).

           [i.e. if there is a technological limitation, does STE show more consistency?]

      Two secondary objectives will be examined:

        -  Determine the influence of frame rates (temporospatial resolution) on STE-derived mitral
           annular velocities and systolic excursion by conducting STE measurement post
           cardiopulmonary Bypass (CPB) in atrially paced patients in the 1. midesophageal 4
           chamber view (ME 4C) and 2. deep transgastric long axis view (dTG LAX).

           [i.e. if ST shows more consistency, what are its limitations?]

        -  Confirm the existence of and explore potential reasons (anesthesia, ventilation, TTE vs.
           TEE, Doppler alignment) for differences in mitral annular plane velocities and systolic
           excursion observed preoperatively (i.e. by cardiologists) and intraoperatively (i.e. by
           anesthetists, intensivists). Specifically, we will compare these values in four views:
           1. apical 4-chamber view in TTE (AP 4C) preinduction, 2. apical 4-chamber view in TTE
           (AP 4C) postinduction, 3. midesophageal 4 chamber view (ME 4C) postinduction, and 4.
           Deep transgastric long axis view (dTG LAX) postinduction.

           [i.e. what is the relative contribution of the ignoring the misalignment in angulation
           compared to other intraoperative factors in explaining the observed underestimation of
           diastolic velocities and distances seen by cardiologists (AP 4C TTE view) and
           anesthetist's/intensivist's (ME 4C TEE view)?]
    
  