
    
      In the first phase of the research, the development of the research protocol and obtaining it
      will be done of his approval.

      The second phase of the research will include patients with schizophrenia disorders based on
      inclusive and exclusive criteria and a study will be conducted procedure. In the third phase
      of the research, the obtained results are processed and analyzed.

      The content of the dissertation will include an introduction, a goal with hypotheses,
      methods, results, discussion, conclusions and literature. In the introduction, in addition to
      current knowledge about schizophrenia and vortioxetine, it will be pointed out cognition
      problem in patients with schizophrenia.

      It will be defined and explained hypotheses and research objectives. In the chapter dedicated
      to methodology, the number of respondents and a description will be presented study concepts,
      presentation of statistical methods used for data processing The presentation of the results
      obtained by this study will be presented textually, tabularly and using charts. The obtained
      results will be commented and evaluated in the Discussion. Recent literature will be used

      Randomization 1:1 will divide 120 patients with schizophrenia into two groups, each group
      into 3 subgroups. One group of 60 patients (who are on monotherapy antipsychotics: new
      generations: 20 patients will be on olanzapine, 20 patients on risperidone and 20 patients on
      aripiprazole) will receive vortioxetine and the other control group of 60 patients (who is
      also on monotherapy with new antipsychotics generations: 20 patients will be on olanzapine,
      20 patients on risperidone and 20 patients on aripiprazole) will not receive vortioxetine.
      Vortioxetine will be given in 10 mg dose (which can be reduced by 5 mg if needed in case of
      poor tolerability)

        1. Initial examination:

           International mini neuropsychiatric interview (M.I.N.I.) publicly available, works
           doctor General questionnaire - designed by a doctor Positive and negative syndrome
           scales (PANSS) are publicly available, by a doctor The Calgary Depression Scale for
           Schizophrenia (CDSS) is publicly available, it works doctor World Health Organization
           for Quality of Life (WHOQOL-BREF) publicly available, works doctor Chapman (social
           anhedonia and physical anhedonia) - publicly available, works doctor Wechsler WAIS IV
           (subtests: numerical memory test; encryption test symbols) - available at Naklada Slap,
           Zagreb, HR, by a clinical psychologist

           Screening tests:

             1. Mini-mental state (MMSE) or Folstein test - publicly available, by a doctor

             2. Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) - publicly available, by a physician

        2. At the end of the second month:

           International mini neuropsychiatric interview (M.I.N.I.) publicly available, works
           doctor Mini-mental state (MMSE) or Folstein test - publicly available, by a doctor
           Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) - publicly available, by a doctor

        3. At the end of the third month:

      International mini neuropsychiatric interview (M.I.N.I.) publicly available, works doctor
      Positive and negative syndrome scales (PANSS) are publicly available, by a doctor The Calgary
      Depression Scale for Schizophrenia (CDSS) is publicly available, it works doctor World Health
      Organization for Quality of Life (WHOQOL-BREF) publicly available, works doctor Chapman
      (social anhedonia and physical anhedonia) - publicly available, works doctor Wechsler WAIS IV
      (subtests: numerical memory test; encryption test)

      - Available at Naklada Slap, Zagreb, HR, by a clinical psychologist Screening tests: a)
      Mini-mental state (MMSE) or Folstein test - public

      available, works doctor b) Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) - publicly available, by a
      doctor It is expected: improvement of cognitive functions in relation to the initial
      examination
    
  