
    
      Potential subjects will undergo a prescreening visit to meet the inclusion criteria, have a
      history, physical exam and routine labs drawn. The labs will verify the nutritional
      eligibility of folate, vitamin B12 and vitamin B6. If the inclusion criteria is met then the
      following will take place.

      The subjects will come to the University of Florida (UF) Clinical and Translational Science
      Institute (CTSI) Clinical Research Center (CRC) for a 9 hour infusion (with stable isotope
      labeled serine, methionine and leucine) twice during the research study. Once at the start of
      the study and again at day 29. Blood samples will be taken for metabolite analysis. The
      infusion of nonradioactive, stable isotope labeled amino acids allows determination of the
      rate of metabolic reactions in one-carbon metabolism. The results from all subjects' blood
      analyses will provide us with information about rates of several parts of metabolism and
      vitamin B6 status.

      During the 2-days prior to the infusion a controlled diet will be required. The subjects will
      be fed at the CTSI CRC. Dietary calculations and formulations will be conducted by using
      Minnesota Nutrition Data Systems software. Subjects will come to the CRC twice per day where
      they will meet with staff, consume morning and evening meals, and will be provided a sack
      lunch and snacks (including weekends). Protein intake will be kept constant.

      After the first infusion, all subjects will consume their self-selected usual diets for 28
      days along with a commercial B6 supplement providing 10 mg/day. Weekly measurement of blood
      will be used to verify compliance. All subjects will then consume a 2-day controlled diet at
      the UF CRC to normalize protein intake, followed by an infusion procedure identical to the
      first.

      During the 4-week supplementation period, all subjects will come to the CRC weekly for
      weighing, blood samples, and consultation with staff. Careful screening, close monitoring and
      education of subjects, along with weekly monitoring of blood levels, all contribute to a high
      degree of compliance.
    
  