
    
      The study begins with a pre-screening telephone interview. During this conversation
      participants will be asked a series of questions that will help us identify whether they are
      eligible for participation in this study. The pre-screening interview process will take
      approximately 10 minutes and will include all screening criteria that does not require
      clinical or laboratory examination

      All routine research visits will take place at Bastyr University Campus (Kenmore, WA).
      Participants will be asked to schedule visits at approximately the same time of day each
      visit .If they are on medications, we would like them to take their medications as they
      normally would on the day of the visit. Participants will be randomly assigned to one of
      three different study groups- a low dose group, a high dose group, or a placebo group.

      Study participants will invited to volunteer for two magnetic resonance imagine (MRI) scans
      as part of this study, an optional part of study participation. For those who volunteer and
      qualify, MRIs will be performed at the University of Washington Radiology Department early in
      the morning. One scan will be taken at baseline before taking glutathione and the second upon
      completion of the study medication. There will be a separate consent form for those who
      participate in the imaging portion of this study. Among the participants who volunteer, the
      first 15 to qualify for an MRI scan will be scheduled according to MRI availability.

      If participants are enrolled in the study, they will be asked to keep a daily log of actual
      frequency of administration of study medication, if any, as well as any changes in their PD
      symptoms, any adverse events they might experience, and their general well-being. We are
      giving participants enough medication to last four weeks, until the date of their next
      appointment. The medication should be taken three times a day (morning, afternoon, and
      evening).

      Visit 1- Baseline: (Approximately 1 hour)

        -  Urine sample

        -  Venipuncture (blood draw, (40 mL / ~3 Tbsp) to assess blood antioxidant status..

        -  Clinical assessment of PD severity: Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS),
           which involves assessing degree of tremor, ability to walk across the room, questions
           about ability to function independently (i.e. button your own shirt, feed yourself), and
           questions about mental health, including depression and intellectual impairment.

        -  Participant will be taught how and when to administer the study medication and be given
           a 1-month supply.

      Visit 2- Week 4 follow-up: (Approximately 1 hour)

        -  Urine sample

        -  Venipuncture (blood draw, (40 mL / ~3 Tbsp) to assess blood antioxidant status..

        -  Clinical assessment of PD severity: Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) and
           Webster-Step Second test involve assessing degree of tremor, ability to walk across the
           room, questions about ability to function independently (i.e. button your own shirt,
           feed yourself), and questions about mental health, including depression and intellectual
           impairment.

        -  Participant will be asked to return any unused study medication and applicator tips from
           the first month of the study and be given the next 1-month supply.

        -  We will inquire about medication changes and collect medication use logs.

      Visit 3- Week 8 follow-up: (Approximately 1/2 hour)

        -  Participant will be asked to return any unused study medication from the second month of
           the study and be given the next 1-month supply.

        -  We will inquire about medication changes and collect medication use logs.

      Visit 4- Week 12 follow-up: (Approximately 1 hour)

        -  Urine sample

        -  Venipuncture (blood draw, (40 mL / ~3 Tbsp) to assess blood antioxidant status..

        -  Clinical assessment of PD severity: Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) to
           assess degree of tremor, ability to walk across the room, questions about ability to
           function independently (i.e. button your own shirt, feed yourself), and questions about
           mental health, including depression and intellectual impairment.

        -  Participants will be asked to return any unused study medication from the third month of
           the study.

        -  We will inquire about medication changes and collect medication use logs.

      Visit 5- Week 16 follow-up: (Approximately 1 hour)

      This visit is included to determine whether there are any lasting effects of the study
      medication one month following discontinuation of use. The visit will include:

        -  Urine sample

        -  Venipuncture (blood draw, (40 mL / ~3 Tbsp) to assess blood antioxidant status..

        -  Clinical assessment of PD severity: Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS)
           which involves assessing degree of tremor, ability to walk across the room, questions
           about ability to function independently (i.e. button your own shirt, feed yourself), and
           questions about mental health, including depression and intellectual impairment.

      Overall, approximately 5 hours will be required for study participation. Blood draws will
      occur at most, but not all visits, and will not exceed 4 Tbsp per month.
    
  