
    
      Bipolar disorder, also known as manic-depressive illness, is a brain disorder that causes
      significant changes in a person's mood and energy. The onset of bipolar disorder usually
      occurs during young adulthood and persists for the rest of a person's life, making women who
      are of childbearing age at risk for this disorder. Although overall relapse rates for
      pre-existing mood disorders are typically higher in women who are pregnant or recently gave
      birth than in other women, very little is known about the impact of pregnancy and the
      postpartum period on someone with bipolar disorder. The course and treatment of maternal
      mental illness during pregnancy and the postpartum period remains the center of much debate,
      particularly with respect to the use of psychotropic medications during pregnancy and
      breastfeeding. Identifying predictors of bipolar disorder recurrence during pregnancy and the
      postpartum period may help to determine which women are at highest risk and to develop new
      treatment guidelines. However, more information is needed to both identify predictors and
      develop guidelines that will improve outcomes for pregnant women with bipolar disorder and
      their babies. This study will evaluate pregnant women who have bipolar disorder to gain a
      better understanding of risk factors for bipolar disorder relapse during pregnancy and the
      postpartum period.

      Participation in this study will last up to 6 months postpartum. Study visits will be
      scheduled every 4 weeks during pregnancy and every 6 weeks after delivery for up to 6 months
      postpartum. During study visits, data will be collected on factors that may predict bipolar
      disorder recurrence and overall burden of bipolar disorder illness. Specific potential
      factors that will be evaluated include severity of illness in the past, type and severity of
      both recent and past life stressors, and any treatment received during pregnancy and the
      postpartum period. The study will also evaluate how antidepressant medications, if taken,
      affect the mother and baby during pregnancy and the postpartum period. Additionally, plasma,
      serum, and urine samples will also be processed and stored at each study visit.
    
  