
    
      Bystander CPR is important for the survival of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest patients. CPR
      training for the general public is important to improve the rate and quality of bystander
      CPR. Preexisting CPR education was conducted under face-to-face contact with instructors and
      multiple trainees gathering at a training center, but after the coronavirus disease 2019
      pandemic, face-to-face training became difficult. To overcome this limitation the
      investigators have developed a new online real-time quality measurement and feedback
      video-based CPR training program that uses online video conferencing, Little Anne QCPR
      mannequin (Laerdal, Stavanger, Norway) and SkillGuide (Laerdal, Stavanger, Norway) device.

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of a new online real-time quality
      measurement and feedback video-based CPR training program. To evaluate the effectiveness of
      the new CPR training program the investigators propose to conduct a randomized clinical trial
      with three arms: online real-time quality measurement and feedback video-based CPR training
      program, online real-time feedback video-based CPR training without quality measurement
      program, and conventional CPR training program. 60 non healthcare provider, healthy adult
      volunteers will be randomized to each study arm. After CPR training, each participant will
      perform a 6 minute CPR simulation test. The investigators will measure the depth and rate of
      chest compression, hand positioning during chest compression, no-flow time and start to chest
      compression time.

      The primary outcome of the study is mean chest compression depth. Chest compression rate,
      hand position, total no flow time, and time to chest compression will also be measured. The
      investigators hypothesize that the new online real-time quality measurement and feedback
      video-based CPR training program is non-inferior to the preexisting conventional CPR training
      program and is superior to online real-time feedback video-based CPR training without quality
      measurement.
    
  