
    
      The specific aims of the study are to:

        1. Identify and phenotype participants ranging in age from 10-30 years old who are already
           diagnosed with catatonia.

        2. Review laboratory investigations already complete and further conduct any laboratory
           tests which were not previously completed, to exclude a general medical etiology of
           catatonia.

        3. Obtain skin biopsy for fibroblast from participant to reprogram somatic cells to iPSC
           (induced pluripotent cell lines) which will be differentiated to cortical neurons for in
           vitro pharmacological studies against the target tissue.

      Up to 30 patients will be consented. Eligibility will be determined through UM medical record
      screening. When a potential participant is identified, the study team will reach out to the
      treating clinician to make contact with participant about research interest. Informed consent
      will be obtained prior to initiation of any study-related procedures. Consent may be emailed
      at request of potential participants or their representative in advance of a scheduled
      research appointment for their review. Additionally, informed consent will take place in
      person both verbally and in writing, with adequate time for participants to ask questions.

      Following informed consent, a comprehensive psychiatric interview will be completed to
      identify overall psychiatric diagnoses and symptoms of catatonia. Based on this evaluation, a
      decision will be made whether or not the individual is testable or untestable for
      neurocognitive assessments.

      A physical exam will be performed which will include weight, height, waist and head
      circumference, as well as vital signs that include blood pressure and pulse rate.

      Electronic medical record (EMR) will be reviewed to identify any comorbid medical condition,
      lab results and medications received including the response to each agent. The medical
      disorders (current or past) may include infective 26 27,28, metabolic/ endocrine 29,
      autoimmune 30, toxic/ drug related 31 and seizure disorders.

      Neuropsychological testing (NP): Standardized, well-validated tests will be used to assess
      emotional, behavioral and neuropsychological functioning where possible. Clinician completed
      ratings of autism symptoms will be completed, as well as parental rating scales for autism,
      general behavioral issues, and quality of life. In addition, each participant will undergo
      brief face-to face evaluations when catatonic symptoms do not preclude testing covering the
      domains of intellectual functioning, academic achievement, receptive language, executive
      functioning, and motor skills. These domains are typically included in neuropsychological
      testing protocols, are brief, and place minimal demands on participants.

      Laboratory tests: Laboratory work up required for the purpose of this study will include CBC,
      CMP, free T4, TSH, thyroid antibodies, ANA, ASO, CRP, urine toxicology, urine or serum
      organic acids, Cu and ceruloplasmin, anti-NMDAR receptor antibodies, CMA (chromosomal
      microarray), fragile X, and EEG. If labs have been performed and are in the participant's
      medical record, they may be used as part of this study and not re-requested based upon
      physician judgment.

      DNA: one 8ml vial of blood will be drawn and stored for future DNA analysis. DNA will be
      stored as part of the Heinz C. Prechter Genetics Repository.

      Skin biopsy: a skin biopsy will be obtained from a subset of participants who meet inclusion
      and exclusion criteria.

      Assessment: Standardized interviews and questionnaires will be completed by the participant
      or their representative.

      Reliability: will be established between the interviewers, at the level of the interview and
      by best estimate diagnosis. All available sources of clinical information, including medical
      records, informant data, the ADOS and the ADI-R, will be independently reviewed by a
      non-interviewing psychiatrist or psychologist. Reviewers' "best-estimate" diagnoses will be
      established at regular investigator meetings. If all are in agreement, the consensus
      diagnosis is confirmed.

      Quality Assurance: The PI and co-investigators will review all interviews to check for
      completeness and accuracy. Interviewers will be given feedback and subjects will be
      re-contacted as needed to correct problems or complete questions. This will reduce errors and
      missing data.
    
  