
    
      BACKGROUND OF THE STUDY Late life mood disorders (LLMD) include patients with unipolar
      depression and bipolar disorder, aged 50 years and over. Despite the fact that evidence-based
      pharmacological and psychotherapeutic interventions have proven effective, many patients with
      LLMD experience relapse or partial remission.

      One of the reasons for unfavorable treatment outcome is that LLMD are often accompanied with
      cognitive impairment (attention, processing speed, memory and executive function) during an
      episode and after remission.This cognitive impairment in LLMD is associated with worse social
      functioning , distress to patients and caregivers, decreased quality of life and an
      unfavorable prognosis, including nursing home admission.

      Several dimensions of recovery can be distinguished and are known to influence each other.
      For example, addressing functional recovery by improving cognitive functioning may enhance
      clinical recovery (less mood symptoms) and social functioning . Therefore, addressing
      cognitive impairment in LLMD may improve overall functioning and recovery rates.

      Strategies to improve cognitive functioning with cognitive training and/or remediation are
      lacking for LLMD. Cognitive training has been effective in healthy older adults and in
      patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and dementia.

      A meta-analysis of adult patients with major depressive disorder showed that computerized
      cognitive training is associated with improvement in depressive symptoms and everyday
      functioning, though effects on cognition are inconsistent, with moderate to large effects for
      attention, working memory and global functioning and no effects for executive functioning and
      verbal memory. However, a small study including both unipolar and bipolar adult patients
      (n=15) and a control group (n=16) observed improvements in shifting, divided attention,
      global executive control after an online cognitive training. In addition, improved subjective
      cognitive functioning, reduced depression levels and less difficulty in everyday coping were
      observed.

      In sum, cognitive impairment is a core feature of LLMD, contributes markedly to disability
      but is overlooked in current evidence-based treatment programs and therefore a less positive
      prognosis for these patients. An effective evidence-based treatment approach addressing
      cognitive impairment in LLMD is warranted.

      AIM To age successfully, effective coping styles and social and community involvement are
      important. In the general population social activities and memory training are promoted for
      older persons as strategies to optimize resilience and to prolong independent living.
      Nevertheless, for the increasing number of patients with LLMD, effective interventions to
      improve cognition and social functioning are not available.

      With the proposed pilot study we aim to seek a feasible and effective treatment to improve
      cognition, social functioning and quality of life of our patients. We aim to evaluate the
      feasibility of the online cognitive training (BrainGymmer) in a double-blind randomized
      control pilot-study.

      If proven to be feasible, our intention is to expand the current pilot study to a RCT to test
      the efficacy of the proposed online cognitive training in patients with LLMD. After efficacy
      has been proven, the cognitive training program can also be used in other mental health
      departments, and even be made available through initiatives such as GGD appstore and
      onlinehulpstempel.nl.

      OUTCOME At baseline, after the intervention period and 3 months after training, measurements
      will be taken. Our primary outcome measures will feasibility and appreciation of the
      intervention. Evaluation of therapy compliance, drop-out, and evaluation of the patients will
      be done with use of questionnaires on difficulty, feasibility, joy, effort, challenge of the
      therapy and clearness of the intervention explanation. Furthermore, evaluation groups (also
      mirror groups) will be held. In these discussion groups we will evaluate the study together
      with patients.

      Secondary outcome measures include subjective and objective cognitive functioning, mood
      symptoms social functioning, quality of life and sense of Mastery.
    
  