
    
      This K23 award will enable the candidate, Michelle Lin, MD, MPH, MS, to become an independent
      physician scientist focused on developing, measuring and improving patient-reported outcomes
      for emergency department (ED) care of asthma and other acute cardiopulmonary conditions.
      Asthma affects 1 in every 12 persons in the U.S., resulting in 1.9 million ED visits
      annually; however, the impact of ED care on patient-reported outcomes after acute
      exacerbations is unknown-a gap which limits the evaluation of interventions to improve ED
      asthma care. Dr. Lin's proposed study aims to develop a patient-reported outcomes measure
      (PROM) for adult asthma patients seeking care in the ED, test the association between the
      quality of ED clinical care and patient-reported outcomes, and measure the association
      between patient-reported outcomes and subsequent acute care utilization. To achieve these
      goals, this proposal includes an integrated curriculum consisting of intensive mentorship and
      didactic coursework in patient-centered research, instrument development and validation
      including psychometric methods, geospatial techniques, outcome measurement, and risk
      adjustment. Her development and training activities also include building a research network
      of peers and collaborators, engaging with asthma patients in local communities, and
      participating in national scientific meetings. Dr. Lin has assembled a mentorship team of
      national leaders with expertise in patient-oriented asthma and emergency medicine research,
      patient engagement, instrument development, health care quality measurement, and outcome
      assessment. In her preliminary work, Dr. Lin has developed and pilot-tested candidate items
      for the novel Patient-Reported Outcomes for Acute Asthma Care and Treatment (PROAACT)
      instrument. During this K23, Dr. Lin will 1) evaluate the validity and reliability of the
      PROAACT instrument; 2) determine whether receiving more guideline-concordant ED care is
      associated with improved PROAACT responses; and 3) test the predictive validity of PROAACT
      responses with respect to subsequent ED visits and hospitalizations. Completion of this
      proposed project will result in a novel PROM for adult ED asthma patients and advance the
      understanding of how ED care impacts patient-reported outcomes, which will enable
      interventions to improve the quality of up to 1.9 million annual ED encounters for asthma.
      The proposed research and didactic plan will also facilitate Dr. Lin's transition to an
      independent clinical investigator focused on improving patient-reported outcomes for asthma
      and other cardiopulmonary conditions treated in ED settings.
    
  