
    
      Patients with acute brain injury often require invasive mechanical ventilation connection,
      increasing the risk of developing complications such as respiratory secretions retention. The
      abdomino-thoracic compression is a manual chest physiotherapy technique that can improve
      clearance of secretions in these patients. Although today the scientific evidence is
      contradictory, the manual abdomino-thoracic compression may be associated with increased
      intracranial pressure in patients with acute brain injury.

      Objectives: The aim of this work to study the effects of manual abdomino-thoracic compression
      technique in intracranial pressure in mechanically ventilated patients. Furthermore, the
      effects of the technique in different volumes and flows recorded by the ventilator and the
      relationship between the pressure applied in the intervention group and the different
      variables will also be studied.

      Methodology: It will be a randomized clinical trial, single-blind in the application of the
      techniques. Patients with acute brain injury in invasive mechanical ventilation will be
      included, randomized into two groups. In the control group, a technique of passive ankle
      mobilization will be applied and in the intervention group it will be performed the manual
      abdomino-thoracic compression technique. The data of the primary variable, intracranial
      pressure will be collected with a monitoring system and continuous recording (Integra
      Camino).

      A descriptive analysis of the values collected from the variables in the study will be
      performed, studying the measures of central tendency. In the presence of normal distribution
      will be presented mean and standard deviation, and median and interquartile range in case of
      non-observation of normal distribution. The normality of the samples will be verified with
      the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test. The verification of the hypothesis in study will be assessed
      using the Student T test for independent samples in case of sample normality and by the
      Wilcoxon test otherwise. A multiple linear regression analysis will be performed: considering
      as a dependent variable the differences in intracranial pressure, difference or volume /
      minute gain and expiratory flow and between the covariates, the type of technique, the
      pressure applied in the technique under study, the type of brain injury, age, sex, etc.
    
  