
    
      Shoulder pain is one of the most common types of musculoskeletal pain syndroms in the general
      population as its prevalence has been estimated between 7% and 26% and its annual incidence
      between 0.9% and 2.5%. Rotator cuff tear is one of the most common causes of painful
      shoulders. Lack of coordination or weakness of scapulothoracic and scapulohumeral muscles is
      one of the main factors thought to lead to muscle tears in shoulder. More specifically, the
      inability of the scapular muscles to achieve superior rotation and posterior tilt, as well as
      the failure of rotator cuff muscles to counter the superior humeral head translation imposed
      by deltoid contraction can lead to impingement of the subacromial soft tissues while
      performing overhead dynamic tasks. This increases the rotator cuff tears' prevalance. Aside
      from rotator cuff muscles, opposition of superior humeral head translation can be achieved by
      the glenohumeral adductors (i.e. pectoralis major, latissimus dorsi muscles, and teres
      major), which act as humeral head depressors by means of the medio-inferior vector created by
      the orientation of their tendons. Recruitment of the glenohumeral adductors has been shown to
      decrease subacromial narrowing in elevated arms in asymptomatic individuals, and is thought
      to be a coping mechanism to decrease pain in individuals with rotator cuff tear. However, to
      the best of our knowledge, the efficacy of humeral head depressor muscle co-activation
      training on functional outcomes in patients undergoing arthroscopic shoulder surgery after
      middle-size rotator cuff muscle tear has never been evaluated in patients with middle-size
      rotator cuff muscle tear. Since recruitment of those muscles could prevent a decrease in
      subacromial space during arm elevation, it could potentially lead to improved exercise
      performance, earlier benefits and better treatment outcomes compared to routine rotator cuff
      strengthening exercises. Thus, the aim of this study was to investigate the efficacy of the
      humeral head depressor muscle co-activation training on functional outcomes in patients
      undergoing arthroscopic shoulder surgery after middle-size rotator cuff muscle tear.
    
  