
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the quality of life (physical functioning, psychological functioning, social
           functioning, and spiritual functioning) of female breast cancer survivors who were age
           45 or younger at the time of diagnosis with the quality of life of female breast cancer
           survivors who were age 55 to 70 at time of diagnosis (considering type of surgical
           treatment [lumpectomy vs mastectomy], hormonal treatments, and time since diagnosis as
           covariates) and age-matched (to the younger group) females with no history of breast
           cancer.

        -  Compare the quality of life (physical functioning, psychological functioning, social
           functioning, and spiritual functioning) of partners of breast cancer survivors who were
           age 45 or younger at time of diagnosis with the quality of life of partners of breast
           cancer survivors who were age 55 to 70 at diagnosis and partners of age-matched (to the
           younger group) females with no history of breast cancer.

        -  Test and compare quality of life models that identify the variables that mediate between
           antecedent variables of personal characteristics, diagnostic and treatment
           characteristics, and quality of life outcomes in order to determine where interventions
           to improve quality of life should be targeted.

        -  Explore the relationship of partner antecedent, mediating, and outcome variables as
           predictors or mediators of outcome variables for breast cancer survivors.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients, spouse or partner of patients, age-matched acquaintances of patients, and partner
      of acquaintances complete questionnaires over 60-90 minutes about personal characteristics,
      self-efficacy, coping, social support, health care provider communication, physical,
      psychological, social, and spiritual functioning, and quality of life. After completing the
      study questionnaires, patients and age-matched acquaintances of patients are interviewed via
      telephone over 30 minutes for cognitive function assessment. A random subset of patients and
      spouses/partners of patients are interviewed via telephone over 45-60 minutes, using
      data-generating and open-ended questions, regarding physical functioning, sexual and
      reproductive issues, psychological issues, social impact, and methods used to deal with
      breast cancer survivor concerns.

      Disease and treatment characteristics of patients are obtained from medical records.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 2,697 patients, spouse or partner of patients, age-matched
      female acquaintances of patients, and partner of acquaintances will be accrued for this
      study.
    
  