
    
      Degenerative spine disease is a normal part of the aging process. This degeneration can
      sometimes cause significant pain and limit normal movement.

      The pain can be from many sources. For patients being enrolled into this study the pain has
      been diagnosed to be primarily as a result of a condition called spinal stenosis. The current
      standard of care for the treatment of moderate to severe spinal stenosis is a surgical
      procedure that relieves the pressure on the spinal cord and nerves is called decompression
      surgery. The surgeon removes the tissue and bone that are causing the narrowing thus
      relieving the pinching of the spinal cord and nerve roots. After surgery, the patient may
      have a spine that is too unstable. In other words the muscles and ligaments around the spine
      have to work too hard to maintain normal posture and to control movement. For many years
      those patients with unstable backs have received fusion therapy. Fusion is the development of
      bone between the vertebra to stabilize the spine and prevent motion. This is done by
      inserting a bone graft around the vertebra being treated and placing a rigid brace called a
      fusion device to prevent movement. Eventually bone will form between the vertebra and the
      spine will become "fused".

      In this study we will be conducting research to evaluate a new, investigative medical device
      that is designed to brace and support the spine just like fusion but without fusing in the
      patient's spine. Devices that do this are called "motion preserving" or "dynamic stabilizing"
      spinal devices. The investigational device that is being evaluated in this study is called
      the Stabilimax NZ速 Dynamic Spinal Stabilization System. The Stabilimax NZ速 is inserted and
      fixed to the vertebra by means of pedicle screws in exactly the same way a fusion device is
      inserted and attached. The only difference is that for the Stabilimax NZ速 no bone graft will
      be placed around or between the vertebra to promote bone growth for fusion. Patients in the
      study will receive either the Stabilimax NZ速 or will receive a fusion procedure. The study is
      a randomized controlled clinical trial using a 2:1 investigational:control randomization
      scheme. The study will enroll 480 patients at approximately 20 investigational sites across
      the United States.
    
  