
    
      -  Patients who are eligible for this study will undergo an endorectal MRI scan test before
           beginning the research study.

        -  After the MRI, the patient will begin the docetaxel plus bevacizumab part of the study.
           Each treatment cycle starts on the day you receive both drugs and lasts 21 days.
           Patients will undergo a total of 6 cycles-5 with docetaxel plus bevacizumab and one with
           docetaxel alone.

        -  At the beginning of each cycle, the patient will come into the clinic for a visit that
           will last about 3 hours. The following will happen at these visits: physical examination
           including vital signs and rectal exam; questions about the patients health and the
           medications they are taking; blood tests (both routine and research blood tests); urine
           tests; bevacizumab infusion; docetaxel infusion.

        -  The patients first dose of bevacizumab will be given on Day 1 of the first cycle over 90
           minutes. If the patient tolerates the 90-minute infusion well, later doses may be given
           over a shorter period of time.

        -  The day before and the morning of the beginning of each cycle, the patient will be given
           a steroid called dexamethasone in pill form to help decrease the side effects of the
           treatment.

        -  The above tests and procedures will be repeated every 21 days a total of five times. For
           the sixth time, the patient will have all the same tests and procedures except they will
           not receive bevacizumab.

        -  After the six cycles, the patient will undergo another endorectal MRI.

        -  One to two months after finishing the sixth cycle, the patient will undergo a radical
           prostatectomy to remove their prostate.

        -  Two to three months after the surgery the patient will return to the clinic to have the
           following tests and procedures: questions about the patient's health; routine blood
           tests and research blood tests.
    
  