
    
      The research team will use qualitative and convergent mixed methods approaches to develop and
      assess the feasibility and appropriateness of an intergenerational music program for older
      adults with memory loss. With a paucity of research assessing the potential of an
      intergenerational music program delivered by adolescents to older adults, it's important to
      carefully build and assess the intervention utilizing principles of feasibility and
      appropriateness. As discussed in feasibility methodology, principle data collection
      methodology includes qualitative methods with stakeholders.

      Aim 1: Assess feasibility of delivering a music program to older adults for the young
      musicians using qualitative methodology.

      Initial development: Pre-interview questions will be generated by the study team based an
      existing digital music program, and post-interview questions will be guided by observations
      of facilitators' experiences delivering the program. A research team member will meet twice
      with a board-certified music therapist to determine bounds and flexibility for program
      adaptation and determine standards to include in the best- practice guide to familiarize
      adolescents to work with older adults with memory loss. (See: Pitfalls)

      Data Collection: The PI will coordinate interview times and conduct semi-structured, in-depth
      interviews with the adolescent facilitators. Example questions will be "Are there any
      important ingredients missing from this intervention?" Do each of the intervention's
      ingredients have clarity when you imagine preparing a music class? What additional training
      do you need to present to older adults with memory loss?" The interviews will last
      approximately 30-45 minutes and will take place immediately after the intervention training
      session, as well as at the mid-point of delivering classes and following the conclusion of
      the final class. They will be audio- and video-recorded and transcribed verbatim. A research
      assistant will transcribe each interview, de- identifying any family caregiver information,
      in a Microsoft Word document.

      Participants: Purposive sampling will be used to recruit an expert panel comprising of four
      adolescent musicians. The inclusion criteria will be discussed in the Eligibility Criteria
      section. Once identified, panelists will be contacted by a research assistant to share study
      details and obtain consent. Participation in the interviews and facilitating the music
      classes will be voluntary and musicians can withdraw from the study at any time. The PI will
      coordinate interviews and facilitation times with the music facilitators. The musicians will
      spend an estimated eight hours receiving the initial training, preparing for the classes,
      facilitating the classes, and taking part in the interviews. Involvement for each musician
      will take place over approximately two months.

      Data Management: Transcribed interview data will be uploaded and managed in the digital
      qualitative analysis software, NVivo. These data will be securely stored on a hard drive
      designated for this study.

      Data Analysis and Dependability: The PI will follow a standard content analysis approach.
      This analytic approach helps researchers identify categories and patterns in transcribed data
      in a deductive manner. We will derive and systematically apply coding rules that are based on
      perceptions and feedback regarding each music intervention ingredient.

      The PI will create this coding structure in NVivo and then conduct a meeting with the CO-I
      (Rodakowski). During this session, researchers' ability to agree on coding of data will be
      assessed and coding with which they encountered difficulty will be discussed. Twenty-percent
      of the data will be independently coded by the two researchers. To measure intercoder
      reliability, the PI will use the coding comparison query function in NVivo. A threshold will
      be set at 80% agreement based on suggested values of intercoder reliability. Both researchers
      will discuss disagreements and continue to code independently until this threshold is
      reached. After which, the PI will finish the remaining data coding.

      Expected outcome: Interview data with music facilitators will consist of information about
      the feasibility of other adolescent music facilitators to implement the music program in
      regards to each intervention ingredient. These findings will help the researchers making any
      necessary adaptations to the intervention and update training for future music facilitators
      prior to progressing to Aim 2, which will assess if the music program can be delivered with
      fidelity.

      Potential pitfalls: One potential pitfall is the lack of experience that the adolescent
      facilitators may have with older adults with memory loss. To assist in their comfort, the PI
      will develop a best-practice guide with the music therapist that anticipates some of the
      issues when working with this population and provides suggestions of best practices.

      Aim 2: Assess if the young musicians can deliver the music program with fidelity using
      quantitative methodology.

      Initial development: A fidelity review form will be generated by the study team based on the
      adaptations to the digital music program.

      Data Collection: The PI will assess video recordings of the digital music classes and rate
      them for fidelity.

      Participants: The PI will work with community youth music programs to purposively sample 15
      adolescent music facilitators. Convenience sampling will be employed to recruit 30 older
      adult participants from community wellness programs. The inclusion and exclusion criteria
      will be discussed in the Eligibility Criteria section. Once identified, facilitators and
      participants will be contacted by a research assistant to share study details and obtain
      consent. Participation in the music classes will be voluntary and musicians and participants
      can withdraw from the study at any time. The PI will coordinate facilitation times with the
      participants and the music facilitators. The facilitators will spend an estimated seven hours
      each, which include a training session, preparation for the classes and facilitation of the
      classes. Involvement for each musician will take place approximately one month. The
      participants will spend an estimated 45 hours attending digital music classes. The
      involvement for participants will take place approximately over 12 months.

      Data Management: Fidelity review forms will be entered into RedCap.

      Data Analysis and Reliability: Within Microsoft Excel, the PI will calculate the fidelity
      rates for each music facilitator.

      Expected outcome: Fidelity rates will demonstrate if the music facilitators can deliver the
      music intervention consistently. These findings will help the researchers making any
      necessary adaptations to the intervention.

      Potential pitfalls: One potential pitfall is the adolescent music facilitators experiencing
      uncertainty during the process of facilitation due to their lack of experience teaching and
      presenting. To mitigate this uncertainty, a training session will be offered prior to the
      facilitation sessions a professional music facilitator will be present for each session to
      assist with unforeseen circumstances or to help navigate any difficult discussions that may
      arise.

      Aim 3: Assess if the program is appropriate for both the young musicians and the older adult
      participants using qualitative methodology.

      Initial development: Focus group questions will be generated by the study team based on the
      observations of the digital music program.

      Participants: The PI will work with community youth music programs to purposively sample 15
      adolescent music facilitators. Convenience sampling will be employed to recruit 30
      participants from community wellness programs that serve older adults. The inclusion and
      exclusion criteria will be discussed in the Eligibility Criteria section. Once identified,
      facilitators and participants will be contacted by a research assistant to share study
      details and obtain consent. Participation in the focus groups will be voluntary and musicians
      and participants can withdraw from the study at any time. The PI will coordinate focus group
      times with the participants and the music facilitators. The focus groups will last
      approximately 30-45 minutes each.

      Data Collection: Once consent is obtained and dates and times are confirmed, an appropriate
      venue that is free from interruptions will be reserved to conduct focus groups. The PI will
      follow a semi-structured guide to conduct one focus group with facilitator and another focus
      group with participants. The semi-structured guide will ask both groups about practical
      considerations such as the structure and technological features (volume level, font size in
      presentations) of the music classes. Probing questions will be asked about appropriateness of
      the classes delivered by the adolescent facilitators, opportunities that should be considered
      in future iterations of the intervention, and potential skills learned or supported for
      facilitators and participants. Focus groups will last approximately 30-45 minutes and will be
      audio and video recorded. A research assistant will transcribe each focus group verbatim,
      deidentifying any personal information, in a Microsoft Word document.

      Data Management: Transcribed focus group data will be uploaded and managed in NVivo. These
      data will be securely stored on a hard drive designated for this study.

      Data Analysis and Dependability: The PI (Dorris) and Co-Investigator (Rodakowski) will
      complete content analysis of the focus group data within NVivo.

      Expected Outcome: Mechanisms for administering and interpreting the music program will be
      discussed and barriers and facilitators for future growth of the program will be collected.
      Increasing our understanding of what was appropriate and what needs future adaptation will
      lead to a more successful iteration of the intervention's development.

      Potential Pitfalls: One potential logistical pitfall is the recruitment of adolescent
      facilitators to participate in focus groups given their demanding schedules and availability.
      If facilitators are unable to attend the focus group but are willing to participate in the
      study, we will offer the opportunity to partake in individual interviews or complete an
      online survey in place of the focus group. Another potential logistical pitfall is the memory
      of the participants causing barriers to remembering the music classes. The research team will
      coordinate with the participants of the music program to discuss breaking the focus group
      questions into 5-10 minute sessions at the end of each facilitated class.
    
  