
    
      This study is a randomised, cross-over, dietary intervention trial. Healthy adult (>18 y)
      participants from the community will be recruited by means of an advertisement leaflet and
      word of mouth. Eligible participants will be enrolled in the study. We will thank those
      subjects who have expressed an interest about the study but are not suitable to participate
      and we will explain to them why they need to be excluded. Those who are eligible and willing
      to participate will be asked to undertake two different experimental diets, for seven days
      each:

        1. Exclusive Enteral Nutrition (EEN) which is the exclusive consumption of a milk-based
           proprietary dietary supplement (Modulen®, Nestle). This is a liquid based diet used for
           the management of children with active CD. Although this diet is used primary for
           clinical reasons it is food based and does not contain any drugs or non-food based
           pharmaceutical ingredients. It is available online and without prescription from
           pharmacist.

        2. Crohn's Disease TReatment-with-EATing diet (CD-TREAT diet), an elimination customized
           diet which will consist of ordinary food and which will resemble the food/nutrient
           composition of EEN (e.g. fibre content, fatty acid composition) and considering evidence
           that implicates certain nutrients, and food ingredients (e.g. meat, sugar) in the
           aetiology and risk of relapse of CD. Diet will be created using the food group exchange
           methodology and will be analysed using Windiets® 2010.

      Both diets will have the same energy content and will be isocaloric aiming to keep
      participants' weight stable during the study period. Their energy content will be tailored to
      participants' total energy expenditure and physical activity level calculated by the WHO set
      of equations. The order of the diets will be randomly allocated using an MS Excel command. In
      order to minimize fatigue with the diet but also to ensure that we will be able to detect
      changes in gut microbiota, experimental diets will be given for 7 days. This is based on
      recent evidence suggesting that dietary changes for 5 days induce reproducible alterations in
      gut microbiota composition and metabolism. Prior to the first diet intervention, participants
      will also record their dietary intake using a 7-day estimated food diary. Between the two
      interventions the participants will have to eat their habitual diet for two weeks and this
      will be a wash out period which aims to drive the gut microbiota back to baseline levels. The
      week prior to the initiation of the second intervention the participants will be asked to
      keep the same dietary pattern as they had the week prior to the first trial.

      Detailed methods:

      Preliminary Health Check: Participants will undertake a short health questionnaire including
      basic health information, age or any medication on the day of recruitment.

      Anthropometry: All participants will have height and weight measured at baseline and only
      weight measured in each sample collection timepoint.

      Diet compliance: Over the course of the two experimental diets we will monitor compliance by
      asking participants to complete a questionnaire. The questionnaire will ask if they felt the
      need to supplement the diets at any time with other foods or drinks. An interval call 2 days
      after each diet's initiation will also be used to increase participants' motivation and
      compliance on the diets.

      Sample collection & analysis: Fresh faecal and urine samples will be collected before and
      after each dietary intervention (4 times in total) to assess and compare the impact of these
      diets on gut microbiota composition and metabolic activity.

      Lab Assays:

        1. The gut bacterial diversity and composition from stool samples will be measured using
           molecular techniques such as quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR) from bacterial
           ribosomal DNA and next generation sequencing (metagenomics).

        2. A large number of different products from bacterial metabolism, such as short chain
           fatty acids, sulphide, and ammonia will be measured using a range of techniques
           including gas chromatography and gas chromatography mass spectrometry
           (GCMS)(metabolomics). Faecal pH, a marker of bacterial fermentation, will also be
           measured.

      Power calculation: Fresh faecal and urine samples will be collected from 38 healthy
      participants at 4 time points. Based on our previous in vivo work in children with CD this
      would give us a power of 80% (p=0.05) to detect a mean concentration difference of 1.0 log
      (SD:1.5) in Faecalibacterium prausnitzii between their habitual diet and EEN diet or the
      CD-TREAT diet.
    
  