
    
      Numerous neuromuscular disorders (NMD) are characterized not only by weakness of axial and
      limb muscles but also by respiratory muscle and upper airway involvement. Respiratory muscle
      weakness first manifests as sleep-disordered breathing (SDB). SDB in neuromuscular disease
      mainly comprises alveolar hypoventilation but upper airway collapse may also occur because
      pharyngeal muscle tone is impaired by both neuromuscular weakness and sleep.

      Diaphragmatic weakness and myopathy are hallmarks of advanced obstructive pulmonary disease
      leading to even greater impairment of gas exchange in affected patients.

      Non-invasive ventilation (NIV) should be initiated in patients with diaphragm weakness if
      significant SDB or hypercapnic respiratory failure is present. Indication criteria for NIV
      include measurement of spiromanometric parameters such as forced vital capacity (FVC),
      maximum inspiratory pressure (MIP), or sniff nasal inspiratory pressure (SNIP). These
      measurements are volitional, i. e. test results are dependent on individual patient effort
      and may show intraindividual variance which may not properly reflect disease progression or
      treatment effects, respectively. Associations between volitional and non-volitional methods
      of respiratory muscle strength testing have been reported mainly for healthy individuals but
      only scarcely in patients with specific NMD.

      Non-volitional tests of respiratory muscle strength include phrenic nerve conduction studies,
      diaphragmatic ultrasound, and magnetic stimulation of the phrenic nerves in particular.
      Magnetic stimulation is usually combined with esophageal and gastric manometry yielding the
      twitch transdiaphragmatic pressure which closely reflects diaphragmatic strength.

      It is desirable to obtain validated data on both volitional and non-volitional tests of
      respiratory muscle strength in various NMD. Validation has to be carried out with regard to
      both daytime hypercapnia and nocturnal retention of carbon dioxide because the latter often
      represents the earliest manifestation of respiratory muscle weakness. SDB often starts long
      before exertional dyspnea or orthopnea develop. Since NIV is one of the mainstays of
      symptomatic treatment in both NMD and advanced obstructive lung disease, early recognition of
      SDB is crucial for optimal patient care, and in many conditions, life expectancy and quality
      of life may be substantially increased by NIV. In this study, FVC, MIP, MEP and SNIP testing
      along with non-volitional methods and diaphragmatic ultrasound will be applied in order to
      establish a protocol which may help to reliably predict SDB or need for ventilatory support,
      respectively.

      Patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) develop flattening, shortening,
      and weakness of the diaphragm. This is not only due to downward dislocation of the diaphragm
      but also to impairment of contractile function, tissue structure, and intracellular
      biochemistry. Respiratory muscle weakness in COPD is of major clinical relevance since
      maximum inspiratory pressure is an independent predictor of survival in severely affected
      patients. In addition, hypercapnic respiratory failure due to inspiratory muscle weakness is
      associated with morbidity and mortality in COPD.

      Direct comparison of both volitional and non-volitional measures of respiratory muscle
      function between patients with diaphragmatic weakness due to neuromuscular disease and
      patients with COPD is desirable. This approach may allow for further characterization of
      "impairment patterns" probably specific to either COPD or certain neuromuscular disease,
      respectively.
    
  