
    
      1. Purpose The purpose of this study is to compare a cohort of patients who have undergone
           anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstructive surgery performed using either an
           interference screw fixation and suspensory button fixation hybrid technique, with
           another cohort of patients who have undergone an all-inside suspensory method fixation.
           We plan to evaluate the incidence and degree of bone tunnel widening between the two
           groups. This will consist of two x-rays of the operative knee in both the
           anteroposterior and lateral view, at a 1 to 2 year follow-up.

        2. Hypothesis Our hypothesis is that the all-inside technique using suspensory button
           fixation will result in less tunnel widening compared to a hybrid technique using
           interference screw and suspensory button fixation. With the all-inside technique using
           the anatomic anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) position there will be less potential for
           a "bungee-cord effect" and "windshield-wiper effect" as previously seen with more
           vertical transtibial tunnel techniques. Using this technique, shorter tunnels and closer
           fixation points will result in less graft motion to cause tunnel widening. This is in
           contrast to interference screw technique which we feel will enlarge tunnel size
           mechanically upon insertion.

        3. Justification There have been many described techniques for anterior cruciate ligament
           (ACL) reconstruction surgery. This include graft options, tunnel positioning and
           fixation methods. Over the last few years, the placement of both femoral and tibial
           tunnels has evolved from an isometric position to a more anatomic position. The fixation
           methods can vary from interference screw fixation, suspensory button fixation and a
           trans-fix pin fixation. What we have seen in the isometric tunnel positions is the issue
           of tunnel widening. This has been associated with graft failure and increased knee
           laxity. Tunnel widening can also lead to insufficient bone stock complicating revision
           surgery and potentially requiring a 2-stage procedure with bone grafting. Tunnel
           widening has been shown with both interference screw and endobutton fixation in the
           past. More recently, newer instrumentation and an all-inside technique have been
           utilized at our institution that has some potential benefits including prevention of
           tunnel widening.

        4. Objectives The primary outcome for this study will be radiographic assessment of tunnel
           width on both the femoral and tibial tunnels. X-rays will be taken in both the
           anteroposterior and lateral views to assess tunnel width. X-rays will be taken at 1 to 2
           year follow-up following surgery. Tunnel width will be measured perpendicular to the the
           tunnels based on the sclerotic margins. 3 separate measurements, spaced 5 mm apart, will
           be taken in both the AP and lateral views. The centre of these measurements will be
           based at the location of the greatest width. An average of these measurements will be
           calculated and used to calculate bone tunnel enlargement.

        5. Research Methods We plan to review the last 60 patients who have undergone anterior
           cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstructive surgery (30 in each study arm) performed with
           either technique by 3 orthopedic surgeons with subspecialty training in arthroscopic
           knee surgery who use similar techniques. All surgeries were performed at one center from
           November 2012 until present.

      All patients who have had anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) surgery at our institution have
      been entered into a data registry that includes: patient demographics and anterior cruciate
      ligament Quality of life outcome scores. We plan to analyze this data including surgical data
      on graft and tunnel sizes, fixation methods and post-operative radiographs. Post-operative
      radiographs will be taken at one to two year follow-up to assess tunnel width. Clinical
      assessment, knee ligament arthrometry (KT-1000) measurements, and outcome measure scores,
      anterior cruciate ligament (Quality of Life) , Lysholm and International Knee Documentation
      Committee (IKDC) will also be taken during each visit. Written, informed consent will be
      obtained from each patient prior to entering them into the study.
    
  