
    
      In an independent groups study design, the aim was to investigate the efficacy of a
      postpartum physical development programme on core reconnection (i.e., pelvic floor function,
      core strength/stability and urogynaecological measures), occupational physical performance,
      musculoskeletal health, and psychological health/wellbeing in servicewomen. Given that policy
      guidance is urgently needed regarding the safe return of servicewomen to functional
      occupational fitness, the aim of our proposed research is to inform the appropriate physical
      preparation of servicewomen in the postpartum period.

      Participants at selected sites around the Royal Military Academy at Sandhurst will receive
      usual care/no formal intervention (acting as a control group [CON]) and participants at
      different sites around Army Headquarters will receive usual care and additionally complete an
      18-week phased physical development (rehabilitation and training) programme between weeks 6
      and 24 postpartum (acting as the intervention group [INT]). If recruitment numbers are low at
      the main sites (Aldershot and Tidworth) we will seek to recruit participants to CON from
      Sandhurst as an additional recruitment site and from Bulford, Middle Wallop, Larkhill and
      Marlborough Lines for INT. The geographical separation of sites was deemed to be important
      for maintaining differences between intervention and control group activity.

      The investigators have designed a phased 18-week physical development programme to train both
      rehabilitative and performance enhancement elements of physical preparation. The
      rehabilitation element of the programme will specifically target pelvic floor function and
      core strength and stability (known collectively as Core Reconnection training) from weeks 6
      to 24 postpartum, and the training element of the programme will contain resistance and
      high-intensity interval training (HIIT) from weeks 12 to 24 postpartum

      The aim of this research is to investigate the effectiveness of a tailored rehabilitation and
      physical preparation programme for postpartum women on:

        1. Occupational fitness performance;

        2. Female health assessments (i.e., urinary incontinence, pelvic floor strength);

        3. Musculoskeletal health;

        4. Psychological health and wellbeing.
    
  