
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the overall response rate (ORR) of pembrolizumab with concurrent fractionated
      external beam radiotherapy (EBRT) among patients with relapsed and refractory non-Hodgkin
      lymphoma (NHL).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the safety of pembrolizumab with fractionated EBRT in patients with relapsed
      and refractory NHL.

      II. To determine the overall response rate and complete response rate (CRR) of irradiated and
      non-irradiated lesions to treatment with concurrent pembrolizumab and fractionated EBRT in
      patients with relapsed and refractory NHL.

      III. To determine the progression free survival (PFS) of pembrolizumab in combination with
      fractionated EBRT.

      IV. To determine the overall survival (OS) of pembrolizumab in combination with fractionated
      EBRT.

      V. To determine the duration of response of irradiated and non-irradiated lesions after
      concurrent pembrolizumab and fractionated EBRT.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To identify tumor and peripheral blood markers predictive of response to concurrent
      pembrolizumab and low to moderate dose EBRT in the setting of relapsed and refractory NHL.

      II. To determine if a course of hypo-fractionated EBRT can improve response after progressive
      disease among patients treated with fractionated EBRT and pembrolizumab.

      OUTLINE:

      Beginning on day 1, patients undergo fractionated EBRT daily for 5 consecutive days a week
      for up to 12 or 22 treatments. Patients also receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 1
      hour on day 2. Treatment with pembrolizumab repeats every 21 days for up to 35 cycles in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, every 3 months for
      1 year and then every 6 months thereafter.
    
  