
    
      The anesthetic potency of an inhalational anesthetic is measured by the minimum alveolar
      concentration (MAC), or the dose required to suppress movement to a surgical stimulus in 50%
      of patients. This measure of potency may also be used to assess the effects of other agents
      on the MAC of the inhalational agent. Sedative agents reduce MAC of inhalational anesthetic
      agents. Two human adult studies have shown that Dexmetomidine decreased the minimum alveolar
      concentration of Isoflurane and Sevoflurane. Age has an important effect on the MAC of
      inhalational anesthetics in children. Sevoflurane is a commonly used polyflourinated methyl
      ether with a low blood:gas partition coefficient, which facilitates a rapid increase in
      alveolar and tissue anesthetic partial pressures and subsequent rapid emergence from
      anesthesia. Additionally, Sevoflurane is non-stimulating to airway reflexes facilitating
      smooth inhalational induction of anesthesia. The MAC of Sevoflurane is also dependent on age
      with the MAC in neonates (<28 days) 3.3%, infants between 6-12 months of age 3.2%, and
      infants 6-12 months of age and children 1-12 years of age 2.5%. MAC is affected by several
      factors. Hypothermia, hyponatremia, hypo-osmolality, metabolic acidosis, hypoxia,
      hypercarbia, anemia, pregnancy, nitrous oxide, opioids, propofol, benzodiazepines, and acute
      alcohol use decrease MAC whereas hyperthermia, cocaine, amphetamines, hypernatremia, chronic
      alcohol use increase MAC. Dexmetomidine is an alpha-2 agonist that has been used as a
      premedication, an adjunct to analgesia, and an adjunct to general inhalational anesthesia.
      Alpha-2 adrenergic agonist additionally decease the stress response to surgery. Alpha-2
      adrenergic agonists have sedative, hypnotic, and analgesic properties and have been reported
      to decrease the amount of other sedative, analgesic, and general inhalational anesthetics in
      not only animal studies but also human studies. A concentration-response relationship has
      been reported in adults receiving Dexmedetomidine using the visual analog scale (VAS)
      sedation scale (0-100) with a 0 as very alert and 100 as very sedated. A score of 40
      correlated with a Dexmedetomidine concentration of 0.7mcg/mL and a score of 60 with a plasma
      concentration of 1.2mcg/mL. The sedated target concentration from a pooled population of
      children and neonates has been reported to be between 0.4 and 0.8 mcg/mL. Additionally, a
      plasma concentration of 0.6mcg/mL has been estimated as satisfactory for sedation in the
      adult ICU. Inhalational anesthetics have been shown to cause neuroapoptosis and
      neurodegenerative changes in various animal models; however, the human data from
      retrospective and epidemiologic studies in children exposed to inhalational anesthetics is
      inconclusive. There are ongoing trials to determine the effect of exposure from inhalational
      anesthetics on neurodevelopment outcomes. There is emerging evidence that Dexmedetomidine is
      not associated with neuroapoptosis or other neurodegenerative changes. Dexmedetomidine has
      actually been shown to attenuate Isoflurane-induced neurocognitive impairment in neonatal
      rats. There is no information regarding the reduction of MAC of Sevoflurane in children with
      clinically applicable Dexmetomidine dosing regimens. Additionally, determining the degree of
      reduction of Sevoflurane MAC by Dexmedetomidine may be helpful in providing an alternative
      anesthetic regimen such as the routine use of Dexmedetomidine and Sevoflurane in order to
      decrease the potential neuroapoptotic effects of inhalational anesthetic agents.
    
  