
    
      Correct endotracheal tube (ETT) placement is important. Ideal ETT position is achieved when
      the distal tip is in mid-trachea with the head in neutral alignment. Unrecognized tube
      misplacement is an uncommon but significant cause of hypoxemia and death during general
      anesthesia and emergency intubation of critically ill patients. It is commoner in
      out-of-hospital intubations, where it is reported to occur in 1 to 15% of cases, often with
      disastrous results. 1, 2 Three types of malpositioning can occur: one outside the trachea
      (esophageal), and two within the trachea: too shallow (hypopharyngeal), or too deep
      (endobronchial). Esophageal intubation results in rapid hypoxemia, hypercarbia, and inflation
      of the stomach as the patient receives no ventilation at all. 3 Too-shallow placement of the
      ETT can result in inadvertent extubation, especially with manipulation of head and neck. 4
      Endobronchial intubation occurs when the ETT is advanced into a mainstem bronchus, which
      results in hypoxia and the potential for barotrauma in the hyperventilated lung. 5, 6
      Confirmation of correct ETT depth is currently performed by several methods. In the operating
      room, simple measurement of the length of the tube at the corner of the mouth is rapid but
      not reliable. One study improved on this by using additional anatomical landmarks to
      determine ETT tube length as measured at the mouth.7 It enabled a reduction in the incidence
      of too-deep placement of the ETT from 58.8% to 24%.

      Cuff ballottement at the level of the suprasternal notch is a technique that has been studied
      with cuffed tubes in adults. Ballottement as described in these papers involves moving the
      fingers in a direction normal to the long axis of the ETT in order to alternately compress
      and release the finger pressure on the cuff, while feeling and watching the corresponding
      movement of the pilot balloon. Ease of palpation of ballottement was inconsistent, and in one
      study 15 of 82 patients had ETT tips <2.5 cm above the carina. 8-10 Studies to date of
      ballottement do not comment on its ability to prevent esophageal intubation. Ultrasound
      guided intubation has been shown to provide correct placement, but requires training and
      machine availability. 11-14 We proposed to refine methods of palpating the trachea that we
      studied in previous experiments. We found that palpation of the anterior trachea with the
      fingertips during intubation enabled us to feel the tip of the endotracheal tube sliding into
      the trachea and improve correct depth compared to measurement at the teeth. 15 That study was
      undertaken to determine whether palpation of the trachea could enable correct position of the
      endotracheal tube with respect to depth. Esophageal intubation was studied subsequently, but
      the study was stopped when it became clear that we could not determine esophageal intubation
      by anterior tracheal palpation (unpublished).

      However, during two instances of inadvertent esophageal intubation, we accidentally
      discovered a technique that may be able to detect inadvertent esophageal intubation as well
      as ensure correct endotracheal tube depth. Following tracheal intubation, with the cuff
      inflated to 50cm water pressure in the trachea, there was a sudden marked increase in the
      force necessary to gently tug the endotracheal tube proximally as the inflated cuff impinges
      on the rigid, encircling cricoid cartilage. When the increased force is sensed, then pushing
      the ETT down 2cm will ensure it is correctly positioned. If the cuff is in the esophagus, it
      will slide out without the sudden increased force being felt.

      We plan a clinical pilot study of intubation of esophagus versus trachea with initial
      intubation of the esophagus flowed by intubation of the trachea.

      Hypotheses. The force required for esophageal extubation with cuff inflated will be that
      required for tracheal extubation.

      Primary outcome. To assess the reliability and accuracy of TETT as a method to determine
      tracheal versus esophageal intubation by measuring the force needed to slowly pull the ETT
      from the esophagus versus from the trachea.

      Secondary outcomes. To find the optimal cuff-inflation pressure to distinguish trachea from
      esophagus and to assess the reliability and accuracy of TETT as a method to determine depth
      of endotracheal tube in the trachea.

      Experimental design. A clinical trial with an objective measure of the difference in force of
      tugging between esophagus and trachea.

      Patient safety. Intentional esophageal intubation has been reported in three previous airway
      studies with no harm coming to 275 patients. 16-18 Intentional intubation of the esophagus
      has been practiced routinely for gastroscopy in millions of patients. Mortality attributable
      to esophageal endoscopy is exceedingly low (0.005-0.01%), includes very sick patients, and
      occurs only with interventions such as biopsy and cautery of esophageal varices.19 In a
      prospective study of resident trainees performing upper G.I. endoscopy (N = 4,490), there
      were no complications attributable to insertion of the gastroscope in the upper third of the
      esophagus.20 The manoeuvre takes only about 10 seconds, then the opposite orifice can be
      intubated, with mask oxygenation between intubations if indicated. In a just-completed study
      of moving and ETT upward in the trachea with the cuff inflated to 50cm H2O pressure we found
      no increase in sore throat as a surrogate for tracheal damage in patients who had the ETT
      moved with cuff inflated compared to standard care (manuscript in preparation). 21 A recent
      study conducted at University of Saskatchewan showed that there is great variance in cuff
      inflation pressures clinically (manuscript in preparation), with pressures often exceeding
      120 cm H2O pressure with no apparent adverse effects for inflation during surgery.

      Clinical Utility. If this technique proves reliable, it can decrease the risk of ETT
      misplacement. Further, if it is reliable, it is particularly useful because it takes no
      special equipment, can be performed in less than 10 seconds anywhere from operating room to
      battlefield, and may make xray confirmation of ETT depth unnecessary, avoiding radiation and
      expense.

      Methods

      Participants:

        1. Patients: Following University of Saskatchewan Research Ethics Board and Saskatoon
           Health Region approval, informed consent will be obtained from 20 patient participants.
           The collection, use and disclosure of patients' private information will conform to the
           Health Information Protection Act (HIPA). A convenience sample of American Society of
           Anesthesiologists (ASA) Class I and II patients ≥18 years, undergoing elective surgical
           procedures in the Saskatoon acute care hospitals of the Saskatoon Health Region and
           requiring endotracheal intubation as a component of the anesthetic plan, will be
           recruited. 22 Recruitment will take place in the Pre-Admission Clinic (PAC); in the Same
           Day Surgery and Day Surgery admission areas; and in the Operating Room (OR) Holding
           Area. Excluded patients will be those who are physiologically unstable, if there is
           urgency to proceed with surgery, patients requiring rapid sequence induction, and those
           with respiratory distress. The anesthesiologists will be encouraged to exclude patients
           if for any reason they feel that inclusion puts them at risk.

        2. Testers: we will recruit and explain the manoeuvre to willing anesthesia staff,
           residents, and anesthesia assistants.

      Interventions: Intubation will be by the attending anesthesiologist, who will choose the
      intubating anesthetic and equipment on clinical grounds. The anesthesiologists will intubate
      the esophagus first, and inflate the ETT cuff to their customary pressure, which we will then
      measure. An apparatus including a force transducer (LoadStar F-152217557 S-beam sensor run on
      LoadVue software; Loadstar Sensors Ltd., Fremont CA, USA) will be attached to the ETT
      connector and the testers will perform the gentle tugging while recording the force of pull
      until the ETT comes out of the esophagus. The process will be repeated with the trachea. At
      this point the anesthesiologist will intubate the trachea and proceed with surgical
      anesthesia. Only one set of intubations will be tested on any participant.

      Measurements: Data will be recorded on paper data sheets for later transcription to a
      computer spread sheet for analysis. Usual demographics (age, gender, height, weight, type of
      surgery) will be recorded. Force transducer data will be digitally recorded on a computer for
      later analysis.

      Sample size. Assuming that the anesthesiologist is able to intubate the esophagus
      successfully 100% of the time in this population, and the palpation technique is able to
      detect the esophageal intubation correctly only 50% of the time, we will need 15 participants
      assuming an alpha value of 0.05 and a beta value of 0.2 with Yates correction. Therefore,
      accounting for unforeseen exigencies, we will plan to recruit 20 participants.

      Statistical Analysis: Demographics will be reported. Forces will be compared with paired
      t-tests.

      Table 1. Diagnosis of esophageal intubation. Test ↓ Truth → T E totals T E totals

      We will plot and subtract the force change from esophagus from the force change from trachea
      at the various pressures and construct a receiver operating curve to show the optimal cuff
      inflation pressure.

      References

        1. Caplan RA, Posner KL, Ward RJ, Cheney FW. Adverse respiratory events in anesthesia: a
           closed claims analysis. Anesthesiology 1990; 72: 828-33.

        2. Schwartz DE, Matthay MA, Cohen NH. Death and other complications of emergency airway
           management in critically ill adults. A prospective investigation of 297 tracheal
           intubations. Anesthesiology 1995; 82: 367-76.

        3. Clyburn P, Rosen M. Accidental oesophageal intubation. BrJ Anaesth 1994; 73: 55-63.

        4. Harris EA, Arheart KL, Penning DH. Endotracheal tube malposition within the pediatric
           population: a common event despite clinical evidence of correct placement. Can J Anaesth
           2008; 55: 685-90.

        5. Owen RL, Cheney FW. Endobronchial intubation: a preventable complication. Anesthesiology
           1987; 67: 255-7.

        6. Mackenzie M, MacLeod K. Repeated inadvertent endobronchial intubation during
           laparoscopy. BrJ Anaesth 2003; 91: 297-8.

        7. Evron S, Weisenberg M, Harow E, et al. Proper insertion depth of endotracheal tubes in
           adults by topographic landmarks measurements. J ClinAnesth 2007; 19: 15-9.

        8. Ledrick D, Plewa M, Casey K, Taylor J, Buderer N. Evaluation of manual cuff palpation to
           confirm proper endotracheal tube depth. PrehospDisasterMed 2008; 23: 270-4.

        9. Pattnaik SK, Bodra R. Ballotability of cuff to confirm the correct intratracheal
           position of the endotracheal tube in the intensive care unit. EurJ Anaesthesiol 2000;
           17: 587-90.

       10. Pollard RJ, Lobato EB. Endotracheal tube location verified reliably by cuff palpation.
           Anesth Analg 1995; 81: 135-8.

       11. Muslu B, Sert H, Kaya A, et al. Use of sonography for rapid identification of esophageal
           and tracheal intubations in adult patients. Journal of ultrasound in medicine : official
           journal of the American Institute of Ultrasound in Medicine 2011; 30: 671-6.

       12. McKay WP, Wang A, Yip K, Raazi M. Tracheal ultrasound to assess endotracheal tube depth:
           an exploratory study. CanJAnaesth 2015.

       13. Hoffmann B, Gullett JP, Hill HF, et al. Bedside ultrasound of the neck confirms
           endotracheal tube position in emergency intubations. Ultraschall in der Medizin
           (Stuttgart, Germany : 1980) 2014; 35: 451-8.

       14. Ramsingh D, Frank E, Haughton R, et al. Auscultation versus Point-of-care Ultrasound to
           Determine Endotracheal versus Bronchial Intubation: A Diagnostic Accuracy Study.
           Anesthesiology 2016; 124: 1012-20.

       15. McKay WP, Klonarakis J, Pelivanov V, O'Brien JM, Plewes C. Tracheal palpation to assess
           endotracheal tube depth: an exploratory study. Canadian journal of anaesthesia = Journal
           canadien d'anesthesie 2014; 61: 229-34.

       16. Sharieff GQ, Rodarte A, Wilton N, Silva PD, Bleyle D. The self-inflating bulb as an
           esophageal detector device in children weighing more than twenty kilograms: a comparison
           of two techniques. Annals of emergency medicine 2003; 41: 623-9.

       17. Tong YL, Sun M, Tang WH, Xia JY. The tracheal detecting-bulb: a new device to
           distinguish tracheal from esophageal intubation. Acta anaesthesiologica Sinica 2002; 40:
           159-63.

       18. Zaleski L, Abello D, Gold MI. The esophageal detector device. Does it work?
           Anesthesiology 1993; 79: 244-7.

       19. Schrag SP, Sharma R, Jaik NP, et al. Complications related to percutaneous endoscopic
           gastrostomy (PEG) tubes. A comprehensive clinical review. J GastrointestinLiver Dis
           2007; 16: 407-18.

       20. Schauer PR, Schwesinger WH, Page CP, Stewart RM, Levine BA, Sirinek KR. Complications of
           surgical endoscopy. A decade of experience from a surgical residency training program.
           SurgEndosc 1997; 11: 8-11.

       21. Liu J, Zhang X, Gong W, et al. Correlations between controlled endotracheal tube cuff
           pressure and postprocedural complications: a multicenter study. Anesthesia and analgesia
           2010; 111: 1133-7.

       22. Saubermann AJ, Lagasse RS. Prediction of rate and severity of adverse perioperative
           outcomes: "normal accidents" revisited. The Mount Sinai journal of medicine, New York
           2012; 79: 46-55.
    
  