
    
      The overall objective of the proposed research is to create and disseminate expert-based
      recommendations for perioperative medication safety that are tailored to country income
      level, using the World Bank's four country income groups: high, upper-middle, lower-middle,
      and low income. The proposed project will include the entire medication use process
      (ordering, dispensing, preparing, administering, documenting and monitoring). The specific
      aims of the research are to:

        1. Develop consensus-based perioperative medication safety recommendations. Approach: This
           study will use the extensively studied RAND-UCLA Delphi Method to achieve consensus,
           with an expert panel consisting of anesthesiologists, surgeons, nurses and medication
           safety experts from each of the World Bank's four country income groups.

        2. Prioritize the recommendations by their level of clinical importance for implementation
           in high, upper-middle, lower-middle and low income countries, and disseminate the
           recommendations. Approach: The expert panel members will rank each recommendation by its
           importance as a next step in improving medication safety in each country income group. A
           Condorcet ranking method will be used to combine individual rankings into a single list
           of recommendations ranked by the importance of implementation for each country income
           group. The investigators will then execute a comprehensive dissemination strategy.

        3. Evaluate the initial adoption of the recommendations in each country income group.
           Approach: The investigators will conduct qualitative, one-on-one, semi-structured
           interviews of the expert panel members, to evaluate their perceptions of initial
           adoption of the recommendations in each country income group. A grounded theory approach
           will be used to identify common themes.
    
  