
    
      The study design is a randomized controlled trial. This trial will deliver a responsive
      parenting intervention (Sleep Soothe) to provide information on how to soothe, how to
      distinguish hunger from other distress, how to promote self-soothing, and bedtime routines.
      The responsive parenting intervention will be compared to a safety control group (Sleep
      Safe). The programs will be delivered across 2 sessions at 3-weeks and 8-weeks postpartum.
      Both interventions and all data collection will be delivered in participants' homes.
      Assessments will be conducted in participants' homes at 1-week postpartum, 3 weeks
      postpartum, 8 weeks postpartum, and 16-weeks postpartum.

      Three hundred African American infants and their mothers will be recruited from the
      mother/baby nursery at Augusta University Medical Center. A dedicated recruitment coordinator
      will have access to electronic medical records systems in order to pre-screen mothers and
      infants. The recruitment coordinator will approach those who match basic inclusion criteria
      and will deliver an approved verbal script to pre-screened mothers to determine interest in
      participation. Interested mothers will respond to remaining screening questions in order to
      confirm eligibility. Once enrollment criteria are satisfied, informed consent will be
      obtained from the infant's mother during her hospital stay. Mothers will also complete
      selected demographic information. Anthropometric measurements will be obtained on the infant,
      mother, and father (optional). After enrollment, families will be scheduled for a research
      visit at their home at 1 week postpartum.

      At home visit 1 (7-10 days postpartum), mothers (and fathers, if interested) will complete
      questionnaire measures using Qualtrics. There will also be measurements of infant weight and
      length. Families will be randomized to condition following this visit.

      At home visit 2 (3 weeks postpartum), families will receive either the responsive parenting
      intervention or the safety control intervention. They will complete brief questionnaires.
      Measures of infant, maternal, and paternal (optional) weight will be obtained.

      At home visit 3 (8 weeks postpartum), families will receive either the second part of the
      responsive parenting intervention or the second part of the safety control intervention. They
      will complete brief questionnaires. Measures of infant, maternal, and (optional: paternal)
      weight will be obtained. Mothers will be provided with activity monitors for themselves and
      for their babies that will be picked up by study staff after 7 days' use.

      At home visit 4 (16 weeks postpartum), mothers will complete questionnaire measures (fathers'
      participation is optional). Measures of maternal and paternal (optional) weight will be
      obtained, as will measures of infant weight, length, and head circumference.

      We test the following specific aims:

      Specific Aim 1: To assess the effects of responsive parenting, focused on infant sleep and
      soothing, on reducing rapid weight gain from 3 to 16 weeks among African American infants. We
      hypothesize that infants in the Sleep Soothe condition will gain weight more slowly compared
      to infants in the Sleep Safe condition and have lower weight outcomes (i.e., BMI z scores,
      weight-for-length z scores, weight-for-age z scores) at age 16 weeks.

      Specific Aim 2: To assess effects of responsive parenting on parental and infant behaviors.
      We hypothesize that compared with parents in the Sleep Safe condition, parents in the Sleep
      Soothe condition will show increases in responsive parenting, parenting self-efficacy, and
      the use of alternatives to feeding to soothe (white noise, pacifier, etc.), and decreases in
      feeding to soothe. Over time, infants in this condition will have longer sleep bouts and
      fewer feedings.

      Specific Aim 3: To examine moderation of intervention effects by individual and contextual
      factors.
    
  