
    
      The main goal of this study is to investigate the effect of a new implant design on the
      postoperative active knee kinematics on mid-flexion instability of the joint. Data will be
      collected during the surgery with a Computer Assisted Surgery system and in the post
      operative follow up phase using the dynamic RSA focusing. A prospective study will be
      performed on a new implant: the DePuy ATTUNETM fixed-bearing (FB) posterior-stabilized (PS)
      knee prosthesis.

      Kinematic tests will be performed to analyze femoral rotation patterns and translation
      patterns of the medial and femoral condyle respect to the tibial plateau during different
      daily life motor tasks.

      Despite reportedly good implant survival rates, not all patients are fully satisfied after
      total knee arthroplasty (TKA). One of the most debated topics in TKA is the effectiveness of
      the prosthesis to reproduce physiological kinematics at the replaced knee, usually expressed
      in terms of patterns of joint rotation in the three anatomical planes, of the functional
      axis, and of the tibio-femoral contact points on the medial and lateral condyles, that is,
      femoral roll-back.

      Implant design can influence final kinematic results. The mid-flexion instability may be the
      cause of joint instability, paradoxical femoral rollback, surgical variation.

      Recently an improved implant design of fixed bearing PS DePuy implant has been anticipated to
      early users. This implant has been claimed to reduce midflexion instability and improve joint
      kinematics, because of a particular multiradius shape of the condylar surface.

      For intra-operative kinematic acquisition, a commercial navigation system (BLUIGS, Orthokey
      Italia srl, Firenze, Italy) with a dedicated software for kinematic tests will be used.

      In the present study, the investigators will use a postoperative bi-planar imaging method in
      weight-bearing motor tasks with active muscle contraction , to determine the in vivo contact
      areas on the tibial articulating surface of a PS TKA during flexion of the knee.

      The objective of the present study is to determine the contact areas and their movement
      through a 0-140° arc of motion in both the anteroposterior (AP) and ML directions. The cohort
      will also be compared with data of normal knee kinematics, as reported in current literature.

      At 6 months follow-up, dynamic fluoroscopy will be used to analyze implant kinematics (i.e.
      stair descent, level-walking and non weight-bearing maximum knee flexion) and a simultaneous,
      real-time collection of ground reaction forces with a force platform will be performed.
      Clinical scores will be collected at that time and compared with all the data registered
      before surgery and during the follow up routinely made at 1 and 3 months after surgery.

      A specifically developed device installed at the Rizzoli Orthopaedic Institute will be used
      to assess the kinematic of the knee at 9 months after surgery. This equipment is unique
      worldwide: it was specifically designed, built and certified for dynamic and static RSA
      evaluation of TKA. The purpose of this study is to investigate the effect of a new implant
      design on the post-operative active knee kinematics, focusing on mid-flexion instability of
      the joint. A prospective randomized study will be performed on a new implant: the DePuy
      ATTUNETM fixed-bearing (FB) posterior-stabilized (PS) knee prosthesis.
    
  