
    
      Objective:

      While medications can temporarily alleviate the symptoms of Parkinson s disease (PD), they do
      not influence the degenerative process. Progressive loss of nigral dopaminergic (DA) neurons
      (the pathological hallmark of PD) results in progressive neurologic dysfunction and death.
      Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) was first identified based on its ability
      to promote the survival of embryonic DA neurons in vitro, and research has demonstrated
      beneficial effects of GDNF in animal models of PD. Preliminary clinical trials of GDNF
      infusions have yielded inconclusive results. Observed problems with tolerability and efficacy
      in these studies may have been related to the methods of delivery. Recent evidence indicates
      that gene transfer via direct delivery of viral vectors may represent a superior approach for
      the treatment of PD with GDNF.

      Study population:

      Twenty-four adult male and female subjects with advanced Parkinson s disease, who are
      candidates for surgical treatment for Parkinson s disease and who meet all Inclusion and
      Exclusion Criteria.

      Design:

      We propose a Phase 1 single-center, open-label, dose escalation, safety and tolerability
      study of adeno-associated virus, serotype 2 vector (AAV2) containing human GDNF complementary
      DNA. Bilateral catheters will be placed surgically through the skull and into the brain and
      the vector will be delivered by convection-enhanced delivery (CED) to both putamina (450
      microliters per hemisphere) of 24 patients with advanced PD. An additional 76 subjects will
      be allowed for screening failures. Four escalating dose levels will be evaluated in the
      following dose cohorts (6 patients per cohort): Cohort 1 = 9 x 10(10)vg, Cohort 2 = 3 x
      10(11)vg, Cohort 3 = 9 x 10(11)vg and Cohort 4 = 3 x 10(12)vg.

      Outcome measures:

      To assess the safety, tolerability, and potential clinical effects of CED of AAV2-GDNF in
      advanced PD patients, we will use defined clinical evaluations of PD (Unified Parkinson s
      Disease Rating Scale, Modified Schwab and England Activities of Daily Living scale, Hoehn and
      Yahr Staging, Lang and Fahn Dyskinesia Rating Scale, On-Off Patient Diary, Quality of Life,
      Modified Rankin Scale, Adverse Event Log and neurologic examinations), laboratory studies
      (hematologic, immunologic and chemistry), neuropsychological testing (Mattis Dementia Rating
      Scale, Beck Depression Inventory II and Parkinson Psychosis Questionnaire) and neuroimaging
      (magnetic resonance imaging and positron emission tomography).
    
  