
    
      Diabetic retinopathy (DR) is the most common microvascular complication of diabetes mellitus
      (DM), while proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR) is the principal cause of severe visual
      loss in patients with diabetes.

      Since 1981, PRP has been a standard of treatment for PDR. However, PRP can be associated with
      adverse effects, including visual field constriction, decreased night vision, and worsening
      of coexisting diabetic macular edema (DME). for this reason, some authors have advocated
      targeted treatment with PRP. Targeted retinal laser photocoagulation (TRP) is designed to
      treat areas of retinal capillary non-perfusion and intermediate retinal ischemic zones in PDR
      that may spare better-perfused tissue from laser-induced tissue scarring.

      Protocol S by DRCR.net has shown that patients that receive ranibizumab as anti-vascular
      endothelial growth factor (anti-VEGF) therapy with deferred PRP are non-inferior regarding
      improving in visual acuity to those eyes receiving standard prompt PRP therapy for the
      treatment of PDR. However, the effect of both treatment modalities on macular perfusion has
      been inconclusive with no studies comparing the effect of both.

      Regarding the effect of anti-VEGF drugs on macular perfusion, several studies have shown
      mixed results with an increase, decrease, or no effect on perfusion in response to anti-VEGF
      treatment. In many of these studies, however, patients with more ischemic retinas were not
      included. Retinal ischemia is an important factor in the progression and prognosis of
      diabetic retinopathy.

      Fluorescein angiography (FA) was the method used to assess changes in macular perfusion after
      anti-VEGF injections in most of the clinical trials. Despite its clinical usefulness,
      however, FA is known to have documented risks and is being replaced by optical coherence
      tomography angiography (OCTA) in macular perfusion evaluation in these cases.

      OCTA is a new noninvasive method of acquiring high-resolution images of the retinal
      vasculature that can be utilized in the management and study of retinal diseases without the
      need for dye injection. It allows the visualization of both the superficial and deep retinal
      capillary layers separately and the construction of microvascular flow maps allowing
      quantitative analysis of vascular parameters.

      OCTA uses high-speed OCT scanning to detect the flow of blood by analyzing signal
      decorrelation between two sequential OCT cross-sectional scans repeated at the same location.
      Because of the movement of erythrocytes within a vessel, compared to stationary areas of the
      surrounding retina, only perfused blood vessels will result in signal decorrelation, leading
      to their imaging. The split-spectrum amplitude-decorrelation angiography (SSADA) algorithm
      improves the signal to noise ratio.

      Several studies have proved the reliability of OCTA in detecting and quantifying macular
      ischemia in diabetics.

      The investigators aim to compare changes in the macular perfusion in patients with PDR
      without macular edema after treatment with anti-VEGF therapy versus TRP versus Standard PRP
      using OCTA.
    
  