
    
      The drug being tested in this study is called TAK-981 in combination with rituximab. The
      study will include a dose escalation phase (Phase 1) and an expansion phase in select NHL
      indications (Phase 2).

      The study will enroll approximately 130 participants, approximately 35 participants in Phase
      1 and approximately 95 participants in Phase 2. The participants with indolent or aggressive
      relapsed or refractory (r/r) NHL in Phase 1 will identify the maximum tolerated dose (MTD)
      and/or pharmacologically active dose (PAD). PAD can be defined retrospectively once MTD is
      reached and it can below MTD or coincide with it. In the dose escalation phase, the starting
      dose of TAK-981 will be 10 mg. The RP2D will be determined based on the available safety,
      preliminary pharmacokinetic (PK), pharmacodynamic information data, and after any early
      antitumor activity observed along with the statistical inference from the Bayesian Logistic
      Regression Modeling (BLRM).

      Participants in the Phase 2 will be enrolled once the Phase 1 of the study is completed, and
      MTD and/or PAD is determined. Phase 2 will explore the efficacy and safety of TAK-981 in
      combination with rituximab in participants with select r/r NHL types and indications.
      Participants in Phase 2 will be enrolled in one of the three treatment arms based on Cohorts:

        -  Cohort A: r/r DLBCL Progressed to CAR T-cell therapy

        -  Cohort B: r/r DLBCL with no CAR T-cell Prior Therapy

        -  Cohort C: r/r FL Progressed to Systemic Therapies

      This multi-center trial will be conducted in the United States and Canada. The overall time
      to participate in this study is approximately 48 months. Participants will make multiple
      visits to the clinic, and will attend the end of treatment (EOT) visit 30 days after
      receiving their last dose of drug or before the start of subsequent systemic anticancer
      therapy, whichever occurs first for a follow-up assessment.
    
  