
    
      Colonoscopy is a disturbing and painful procedure, so whenever possible it is performed in
      sedation. Although the use of sedative drugs is effective in relieving anxiety and pain such
      drugs can cause significant side-effects.

      This study examines the effect of Binaural Beats stimulation on pain perception during
      colonscopy.

      Binaural Beats is a simple technique, described for the first time since by Gerald Oster ,
      that include the presentation of two acoustic stimuli with similar frequencies through the
      two channels of stereo headphones. The interference of their waves which occurs at the level
      of the central nervous system, produces a composite signal with a frequency resulting from
      the difference of the two original frequencies. For example if you give an acoustic stimulus
      of 100 Hz to an ear and simultaneously administering another acoustic stimulation of 104 Hz
      to the opposite ,ear the person who listens to these stimuli will perceive a "Binaural Beat"
      of 4 Hz caused by the difference between the two frequencies.

      These Binaural Beats are of interest because they have been thought to cause hemispheric
      synchronization and influence the EEG frequency like light stimulation .

      Binaural Beats have already been used in humans undergoing outpatient surgery in
      urogynecological and have been shown to help increase patient comfort by reducing the state
      of anxiety and pain without interfering negatively with postoperative functional recovery .
      In this study the investigators evaluate the use of Binaural Beat in outpatients to undergo
      colonoscopy to reduce pain .

      A total of 100 patients divided into two groups, 50 treatment and 50 control will be
      considered.

      Both patient groups will be invited to wear headphones regardless of whether they have been
      randomized to Binaural Beats with white noise or white noise only to ensure blindness of
      participation The headphones will be worn ten minutes before and throughout the procedure.
      Pain will be measured by VAS scale and satisfaction by Likert scale after the procedure in
      both groups. Blood pressure and heart rate will be monitored before, during, and after the
      procedure.
    
  