
    
      Inadequate control of surgical pain after free TRAM procedures may lead to complications and
      delay recovery time. This could lead to a longer stay in the hospital. The standard care for
      pain after a free TRAM procedure has been with drugs that are anesthetics. Unfortunately,
      these anesthetics are not long lasting and usually require the use of opioids (morphine or
      hydromorphone) to control "break-through" pain. A continuous delivery of local anesthetic to
      the wound site may provide better control of pain and decrease the need for the use of
      opioids. This may decrease the length of the hospital stay as well as other side effects
      associated with the treatment of pain.

      Before the study, you will be asked questions about your health, your age, and about any
      allergies you may have. Women who are able to have children must have a negative blood
      pregnancy test. You will have already been scheduled to undergo a free TRAM flap procedure.

      During free TRAM flap procedure, you will have two "soaker catheters" placed by the surgeon
      directly into the surgical site. The catheters are flexible tubes which will allow pain
      medicine (or saline) to be delivered directly to the donor wound site which is the abdominal
      site from where the tissue for breast reconstruction is taken. A small pump (On-Q pump) will
      be connected to the catheter to deliver a constant flow of pain medicine (or saline) for up
      to 5 days. The On-Q pump is completely portable and can be attached to your hospital gown to
      allow for movement.

      You will be randomly assigned (as in the toss of a coin) to one of two groups. Participants
      in the first group will have the On-Q pump filled with saline. Participants in the other
      group will have the On-Q pump filled with bupivicaine.

      Participants in both groups will receive IVPCA, which is the standard of care for pain
      relief. The IVPCA will be placed on PRN mode which means you will be able to press a button
      to deliver pain medication whenever you feel pain.

      You will be asked questions about your pain and your recovery process every 6 hours while you
      are awake for up to 5 days. You will also be asked to fill out a questionnaire about pain
      once a day during treatment. It should take around 10 minutes to complete the questionnaire.

      The catheters will be removed after 5 days of treatment (or your last day in the hospital,
      whichever is sooner) by one of the surgeons that participated in the surgery

      During the study, if you experience any intolerable side effects or your doctor feels it is
      in your best interest to stop treatment, you will be taken off the study and other treatment
      options will be discussed with you.

      This is an investigational study. The On-Q device, PCA, and bupivicaine are FDA approved and
      commercially available. Up to 60 participants will take part in this study (30 in each
      group). All will be enrolled at The University of Texas (UT) MD Anderson Cancer Center
      (MDACC).

      This protocol is partially funded by a research grant from the I-Flow Corporation.
    
  