
    
      While many obesity studies focus on the individuals who are already overweight and obese, a
      complementary approach to understand such a common disease is to define the mechanisms which
      allow some lean individuals to resist weight gain. The predominant cause of human obesity is
      the inheritance of genes favoring fat storage and efficient energy utilization interacting
      with an obesogenic environment, characterized by readily available, energy-dense food and
      sedentary lifestyle. However, a persistent percentage (about 30%) of the US adult population
      remains thin (BMI <23 kg/M(2)). While some of these individuals maintain their weight by
      vigilantly controlling their diet, exercising or taking medication(s), others may have the
      ability to remain thin despite an excessive energy intake and without volitional exercise. To
      identify these individuals and define their phenotypes will provide unique insights into
      energy and body weight homeostasis, and may yield novel approaches for treating obesity.

      In this natural history protocol, we will recruit and characterize a cohort of
      constitutionally lean and healthy adult volunteers (age 25-50, BMI 18.5-25 kg/M(2)) who do
      not have pathological or exogenous factors that are known to stimulate energy expenditure,
      suppress food intake, or decrease absorption. We will recruit volunteers who are
      weight-stable, sedentary, and non-restrictive eaters, characterize their free-living dietary
      and physical activity energy expenditure using food records and portable accelerometers,
      respectively. Using an inpatient controlled setting, we will carefully characterize the
      details of their 24-hr energy metabolism, body composition, core and skin temperatures, and
      blood chemistries while they are on a one-week metabolic diet adjusted to maintain his/her
      body weight (baseline) vs. another week of higher energy intake level (1000 extra kcal per
      day above their baseline). Overfeeding will continue for two more weeks in the outpatient
      setting with all meals provided by our metabolic kitchen, followed by the fourth week of
      overfeeding and repeated measurements back in the inpatient setting. We hypothesize that
      spontaneous changes in energy expenditure and/or calorie intake may differ between
      individuals, and such difference may explain the ability for some to resist body gain. The
      accruals of humans with obesity-resistant phenotypes will significantly enhance our
      understanding of the mechanisms of energy homeostasis and identify potential novel regulators
      for controlling obesity.
    
  