
    
      Functional Neurological Disorder (FND) (Conversion Disorder) is a poorly understood and
      prevalent somatoform disorder, making up 16% of outpatient neurology referrals. Patients with
      motor FND (mFND) are difficult to treat, result in major morbidity, and are costly to the US.
      An estimated $256 billion is spent annually treating this population. mFND includes
      Functional Movement Disorders (FMD), Functional Weakness (FW) and Psychogenic Nonepileptic
      Seizures (PNES).

      This project will investigate brain network profiles associated with and predictive of
      clinical improvement in patients with Functional Neurological Disorder (FND) following a
      12-week cognitive behavioral therapy-informed physical therapy treatment program. Integrated
      physical therapy along with self-guided cognitive behavioral therapy is usual care for
      patients with FND experiencing motor symptoms at the Massachusetts General Hospital. Patients
      with motor FND experience significant impairment and often face issues with treatment
      management. Recent advancements in clinical research, catalyzed by new diagnostic criteria
      and an updated care model, have emphasized physical therapy and cognitive behavioral therapy
      as important evidence-based treatments for this population. Additionally, developments in
      neuroscience have allowed for a more comprehensive understanding of the neurobiology of FND.
      However, there has been limited investigation of longitudinal biomarkers associated with and
      predictive of treatment response, highlighting the need for an improved understanding of
      neurobiological changes underlying prognosis in FND.

      We propose acquiring structural and functional brain imaging data in combination with
      psychometric assessments and patient chart review to examine neurobiological mechanisms of
      associated with participation in a cognitive behavioral therapy-informed physical therapy
      treatment program for patients with FND.

      Primary Aim and Hypotheses The primary goal of this study is to provide structural and
      functional biomarkers related to and predictive of treatment response and clinical outcome in
      patients with motor FND following a 12-week cognitive behavioral therapy-informed physical
      therapy treatment program (usual care).

      Specific Aim 1:

      SA1) Identify structural MRI biomarkers linked to and predictive of improvement following
      cognitive behavioral therapy-informed physical therapy in FND.

      Hypotheses: Improvement will correlate with increased volume, cortical thickness, and/or
      white matter integrity in salience network-related regions post- versus pre- treatment.
      Pre-treatment (baseline) salience network volume, cortical thickness, and/or white mater
      integrity will predict clinical outcome of the 12-week treatment program.

      Specific Aim 2:

      SA2) Identify resting-state functional MRI biomarkers linked to and predictive of improvement
      following cognitive behavioral therapy-informed physical therapy in FND.

      Hypotheses: Improvement will correlate with reduced post- versus pre- treatment
      salience-somatomotor network resting state functional connectivity, and pre-treatment
      salience-somatomotor network functional connectivity strength will predict clinical outcome.

      SA3) Identify baseline psychometric factors that correlate with clinical improvement (post
      vs. pre-treatment), including differences among FND sub-populations and baseline predictors
      of clinical improvement in FND.

      Hypotheses: FND patients with more adaptive psychological profiles at baseline will be more
      responsive to treatment.
    
  