
    
      Continued tobacco smoking negatively impacts survival among patients with cancer. Routinely
      delivered evidence-based tobacco use treatment (TUT) would minimize cancer-specific and
      all-cause mortality, reduce treatment-related toxicity, and improve quality of life. About
      50% of cancer patients who smoked prior to their diagnosis continue to smoke after diagnosis
      and during treatment. The National Comprehensive Cancer Network, American Society of Clinical
      Oncology, and American Association for Cancer Research, call for implementation of TUT within
      oncology care. In 2015, TUT received an "A" recommendation from the US Preventive Services
      Task Force, given the high level of certainty of resulting benefit. The approval specifically
      focused on clinicians asking all adults about smoking, prescribing FDA-approved cessation
      medications for smokers, and offering appropriate behavioral interventions.

      Despite the importance of TUT, only half of cancer centers consistently identify patient
      tobacco use, and few cancer centers employ systematic mechanisms to refer patients to
      evidence-based cessation services. Acknowledging this gap, the National Cancer Institute
      (NCI) launched the Cancer Center Cessation Initiative (C3I) as part of the Moonshot to help
      centers develop effective ways to identify and engage patients who smoke. Penn ISC3 MPI Dr.
      Schnoll was a member of the NCI advisory board that developed this initiative, and Penn
      Medicine's Abramson Cancer Center (ACC) was in the first funded cohort. Because clinician
      expertise in TUT is a known barrier, the initial strategy used an automatic "default"
      electronic medical record (EMR) referral to the ACC Tobacco Use Treatment Service (TUTS).
      Engagement increased, but clinicians turned off the default 60% of the time, implicating
      additional important barriers to change.

      This study aims to produce dramatic change within oncology by refining and testing
      implementation strategies informed by behavioral economics. The investigators' work has
      identified specific cognitive biases among clinicians and patients that prevent TUTS referral
      and engagement, including clinician pessimism regarding the ability to help patients stop
      using tobacco, misconceptions about patient resistance to treatment, and implicit biases
      regarding the capacity for patients to volitionally alter the course of illness. These
      motivators are related to clinician willingness to invest effort in help giving and may
      prevent acquisition of new knowledge and skills. From the patient perspective, several
      studies identify unique challenges that individuals with cancer face when engaging in tobacco
      cessation efforts, including low self-efficacy, low perceived benefits of quitting, and
      perceived risk of treatment. Thus, this study focuses on addressing these barriers, in a
      pragmatic and innovative way, to increase TUTS referral and engagement in cancer care.

      The investigators' objectives are to evaluate the effectiveness of "nudges" to clinicians, to
      patients, or to both in increasing in TUTS referral and engagement; and to explore clinician,
      patient, inner setting (e.g., clinic), and outer setting (e.g., payment structures)
      mechanisms related to TUTS referral and engagement. The investigators will employ rapid-cycle
      approaches to optimize the framing of nudges to clinicians and patients prior to initiating
      the trial and mixed methods to explore contextual factors and mechanisms.

      The investigators will conduct this study with 100 clinicians and 900 smokers across Penn
      Medicine's ACC. They expect the study to yield essential insights into the effectiveness of
      nudges as an implementation strategy to speed the uptake of high value evidence-based TUT
      within cancer care, and to advance the understanding of the multilevel contextual factors
      that drive response to these strategies. These results will lay the foundation for how cancer
      care settings can ensure that patients with cancer who smoke are engaged with evidence-based
      TUT and may lead to a future R01 focused on scaling-up this approach across other cancer
      centers involved in the C3I.
    
  