
    
      Study introduction/rationale:

      Brivaracetam (BRV) is a new antiepileptic drug (AED) approved in March 2016 by Health Canada
      for the adjunctive treatment of focal epilepsy in adults. Three phase III clinical trials
      (randomized, blinded, and placebo-controlled) have confirmed its efficacy with an acceptable
      adverse effects profile. While randomized controlled trials represent the gold standard in
      measuring intervention efficacy, the generalizability of these findings to usual clinical
      practice remains uncertain. These questions are in part because of certain aspects of the
      pivotal studies' design. These include: a) participation was limited to individuals with
      frequent focal seizures (at least eight seizures during an eight-week baseline period), with
      or without secondary generalization who were already treated with 1 or 2 AEDs; b) individuals
      aged less than 16 years and greater than 70 years (80 years in one study) were excluded, as
      well as individuals with cerebral neoplasms, psychogenic non-epileptic seizures, or status
      epilepticus within the preceding 12 months; d) BRV was introduced at fixed doses without a
      titration period; and e) the treatment period was limited to 12 The weeks. Inherent to any
      clinical trial, there remain questions as to what effect local clinical practice and patterns
      of reimbursement may have on intervention effectiveness (a measure of real-life efficacy that
      considers issues such as non-compliance). Clinical trials are also at high risk of the
      Hawthorne effect, where participants modify their behaviour (e.g. increased compliance) due
      to the knowledge that they are observed.

      Canada is one of the first countries where BRV was commercialized. This allows for an
      important opportunity for investigators to carry out a prospective observational study to
      establish BRV's effectiveness and tolerability in routine clinical practice.

      Primary study objective:

      The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of BRV as an adjunctive
      treatment in epilepsy.

      Secondary study objective(s):

      The secondary objective of this study is to evaluate the tolerability of BRV as an adjunctive
      treatment in epilepsy.

      Participant recruitment:

      This is a prospective and multicentre post-marketing observational study. As an observational
      study, the study investigators will not determine which individuals receive BRV nor how it is
      prescribed. The study investigators will not have any role in providing BRV to enrolled study
      participants.

      Data will be collected from participants during three clinical visits with their regular
      treating physician (MD). These will be the baseline visit, the 3-month visit (three months
      following the initiation of BRV), and the 6-month visit. The baseline visit will be the
      regularly scheduled clinical visit where the MD will decide to begin BRV in their patient.
      The patient will be asked by their MD if they are interested in participating in the proposed
      study. If the offer is accepted, the individual will be consented by the research assistant
      (RA). The baseline data questionnaire will be completed by the MD, with the input of the
      participant. The participant will then complete the four questionnaires to measure baseline
      irritability, anxiety, depression, and quality of life. The study participant will be given a
      seizure diary and asked to prospectively record their seizures. At the 3-month visit the MD
      will record the seizure frequency (preferably based on the seizure diary but retrospectively
      assessed if necessary) and any adverse effects reported by the participant. The participant
      will complete the 3-month irritability, anxiety, depression, and quality of life measures.
      The data collected at the 3-month visit will be re-collected at the 6-month visit.

      The study is planned for 10 recruitment sites across Canada. Dr Mark Keezer (Université de
      Montréal) is the study principal investigator. The Centre Hospitalier de l'Université de
      Montréal (CHUM) is the primary study site. Véronique Cloutier (CHUM) is the primary study
      coordinator.

      Study safety endpoints:

      This is an observational study. The investigators will include, however, a statement in the
      participant consent form stating "Brivaracetam is approved by Health Canada for the adjuvant
      treatment of focal epileptic seizures in adults. It is currently not approved for the
      treatment of generalized epilepsies nor epilepsy in children. There are no data on the safety
      of brivaracetam during pregnancy and during breast feeding." If during this study there is
      any information learned by the investigators that may be relevant to the health of the
      participant, the investigators will immediately communicate this to the study participant and
      their MD.

      Study specific assessments/instruments/scales:

      The baseline data questionnaire will collect the following participant data: age, gender, age
      of epilepsy onset, type and aetiology of epilepsy, seizure type(s) and average seizure
      frequency over the preceding one month, name of the AED(s) currently used and previously
      tried, and past medical history (including psychiatric). If levetiracetam was previously
      tried but since withdrawn, the reason for its discontinuation will be noted.

      When possible, the baseline mean number of seizures per month will be calculated from the
      seizure diary (if the participant completes at least 30 days of data). This will occur
      following their recruitment into the study but before the initiation of BRV, where the
      investigators expect there will be a delay. If at least 30 days of baseline seizure frequency
      are not recorded prospectively, the analyses will be conducted using the retrospectively
      collected frequency recorded in the baseline data questionnaire.

      The Brief Irritability Test (BITe), Generalized Anxiety Disorder - 7 (GAD-7) scale,
      Neurological Disorders Depression Inventory (NDDI-E) scale, and Quality of Life Inventory in
      Epilepsy-10 (QOLIE-10) scale, will be used to measure irritability, anxiety, depression, and
      quality of life, respectively. English- and French-language versions of these questionnaires
      have been validated, apart from the BITe which has only been validated in English. The
      investigators will follow standard cross-cultural methods to create a French-language version
      of the BITe. The original English version will be translated to French by a professional
      translator. A second translator, blinded to the original English-language instrument, will
      back-translate the new French-language instrument to English. One study investigator, fluent
      in both English and French, will then compare the documents to ensure that the different
      versions are concordant.

      Adverse effects will be recorded by the MD, spontaneously reported by the participant, or in
      response to a standardized question. Each participant will be asked the standardized question
      "Since the start of the brivaracetam, is there anything changed about your health?" For each
      reported adverse effect, the MD will judge whether it is mild (i.e. does not interfere with
      their daily lives), moderate (i.e. sometimes interferes with their daily lives), or severe
      (i.e. most of the time interferes with their daily lives). The MD will judge whether the
      adverse effect is unlikely, possibly, or probably related to BRV. This method of assessing
      for adverse effects is modeled on those used in phase IV trials of levetiracetam.

      Study sample size calculation:

      Eleven participants are sufficient to identify a mean percent seizure reduction of 20%
      [standard deviation (SD): 15], between the baseline versus the 3- and 6-month follow-ups,
      using ANCOVA for repeated measures. In addition, 76 participants are sufficient to identify a
      mean percent seizure difference of 5% between the 3- and 6-month follow-ups [i.e. 25% (SD:
      15) versus 20% (SD: 15)], using paired student's T-test. These sample size calculations
      assume a power of 90%, no correlation between the baseline and follow-up parameters but an
      80% correlation between 3- and 6-month follow-ups, and using a significance level of 0.05.

      Following the ten events per variable rule, 115 participants are sufficient to construct
      valid logistic regression models for the proportion of individuals with at least a 50%
      decrease in seizure frequency, assuming the inclusion of four independent variables
      [follow-up timing (i.e. baseline, 3-month, or 6-month), age, sex, number of baseline AEDs]
      and an expected prevalence of 40% of participants with at least a 50% decrease in seizure
      frequency. Of note, the ten events per variable rule is considered by some to be overly
      conservative.

      The expected effectiveness of BRV is based upon the pooled phase III trial data.

      Stratified analyses are planned and so to guarantee sufficient sample size our target is 200
      participants.

      Study statistical methods:

      The effectiveness analyses will be limited to participants with at least three months of
      on-treatment follow-up data. The BRV tolerability analyses will be carried out in all
      participants that received at least one dose of BRV.

      Mean percent change in monthly (30 days) seizure frequency [95% confidence interval (95% CI)]
      will be compared between the baseline, 3- , and 6-month visits using ANCOVA for repeated
      measures. The same will be used to compare BITe, GAD-7, NDDI-E, and QOLIE-10 scores. For the
      analysis of these continuous outcomes, normality will be confirmed with visual inspection of
      histograms. If normality is not satisfied, the data will be transformed to meet normality, or
      the investigators will calculate median estimates and use non-parametric tests. The
      investigators will measure the association between the start of BRV and the average
      probability of participants experiencing at least a 50% decrease in seizure frequency (95%
      CI) at the baseline, 3-, and 6-month visits using conditional logistic regression. The same
      will be used to assess the association between BRV and the probability of participants being
      seizure-free (95% CI). The investigators will control for the following potentially
      confounding variables: sex, age, and the number of baseline AEDs.

      The investigators will stratify analyses by BRV starting dose (≥ 100 mg/day versus < 100
      mg/day), epilepsy type, the prior or concomitant use of levetiracetam (versus not), and the
      use of a retrospectively (versus prospectively) collected baseline seizure frequency data.
      Sensitivity analyses will include: the exclusion of any participant where changes to another
      AED occurred during the study period; the exclusion of any participant whose baseline mean
      seizure frequency was less that 4 seizures per month.

      The investigators will descriptively assess tolerability, as measured by the reported adverse
      effects. The mean duration of BRV use, the distribution of seizures types (baseline, versus 3
      months and 6 months), and the reason (if any) for BRV discontinuation will also be presented
      descriptively.

      Statistical analyses will be carried out using STATA/SE, version 12.0 (StataCorp LP, College
      Station, Texas, USA). Statistical significance will be defined as a p-value < 0.05.
    
  