
    
      Thirty subjects who are scheduled to receive an Empowr PS Total Knee Replacement device will
      be consented to be in the prospective component of the study. Twenty of these patients will
      participate in motion data collection. These patients will all be scheduled to undergo
      primary total knee replacement using the Empowr device. All surgeries will be performed using
      computer navigation. Patients will receive standardized physical therapy to insure
      consistency of rehab protocols and discharge from physical therapy criteria. Specifically,
      patients will be monitored for visit compliance, Timed Up and Go (TUG) test in seconds, AROM
      in degrees, and walking un-aided.

      Data were previously collected preoperatively, at 6 months and 1 year post-operatively for 16
      patients who received a Stryker Triathlon total knee replacement and preoperatively and 1
      year post-op for 16 patients who received a Biomet Vanguard total knee replacement. Data were
      also previously collected for 20 age matched healthy controls subjects. Data will be
      collected for an additional 20 control subjects. Knee Society Score (KSS) and Knee Injury and
      Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS) will be collected at pre-op, 6 months, 1 year, and 2
      years post-op. Gait analysis data will include kinetic, kinematic, temporal spatial, and
      electromyographic (EMG) data throughout the gait cycle for both research subjects and
      controls. Reflective markers will be placed on subject's anatomical landmarks, and ten
      surface EMG electrodes placed according to published standards (8). Subjects will walk at a
      self-selected speed down a runway embedded with force plates while 10 Eagle-4 digital
      infrared cameras record their movement. In addition to the level surface walking, additional
      data on more complex activities of daily living will be collected for potential future
      analysis. This would include: sit-to-stand, balance, and stair-climbing measurements also
      using the force plates, camera system and EMG data collection.
    
  