
    
      Non-participation in the cervical screening program is the main risk factor for cervical
      cancer. Therefore it is important to reduce barriers to screening and facilitate
      participation in the screening program of cervical cancer. Offering self-sampling kits for
      human papillomavirus (HPV) testing has been examined in several research studies as a way to
      reach women who have not responded to screening invitations.

      The purpose of this study is to investigate whether SMS reminders for screening attendance
      will increase participation compared to the current method where reminders are sent out with
      physical letters. In this study, approximately 20,000 women with high risk of developing
      cervical cancer, due to not fully participating in screening, will be invited. The women
      receive an SMS offer to request a self-sampling kit via the internet. The self-sampling kit
      comes with an instruction on how to take the sample and a postage-free answer envelope.

      Submitted samples are analyzed with an approved and accredited method (Cobas 4800, Roche)
      that analyzes for HPV 16, HPV18 and other carcinogens HPV types.

        1. For those women who are at the highest risk (previous glandular cell changes without
           follow-up), all HPV-positive women are referred via SMS directly to a women's clinic for
           investigation. HPV-negative women in this group have no increased risk and receive a
           text message with a calming message.

        2. Women of an age above the screening program but who have either had a cell change that
           is not followed up or who have not participated at all in the last 10 years are treated
           in the same way as in paragraph 1.

        3. Finally, the women of screening age who have not taken a cell sample for more than 15
           years are identified. This group receive an SMS and HPV-positive women are referred, via
           SMS, for renewed sampling by a specially trained so-called dysplasia midwife. The sample
           is now being analyzed for both cytology and HPV. If the woman is HPV positive in both
           tests and in the case of deviating cytology, the woman is referred to a women's clinic.
           In other cases a text message with a reassuring message is sent.

      The study has the usual level of confidence (p <0.05 two-sided) and statistical power (80%)
      the ability to demonstrate an increase of participation by 3 times or more.

      The protocol will be piloted in the Region of Skåne in 2019 and then rolled out nationally in
      2020.
    
  