
    
      This study was approved by the ethics committee of China Medical University. The study will
      be carried out in the 1st Hospital of China Medical University. Thirty patients scheduled for
      selective gastrointestinal surgery undergoing general anesthesia will be enrolled. There are
      two steps in this study: In step1, The qCON and qNOX indices will be continuously recorded
      throughout the whole surgery, using a Angel-6000 monitor (WellHealth Medical Co Ltd.,
      Shenzhen, China). Meanwhile, the bispectral index (BIS) will be recorded using Aspect BIS
      monitor (Aspect Medical Systems, Norwood, MA, USA) in the same patient in order to compare
      with qCON and qNOX.

      The general anesthesia protocol is as following: Anesthesia will be induced with bolus
      infusion of propofol, sufentanil and cis-atracurium intravenously. The patients will be
      intubated subsequently. TOF (T4/T1) value will be observed throughout using muscle relaxation
      monitoring (GE healthcare, USA). Anesthesia are maintained with a combination of sevoflurane,
      propofol, sufentanil and cis-atracurium. Dosage of the anesthetics will be adjusted according
      to the BIS value and hemodynamics fluctuating. Anti-emetic and opioids will be routinely
      administrated prior to abdominal closure. Neostigmine will be administrated for reversing the
      residual neuromuscular blockade after the patient get his breath. Tracheal extubating is
      indicated by a TOF value above 70% in addition to other physical signs. The qCON, qNOX and
      BIS indices will be continuously recorded before anesthesia induction (fully awake), during
      the operation (sleep) and after the operation (fully recovery). The dosage of propofol,
      sufentanil and cis-atracurium used in the operation are also recorded.

      In step2, all these three electroencephalogram-based indices are collected again at the 1st
      postoperative night. The Angel-6000 and Aspect BIS monitor will be placed again to the
      identical patient who have received the operation on the daytime. Data collecting period is
      from 8:00 pm to 6:00 am the next day. Sleep was defined as the duration of BIS value below 80
      in the 10 hours of monitoring (from 8:00pm to 6:00am).

      If there are specific requirements for management with regards to postoperative pain or any
      other anesthesia related complications, name and the dosage of the treatments will also be
      recorded.
    
  