
    
      Despite the fundamental nature of reproduction, for many it is a process fraught with
      frustration, inefficiency and imperfections, the effects of which can be severe. Infertility
      affects 10-15% of couples attempting to conceive. Among all women who conceive, the incidence
      of spontaneous abortion (SA) has been estimated to be between 15 and 31%, and in many cases
      the cause is unknown. Additionally, of the four million births yearly in the United States,
      between 8 and 15% will be born prematurely and experience increased morbidity and mortality
      as a result. An intervention with even a small absolute effect on any of these outcomes has
      great implications at the population level due to the large potential attributable benefit.

      One such potential intervention is low-dose acetylsalicylic-acid (aspirin). Aspirin has been
      a primary target of interest because of its anti-inflammatory, vasodilatory and platelet
      aggregation inhibition properties. To evaluate the effects of low-dose aspirin in combination
      with folic acid on the incidence of live births and spontaneous abortion, we are conducting a
      multi-site randomized controlled trial study with two sites and one data coordinating center.
      Women aged 18-40 currently trying to become pregnant and who have had a single spontaneous
      abortion in the past year will be eligible for the study. The recruitment goal is 1600 women.
      Participating women will be randomly assigned to one of two treatment groups. Those
      randomized to treatment will receive daily low-dose aspirin. Those randomized to placebo will
      receive daily placebo. Both groups will receive folic acid daily in accordance with
      recommendations from the U.S. Public Health Service for prevention of birth defects. The
      duration of treatment regimens (LDA and folic acid or placebo and folic acid) will be 6
      menstrual cycles, with those who become pregnant continuing until the end of pregnancy.
      Monthly urine and blood samples will be collected and questionnaires administered.
    
  