
    
      The study will be conducted at Physicians at Sugar Creek (PSC)-the model family practice
      center for the Memorial Family Medicine Residency Program. The ethnicity of PSC patients is
      approximately 30% non-Hispanic white, 30% Hispanic, 30% African-American, and 10% Asian.

      Potential participants will be identified by searching PSC electronic medical records
      (Centricity) to find adults aged 18-75 with impaired glucose tolerance, without diabetes
      (one-hour oral glucose tolerance test result >160 md/dl and two-hour OGTT result <200 mg/dl),
      without hypoglycemic medications and corticosteroids on their active medications list, and
      without almond allergy on their allergy list.

      Recruitment flyers will be posted in the clinic to encourage interested individuals to
      contact the investigators about their potential study eligibility. The investigators will
      also approach previously identified potentially eligible patients during routine clinical
      visits in the clinic, to elicit their interest in participating in the study. Those
      expressing interest will be scheduled for an intake visit with an investigator, to further
      ascertain their eligibility and invite eligible individuals to take part in the study.
      Interested eligible individuals who render verbal and written informed consent will then be
      instructed in the study protocol and scheduled for their first data gathering visit.

      Each participant will be scheduled to undergo two 2-hour oral glucose tolerance tests (OGTT),
      starting between 7:00 and 9:30 a.m., one to four weeks apart. Test A will be a standard
      75-gram OGTT. Test B will be an OGTT that will begin 30 minutes after ingestion of a
      low-carbohydrate pre-load "snack" consisting of 1/2 oz (14 grams) of unsalted, dry-roasted
      almonds (12 average size almonds). Each participant will be given an 8-ounce glass of water
      to drink with the almonds. Participants will be randomized to one of two test sequences (A-B
      or B-A), to control for sequence effects on results.

      To minimize variability of OGTT results, participants will be asked to eat as they usually do
      throughout the study. Participants will be asked to refrain from vigorous physical activity
      for 8 hours prior to each OGTT and to minimize their physical activity during each OGTT.
      Participants will complete a Perceived Stress Scale and a 24-hour food, alcohol, and activity
      recall for the day before each OGTT to analyze potential confounding effects of stress, diet,
      alcohol, and physical activity on the results.

      Blood sampling will be done for serial measurements of plasma glucose at time-zero, and at
      60-minute intervals for two hours after each 75-gram glucose load. An investigator will
      monitor the timing of each blood draw closely to ensure timeliness. Blood will be drawn by
      one of two phlebotomists in the on-site laboratory and sent to the Memorial Hermann Southwest
      Hospital or Quest Lab (the latter only for the control OGTT, for patients whose insurance
      requires this) for analysis. The glucose results will be reported electronically to the
      patient's medical record in the routine manner for blood test results.

      Investigators will abstract the glucose results from the patients' electronic medical records
      for data analysis purposes. The primary dependent variable is the mean difference in plasma
      glucose (fasting to 1-hr post 75-g glucose challenge, with vs. without snack. The secondary
      dependent variable is the mean difference in plasma glucose (fasting to 2-hr post 75-g
      glucose challenge, with vs. without snack). Student's t test will be used to analyze the
      differences between the standard 75-g OGTT results and the OGTT results following the almond
      pre-test snack. Analysis of variance will be used to analyze the data for confounding effects
      of ethnicity, gender, body mass index (BMI), and pre-test food and alcohol intake, physical
      activity, and perceived stress level.

      Patients will receive their individual results and an investigator-generated evaluative
      commentary in a routine "lab letter". The results letter will be forwarded to each patient's
      primary care provider for review and appropriate clinical follow-up. Patients' results will
      be communicated scientifically in an aggregate manner, with no individual identifying
      information, to maintain patient confidentiality.
    
  