
    
      Background Information:

      The Individual Placement and Support (IPS) program is an evidence-based vocational
      rehabilitation services that assist individuals with mental illness or significant mental
      health concerns gain and maintain competitive employment in the community. Unemployment rates
      among people with mental illness are high, even though most people with serious mental
      illness want to work.

      Fraser Health provides IPS services to approximately 350 MHSU clients per year in six
      communities. The IPS strategy helps about 55% of clients find competitive jobs, but almost
      half (45%) fail to find work. Among those who fail to find employment, cognitive dysfunction
      is often a significant problem.

      Cognitive remediation therapy (CRT) is an evidence-based, psychological treatment for the
      neurocognitive deficits seen in patients with severe mental illness. CRT targets cognitive
      functioning with the goal of improving role functioning in daily life. When compared with
      employment intervention alone, programs that incorporate CRT have shown a variety of
      vocational benefits, (e.g., more likely to work, held more jobs, worked more weeks, and
      earned more in wages) that are maintained even at a 3-year follow-up. CRT targeted to clients
      who have not been successful with IPS is efficient: non-responders improved employment
      outcome with a number needed-to-treat (NNT) of 4 over a two-year period.

      Cognitive remediation (CRT) improves thinking skills and work functioning. CRT provides
      specific training modules and exercises that target thinking skills known to be impaired in
      severe mental illness. For example, working memory and cognitive flexibility are trained
      through real-world exercises that teach clients to organize and manage time, focus their
      attention, consider errors and their consequences, control answers and plan ahead. These
      skills are important to be successful in obtaining and maintaining employment.

      Purpose of Study:

      The primary purpose of this study is to assess, for people with serious mental illness who
      have failed to find employment despite three months of support in the IPS program, the
      effects of 12 weeks of cognitive remediation therapy (CRT) on subsequent employment outcomes
      while they continue to receive IPS employment-support services. Hypothesis:

      The first hypothesis is that adding CRT for those who have not found employment by 3 months
      in the program will result in better competitive work outcomes, compared to those who
      continue IPS alone. The second hypothesis is that participants receiving CRT will improve
      more in cognitive functioning than those who did not receive CRT training. The third
      hypothesis is that symptom severity will be related to work outcomes.
    
  