
    
      Accurate dose delivery remains one of the weakest aspects of radiotherapy, especially in the
      case of thoracic and abdominal tumors, where significant patient motion occurs during dose
      delivery (intrafraction motion). Such motion results in geometric and dosimetric
      uncertainties that compromise treatment quality. Effective management of intrafraction motion
      is therefore key to realizing the full potential of modern image-guided radiation therapy
      (IGRT). While external markers have been found to be well-correlated with internal anatomy
      within an imaging session, there is no guarantee that these correlations will continue to
      exist and be constant throughout the course of the therapy. In general, implanted,
      radio-opaque seeds have been found to be more reliable than external markers. However,
      implantation of fiducials, whether radio-opaque or electromagnetic, is necessarily invasive
      and carries with it the risk of associated complications - an issue that becomes especially
      important for cancer patients with weakened immune systems. Currently, MR imaging is the only
      modality that is non-invasive and provides high quality volumetric information for the whole
      body.

      The "ideal" intrafraction motion management requires complete spatio-temporal knowledge of
      the irradiated anatomy. However, to date, there is no clinical method of directly visualizing
      the tumor volume during dose delivery. Most techniques rely on external or internal surrogate
      markers which often provide (usually non-volumetric) information of limited accuracy and
      reliability. In addition, internal markers impose significant "costs" on the patient in terms
      of interventional complications and increased imaging dose. In this work, we investigate the
      feasibility of using in-room, fast cine MR imaging as a non-invasive means to provide
      real-time, soft-tissue-based, volumetric image guidance for continuous monitoring of the
      target and surrounding anatomy. To date, there has been no systematic investigation of the
      imaging requirements of an integrated MRI+linac for the specific task of real-time
      radiotherapy guidance.
    
  