
    
      Many antiretroviral therapy (ART) medications given to a pregnant woman cross the placenta
      and can be detected in the amniotic fluid and cord blood resulting in substantial fetal
      exposure. Therefore, there is concern about toxicity of the drugs in the fetus and infant. It
      is noteworthy that none of the currently approved ART medications for the prevention of
      maternal to fetal transmission of HIV are in Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Pregnancy
      Category A (no fetal risk ascertained in adequately controlled human studies). Thus, there is
      continued need to examine the toxicity of ART in HIV transmission prevention for the
      short-term toxicity of newer agents and combinations as well as the unanswered questions of
      longer term toxicity and subtle adverse effects.

      The study will use a registry approach to conduct active surveillance among children < 12
      years of age at enrollment. Occurrences of abnormalities from ART exposure in utero and/or in
      the first two months of life will be sought in multiple domains, including metabolic, growth,
      cardiac, neurologic, neurodevelopmental, behavior, language, and hearing. Clinical and
      laboratory data will be examined for abnormalities through a hierarchy of evaluations:
      adverse events (AE) will be identified → selected AEs will trigger predefined additional
      evaluations → significant observations will be defined as cases → a pattern of significant
      study-wide cases will be defined as signals. The incidence of these events of interest will
      be monitored over time and by ART regimen, and compared with historical data that may be
      suggestive of a signal. Some signals may be testable using existing and/or previously
      collected data, while other signals may indicate the need for additional hypothesis-driven
      studies outside of SMARTT.

      The objectives of SMARTT are:

        1. To estimate the occurrence of potential ART-related toxicities through an ongoing
           surveillance system among HIV-uninfected children born to mothers with HIV infection
           with and without exposure to ART in utero and/or in the first two months of life and
           compare the occurrences of these outcomes with other sources of data as well as by ART
           exposures; and

        2. To actively encourage hypothesis-driven studies to confirm that the signals are due to
           ART exposure in utero and/or in the first two months of life. Note that the full design
           and execution of these studies may be beyond the scope of the SMARTT study but will be
           facilitated by SMARTT.

      The specific aims of SMARTT are:

        1. To create a Static Surveillance Cohort to extend domain-specific data collection in
           children either 1) previously enrolled in any of the approved studies for enrollment
           into SMARTT; 2) previously enrolled in another pediatric HIV/AIDS cohort study with
           SMARTT Protocol Chair approval, or 3) not previously enrolled in an approved study but
           with equivalent data available in the medical record;

        2. To create a Dynamic Surveillance Cohort to examine domain-specific data of children
           newly exposed to ART in utero and/or in the first two months of life;

        3. To create a Young Adult Cohort to study long-term outcomes in SMARTT participants
           formerly enrolled in the Static and Dynamic cohorts.

        4. To identify a set of "triggers" for each domain that define a "signal" of possible ART
           toxicity and compare the occurrence of these signals with previously collected data and
           by ART exposure; and

        5. To encourage and facilitate the development of hypothesis-driven studies to evaluate
           whether a "signal" is the result of ART exposure in utero and/or in the first two months
           of life.
    
  