
    
      Significant morbidity, mortality, and related costs are caused by traumatic brain injury
      (TBI). A simple, effective, and lightweight device worn by athletes or war fighters in the
      field, designed to mitigate TBI resulting from blast trauma or concussive events, would save
      lives, and the huge costs incurred for life-treatment of surviving victims. An
      externally-worn medical device that applies mild jugular compression according to the
      principle of the Queckenstedt Maneuver (the Device) is being developed by Q30 Sports Science,
      LLC (Q30). Preliminary research indicates that the Device has the potential to reduce the
      likelihood of alterations to brain microstructure. The currently developed collar has been
      approved for studies in humans and the results indicate safety for use during high demand and
      maximal exertion activities, Study IDs: 2013-2240, 2016-7948, 2014-5009, 2016-9625,
      2016-0988, and 2015-2205 Institutional Review Board - Federalwide Assurance #00002988). FDA
      has determined that this device is a nonsignificant risk (NSR) device study because it does
      not meet the definition of a significant risk (SR) device under ยง 812.3(m) of the
      investigational device exemptions (IDE) regulation (21 CFR 812).

      This study will investigate the effectiveness of this device in high school athletes playing
      a collision sport such as football or soccer. Athletes participating in this study will be
      randomly assigned to one of two groups: 1) Device wearing during the season or 2) Non-device
      wearing during the season. Male football players and female soccer players will be included
      in this investigation. All participants may be outfitted with an accelerometer which will
      measure the magnitude of every impact to the head sustained by the athlete. This
      accelerometer will be affixed with an adhesive patch,(which will be placed behind the ear, to
      measure the magnitude of every impact to the head sustained by the athlete Effectiveness of
      the device will be determined via differences in longitudinal brain imaging and behavioral
      assessments following competitive football and soccer participation. The investigators will
      also enroll a group of athletes involved in a non-contact sport (such as cross-country) to
      act as controls.
    
  