
    
      The varicella zoster virus (VZV) is the smallest of the double-stranded DNA herpes viruses,
      and the only one capable of producing two different diseases, varicella (chickenpox) and
      herpes zoster (acute herpes zoster [AHZ], shingles). The incidence of AHZ, and the secondary
      VZV infection, is strongly age-dependent and reaches 1% per year by age 80 and there are
      between 300,000 and 1 million new cases of AHZ each year in the US. AHZ is almost always
      painful, and the pain can be of disabling severity, rendering some sufferers bed-bound and
      too incapacitated to carry out normal activities, leading to weight loss and dehydration
      sufficient to require inpatient therapy. The elderly are especially likely to suffer severe
      pain.

      The most common complication of AHZ is development of postherpetic neuralgia (PHN). Although
      the overall incidence of PHN after AHZ is about 10%, the incidence has been reported to rise
      as high as 80% in those over the age of 80. In all published studies, age and greater
      severity of initial zoster pain are each found to significantly increase the risk of
      developing PHN. Severe zoster pain is believed to correlate with a more severe cutaneous
      outbreak, more severe inflammation of the nerve trunk, and possibly greater injury to primary
      afferent nerve fibers.

      There are two separate issues to address when discussing the pain of AHZ. The first is
      managing the AHZ pain itself, because the burden of suffering is so high. The second is
      reducing the incidence of PHN. Both issues need to be considered in trial design, in part
      because severe AHZ pain is itself a risk factor for PHN. Studies of the analgesic effect of
      pregabalin suggest an analgesic profile similar to that of gabapentin. We would therefore
      predict, that pregabalin would reduce the pain associated with AHZ and possibly prevent
      development of PHN.
    
  