
    
      Study purpose was to verify the value of an Implanted Loop Recorder (ILR) in assessing the
      mechanism of syncope and the efficacy of ILR-guided therapy after documentation of syncope
      recurrence in patients with suspected or certain neurally-mediated syncope at initial
      evaluation.

      Multi-center, prospective, observational study enrolling 400 patients with suspected or
      certain neurally-mediated syncope, who undergo carotid sinus massage, tilt testing and ILR
      implantation. In its second phase, which starts after the first ILR-documented syncope, the
      study will register the patient outcome after administration of ILR-guided therapy, which is
      left to the discretion of the physicians.

      Main objective: To verify the value of ILR in assessing the mechanism of syncope and the
      efficacy of the ILR-guided therapy after syncope recurrence.

      Secondary objectives:

        1. To define the exact mechanism of syncope in patients with suspected or certain
           neurally-mediated syncope based on the initial evaluation;

        2. To prospectively evaluate the correlation between tilt-induced syncope, ATP-induced
           asystolic response and/or carotid sinus hypersensitivity and ILR-documented spontaneous
           syncope associated with bradycardia and/or asystole;

        3. To assess the relationship between asymptomatic and symptomatic asystoles;

        4. To assess the effectiveness of pacing therapy for preventing syncope recurrence in
           patients implanted with a pacemaker after an ILR-documented syncope associated with
           asystole/bradycardia.

      Inclusion criteria:

        -  Suspected or certain neurally-mediated syncope, based on the Guidelines of the ESC TF on
           Syncope.

        -  3 syncope episodes in the last 2 years.

        -  Severe clinical presentation of syncope requiring treatment initiation in the judgement
           of the investigator.

        -  Age >30 years.

        -  Patients have undergone carotid sinus massage, and ILR implantation.

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  ILR not implanted for any reason; in this case, the patients are still followed in the
           ILR-not implanted group.

        -  Carotid sinus syndrome.

        -  Suspected or certain cardiac syncope.

        -  Symptomatic orthostatic hypotension diagnosed by standing blood pressure measurement.

        -  Loss of consciousness different from syncope (e.g. epilepsy, psychiatric, metabolic,
           drop-attack, TIA, intoxication, cataplexy).

        -  Steal syndrome.

        -  Psychologically or physically (due to any other illness) unfit for participation in the
           study according to the opinion of the investigator.

        -  Patient compliance doubtful.

        -  Patients who are geographically or otherwise inaccessible for follow-up.

        -  Patient unwilling or unable to give informed consent;

        -  Pregnancy.

        -  Life expectancy < 1 year due to non-cardiac cause.

      Primary endpoints: Phase 1: first ECG-documented syncope Phase 2: first syncope recurrence
      after implementation of ILR-guided therapy

      Secondary endpoints: Phase 1:

        -  Asymptomatic ILR-documented arrhythmia

        -  ILR-documented pre-syncope/s

      Phase 2:

        -  Total number of syncopal recurrences

        -  Pre-syncope recurrence

      Study duration: ISSUE 2 will enroll a minimum of 400 patients during an anticipated period of
      3 years. As the study will continue for a period of 6 months after the enrollment of the last
      patient, total study duration will be approximately 4 years.
    
  