
    
      Acute esophageal variceal hemorrhage is a dreadful complication of portal hypertension. Its
      management evolved rapidly in recent years. Traditional managements include vasoconstrictor
      and balloon tamponade. Vasoconstrictors have been shown to control approximately 80% of
      bleeding episodes, are generally used as a first line therapy. Following the use of
      vasoconstrictor, endoscopic therapy is often employed to arrest the bleeding varices as well
      as preventing early rebleeding. Meta-analysis showed that the combination of vasoconstrictor
      and endoscopic therapy is superior to endoscopic therapy alone in the control of acute
      esophageal variceal hemorrhage. Our previous study showed that endoscopic variceal ligation
      (EVL) is superior to Endoscopic injection sclerotherapy (EIS) in the control of active
      variceal hemorrhage. It is thus recommended that EVL is the first enscopic treatment of
      choice for acute esophageal variceal bleeding. Moreover, apart from the control of acute
      variceal bleeding, prophylactic antibiotics has been proven to be helpful in the prevention
      of bacterial infection as well as preventing early variceal bleeding. With the advent of new
      treatment modalities and measures taken to approach patients with acute esophageal variceal
      bleeding, the mortality of acute esophageal variceal bleeding is significantly reduced in
      recent years.

      On the other hand, early rebleeding due to ligation-induced ulcer may be encountered. The
      impact of feeding after endoscopic treatment of gastroesophageal varices has never been
      investigated. It is still unknown whether early feeding may increase early rebleeding in
      patients with acute esophageal variceal bleeding treated with EVL. It is customary for
      clinicians to institute fasting for 2 or 3 days after emergency EVL. This may be a safe
      approach to watch against early rebleeding. However, many patients would be fasting for a
      longer time and nutrition may be impaired, possibly resulting in aggravation of ascites.
      Thus, we conduct a controlled study to evaluate whether early feeding have a bad impact on
      patients receiving emergency EVL or histoacryl injection for bleeding gastric varices.

      Methods of treatment:

      Enrolled Criteria:

        1. The etiology of portal hypertension is cirrhosis.

        2. Age ranges between 20-80 y/o.

        3. Patients presenting with acute gastroesophageal variceal bleeding proven by emergency
           endoscopy within 12 hours. (Acute esophageal variceal bleeding was defined as: 1) when
           blood was directly seen by endoscopy to issue from an esophageal varix (active
           bleeding), or 2) when patients presented with red color signs on their esophageal
           varices with blood in esophagus or stomach and no other potential site of bleeding
           identified (inactive bleeding). Gastric variceal bleeding is defined as active spurting
           from a gastric varix or presence of red spots on a gastric varix.

        4. EVL is performed after confirmation of acute esophageal variceal bleeding. Histoacryl
           injection is performed if acute gastric variceal bleeding is diagnosed. Bleeding is
           arrested on the spot.

      Exclusion criteria:

      1) association with severe systemic illness, such as sepsis, COPD, uremia, HCC, > BCLC stage
      B 3)failure in the control of bleeding by emergency endoscopic treatment. 4)moribund
      patients, died within 12 hours of enrollment 5)Uncooperative 6) Ever received EIS, EVL within
      one month prior to index bleeding 7)Child-Pugh's scores > 13 8) Deep jaundice (serum
      bilirubin > 10 mg/dl), presence of encephalopathy > stage II or massive ascites

      Eligible subjects will receive vasoconstrictor for 3 days (either terlipressin or
      somatostatin), prophylactic antibiotics for 5 days (cephazolin or norfloxacin 400mg bid),
      lactulose. Eligible subjects will be randomized to 2 groups. Group 1 will be allowed to take
      liquid diet (fruit juice, soy bean juice, milk, rice in liquid form) for 3 days within 4
      hours after endoscopic treatment. Additionally, intravenous fluid less than 500 cc per day
      will be given. Subsequently, soft diet will be given for 4 days, and on regular diet on the
      8th day after endoscopic treatment.

      Group 2 will be fasting for 48 hours after endoscopic treatment and intravenous fluids
      (normal saline or glucose water) 1500 cc per day with electrolytes will be administered for 2
      days. After 2 days of fasting, if rebleeding does not occur, liquid diet will be given for
      one day, subsequently, soft diet for 4 days, and on regular diet on the 8th day after
      endoscopic treatment.
    
  