
    
      Suicide is an important public health issue and leads to substantial social and economic
      burden. Self-harm is a significant risk factor of subsequent suicide attempt and suicide.
      However, previously studied interventions for reducing self-harm repetition such as long-term
      psychological therapies would not be feasible at acute settings such as emergency
      departments. It is also challenging to maintain patients who self-harm in long-term
      treatments. The volitional help sheet (VHS) is a brief, theory-based psychological
      intervention. Two recent studies applying this tool for reducing self-harm repetition showed
      inconsistent results; one showed reduced subsequent self-reported suicidal ideation and
      behavior in patients presenting to hospital for self-harm, whilst the other showed no effect
      on the number of patients who re-presented to hospital with self-harm. To investigate the
      feasibility of the VHS intervention for self-harm patients and explore its effect on
      self-harm repetition in Taiwan, the investigators will conduct a two-phase study: first a
      qualitative study and second an exploratory randomized control trial.

      In phase I, the qualitative study, eight patients with recent self-harm will be recruited
      from the psychiatric ward and interviewed about their perceptions about the VHS and views
      about the best way to intervene.

      In phase II, the exploratory randomized control trial, the investigators will recruit 60
      patients presenting to the emergency department following an episode of self-harm. Patients
      will be randomly assigned (1:1) to the intervention group, which will be given the VHS
      intervention on an online platform, or the control group to examine the feasibility and
      effect of this intervention. The primary outcomes will be self-harm repetition based on: i)
      self-reported self-harm in a telephone based follow-up survey, ii) hospital re-presentations
      with self-harm based on hospital records, and iii) self-harm episodes from a nationwide
      self-harm registry, the National Suicide Surveillance System (NSSS). The NSSS includes a
      web-based reporting system and all emergency departments across the country are asked to
      report information about all people present to hospitals following an episode of self-harm.
      In addition, we will report the sub-group analyses for past self-harm hospitalisation
      according to the suggestion from the study testing VHS on reducing self-harm in United
      Kingdom.
    
  