
    
      Nausea and vomiting remains a common and difficult to manage consequence of chemotherapy
      despite prophylaxis. These symptoms can often lead to a decreased quality of life,
      dehydration, and malnutrition. Olanzapine is an atypical antipsychotic that blocks multiple
      neuronal receptors involved in nausea/vomiting pathways. Olanzapine has been studied for
      breakthrough chemo-induced nausea and vomiting (CINV) as well as in prophylaxis of highly and
      moderately emetogenic regimens (HEC and MEC, respectively). However, these studies have
      focused on patients with solid tumor malignancies and chemotherapy regimens of short
      duration. To date, no publications have reported outcomes from adding olanzapine to standard
      triplet therapy, for hematology patients, including those undergoing hematopoietic stem cell
      transplants and those who receive multi-day HEC and MEC regimens.

      This is a blinded, placebo controlled trial randomizing patients to receive olanzapine 10 mg
      orally on all chemotherapy days plus three additional days post chemotherapy or placebo in
      addition to standard triplet therapy (ondansetron and dexamethasone on each day of
      chemotherapy and fosaprepitant 150 mg IV on day one of chemotherapy). Inclusion criteria: age
      18 or older, receiving inpatient or outpatient HEC or MEC chemotherapy including those
      regimens given before stem cell transplantation (ABVD, ICE ± R, 7+3 or 5+2, BEAM, Bu/Cy ±
      ATG, Bu/Flu ± ATG, FluCy ± ATG, BuMel, FluBuCy, Melphalan). Exclusion criteria: allergy to
      olanzapine, documented nausea/vomiting ≤24 hours before enrollment, treatment with other
      antipsychotic agents, or declined informed consent. Patients will be randomized to placebo or
      olanzapine in a block design stratified by chemotherapy type (transplant conditioning vs.
      chemotherapy only) and number of days of chemotherapy (single vs. multi-day) by the
      Investigational Drug Pharmacy services at Augusta University Medical Center.
    
  