
    
      TMC435 is being investigated for treatment of chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection, in
      combination with Peg-IFN (pegylated interferon) and RBV (ribavirin). Digoxin and rosuvastatin
      are expressed in the liver and intestine and mediate the transport of drugs out of the blood
      circulation. The result of this study will provide dosing recommendations for TMC435 and for
      digoxin, rosuvastatin, or other substrates using the same drug transporter molecules, when
      being coadministered. This is a Phase I, open-label (both participant and investigator know
      the name of the medication given at certain moment), randomized (sequence of treatment with
      study medications is assigned by chance), crossover trial in 32 healthy volunteers to
      investigate the pharmacokinetic interaction between TMC435, at steady state, and digoxin or
      rosuvastatin at a single dose. The volunteers will be allocated to one of two panels. In
      Panel 1, volunteers will receive two treatments (Trts A and B) in a randomized order.
      Volunteers will receive digoxin 0.25 mg once daily for 1 day (Trt A) and TMC435 150 mg once
      daily for 7 days (Trt B) and 0.25 mg digoxin once daily for 1 day (Trt B). In Panel 2,
      volunteers will receive two treatments (Trts C and D) in a randomized order. Volunteers will
      receive rosuvastatin 10 mg once daily for 1 day (Trt C) and TMC435 150 mg once daily for 7
      days (Trt D) and rosuvastatin 10 mg once daily for 1 day (Trt D). In both panels, there will
      be a washout period (a period when no study drug will be taken, in order to have all the
      medication eliminated from the body before starting a new treatment) of at least 14 days
      between last intake of the study medication in one session and the first intake of study
      medication in the subsequent session. Pharmacokinetic profiles of all three compounds will be
      determined through blood samples taken at regular intervals during the study. Safety and
      tolerability will be assessed during the study period and during follow up. Blood and urine
      samples, electrocardiogram (ECG) and vital signs (blood pressure and heart rate) will be
      taken at screening, before medication intake on Day -1 or Day 1 (Trts A, B, C, and D), on Day
      2 (Trts A and C), before medication intake and 6 hours postdose (only vital signs and ECG) on
      Day 7 (Trts B and D), on Day 8 (Trts B and D) and at the 2 follow up visits at 1 week and 4-5
      weeks after last dose of study medication in the last session. A physical examination will be
      performed at screening, on Day -1 (= day before first medication intake in each session for
      both panels) and on Day 2 in Trts A and C, on Day -1 and on Day 8 of Trts B and D and during
      the 2 follow-up visits. Each volunteer is part of one panel and follows 2 treatment (Trt)
      periods, which are a minimum 14 days apart from each other. Trt period for Trts A and C - 5
      days; Trt period for Trts B and D - 11 days. Trt A and B = Panel 1, Trt C and D = Panel 2. A
      single, oral dose of digoxin (0.25 mg) or rosuvastatin (10 mg) to be given in Trt A or Trt C,
      respectively. Multiple doses of TMC435 (150 mg) for 7 days to be given in TrtB and D, with a
      single dose of digoxin or rosuvastatin on Day7, respectively.
    
  