
    
      Primary Objective -

      Phase I (closed to accrual as of 01/11/2008):

      To establish a maximum tolerable dose of temsirolimus in combination with sorafenib in
      patients with recurrent glioblastoma not receiving enzyme-inducing anticonvulsants (EIACs).

      Phase II (closed to accrual as of 12/07/2012):

      To assess the efficacy of temsirolimus and sorafenib in the treatment of recurrent
      glioblastoma in non-EIAC patients as measured by progression-free survival status at six
      months (PFS6).

      Secondary Objectives -

      Phase I (closed to accrual as of 01/11/2008):

      I. To define the safety profile of temsirolimus and sorafenib in non-EIAC patients.

      II. To assess the evidence of antitumor activity.

      Phase II (closed to accrual as of 12/07/2012):

      I. To assess the safety and toxicities of temsirolimus and sorafenib in the above-noted
      patient populations.

      Outline: This is a multicenter, phase I, dose-escalation study followed by a phase II study.

      Phase I (Arm A): Patients receive sorafenib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28 and
      temsirolimus intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Treatment repeats
      every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Cohorts of 3-6
      patients receive escalating doses of temsirolimus until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is
      determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients
      experience dose-limiting toxicity.

      Phase II: Patients are assigned to 1 of 3 treatment groups.

      Group 1 (Arm B): Patients receive sorafenib and temsirolimus as in phase I at the MTD.
      (patients not undergoing surgery)

      Group 2 (Arm C): Patients receive sorafenib PO BID on days 1-8 (15 doses) and temsirolimus IV
      at the MTD on day 1. Patients undergo surgery on day 8. (patients undergoing surgery) After
      recovering from surgery, patients receive sorafenib and temsirolimus as in phase I at the
      MTD.

      Group 3 (Arm D): Patient receive sorafenib and temsirolimus as in phase I at the MTD.
      (patients who have received prior anti-vascular endothelial growth factor [VEGF] therapy and
      are not undergoing surgery)

      Biopsy or resected tissue and blood are collected prior to treatment (usually at diagnosis)
      and analyzed for biomarkers. After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every
      6 months for 5 years and then annually thereafter.
    
  