
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the maximum tolerated dose of nab-paclitaxel when combined concurrently
           with carboplatin and radiation followed by two courses of nab-paclitaxel carboplatin as
           consolidation. (Phase I)

        -  To evaluate the progression-free survival in patients with stage III unresectable
           non-small cell lung cancer treated with nab-paclitaxel, carboplatin, and radiotherapy
           followed by two courses of nab-paclitaxel with carboplatin as consolidation. (Phase II)

      Secondary

        -  To assess safety and tolerability and identify dose-limiting toxicities in patients
           receiving nab-paclitaxel combined concurrently with carboplatin and radiotherapy. (Phase
           I)

        -  To assess progression-free survival, response rates, and survival. (Phase I)

        -  To assess overall survival and response rates in all patients treated on this study.
           (Phase II)

        -  To assess the safety and tolerability of patients receiving nab-paclitaxel combined
           concurrently with carboplatin and radiotherapy followed by two courses of
           nab-paclitaxel/carboplatin as consolidation. (Phase II) OUTLINE: This is a multicenter
           study.

        -  Phase I:

             -  Concurrent chemoradiotherapy: Patients receive escalating doses of nab-paclitaxel
                IV over 30 minutes and carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, 22, 29, 36,
                and 43. They also receive conformal radiotherapy once daily 5 days a week on days
                1-5 in weeks 1-7. Patients are evaluated between weeks 8-10. Patients with disease
                progression are removed from study. Patients with stable disease, partial response,
                or complete response proceed to consolidation chemotherapy 3 weeks after completion
                of chemoradiotherapy.

             -  Consolidation chemotherapy: Patients receive nab-paclitaxel IV over 30 minutes on
                days 1, 8, and 15 and carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats
                ever 21 days for up to 2 courses.

        -  Phase II: Patients receive concurrent chemoradiotherapy at the Maximum Tolerated Dose
           (MTD) of nab-paclitaxel followed by consolidation chemotherapy as in phase I.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 2 months, every 3 months for 2
      years, every 4 months for 2 years, and then every 6 months thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 98 patients (15 patients for phase I and 83 patients for phase
      II) will be accrued for this study.
    
  