
    
      PREHAB will be a three centre prospective, randomized, open, blinded endpoint (PROBE)
      controlled trial using assessor blinding and intention-to-treat analysis. The study will be
      conducted at three academic, tertiary care hospitals (St. Boniface Hospital, Winnipeg, MB,
      Montreal Heart Institute. Montreal QC and Queen Elizabeth II Health Sciences Centre, Halifax,
      NS) and one non-academic hospital (Saint John Regional Health Centre, Saint John, NB) that
      perform cardiac surgery. These sites were chosen based on similar patient populations and
      surgical waitlist times. Additionally, each of these sites are partnered with one or more
      community-based cardiac rehabilitation (CR) centres, which are certified medical fitness
      facilities dedicated to improving the health of the community through health promotion,
      disease prevention and rehabilitation services. These facilities offer expert guidance from
      certified professionals, innovative health enhancement programs, and provide integrated
      medical, rehabilitative and fitness services. The investigators intend to recruit a total of
      244 participants to the study (122 per study arm), anticipating a 20% dropout rate to achieve
      an eventual sample size of 194 participants.

      Patients in the PREHAB group will receive, in addition to standard of care, an eight-week
      comprehensive exercise therapy and education program at a community-based CR facility. This
      program will target both the physical and psycho-social-cognitive aspects of cardiac disease
      and frailty. In brief, participants will be required to complete an intake health status
      assessment by the CR team including a physiotherapist, cardiovascular nurse, and dietitian
      and complete a symptom-limited graded exercise stress test according to the American College
      of Sports Medicine Guidelines for Exercise Testing and Prescription 7th Edition. Patients
      will be asked to complete at least two sessions of supervised, structured exercise class plus
      have the option to attend one additional exercise class per week for eight-weeks, with
      progression to a moderate to high-intensity interval program based on the supervised
      assessment of the patient's capabilities. This has been shown to be safe and effective in
      unrepaired heart failure and elderly patients. PREHAB participants will also attend four
      education sessions on topics such as risk factor reduction, medication use, cardiovascular
      physiology, smoking cessation, healthy eating, exercise, and stress management and promotion
      of self-managed care.
    
  