
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Plasma triglyceride concentration is an independent although relatively weak risk factor for
      coronary heart disease (CHD). The relative weakness of plasma triglycerides to predict CHD
      may be due to the substantial diversity of lipoprotein particles that carry the
      triglycerides, some being related to atherosclerosis and CHD more than others. The
      investigators have shown in patients who have had a myocardial infarction that the rather
      weak association between triglycerides and subsequent coronary events is secondary to a
      stronger relationship with specific types of VLDL remnants, those in the LDL density range
      that contain apoCIIl.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study will evaluate VLDL and LDL particle types as predictors of initial coronary events
      in men from the Health Professional Follow-up Study (HPFS) and women from the Nurses Health
      Study (NHS). A prospective nested case-control design will be used with a total of 1000 CHD
      cases and 1000 matched controls, with equal numbers of men and women. The investigators will
      specifically investigate the role of apoCIII containing VLDL and LDL particles in diabetes by
      over sampling so that 50% of the patients will have type 2 diabetes mellitus. Their previous
      work shows that LDL apoCIII particles are independent predictors of recurrent CHD in diabetic
      patients who survived a myocardial infarction. They hypothesize that apoCIII may have a
      special role in dyslipidemia and CHD in diabetes. Secondary Aims: Besides apoCIII, other
      small apolipoproteins, apo C1, CII, and All are components of VLDL and LDL and modulate the
      metabolism of apoB lipoproteins. It is likely that these apolipoproteins have a relationship
      with human atherosclerosis. They will measure these apolipoproteins in VLDL and LDL and
      evaluate their relationship to CHD. They will also investigate the associations between these
      new lipoprotein risk factors and intake of foods and nutrients, physical activity, and other
      risk factors, including smoking, BMI, age and gender. The results will provide new means to
      identify nondiabetic and diabetic persons who are at high risk of developing CHD and the
      environmental determinants, and could form the basis for new lipoprotein targets for lipid
      management by diet and medicines.
    
  