
    
      Currently, in presurgical evaluation of epilepsy patients, PET and SPECT studies are utilized
      to evaluate metabolic and perfusion abnormalities respectively to localize seizure onset.
      This is especially true in "MRI negative" patients, whose lesion is not visible on standard
      MRI techniques. PET and SPECT studies have numerous disadvantages, including radiation
      exposure, injection of contrast or isotopes, cost, and are often difficult to access for many
      patients.

      Arterial spin labeling (ASL) MRI sequences show perfusion related abnormalities without using
      contrast, in a relatively short amount of time, and can be done during a normal MRI for
      evaluation of epilepsy. This is of interest because if there is a good correlation, ASL MRI
      sequences could be used in addition, or in place of, these other studies that require
      injection of isotopes and radiation from CT scans.

      ASL sequences have been shown to localize certain epileptogenic abnormalities such as tubers
      in tuberous sclerosis. A previous study demonstrated ASL changes inter- and post-ictally in
      one patient without other MRI changes. This is a promising technique that has not been fully
      evaluated as of yet. Of note, all studies done in this area in regards to epilepsy have been
      retrospective, small studies. The investigators plan to perform a study that is prospective,
      with a comparatively large sample of patients.

      Study Design: Consultants in the epilepsy clinic will identify potential subjects on the
      patients' initial evaluation. Just after the consultation is finished, in the epilepsy
      clinic, the study will be described to the patient along with risks and benefits, and
      informed consent will be obtained by one of the researchers or research personnel in the
      clinic. If the patient agrees with the study, the MRI department will be notified of the
      patient's participation. At that time, the patient's already scheduled MRI will have the
      addition of ASL sequences. This will add approximately 4 minutes to the MRI. The patient will
      then have other imaging investigations as deemed necessary by the treating consultant. This
      may include PET and SPECT. If the patient is admitted to the EMU, ictal and interictal SPECT
      are likely to be done. After the patient has had the full evaluation, we will compare the ASL
      MRI sequences to the basic MRI, and PET and SPECT if performed.

      We will also use software already developed to determine the quantitative blood flow to the
      abnormalities found on the ASL sequences.
    
  