
    
      Despite a generally favourable 3-month functional outcome and a very low mortality, young
      ischemic stroke (IS) patients face to reduced quality of life associated with a complexity of
      problems or "invisible dysfunctions" after IS. Fatigue, cognitive impairment, anxiety,
      depression, sexual dysfunction, loss of employment, social isolation, lack of specialist
      support, reduction in mobility and life roles, negative body image, impaired self-efficacy
      and self-esteem are considered most relevant factors. Investigation of predictors of
      post-stroke quality of life in young-onset patients is needed to design, implement, and
      evaluate specific young stroke rehabilitation and stroke self-management programmes.

      The aim of the study is to assess the predictors of the health-related quality of life in
      young patients under 50 years after ischemic stroke, and to evaluate specific changes in
      different dimensions of health-related quality of life during the first year of post-stroke
      recovery using a standardized battery of neuropsychological tools and stroke specific
      health-related quality of life measures. The aims of the study will be met by the
      triangulation of qualitative and quantitative research methods.

      In the first phase of the study, 300 IS patients will be enrolled for the validation of the
      Czech version of the the Stroke Impact Scale 3.0. The reliability and validity study will
      have a cross-sectional design. In the second phase of study, 200 enrolled IS patients (100
      young IS patients < 50 years and 100 IS patients of 50-65 years) will undergo a serial of
      structured and standardized questionnaires during scheduled outpatients' controls three, six
      and 12 months after IS. In all enrolled patients, the functional outcome, neuropsychological
      status and quality of life will be assessed using standardized scales and tools. In the third
      phase of study, twenty young IS patients < 50 years will undergo an in-depth, semi-structured
      interview with explanatory questions that will allow a detailed understanding of the
      patient's experience. Interpretative phenomenological analysis (IPA) study design will be
      used.
    
  