
    
      Stroke is defined as rapidly developing clinical signs of focal disturbance of cerebral
      function that lasts more than 24 hours or leading to death. It arises from vascular causes
      such as cerebral infarction, intracerebral hemorrhage or subarachnoid hemorrhage. Stroke
      refers to any damage to the brain due to abnormality of blood supply. Stroke patients have
      difficulty in maintaining balance and postural control because they have asymmetric posture,
      abnormal body imbalance and difficulty in weight transfer.

      Balance is required to maintain posture, to respond to voluntary movements and react to
      external perturbations. Because of the balance disorders, compensatory movements occur in
      stroke patients which causes them to consume more energy compared to healthy subjects and
      causes the development of inefficient walking pattern.

      Gait function determines the degree of physical ability of post-stroke patients and their
      ability to perform independent mobility during activities of daily living (ADL). Stroke
      patients acquire compensatory abnormal walking pattern as a result of muscular weakness and
      inability to maintain balance.

      Virtual reality rehabilitation systems provide direct sensorial feedback to which a person
      can respond and interact with environment. VR environments are commonly used in treating,
      training, and rehabilitation of stroke patients. In virtual reality rehabilitation, the
      patient moves and performs predetermined tasks as if he is performing the actions in reality.

      According to a study conducted by Hyung Young Lee, Virtual reality-based training has been
      used as therapeutic intervention for functional recovery of stroke patients. It provides a
      variety of environments based on the requirements of patients that can be selected for
      recovery.

      According to a study conducted by Yurong Mao, Virtual reality balance training provides more
      realistic proprioceptive and visual input and improves balance and gait function effectively.
      Virtual reality balance games can be used as an effective tool to train patients with balance
      dysfunction.

      According to Han Sook Lee, Virtual Reality training is effective in improving dynamic balance
      control and preventing falls in subacute stroke patients. Virtual reality training provides
      stroke patients with planned and consistent exercises to improve balance and gait by giving
      visual feedback to directly adjust their wrong weight center and shift visually.

      Kleffelgaard et al reported that Vestibular rehabilitation is frequently used treatment for
      dizziness and balance problems. Vestibular Rehabilitation is a combination of different
      exercise components with an aim to improve gaze stability, balance and gait and facilitate
      somatosensory integration. It is used in treatment of stroke patients to improve dynamic
      balance by acting on the vestibular system, thus facilitating recovery.

      A study conducted by Tsubasa Mitsutake in 2017 indicated that, the main components of
      vestibular rehabilitation are gaze stabilization exercises to help adapt the VOR function and
      balance exercises to retrain the vestibulospinal reflex function. Thus, simultaneously
      measuring changes in the VOR function and gait performance before and after intervention will
      provide valuable information for rehabilitation.

      According to Meldrum et al, Vestibular system plays a phase dependent role in gait and is
      active at certain points in the gait cycle including double support, changing direction, and
      step termination.

      VRT is patient dependent and progression of the exercises depends upon individual patient's
      sensorimotor, cognitive, and emotional aspects.
    
  