
    
      Athletes who agree to participate in the study will sign the ICF and will respond to the
      questionnaire to characterize the sample. All procedures will be carried out at the Londrina
      Canoeing and Rowing School, where athletes are trained.

      In the sequence the athlete will be submitted to the test of a maximum repetition (1RM) of
      the exercise of traction with the upper limbs, which is specific for canoeing.

      This will be performed with the athlete positioned in a decubitus position and well
      positioned. In the following, it will be advised to lift the bar with load determined by the
      athlete as adequate to carry out the movement, in case of carrying out the movement with ease
      and without compensations of other parts of the body the load will increase until the athlete
      is no longer able to perform the movement with quality, and then the maximum load determined
      as the one in which it was able to perform the complete movement for the last time.

      On the first day of collection, the maximum VO2 test will be performed, where the athlete
      will perform a test of 8 to 12 minutes where a progressive load will be introduced until the
      athlete reaches his maximum oxygen consumption and is no longer able to continue the test.

      After three days the athlete will return to the collection site to perform the tests in three
      moments:

        1. At rest (lying supine on a stretcher):

             -  HR variability

             -  VO2

             -  Resting body temperature

             -  Assessment of spasticity by the Ashworth scale

             -  Borg Fatigue Scale.

             -  EVA

             -  pressure pain threshold (LDP)

        2. During simulation of the paddle on the K1 ergometer (figure 2), which will be held for 6
           minutes at comfortable pace, where the last minute data will be used:

             -  IN G

             -  VO2

             -  HR variability After the end of the evaluations, the athlete will be submitted to
                the fatigue protocol where he will be guided, to perform the maximum movements of
                the traction exercise with load referring to 60% of the 1RM, twice, with interval
                of 1 minute between them.

      Then it will be taken to another place, near the collection room for randomization, by means
      of a draw in a sealed and opaque envelope in one of the three study groups:

        -  Cold water immersion: The athlete will remain submerged in a "Cryo Control - Ice Bath
           Systems®" bathtub, which allows filtration and maintenance of constant water
           temperature, and shoulder blade water for 15 minutes in the water at 15 degrees Celsius.

        -  Ice pack: The athlete will remain for 20 minutes with plastic packets of 500 grams of
           ice each, in the region of the evaluated muscles.

        -  Control: Group in which the athlete will be instructed to remain seated in a comfortable
           position, at rest, for 20 minutes.

      The randomization and execution of the protocols will be carried out in environments that the
      evaluators do not have vision or access, to favor the blindness of the evaluations.

      After termination of the intervention protocol, the athlete will be instructed to maintain
      routine sleep and feeding activities with the rest of the team, but without participation in
      any type of training or physical activity for the next 3 days.
    
  