
    
      Upon patient education and consent to participate in this study, patients will be randomized
      via online randomizer during their baseline visit into either Treatment As Usual (TAU) or
      Integrated Voice Response (IVR) cohorts. During this baseline visit, the patients in the IVR
      group will be given specific information on the nature of the calls and what to expect. Both
      groups will fill out a form for assessing their baseline pain and functionality. Both groups
      will receive standard total joint arthroplasty. After this, the TAU group will receive the
      standard of care which involves appropriate pain management and scheduled clinic follow-ups
      lasting approximately 60 minutes at 2 weeks, 6 weeks, and 12 weeks along with additional
      visits if required. Clinic visits will assess pain via VAS scale, joint functionality via
      HOOS and KOOS scale, and quality of life via SF-36.

      In addition to the standard of care follow-up visits as in the TAU group, the IVR group will
      also receive automated phone calls lasting up to 3 minutes, which will be the focus of this
      research study. These phone calls will be daily for the first week, every other day the
      second week, twice a week for weeks 3-6, and weekly for weeks 7-12. The content of these
      calls will assess pain management, wound healing and screen for potential complications
      through a series of questions (questionnaire script attached). At the completion of each
      call, the patient will be instructed to either continue standard treatment or visit the
      emergency department based on the content of their response. If there is reason for concern,
      the PI will automatically be informed.

      Survey questions pertaining to the patients outcomes and satisfaction will be completed in
      clinic and collected by the PI. The responses and data relating to IVR calls will made
      available through computer software designed by our team on the secure REDcap network.
    
  