
    
      While studies support the clinical use of ChemoFx® in cancer patients, additional data are
      needed to further assess the utilization of this product in clinical practice. Such
      post-market data and information could be employed for product improvement as well as for the
      development of standards and regulations. This is a multicenter registry study of 3,000
      patients with solid tumors. The study is not randomized, nor is it interventional in that the
      treating physician is free to choose how to employ ChemoFx® results in the clinical
      management of individual patients. Sites will be selected by Precision's clinical trials team
      based on past commercial usage of ChemoFx®.

      Subjects who may be enrolled in this study are those who have been diagnosed with a solid
      tumor malignancy and for whom ChemoFx® has been ordered. ChemoFx® is ordered through the
      normal commercial process and is therefore billed to the patient's medical insurance.

      All subjects will be appropriately consented before any study-specific data are collected. A
      limited dataset of patient demographics, oncology history, and therapeutic intervention will
      be collected in addition to ChemoFx® assay usage. Subjects will be treated based on the
      medical judgment of their treating physician(s). Patient survival data will be collected up
      to five years following the ChemoFx® commercial order. Additional disease progression data
      may be collected by Precision's CRAs at participating sites.

      Optional Cell Research

      Informed consent will be obtained to document subject's consent to use excess cells remaining
      in Precisions' commercial laboratory for additional research. This portion of the study may
      involve DNA, RNA, and proteomic research. To ensure the anonymity of each subject, any
      identifiers that would link the sample to the subject will be removed. The samples would then
      have gene expression profiling and or quantitative protein expression analysis performed. The
      goal of the research would be to identify a set of informative genes, intermediaries, and
      proteins and develop predictive algorithm(s) that seek to link the expression level of the
      gene, gene signature, intermediary, or protein to the clinical outcome of the patient. This
      portion of the study does not require any additional subject procedures. Neither physicians
      nor their patients will receive the results of the research performed. Results will not be
      placed in the subjects health care records and will not affect their medical care.
    
  