
    
      Introduction

      Improving physical activity is a core component of secondary prevention and cardiac
      (tele)rehabilitation. Commercially available activity trackers are frequently used to monitor
      and promote physical activity in cardiac patients. However studies on the validity of these
      devices in cardiac patients are scarce. The aim of this study is to determine the accuracy
      and responsiveness of two wrist-worn activity trackers, Fitbit Charge 2 (FC2) and Mio Slice
      (MS), for the assessment of energy expenditure (EE) in cardiac patients.

      Methods

      Eligible patients are recruited by their cardiologist in the outpatient cardiology clinic. If
      a patient is willing to participate, he/she visits the Máxima Medical Centre once, to perform
      the study measurements.

      EE assessed by both activity trackers is compared with indirect calorimetry (Oxycon Mobile)
      during a laboratory activity protocol consisting of 14 low-to-moderate intensity activities.
      The duration of the activities varies between 1 to 5 minutes, while total duration of the
      protocol is 39 minutes (resting time excluded) Two groups are assessed: patients with stable
      coronary artery disease (CAD) and patients with heart failure with reduced ejection fraction
      (HFrEF).

      Sample size calculation

      To achieve 80% power to detect an intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) of 0.75 (excellent
      agreement) under the alternative hypothesis that the ICC is 0.35 (poor agreement), a sample
      size of 19 subjects per study group (i.e. CAD and HFrEF) is calculated.

      Statistical analysis

      Accuracy of FC2 and MS will be assessed by calculating mean EE and mean differences in EE
      compared to the criterion measure (Oxycon Mobile). To identify if agreement is between
      reasonable limits one-sample T-tests will be performed using mean differences. In addition,
      Bland-Altman plots will be created to illustrate the level of agreement with mean bias and
      95% upper and lower limits of agreement (LoA). Moreover ICC using two-way mixed models with
      absolute agreement will used. Responsiveness of FC2 and MS will be assessed by using a paired
      T-test during walking and cycling at different intensities. Significance level will be set at
      p<0.05 for all analyses.
    
  