
    
      Appendicectomy for acute appendicitis is one of the most commonly performed paediatric
      emergency operations in Australia. This standard treatment of acute uncomplicated
      appendicitis (AUA) has remained largely unchallenged since its introduction in the late
      nineteenth century, under the assumption that AUA progresses to perforation and thus
      complications should an operation be withheld. However, appendicectomy via laparoscopic or
      open approach is not without its risks.

      Non-operative management (NOM) with antibiotics has been increasingly accepted as mainstay
      therapy for many intra-abdominal infections. In fact, children with appendicitis complicated
      by perforation, abscess or phlegmon formation are often preferentially treated
      non-operatively with antibiotic therapy, with or without percutaneous drainage. Systematic
      reviews and meta-analyses have demonstrated that antibiotics are a safe and effective
      treatment for AUA in adults and there is growing evidence that NOM is safe and effective in
      children.

      Primary objectives:

      To determine the safety and efficacy of non-operative antibiotic management of clinically
      diagnosed likely AUA in children.

      Secondary objectives:

        1. To compare the safety and efficacy of NOM of clinically diagnosed likely AUA with
           operative management (OM) in children.

        2. To assess the cost-effectiveness of NOM of clinically diagnosed likely AUA against OM in
           children.

        3. To assess the feasibility and acceptability of NOM of appendicitis in children.

      This study will enrol 226 patients, age 5-16 years, with acute uncomplicated appendicitis at
      two tertiary children's hospitals. Allocation ratio of 1:1 will be made via weighted
      minimisation using the following criteria: age (5-8 years or 9-16 years), gender (male or
      female), and duration of symptoms (<48 or >48 hours).
    
  