
    
      Pectus excavatum is the most common congenital chest wall abnormality in children. Surgical
      correction requires a big operation under general anesthesia which forces the sternum forward
      and holds it in place using a metal chest wall strut. Deformation of the chest wall under
      great pressure may result in complications and potential relapses as well as postoperative
      pain requiring hospitalization for regional and narcotic anesthesia for up to a week. An
      alternative principle for correction of chest wall and other deformities is gradual
      (bit-by-bit) correction using minimal force applied over many months (like moving teeth with
      orthodontic braces).

      The hypothesis of this study is that constant outward force on the deformed cartilage in
      pectus excavatum will produce biologic reformation of cartilage and correction of the chest
      wall deformity.

      The study investigators have developed a novel method of achieving gradual
      deformation/reformation of chest wall cartilage without the need for transdermal orthopedic
      devices or repeated surgeries. A magnetic force field is used to apply controlled, sustained
      force to promote biologic reformation of structural cartilage (the same principle as
      distraction osteogenesis). A magnet is implanted on the sternum and secured using a novel
      fixation strategy that can be accomplished through a 3-cm subxyphoid incision as a brief
      outpatient procedure. The magnet (and sternum) is pulled outward by another magnet suspended
      in a novel, low-profile, lightweight device previously molded to the patient's anterior chest
      wall. The external magnet allows individual adjustment in small increments of the distance
      (and, thus, force) and orientation of the force applied to the sternum. The low-profile,
      non-obtrusive anterior chest wall prosthesis is held in place by the force field between the
      two magnets.

      The study objectives are to test the safety and probable benefit of this procedure in 10
      otherwise healthy, young patients, between 8 years and 14 years of age, who have chosen to
      have this deformity corrected using this novel technique rather than the standard Ravitch or
      Nuss techniques. We will document the rate of correction by chest imaging and measurement of
      the Pectus Severity Index. The study investigators will document safety and efficacy with an
      EKG prior to implantation, one month post-implantation, and finally after the magnet is
      removed, as well as patient and family satisfaction with a post-procedure Quality of
      Life-type survey.
    
  