
    
      DESIGN:

      Multicenter prospective cohort study in which patients diagnosed of Heart Failure and
      suffering from a clinical decompensation will be followed for a 30 days in order to predict
      short-term hospitalització or mortality.

      SETTING:

        1. Derivation cohort will consist of HF patients recruited in more than 20 general
           practices settled in the city of Barcelona.

        2. Internal validation cohort: population recruited will come from the same general
           practices than derivation cohort.

        3. External Validation population will come from the rest of European countries
           participants.

      Since the health system could be different in the participant countries we will consider as a
      primary care all consultations attended by General Practitioners out of the hospital setting
      (which includes out of hours clinics managed by GP).

      Previous versions of this protocol have been presented to two European networks: Euroohnet
      (European research network in out of hours) and EGPRN (European General Practice Research
      Network).

      In order to be able to generalize the results to the European territory, all European
      countries would be invited to participate. Up to data, Barcelona (Spain), France, Slovenia,
      Ireland, Italia, Turkey and Portugal have accepted to participate.

      RECRUITMENT

      Participants will be consecutively recruited from September 2014 to September 2016, amongst
      those previously diagnosed from HF who need to be attended in primary care from a clinical
      decompensation Study protocol will be previously presented to all potential GP participants
      and a hard copy will be distributed to all of them as well as informed consents to be signed
      by the patients who accept to be included. In this protocol all the instructions regarding
      recruitment, inclusion criteria, measurements and follow up will be written. GP participants
      must agree with the study protocol, and to consent to participate and to provide necessary
      data from their patients.

      Since it is an observational study no randomization will be needed. Recruitment will end when
      the sample size is raised.

      STUDY POPULATION

      Heart Failure patients included in the study will come from primary care setting. We consider
      primary care, the health assistance provided in outpatients by a General practitioner, or out
      of hours care in primary care setting.

      Inclusion criteria:

      Patients aged 45 or more with previous diagnoses of HF in its medical record and a
      decompensation of HF treated/attended in primary care settings at the moment of the
      inclusion.

      Decompensation is defined as the presence of at least one of the following clinical
      conditions (12):

        -  The worsening functional class according to the criteria of the New York Heart
           Association (NYHA).

        -  A weight gain of more than one kilogram in a period of 24 hours or greater than two
           kilograms in a maximum of 72 hours.

        -  Increased ankle edema (self-reported by the patient, caregiver or physician)

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Patients with severe psychiatric illness or severe cognitive impairment, not able
           complete the study protocol.

        -  Refusal to participate in the study.

        -  Patients directly attended in the hospital in the previous 30 days.

      Every patient will be followed up to 30 days after the decompensation episode. We are
      intended to consecutively including patients in the study during a period of two years, from
      December 2014 to December 2016.

      DATA COLLECTION: Procedures, measurements and Instruments

      Sources of information

      Variables will be obtained by:

        -  Interview to the patients

        -  Clinical exploration

        -  Primary medical record

        -  Hospital discharge reports. We will create a specifically designed questionnaire for the
           study where will registry information about personal medical history, clinical
           examination at the moment of the visits. These data will be supplemented with
           information from primary care electronical medical records.

      Once the patient has signed the informed consent we will proceed to obtain the variables and
      measurements for the study.

      In the final database only an identification number should be available for each patient.
      This ID should be easily associated with the data of patient, but only by their GP.
      Identification of patients should not be allowed to the rest of researchers. Every GP
      participant will have a list with their patients included in the study.

      The ID will be as follows:

      Country: SP (Spain), FR (France), PO(Portugal), TU (Turkey)…….. Surname of the GP responsible
      for the patient (initial) Date of birth of the patient (day/month/year) (--/--/----) ID
      number labeled by the main researcher of each country.

      The coordinator centre (.Institut Català de la Salut. IDIAP-Jordi Gol, Spain) will design an
      electronic on-line questionnaire (https://es.surveymonkey.com/) which will be hosted in the
      website of IDIAP-Jordi Gol: (http://www.idiapjgol.org/) and e-mailed to all of GP
      participants in the study.

      Potential predictive variables:

        -  Age (years)

        -  Gender

        -  Personal medical history (information obtained from medical record or interview) as
           dichotomous variables:

      Diabetes mellitus ( ICD 10: E10, E11, E12, E13, E14) (YES/NOT) History of cardiovascular
      diseases (CHD or stroke) (ICD 10: I20-125; I63-I66) (YES/NOT) Chronic Kidney disease (ICD 10
      N18) (YES/NOT) Current smoking (ICD 10: F17.1) (YES/NOT) Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary
      Disease (ICD 10: J43, J44) (YES/NOT) Previous hospital admission as a consequence of HF in
      the last year (YES/NOT)

      - Clinical exploration at the baseline visit (decompensation episode) NYHA (III-IV vs I-II)
      (YES/NOT) Crackles (YES/NOT) Heart rate: beats/min Respiratory frequency Body Mass Index (to
      register weight and height) : km/m2 Temperature (ºC) Bilateral ankle edema with fovea
      (YES/NOT) ECG : Normal, Atrial fibrillation, Branch block, Acute Ischemia, Other arrhythmias
      Systolic Blood pressure : mmHg Diastolic Blood pressure: mmHg Treated with furosemide
      (a)/torasemide (b) before the visit : mg/day Not 1-40 mg (a) or 5mg (b) 40-80mg(a) or 5-10mg
      (b) >= 80 mg(a) or >10mg(b)

      Other possible causes of decompensation:

        -  Dietary sodium excess: supplementation with salt to the aliments : (YES/NOT)

        -  Compliance with drugs : (YES/NOT)

        -  Excessive liquid intake: taking >2, 5 l/day

        -  Suspected Respiratory infection: (YES/NOT)

        -  Suspected other infections (YES/NOT)

        -  Known anemia (YES/NOT)

      Others (By interviewing):

        -  Time since the first symptoms: hours

        -  Paroxistic dispnea: (YES/NOT)

        -  Weight gaining in the last week (self perceived) : (YES/NOT) 10. Data of diagnostic of
           HF (ICD 10: I.50) in medical record. 11. Setting of assistance:

             1. Regular care (usual GP)

             2. Out of hours care

             3. At home
    
  