
    
      Atherosclerosis is the leading cause of death and disability among patients with type 2
      diabetes mellitus. These patients characteristically have hypertriglyceridemia, high VLDL and
      low HDL-cholesterol in the fasting status. During day-time hours, most individuals are in a
      postprandial state and the composition of postprandial lipoproteins may play a more important
      role on metabolic outcome than fasting levels. Postprandial triglyceride-rich lipoproteins
      (ppTRLs) are atherogenic, and longer residence time and higher concentrations of chylomicron
      and VLDL remnants in the circulation are significant predictors of coronary heart disease
      (CHD). Abnormal postprandial lipemia is highly prevalent in diabetic patients, even in
      individuals with a normal fasting triglyceride concentration. It has been suggested that
      diabetes mellitus is associated with decreased catabolism of chylomicron remnants, prolonged
      residence of chylomicron and VLDL remnants in the circulation. Therefore, a diet with
      favorable effects on ppTRLs should be useful to prevent atherosclerosis among type 2 diabetes
      patients.

      It is well known that dietary saturated fatty acids (SFA) increase the risk for CHD while
      monounsaturated fatty acids (MUFA) and polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) decrease the risk
      for CHD via the modification of fasting lipids. Since all dietary sources of fat are composed
      of a combination of SFA, MUFA nad PUFA, it is best to characterize dietary fats as ratio of
      SFA:MUFA:PUFA. In fact, the SFA:MUFA:PUFA ratio in any given region or population is
      relatively homogeneous due to common food sources, food accessibility, food preparation and
      processing, dietary culture and tradition. For example, dietary fatty acid compositions
      (SFA:MUFA:PUFA) obtained directly or derived from existing national/regional reports are:
      1:1.7:0.4 in Greece,1:1.0:0.5 in USA, and 1:1.5:1 in the mainland of China. Our research
      showed that the composition was 1:1.7:1.2 among type 2 diabetic patients in Guangzhou, a city
      in Southern China(10). To date, the overall influence of dietary fatty acid compositions on
      lipids in different subfractions of ppTRLs still remains unclear. This paucity of evidence
      may limit the establishment of optimal recommendation of dietary fatty acid composition for
      type 2 diabetes.

      We designed three fat loads with specific fatty acid composition based on our previous study
      and current nutrition knowledge, and aimed at elucidating the influence of these dietary
      fatty acid compositions on the overall response of lipids in ppTRLs over postprandial 6
      h.Based on the result, we will identify on one dietary fatty acid compositions, which can
      improve atherogenic ppTRLs and thus may be recommended for diabetic patients, for future
      large-scale research.
    
  