
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if there are specific, modifiable factors relative to patients, physicians,
      nurses, or clinical trial designs that predict enrollment or non-enrollment onto a GOG
      therapeutic trial for patients with primary or recurrent invasive cancer of the uterine
      corpus or cervix.

      II. To determine if the Functional Comorbidity Index is an independent predictor of
      enrollment in a GOG clinical trial and if it correlates with performance status.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine, through multivariate analyses, whether the distribution of patients into a
      GOG clinical trial entry status categories (i.e., enrolled, not enrolled but eligible, not
      eligible) varies by demographics or economic status of patients, by patients'
      beliefs/concerns and interactions with physicians/family and friends, or by nurses' or
      physicians' beliefs/concerns and interactions with patients.

      II. To determine whether patients' beliefs/concerns or interactions are associated with
      patient, nurse, or physician demographics.

      III. To determine whether physicians' beliefs/concerns or interactions are associated with
      patient or physician demographics.

      IV. To perform descriptive analysis regarding factors associated with completion of treatment
      through analysis of the Treatment Review Form.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 groups.

      GROUP I (limited participation): Patients do not complete any questionnaires at baseline.

      GROUP II (full participation): Patients complete the Patient Registration Survey and Patient
      Questionnaire at baseline.

      At baseline, patients' medical record information is collected; sites complete the Functional
      Comorbidity Index; and physicians, nurses, and study coordinators complete the follow-up
      questionnaire. Staff complete the treatment review form after treatment or 7 months after
      study registration.
    
  