
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare the overall survival of patients with stage IIIB or IV non-small cell lung
           cancer treated with gemcitabine and carboplatin followed by immediate vs delayed
           docetaxel.

      Secondary

        -  Compare the response rate and time to progression in patients treated with these
           regimens.

        -  Compare the toxicity of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare the quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are stratified according to ECOG performance
      status (0 or 1 vs 2).

      All patients receive gemcitabine IV over 30-60 minutes on days 1 and 8 and carboplatin IV
      over 30-60 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 4 courses in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients with stable or responding disease proceed to docetaxel therapy. Patients are
      randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I (immediate docetaxel): Patients receive immediate docetaxel IV over 1 hour on day
           1.

        -  Arm II (delayed docetaxel): Patients are observed until first evidence of disease
           progression and then receive docetaxel IV over 1 hour on day 1.

      In both arms, treatment repeats every 3 weeks for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Quality of life (QOL) is assessed at baseline, at restaging (after completion of gemcitabine
      and carboplatin), before courses 2-6 of docetaxel*, and then at 1 and 3 months after study
      treatment.

      NOTE: *For patients randomized to delayed docetaxel, QOL is assessed every 3 weeks until
      first disease progression and then before courses 2-6 of docetaxel

      Patients are followed monthly for 3 months, every 2 months for 6 months, and then every 3
      months thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 550 patients (275 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study.
    
  