
    
      Large randomized controlled trials (RCTs) are currently on-going to evaluate non-skeletal
      effects of vitamin D supplementation in the general older population. The results of these
      studies can be expected in 2017 to 2020 and while they will report important data, they may
      still leave knowledge gaps on the effects of vitamin D on clinically relevant surrogate
      parameters in specific groups. Recent data indicate that the association of vitamin D status
      and outcome is U- or reverse J-shaped and may be modified by the presence of certain risk
      factors or genetic variations of the vitamin D receptor.

      This work is part of the European Union-project 'Food-based solutions for eradication of
      vitamin D deficiency and health promotion throughout the life cycle' (ODIN). This individual
      patient meta-analysis of existing high quality vitamin D RCTs aims to evaluate whether there
      are beneficial or harmful vitamin D effects on surrogate parameters for clinical outcomes
      (i.e. blood pressure, lipids, parathyroid hormone (PTH), fasting blood glucose and glycated
      haemoglobin (HbA1c)). With data from almost 3000 randomized subjects from 12 RCTs that are
      available within this consortium, the investigators will have sufficient power to detect
      clinically relevant effects of vitamin D supplementation on risk factors for cardiovascular
      disease.

      Subgroup analyses will investigate effect modifiers to evaluate whether certain groups of
      individuals experience pronounced or attenuated effects from vitamin D supplementation. Given
      that previous data suggest that vitamin D supplementation might be most effective in those
      individuals with very low 25(OH)D and potentially harmful in those achieving very high levels
      after vitamin D supplementation, this individual patient data meta-analyses will be performed
      in subgroups with serum 25(OH)D levels <30, 40, and 50 nmol/L and >100, 125 and 150 nmol/L.
      25(OH)D levels will be re-measured to ensure comparability.
    
  