
    
      Hemophilia is an X-linked recessive bleeding disorder caused by a deficiency of coagulation
      factor VIII (hemophilia A) or IX (hemophilia B). Severe hemophilia patients may have frequent
      spontaneous bleeding episodes such as joint and muscle bleeding. Repeated joint bleeding
      leads to chronic synovitis, cartilage damage and bony destruction, which is associated with
      range of motion (ROM) limitation, pain, muscle atrophy, functional impairment and poor
      quality of life. Around 80% of all spontaneous joint bleeds occur in the ankles, knees and
      elbows. Hemophilic arthropathy is a multifactorial event and there is evidence to suggest
      that iron may play a major role with release of cytokines such as Interleukin-1,
      Interleukin-6, and tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) eading to chronic proliferative synovitis,
      hypervascularity, and progressive arthropathy . Prophylactic replacement , physical therapy,
      COX-2 inhibitors , corticosteroids, and radionucleotide synovectomy are some of the typical
      modalities used in the managements hemophilic synovitis and arthropathy. The onset of joint
      bleedings in severe hemophilia occurs approximately 23 months of age and arthropathy could be
      marked in adolescents or young adults. Some hemophilia patients may either not be good
      candidates for surgery or may prefer not to have surgery. The traditional Africans have used
      African Shea tree and shea nuts oil extracts to treat arthritis. Shea nut oil contains are a
      mixture of fatty acid and cinnamic acid esters of such triterpene alcohols as α-amyrine,
      β-amyrine, butyrospermol, lupeol and to aminor extent, sterols, aliphatic alcohols, and
      karitene. Triterpene alcohols such as lupeol and α/β-amyrine have been shown to possess
      anti-inflammatory effects, especially in their esterified forms. In 1998, US Food and Drug
      Administration approved shea nut oil as a safe food additive. The shea nut oil used in this
      trial is a patented concentrate containing approximately 50% triterpenes derived from the
      seed of the shea tree, Vitellaria paradoxa. The most abundant triterpenes in shea nut oil
      areα-amyrin(54.6%), β-amyrin(12.3%), Lupeol(17%) plus their dihydro-derivatives. Cheras et
      al. reported that shea nut oil extract treatment over the 15 weeks of their random
      double-blind study in upper quartile of 89 osteoarthritis patients was effective in
      decreasing inflammation marker TNF-α (23.9% vs 6%, treatment vs placebo) and cartilage
      degradation marker C-terminal crosslinked telopeptide type II collagen (CTX-II) (28.7% vs an
      increase of 17.6%, treatment vs placebo). Chen and his colleagues carried out a 16-week study
      in 33 patients with osteoarthritis of knee joint and found shea nut oil was effective in
      increasing activity and thickness of vastus medialis, and decreasing pain and stiffness of
      knee joint. Late stage of hemophilic arthropathy is characterized by advanced cartilage
      degeneration and joint destruction. These effects on cartilage and subchondral bone are
      degenerative and inflammatory in nature, similar to the changes in osteoarthritis. Management
      of chronic hemophilic arthropathy is difficult. NSAIDs have been used with caution in
      patients with bleeding disorders because of their inhibition of platelet function and
      gastrointestinal side effects. In clinical practice, the choice of NSAIDs also needs to take
      into consideration the risk for cardiovascular events and should be used at the lowest
      effective dose and for the shortest duration. This study will investigate the safety and
      efficacy of Shea nut oil for the treatment of hemophilic arthropathy.
    
  