
    
      It is well known that graduated elastic compression stockings (GECs) provide a favourable
      environment by off-setting the damaging effects of dependency, reducing leg oedema,
      preventing leg ulceration and in symptom relief. On a haemodynamic level, their mechanism of
      action in augmenting the venous return has been quantified. However, on a molecular level,
      their action in modulating local endogenous biomarkers towards a favourable profile is poorly
      understood. This requires further investigation.

      Our hypothesis is that there are two types of biomarkers: (i) damaging inflammatory
      biomarkers which are increased after prolonged gravitational dependency, (i) healing
      reparative biomarkers which are increased after prolonged elevation recovery. Local venous
      blood samples draining the area of investigation may be more representative of loco-regional
      processes than systemic blood samples from the arm.

      This is a single centre, collaborative, interventional, controlled, proof-of-concept trial.

      The primary aim of this study is to investigate the effect of GEC stockings on modulating
      biomarkers towards a healing profile.

      Planned interventions:

      There will be 4 study visits per subject.

        1. Recruitment, patient selection, distribution of information leaflets and consent form,
           explanation of the demands of the study, claiming of expenses, duplex scanning and visit
           scheduling.

        2. Formal consent. Blood test. The stage of "damage" will be in the afternoon after
           standing all morning plus an hour of extra standing in the laboratory.

        3. Blood test. The stage of "healing" will be in the morning after nocturnal sleep plus an
           hour of extra elevation (20 degrees elevated from supine) in the laboratory.

        4. Blood test. The stage of "treatment" will be from the effects of a class II below knee
           stocking after standing all morning plus an hour of extra standing in the laboratory.

      All venous blood will be taken from the ankle region. The samples will be taken during a
      gravitational stress, after elevation recovery and after the therapeutic effect of the
      compression stocking. These specifications must be met with due care and diligence to ensure
      that the results are meaningful. The samples will be collected in citrated tubes, centrifuged
      at 5,000 rpm for 10 minutes to achieve platelet poor plasma and stored at -20 degrees for
      batch analysis.

      Proposed biomarkers for quantification:

      Radox (IL-2, IL-4, IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, VEGF, IFNγ, TNFα, IL-1α, IL-1β, MCP-1, EGF) and
      D-dimer.

      Matrix metalloproteinases (MMP-1, MMP-2, MMP-3, MMP-7, MMP-8, MMP-9, MMP-10, MMP-12 and
      MMP-13) and also 4 tissue inhibitors of MMPs (TIMP-1, TIMP-2, TIMP-3 and TIMP-4).
    
  