
    
      Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PC) is a deadly disease. It remains the fourth most common
      cause of death from cancer in the USA and one of the deadliest cancers in the world. Although
      treatments have improved, average PC 5-year survival is around 5%. Malignant obstructive
      jaundice is a common complication of advanced stage pancreatic adenocarcinoma. Over 50% of
      common bile duct (CBD) obstructions are due to malignancy, and the majority of neoplasms are
      unresectable at the time of diagnosis.

      Biliary drainage with placement of self-expanding metal stents (SEMS) for palliation is the
      therapy of choice in this set of patients. Metal stenting results in biliary decompression in
      greater than 80% of cases with a lower complication rate than surgery. When compared to
      plastic stents, SEMSs present a significantly reduced risk of recurrent biliary obstruction.
      SEMSs are also more cost effective than plastic stents in patients with a life expectancy of
      longer than 4 months. Despite their numerous benefits, SEMS become occluded in up to 50% of
      patients in the first 6-8 months. Covered SEMSs are not resistant to tumor overgrowth or
      sludge formation and thus stent occlusion results in increased morbidity and mortality.

      This relief is temporary since stents tend to become obstructed. More recently, RFA has been
      recognized for its potential in palliative treatment of malignant biliary strictures.

      Photodynamic therapy (PDT) has been previously evaluated as a palliative and potential
      neoadjuvant modality in patients with biliary obstruction from cholangiocarcinoma. Therefore
      if RFA confers similar benefits, then it may potentially be used as in a similar manner to
      PDT, in addition given the lower adverse event profile, it may confer a greater patient
      tolerance. EndoHPB, the intervention arm, is an endoscopic bipolar catheter designed to
      ablate tissue in malignant tumors within luminal structures, such as the biliary tree or
      pancreatic ducts. By using radiofrequency (RF) energy to heat the tissue in the duct prior to
      insertion of the stent, the surrounding tissue becomes coagulated and this may delay tumor
      growth and the time before the stent lumen becomes blocked. Thereby, allowing increased
      periods between the need for intervention and further stent deployment. If EndoHPB use of
      luminal RF is demonstrated to be effective in luminal tumor ablation, it may have an
      additional role as a form of neoadjuvant therapy in pancreatic cancer. RFA uses a high
      frequency alternating current to generate heat and achieve coagulative necrosis when in
      contact with tissue. Within the bile duct, RFA appears to be safe and may result in decreased
      benign epithelial hyperplasia and tumor ingrowth. Two recent studies have shown efficacy and
      safety of RFA in advanced pancreatic and cholangiocarcinoma. Subsequently, retrospective
      collection of data from a cohort of 26 patients treated with endobiliary RFA for malignant
      biliary obstruction in our Institution confirmed the safety of this approach and suggested a
      potential survival benefit at 90 and 180 days post treatment compared to matched controls.

      A pilot study was initiated and IRB approved at the Weill Cornell Medical College in 2011
      with primary investigator Dr. Michel Kahaleh. The study was closed in Nov 2013 as the results
      showed that RFA significantly increased the bile duct diameter. Analysis also showed that
      survival duration was slightly increased in the Pancreatic Cancer group.

        -  Hypothesis: Luminal application of RF energy using EndoHPB in the bile duct of patients
           with cholangiocarcinoma or pancreatic cancer provides ablation of tumor causing biliary
           obstruction(s). Effectiveness will assessed by looking at the change in diameter(s), on
           cholangiography and assess time till stent occlusion.

        -  Study Design: Randomized, Controlled, 2- arm, Non-Blinded, Randomised controlled trial
           Treatment group: Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) with RFA and
           biliary stenting.

      Control group: ERCP with biliary stenting only

        -  Primary outcome measure: is survival time, measured from the date of randomization until
           the date of death or the last date the patient was known to be alive.

        -  Secondary outcome measure: Number of Participants with Adverse Events. To assess safety
           of an endoscopic bipolar radiofrequency catheter (EndoHPB) in the management of
           unresectable cholangiocarcinoma and pancreatic cancer.

        -  Condition : - Unresectable Cholangiocarcinoma or Pancreatic Cancer

        -  Intervention: Endoscopic radiofrequency ablation using the ENDOHPB probe.
    
  