
    
      Tibia-fibular syndesmosis injury occurs in a significant proportion of ankle injuries and is
      assumed to disrupt the syndesmotic ligaments. The goal of operative treatment is to reduce
      the ankle mortise to restore normal joint kinematics. Syndesmosis repair can be performed
      using either open or closed reduction, combined with fixation between the distal tibia and
      fibula. Closed fixation has demonstrated high rates of non anatomic reductions greater than
      40%; therefore, open reduction will be performed in this study. Screw fixation is stable but
      concerns exist regarding potential excess rigidity.

      Recently, flexible fixation techniques combined with anatomic reduction have demonstrated
      improvements in functional outcomes and reduction quality. Both open reduction and flexible
      TightRope fixation have considerable support in the literature in cohort studies but have not
      been compared to open screw fixation in a randomized controlled trial.

      This study is a multi centre randomized controlled trial comparing clinical, economic and
      functional outcomes between open reduction, flexible Tightrope syndesmosis fixation (OT) to
      open reduction rigid screw fixation (OS) for syndesmotic injuries in high ankle fractures,
      involving the fibula 1 cm above the level of the syndesmosis (Weber C (OTA 44.C1, 44.C2,
      44C3)).

      We anticipate recruiting 72 patients (36 in each arm) from up to 20 clinical sites across
      North America. Post operative follow up will occur at 2 and 6 weeks, 3, 6, and 12 months. At
      each follow up, radiographic and functional outcomes will be assessed as well as
      documentation of costs associated with treatment and rehabilitation.

      The research questions that this study will answer include the following:

        1. Does open reduction and repair with TightRope syndesmosis fixation (OT) provide better
           reduction compared to open reduction and syndesmosis screw fixation (OS)?

        2. Which surgical technique provides better functional outcomes?

        3. Are complications and costs associated with repair comparable between surgical
           techniques?

      The null hypothesis is that there will be no difference between the treatment groups in terms
      of reduction and functional testing.

      The scientific aims of this study are to compare:

        1. anatomic (open) reduction between the two groups using CT scan and plain radiographs.

        2. post-operative pain and functional performance in each group.

        3. rates of complications and costs for each method of fixation.
    
  