
    
      1. Purpose

           The purpose of this study is to compare the proportion of patients who are adherent to
           their TB medications among those receiving weekly text messages plus standard of care
           and those who receive standard of care only.

        2. Justification:

           Previous research has shown that weekly text messages from a health care provider
           increases medication adherence for HIV patients. The investigators would like to
           determine if a similar effect in terms of adherence can be seen in patients receiving
           medication for latent tuberculosis infection

        3. Objectives

      Primary Objective:

      1) To compare successful treatment completion rates for patients treated with 9 months of INH
      or 4 months of RIF between those receiving weekly SMS text messages via mobile phone plus
      standard of care to those receiving standard care. The standard of care at the TB clinics for
      all LTBI patients includes provision of a 30 day supply of medications - isoniazid 300mg
      daily for 9 months months or rifampin 600mg daily for 4 months - at a time, monthly
      blood-work and monthly clinic visits. Successful treatment completion is defined as taking at
      least 80% of the doses of INH prescribed within 12 months or at least 80% of the doses of RIF
      prescribed within 6 months.

      Secondary Objectives:

        1. To compare the proportion of prescribed doses taken on schedule (daily adherence) prior
           to medication discontinuation or interruption on medical advice between those receiving
           weekly SMS text messages via mobile phone to those receiving standard care;

        2. To measure patient satisfaction with the SMS intervention using a provider administered
           questionnaire including a series of Likert questions.

      4) Research Method

      This study is a prospective open-label multicentre randomized controlled trial of a clinical
      intervention. It is estimated that 350 study participants will be required to have 80% power
      to detect a 15% difference in adherence at a .05 level of significance. In addition to
      recruiting English-speaking participants, the investigators will also be recruiting
      participants that have Chinese and Punjabi as their first language.

      Upon consent, participants will be randomly assigned to receive either 1) standard of care (9
      months of INH or 4 months of RIF) and weekly SMS text messages via mobile phone or 2)
      standard of care (9 months of INH or 4 months of RIF) without weekly SMS text messages via
      mobile phone.

      The clinicians, pharmacists and researchers involved in evaluating compliance will not be
      blinded to the allocation of the intervention and control groups, as they will be required to
      review patients charts periodically, respond to patients text messages when they are
      experiencing difficulty in taking medications or side effects, as well as to ensure the
      successful operation of the SMS technology platform.
    
  