
    
      This is a K01 award application for Dr. Heather Hayes, a neurologic rehabilitation therapist
      and a young investigator pursuing rehabilitation health services research to optimize
      post-acute rehabilitation care for patients after stroke. A K01 award will provide Dr. Hayes
      with the means to acquire critical skills in three key career development areas: 1) health
      services and policy research, 2) comparative effectiveness and outcomes research, and 3)
      cost-effective analyses. By acquiring these skills, Dr. Hayes will fulfill the career goal of
      becoming an independent rehabilitation scientist in health services research. To pursue this
      goal, Dr. Hayes has assembled an exceptional mentoring team complemented by a strong
      statistical advisor and proposes strong research aims that provide experiential learning in
      support of the career development objectives.

      Stroke is a leading cause of long-term disability in the United States. A large portion of
      the cost of stroke care is rehabilitation. Providing optimal rehabilitation services aids in
      mitigating long-term disability for people after stroke. There are a lack of clinical
      guidelines and poor understanding of long-term outcomes after discharge from acute care to an
      inpatient rehabilitation facility (IRF) or skilled nursing facility (SNF) for individuals
      poststroke. The current healthcare climate requires faster decision making and early
      discharge, and the results may be inappropriate discharge to an IRF or SNF, and thus not
      providing the patient with optimal outcomes. By completing the following specific aims, the
      applicant aims to inform clinicians in the acute care setting about discharge placement and
      which rehabilitation service will lead to optimal individual and cost-effective outcomes
      after stroke. Specific Aim 1 will determine client (e.g., stroke severity, co-morbidities,
      and sociodemographic) and non-client (e.g., bed availability and insurance) variables
      identified at the end of the acute hospital stay to determine which of these variables are
      associated with discharge to an IRF or SNF. Specific Aim 2 will follow the clients to
      determine which of these client and non-client variables are associated with functional
      change- based on the Activity Measure for Post-Acute Care (AM-PAC) Inpatient "6-Clicks" Basic
      Mobility, Daily Activity, and Applied Cognitive tools at short-term (after discharge from IRF
      or SNF) and long-term (6-months poststroke). Specific Aim 3 will identify cost-effective
      strategies of placement into an IRF, to a SNF, and a tailored approach to IRF vs. SNF
      placement, based on client characteristics. Markov modeling will be used to predict related
      costs and quality-adjusted life years using the Health-Related Quality of Life in Stroke
      Patients.

      Understanding the outcomes within these similar post-acute care settings (IRF/SNF) for stroke
      is important in a rapidly evolving healthcare climate. This study is significant because it
      will provide data about what initial client and non-client variables predict long-term
      outcomes after discharge to an IRF or SNF and identify cost-effective strategies based on
      these variables.
    
  