
    
      According to the recommendation of 2005 by International Committee of Medical Journal Editors
      (ICMJE), clinical trials must be registered before enrolment of the first patient in a free
      registry recognized by the World Health Organization (WHO). The goal is to improve
      transparency of clinical research. The ClinicalTrials.gov trial registry, initiated
      subsequently to the US Food and Drug Administration Modernization Act (FDAMA) in 1997, is the
      widest used registry, and contains more than 121 000 studies located in 179 countries (data
      of March 1, 2012).

      The gap between the high number of registered trials and the few ones where results were
      available (in registries or in journals) has been identified as a major problem distorting
      the scientific evidence available, and inducing publication bias. As a consequence, the FDAAA
      (Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act) added on September 27, 2007 a requirements
      policy regarding publication of summary results on the publicly accessible registry
      ClinicalTrials.gov. Reporting of summary results is required for "applicable clinical trials"
      no later than one year after the "primary completion date", i.e. the date of collection of
      primary outcome data on the last patient to be enrolled. 'Applicable clinical trials', is the
      term used in the FDAAA to designate trials that may be subject to the registration and
      reporting requirements. They include interventional controlled studies registered after the
      enactment of the FDAAA (or ongoing at this date), involving drugs, biologics, or devices
      (only after FDA-approved for any use), regardless of sponsorship; phases II through IV;
      located at least in one U.S. site.

      The entity or individual responsible for registering and posting basic results is called the
      'responsible party'. This term refers to the sponsor of the study or the principal
      investigator of the study, if so designated by a sponsor, grantee, contractor, or awardee.

      In certain circumstances, delayed submission of results information with certification can be
      allowed. Not complying with the reporting requirements can result in penalties, such as
      withholding of National Institute of Health grant or funding and civil monetary penalties of
      up to $10,000 a day. Despite the possibility of incurring penalties for not complying with
      the posting requirement, compliance remains globally poor.

      In this current study, the primary objective will be to test the hypothesis that sending an
      email asking to answer a survey, reminding the necessity of posting results to the trials'
      responsible parties registered in ClinicalTrials.gov and subject to mandatory reporting but
      not complying with it, will increase the results posting rate.

      The secondary objective will be to investigate the reasons given by the trials' responsible
      parties for not posting summary results onto the registry.
    
  