
    
      Research Design CAF Human motion analysis Unit, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences,
      Stellenbosch University. Ethical approval was obtained from the Health Research Ethics
      Committee of Stellenbosch University under reference number S16/10/197. This study was
      conducted as part of a master's thesis project (Rhode 2018).

      Sampling and Recruitment Sample recruitment was aimed to attract individuals with AKP from
      different socio-economic backgrounds, sporting codes and areas. Letters of invitation were
      sent to various universities, sports clinics, physiotherapy practices and sporting clubs.

      Study Procedure Measurement Tools Vicon 3D motion analysis system The eight-camera Vicon
      T-20-series motion analysis system (Vicon Motion Systems Ltd., Oxford, UK) with Nexus 1.7
      software was used to assess joint position sense (JPS). The Vicon has demonstrated high
      accuracy and reliability and has been shown to have less than a 1.5-degree error (Ehara et al
      1997). Retro-reflective markers with a diameter of 9.5mm were used. Dynamic calibration was
      performed according to standard laboratory protocol, and the Vicon T-wand was placed on a 3D
      Bertec force plate (Bertec Corporation Ltd.), which is synchronized with the Vicon motion
      analysis system.

      H-Frame An H-frame was constructed based on a study by Clark et al (2016). The function of
      the H-frame was that of a range of motion (ROM) guide when establishing the target angle (TA)
      for participants during the test trial. The H-frame was positioned so that the rubber band
      (crossbar) makes contact with the distal part of the patella during single leg squat (SLS)
      and that the crossbar touches the skin overlying the anterior ankle joint line during active
      knee extension (AKE). The H-frame was removed during the test procedure.

      Kujala/anterior knee pain scale (AKPS) questionnaire The AKPS is a 13-item knee functional
      questionnaire. This scale is scored out of 100, with a higher score indicating less
      disability. The AKPS demonstrated high reliability and responsiveness in a population of
      patients with AKP (Watson et al 2005).

      Visual analogue pain scale (VAS) This VAS scale is a well-known outcome measure to evaluate
      levels/intensity of pain (Crossley et al 2016). The VAS is scored from 0 (no pain) to 10
      (maximum pain). The VAS demonstrates good reliability and responsiveness among a population
      of patients with AKP (Green et al 2014).

      Lower extremity functional scale (LEFS) questionnaire The LEFS consists of 20 items that
      measure the ability to perform various functional activities and activities of daily life.
      The LEFS is scored out of a maximum score of 80. The LEFS demonstrates high reliability and
      responsiveness in the population of patients with AKP (Watson et al 2005).

      Criteria for positive and negative knee joint position sense The main outcome measurements
      for knee JPS testing was absolute error (AE). AE refers to the difference between the test or
      target angle and the reproduced angle. Absolute error represents accuracy without directional
      bias. For the purpose of this study, abnormal JPS was defined as an AE equal or greater than
      five degrees. This criterion was based on published research by Relph and Callaghan (2016)
      and Clark et al (2016) using healthy pain free participants. The mean AE from five trails for
      each test was used for statistical analysis (Selfe et al 2006).

      Testing Procedures Initial screening To verify that participants met the inclusion criteria
      they completed a screening questionnaire via email. Prior to JPS testing, participants
      completed the AKP scale questionnaire (AKPS) and the LEFS questionnaire. A data collection
      form was used to collect participant personal details and variables including age, gender,
      body length, episodes and duration of AKP, area of symptoms, type of treatment received for
      AKP and sport participation.

      Physical examination and diagnosis The diagnostic checklist was completed, and the physical
      examination was performed to confirm a diagnosis of AKP and to exclude other knee pathologies
      prior to testing. The physical examination (P/E) was conducted by the primary researcher
      (CR), who is an experienced physiotherapist. Additionally, anthropometrics (weight, BMI, leg
      length) were measured for each participant. Data were captured as part of participant
      demographics to describe this population group/participants.

      Preparation for Vicon testing Participants were dressed in short pants, were barefoot, with
      clean shaven legs with no lotion on legs to ensure effective marker placement. Thirty
      retro-reflective markers were placed on bony landmarks according to lower limb Plug-in Gait
      model (Clark et al 2016). Additional pelvic markers, a sacral wand, two extra shin markers
      and extra anterior and posterior thigh markers where added, to ensure joint position sense
      accuracy. The primary researcher (CR) performed the marker placement assisted by a research
      assistant. Reflective markers were placed in the standing position in preparation for SLS and
      re-applied with the participant in the seated position to ensure accurate positioning of
      markers placements for active knee extension. A static and dynamic calibration were performed
      in both test positions.

      Pain measurement During the test trials the participants were asked to verbally indicate the
      severity of their anterior knee pain using the VAS pain scale. Pain severity was measured at
      the start and end of proprioceptive testing.

      Proprioceptive Testing All participants were familiarized with the proprioceptive test
      procedure by means of explanation, demonstration and a practice opportunity. The participants
      were asked to resume the test position i.e. (i) standing or (ii) sitting. The target angle
      was determined by each participant according to his/her capabilities and comfort level, i.e.
      the target angle was unique to each participant.

      Single leg squat (SLS) Starting position For the SLS the participant supported one hands on a
      chair for balance. The participant was standing on the tested leg, while the other leg was
      slightly flexed at the hip and knee in a position that was comfortable for the participant.

      Instructions to participant The participant was asked to do a SLS and stop in the mid-range.
      The participant was asked to briefly hold this mid-range angle to position the H-frame
      indicating this angle as the target angle (TA).

      Test trial The participant was cued to squat down till they felt the cross bar of the
      H-frame. The participant was instructed to hold the SLS for five seconds to establish and
      familiarize themselves with the target angle (TA). The test trial was repeated five times.

      Test procedure The participant was blindfolded, and the H-frame was removed. The participant
      was instructed to perform a SLS, and to indicate when they had reached the TA by shouting
      STOP. This position indicated the relative error (RE) and was maintained for five seconds to
      record the data. Testing was repeated five times. This number of repetitions has been
      recommended for JPS testing in previous research (Selfe et al 2006). SLS was repeated on the
      knees without AKP for comparison.

      Sitting: active knee extension (AKE) Starting position The participant was seated on an 800mm
      high bar stool, with both feet supported. Each participant was positioned with the popliteal
      fossa approximately 5cm from the edge of the chair. The participant's arms were crossed over
      their chests comfortably to avoid obstruction of the pelvic markers.

      Instructions to participants The participant actively extended the knee through the range of
      90 degrees knee flexion to 0 degrees knee extension; thereafter they had to stop in the
      mid-range position. The participant was asked to briefly hold this mid-range angle to
      position the H-frame indicating this position as the TA. The participant was verbally cued to
      resume the starting position.

      Test trial The participant actively extended the knee from the starting position of 90
      degrees knee flexion to the TA. The participants were verbally cued to hold this position for
      five seconds to establish the TA. Thereafter the participant was asked to return to the
      starting position of the knee in 90 degrees flexion. The test trail was repeated five times.

      Testing The H-frame was removed at the commencement of AKE testing. The participant was asked
      to repeat AKE, indicating when the TA had been reached, by shouting STOP. This position
      indicated the relative error (RE) and the participants maintained this position for five
      seconds. Testing was repeated five times. The AKE was repeated on the knees without AKP for
      comparison.

      Statistical Analyses All descriptive data (demographic information, functional and pain
      scales) were analyzed using descriptive statistics to indicate central tendencies in data
      (means and standard deviations). A non-pragmatic test approach was adopted by illustrating
      the ranges. Data was captured through the Vicon Nexus 3D motion analyses system. Chi-square
      calculations was performed to determine a significant difference in JPS between the knees
      with AKP and the knees without AKP during single leg stance and active knee extension.
    
  