
    
      The subject will be selected as a possible participant in this study because s/he has
      suffered traumatic amputation to the hand and s/he has identified that s/he is interested in
      having a hand transplant as an alternative to continued care using conventional prostheses.
      Investigators will evaluate subjects between the ages of 18 and 60 who are missing tissue
      from an area of the hand and forearm. After obtaining consent, several pre-transplant
      screening procedures and evaluations will be completed. This data will be utilized to
      determine recipient eligibility and selection for placement onto the transplant waiting list.

      The data and information gathered during the pre-transplant screening procedures will be
      evaluated and discussed by members of the Participant Selection Committee (PSC) and consensus
      will be reached to nominate (or not) for transplantation. All screening procedures will be
      re-evaluated on a yearly basis while the subject remains on the list.

      Transplant Waiting List Procedures After all data is evaluated, the subject's information
      will be presented to the Patient Selection Committee for final reviews. Some subjects
      evaluated may NOT be deemed eligible for the protocol. While on the waitlist, serum samples
      will be provided every month to perform cross-match with a current sample in the case of a
      potential donor candidate.

      Preparation for Transplantation When a matched donor is identified, any screening procedures
      that need to be repeated will be done prior to the hand transplant surgery, which is
      consistent with the standard of care at this institution. Once subject has been cleared for
      surgery, the transplant will be scheduled and performed. The duration of the surgery will be
      approximately 18-24 hours.

      The patient will have a PICC (peripherally inserted central catheter) line started in the
      limb that will not be operated on. If the patient is to have bilateral transplants, a central
      line will be placed by the anesthesiologist.

      An infraclavicular brachial plexus nerve block using 0.25% bupivacaine and mepivacaine
      without epinephrine would be performed on the recipient's upper extremity with an indwelling
      catheter for intra and post-operative pain control and vasodilatation by chemical
      sympathectomy. Cephalosporin 2 g or equivalent will be given IV preoperatively.

      Post-transplant clinical monitoring procedures and post-operative care The transplanted
      tissue will be monitored closely per the hand surgeon's standard free flap postoperative
      protocol. Additionally, free flap treatment guidelines will be provided to hospital
      supportive staff such as physical therapy, occupational therapy, and nursing.

      Hospitalization length The subject's expected length of time in the hospital floor is
      approximately 4 weeks. After that the subject will be moved to Rehabilitation Unit until post
      operative day (POD) 90 If there are complications, the subject may remain longer.

      Occupational therapy The subject will need to have occupational therapy for about twelve to
      24 months after their surgery. During the immediate 90 day in-patient stay, the patient will
      have hand therapy a minimum of five days a week for 1-3 hours each session. At these visits,
      a series of exercises aimed to improve strength and active and passive range of motion will
      be performed with additional modalities added as tolerated. Early controlled motion will be
      introduced to reduce the chance of adhesions. Appropriate wound dressings and splints would
      be fashioned to aid with proper positioning, healing and safe exercising. The caregiver must
      also learn the prescribed exercises and proper use and care of any other equipment that the
      subject will need to use.

      Follow-up visits After the subject is discharged from the hospital, s/he will have at least
      six follow-up visits within the first year with the multi-disciplinary team. The subject will
      have at least two visits yearly thereafter. The reconstructive surgeon, the transplant
      surgeon, and other physicians the subject's doctor suggests will see the participants and
      provide follow up care at their offices.

      Monitoring tests/procedures The subject will undergo monitoring tests and a number of
      follow-up visits.
    
  