
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the maximum safe dose of single-agent treatment with ipilimumab, nivolumab and
      the combination when given with temozolomide during maintenance treatment for newly diagnosed
      glioblastoma.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Collect and record the side effect profiles for single-agent treatment with ipilimumab,
      nivolumab, and the combination when given with temozolomide during the maintenance phase for
      newly diagnosed glioblastoma.

      II. Perform pilot studies of immune cells within tumor samples, e.g. phenotyping tumor
      infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) by interrogating tumor tissues from diagnostic tumor blocks.

      III. Report the number of patients alive at 1 and 2 years after the start of single-agent
      treatment with ipilimumab, nivolumab, and the combination when given with temozolomide during
      the maintenance phase for newly diagnosed glioblastoma.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Within 5 weeks after completion of chemoradiation, patients receive temozolomide
      orally (PO) on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6 courses in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive ipilimumab
      intravenously (IV) over 90 minutes once every 4 weeks for 4 courses and then beginning 3
      months after course 4 once every 3 months for 4 courses in the absence unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Within 5 weeks after completion of chemoradiation, patients receive temozolomide PO
      on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive nivolumab IV over 60 minutes once
      every 2 weeks for 16 weeks and then once every 2 weeks for 48 weeks in the absence
      unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM III: Within 5 weeks after completion of chemoradiation, patients receive temozolomide PO
      on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive ipilimumab IV over 90 minutes
      once every 4 weeks for 4 courses and nivolumab IV over 60 minutes once every 2 weeks for 64
      weeks in the absence unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 1 month, and then every 3
      months for 1 year, every 4 months for 1 year, and then every 6 months thereafter.
    
  