
    
      Pulse oximeters are non-invasive devices that use light to display an estimate (denoted by
      SpO2) of the true arterial blood oxygen saturation (SaO2). The accuracy of the pulse oximeter
      is determined from desaturation sequences (reduction in SpO2 from 100 to 70%) performed in
      healthy volunteers. The current standard desaturation sequence is a step-wise reduction in 5%
      SpO2 increments, achieved by reduction in inspired oxygen delivered by a gas blender such as
      the ROBD (Reduced Oxygen Breathing Device). This mixes oxygen and nitrogen (components of
      air) to produce the desired gas mixture. Throughout the desaturation sequence arterial blood
      gas samples are drawn at each step. The blood gas samples are processed through a co-oximeter
      to measure the SaO2. For each SaO2 measurement there will be a corresponding SpO2 recorded.
      All data points from all subjects are amalgamated together to allow calculation of how well
      SpO2 corresponds to the SaO2 throughout the range of 70 - 100% oxygen saturation. Accuracy,
      A[RMS], is the unit of measure and this incorporates both bias and precision.

      When the ROBD is used in a desaturation sequence, the subjects' arterial blood carbon dioxide
      (CO2) level will initially be normal (normocapnia). With the reduction in SpO2 during the
      desaturation sequence, the subjects' breathing rate will increase and this will cause the a
      physiological reduction in the blood CO2 value (hypocapnia). The extent of hypocapnia will
      vary from one subject to another. It is not known whether the presence of hypocapnia may have
      an effect upon the accuracy measurement.

      The RespirAct is a gas blender which, in contrast to the ROBD, can control both the oxygen
      level as well as the carbon dioxide level. The end-tidal oxygen level (PAO2) is continuously
      displayed by the RespirAct during the desaturation sequence. The PAO2 closely approximates to
      arterial blood oxygen (PaO2) - the degree of closeness will be measured in the study. Through
      an accepted formula, the SaO2 can be derived from the measured PAO2. The derived SaO2 values
      can subsequently be used to measure the accuracy of the pulse oximeter. This A[RMS] can then
      be compared with the A[RMS] calculated from the blood gas co-oximeter PaO2 / SaO2 values. If
      the accuracies are comparable then this would remove the need for arterial line placement
      during pulse oximeter validation studies.

      Eligible healthy volunteers will complete five (5) oxygen desaturation sequences with
      adjustment of sequence type and/or CO2 level. Two sequences will be delivered by step-wise
      reduction and two will be delivered by gradual slope. Two sequences will be delivered at
      normocapnia and two will be delivered at hypocapnia values. The ROBD sequence will be a
      step-wise reduction with CO2 value set by the subjects' own breathing control.
    
  