
    
      Diabetes has reached epidemic proportions in China. Most patients with diabetes have multiple
      uncontrolled cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk factors due to suboptimal care, especially in
      underserved populations. The overall objective of the proposed cluster randomized trial is to
      test whether implementation of protocol-based integrated care (team-based care with clinical
      decision support systems) will improve CVD risk factors (glycated hemoglobin [HbA1C],
      systolic blood pressure [SBP], and LDL-cholesterol) over 18 months and reduce major CVD
      events (non-fatal stroke, non-fatal myocardial infarction, hospitalized heart failure, and
      CVD mortality) over 3 years among patients with type 2 diabetes and additional CVD risk
      factors or clinical CVD compared to usual team-based care in community clinics in Xiamen,
      China. The protocol-based integrated care, which will provide a standardized, combined,
      multi-component intervention according to clinical guideline treatment algorithms for
      diabetes and comorbidities in community clinics, will be delivered by trained primary care
      physicians, health managers, and nurses supported by diabetes specialists. The proposed trial
      will recruit approximately 12,160 patients with diabetes and additional CVD risk factors or
      clinical CVD from 38 community-based primary care clinics (community health service centers)
      in Xiamen, China. Nineteen community clinics with approximately 320 participants each will be
      randomly assigned to the intervention group and 19 community clinics with similar
      participants to the control group matched by administrative district and socioeconomic
      status. The protocol-based integrated care intervention will last for 36 months. HbA1C, BP,
      LDL-cholesterol, other variables, and co-morbidities will be measured at baseline and
      follow-up visits at months 6, 12, 18, 24, 30 and 36. In phase 1 (during the first 18-month
      intervention), the primary outcome is reduction in HbA1c, BP, and LDL-cholesterol measured by
      differences in mean changes in HbA1c, LDL cholesterol, and systolic BP levels over 18 months
      simultaneously modeled for a single overall treatment effect and proportion of patients with
      controlled HbA1c, BP, and LDL-C at 18 months. In phase 2 (during the three-year
      intervention), the primary outcome is the difference in major CVD incidence (non-fatal
      stroke, non-fatal myocardial infarction, hospitalized heart failure, and CVD mortality)
      between intervention and control groups. The secondary outcomes include: (1) the net changes
      in HbA1C, SBP, and LDL-cholesterol; (2) estimated 10-year risk of CVD; (3) the proportion of
      participants with controlled HbA1C, systolic BP, and LDL-cholesterol; (4) health-related
      quality of life; and (5) cost-effectiveness of intervention over three years. The proposed
      trial is designed to provide 90% statistical power to detect a 5% increase in the combined
      control rate of HbA1C, SBP, and LDL-cholesterol levels in phase 1 and a 20% reduction in
      major CVD (non-fatal stroke, non-fatal myocardial infarction, hospitalized heart failure, and
      CVD mortality) in phase 2 at a significance level of 0.05 for a two-sided test. This will be
      the first randomized cluster trial to test the implementation of a protocol-based integrated
      care program on multiple CVD risk factors and CVD events in diabetes patients who receive
      care from community clinics in China. This implementation research project has a high impact
      in public health because it will generate urgently needed data on an effective, practical,
      and sustainable intervention program aimed at reducing the CVD burden among diabetes patients
      in middle- and low-income countries.
    
  