
    
      Background: Tethered cord syndrome (TCS) is a progressive clinical condition including a
      series of neurological dysfunctions and deformities attributable to abnormally increased
      tension on the spinal cord. The standard surgical treatment is untethering the spinal cord
      and correction of the related deformity. Although reported results are encouraging, it
      continues to pose challenges on management of TCS patients. Symptomatic re-tethering seems to
      be an inevitable result, which occurs in 20%-50% patients after untethering. Recently, filum
      dissection was found no good to improve urinary symptoms compared to conservative treatment
      in teenagers as reported in an RCT study. Also, it remained controversy when to perform the
      surgery and how to evaluate the benefits of surgery or conservative treatment. Dr. Shi
      recently proposed a new technique as nerve root axial decompression surgery, which is also
      called capsule surgery, to treat patients with TCS. Yet, the effectiveness and safety should
      be further studied.

      Purpose: The aim of this study is to compare the effectiveness and safety of clinical
      outcomes between capsule surgery and conservative treatment in patients with TCS. A study
      hypothesis is that outcomes will be improved after capsule surgery.

      Methods: This study is a randomized clinical trial with a two-factor (2x7) research design.
      The TCS patients will be randomly assigned in one of the two treatment groups: capsule
      surgery and conservative treatment. Seven outcome measures will be collected pre-operative
      for baseline, and then at1, 12, 24, 48, and 96 weeks post-operative follow-up visits,
      including: (1) International Consultation on Incontinence Modular Questionnaire Short Version
      (ICI-Q-SF) to assess the urinary functions, (2) Rintala Score for bowel function, (3) a new
      developed Chinese version of questionnaire to assess the quality of life in patients and
      parents due to bladder dysfunction. (4) Oswestry disability index (ODI) to assess the
      function of back and lower limbs, (5)SF-12 for whole quality of life, (6) Pirani score to
      assess clubfoot deformity, and (7) foot function index to assess the impacts on quality of
      life due to clubfoot. Urodynamics, bladder ultrasonography, muscle strength and sensation of
      lower limbs will be obtained before and post treatment, to determine the patient's function
      of lower limbs. The investigator performing the outcome measures will be blinded to group
      assignment, and therefore will not participate in treatment. After randomization, the
      conservative group will be followed up in the outpatient clinic. The capsule surgery group
      will receive the nerve root axial decompression surgery.

      Data Analysis: Two 2x7 MANOVAs with repeated measures will be used to examine the differences
      in the four measures between groups and at the five different time frames with the α level
      set at 0.05. Non-parametric tests (Mann-Whitney U tests) will be used to compare the
      differences in the urodynamics and muscle strength data over time and between groups.
    
  