
    
      The major problem in managing life threatening invasive fungal infections in patients (pts)
      with acute leukemia and pts after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation is the
      lack of sensitive and specific diagnostic tools to identify fungal pathogens reliably and
      early in the course of the disease. Because of deep neutropenia and low platelet count,
      invasive diagnostic procedures are rarely feasible in time, therefore bronchoscopy with BAL
      is the method of choice in diagnosing pulmonary infections, as the sensitivity of
      culture-based methods from blood is low, especially in mould infections. Indirect methods,
      so-called surrogate markers, are becoming increasingly important in this clinical setting.
      These serologic markers, mainly galactomannan (GM) and recently 1(1,3)-β-D-glucan (BDG), have
      been validated in clinical trials for blood samples, however the clinical significance of
      testing BAL samples is up to now only based on retrospective data for GM and has not been
      reported yet for BDG.

      The aim of our prospective and multicentre diagnostic study is therefore to elucidate on the
      sensitivity and specificity rates of these serologic markers in combination with molecular
      tools (both an Aspergillus specific and a multifungal PCR based assay), as serologic markers
      are not pathogen-specific, and furthermore to define species-specific cut-off values for BDG
      in BAL samples.

      Additionally, if genomic material of Aspergillus fumigatus is detected by PCR in a clinical
      sample, we investigate fungal DNA for point mutations in the cyp51A gene mediating resistance
      against common mould-active triazoles with novel rapid, sensitive and specific,
      non-culture-based PCR-assays and sequencing to optimize antifungal treatment as early as
      possible.

      This study aims to improve the early, sensitive and specific diagnosis of invasive pulmonary
      fungal infections and detect azole resistance patterns, it might impact on the prognosis in
      hematologic patients; therefore antifungal treatment data and clinical outcome will be
      recorded.

      Clinical samples (BAL and blood) from approximately 100 pts suffering from acute leukemia and
      pts after allogeneic stem cell transplantation with febrile neutropenia and lung infiltrates
      diagnosed in a chest CT scan suggestive for fungal infection will be investigated after pts's
      informed consent in a multicentre, prospective trial. Pts will undergo standardized
      diagnostic imaging and microbiological procedures for identification of the underlying
      infectious pathogen. BAL and blood samples will be tested additionally for GM, BDG and with a
      diagnostic nested Aspergillus PCR assay, a multifungal DNA-Microarray and an azole resistance
      PCR assay. The molecular assays were established by our group and encompass the detection of
      Aspergillus fumigatus, Aspergillus flavus, Aspergillus terreus, Candida albicans, Candida
      dubliniensis, Candida glabrata, Candida lusitaniae, Candida tropicalis, Fusarium oxysporum,
      Fusarium solani, Mucor racemosus, Rhizopus microsporus, Scedosporium prolificans,
      Trichosporon asahii and identify the three most common point mutations that confer resistance
      to triazoles like voriconazole or posaconazole.

      Results of other diagnostic means including culture findings as well as patients' clinical
      data (e.g. duration of neutropenia, underlying disease and outcome including follow-up data
      concerning antifungal treatment and mortality attributable to fungal infections) will be
      documented, pseudonomyzed and included in our data bank.

      BAL and blood aliquots of 20 control pts without immunosuppression (suffering from lung
      diseases) will be collected and tested identically.

      Case definitions will be made according to 2008 EORTC/MSG criteria. The duration of the study
      will be approximately 24 months
    
  