
    
      Given the huge burden associated with mental illness, a major challenge ahead is to hasten
      progress toward developing and testing highly efficient and effective interventions for
      psychological health problems. Progress toward establishing evidence-based psychosocial
      treatments for most types of mental illness has been excellent, particularly the cognitive
      and behavioral treatments (CBT). However, much work remains. The effect sizes are moderate,
      gains may not persist, and there are patients who derive little or no benefit. Even under
      optimal conditions, treatment failure is too common. Hence, the challenge is to improve
      outcomes. Seminal progress toward meeting this challenge must include innovations that are
      safe, powerful, inexpensive and simple (for fast and effective dissemination).

      The proposed research seeks to extend the investigators' program of research on one such
      innovation. With an R34 and an R01 from NIMH, the investigators have been seeking to improve
      outcome by improving memory for the content of therapy sessions. To achieve this goal, the
      investigators have developed and adapted existing findings from the education and cognitive
      science literatures. The resulting Memory Support Intervention (MSI) involves a series of
      specific procedures that support the encoding and retrieval stages of an episodic memory.

      This line of research arises from several lines of evidence: (a) memory for the content of
      therapy sessions is poor and (b) memory impairment is modifiable. Although the outcomes will
      be relevant to psychosocial treatments for a broad range of problems, the focus of this
      proposal is one treatment for sleep and circadian dysfunction because (a) sleep problems are
      one of the most prevalent psychological health problems, (b) there is substantial and
      promising evidence for the efficacy of the transdiagnostic sleep and circadian (TranS-C), yet
      there is also room for improvement in outcome and (c) sleep problems are associated with
      memory impairment.

      This pilot study will be conducted in order to collect data on individuals who are 55 years
      and older because memory functioning can decline over this phase of the lifespan. Sleep and
      circadian problems are also common.

      The aim is: To conduct an open trial that includes n = 40 individuals 55 years and older to
      assess if the Memory Support Intervention (a) improves sleep and circadian functioning, (b)
      reduces functional impairment and (c) improves patient memory for treatment.
    
  