
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Phase II

             -  Determine the feasibility and toxicity of immunotherapy comprising cyclosporine,
                interferon gamma, and interleukin-2 after high-dose myeloablative chemotherapy with
                autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT) in patients with refractory or relapsed
                Hodgkin's lymphoma.

                  -  Phase II part of the study was completed and should have proceeded to Phase
                     III; however long delay occurred due to some proposed protocol changes to
                     Phase III , so long that the study got permanently closed ***********

        -  Phase III

             -  Compare the event-free and overall survival of patients treated with vs without
                this immunotherapy regimen.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the event-free and overall survival rates, toxic effects, and response rates
           to reinduction chemotherapy followed by hyperfractionated involved-field radiotherapy,
           high-dose chemotherapy comprising carmustine, etoposide, cytarabine, and melphalan, and
           ASCT in these patients.

        -  Correlate tumor biologic characteristics with response in patients treated with these
           regimens.

        -  Determine the effectiveness of this immunotherapy regimen in producing autologous
           graft-vs-host disease (GVHD) and auto-reactive cytotoxic T-lymphocyte activity in these
           patients.

        -  Correlate greater levels of autologous GVHD and in vitro cytolytic activity with
           improved event-free and overall survival in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Determine whether treatment with immunotherapy can overcome the negative prognostic
           significance of p53 mutation and high serum levels of interleukin-10 and interleukin-2
           receptor in these patients.

        -  Determine the genotoxicity of retrieval therapy and the incidence of hypermutability by
           longitudinal genotoxic biomonitoring in these patients.

        -  Correlate HLA class II invariant peptide (CLIP) expression in tumor cells with improved
           event-free and overall survival in patients treated with immunotherapy regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a nonrandomized, multicenter phase II study followed by a randomized,
      multicenter phase III study. Patients are stratified according to study phase (II vs III).

      Patients receive 2 courses of salvage induction therapy on COG-AHOD00P1 or equivalent. Within
      2-5 weeks after completion of salvage induction therapy, patients receive protocol therapy.

        -  Phase II: All patients receive the following treatment:

             -  Hyperfractionated involved-field radiotherapy: Patients who have completed prior
                salvage induction therapy and have not received full tissue tolerance from prior
                radiotherapy may receive hyperfractionated involved-field radiotherapy twice daily
                for 7 days.

             -  High-dose preparative regimen: Beginning within 7 days after radiotherapy, patients
                receive carmustine IV over 3 hours on day -6; etoposide IV over 1 hour and
                cytarabine IV over 1 hour on days -5 to -2; and melphalan IV over 30 minutes on day
                -1.

             -  Autologous stem cell transplantation: Patients undergo autologous bone marrow or
                peripheral blood stem cell transplantation on day 0. Patients then receive
                filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SC) or IV beginning on day 1 and continuing
                until blood counts recover.

             -  Immunotherapy: Patients receive cyclosporine IV twice daily beginning on day 0 and
                continuing until the completion of the course of interferon gamma and
                interleukin-2. When sufficiently recovered, patients also receive interferon gamma
                SC every other day for 10 doses. Beginning 2 days after the start of interferon
                gamma, patients also receive interleukin-2 SC once daily for 18 days.

        -  Phase III: Patients who respond to prior salvage induction therapy are randomized to 1
           of 2 treatment arms. Patients who have progressive disease after 2 courses of prior
           salvage induction therapy are assigned to arm I.

             -  Arm I: Patients receive treatment as in phase II.

             -  Arm II: Patients receive treatment as in phase II without immunotherapy. In both
                phases, treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
                toxicity.

      Patients are followed at 1 year.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 156 patients (25 for phase II and 131 for phase III) will be
      accrued for this study within 5.4 years.
    
  