
    
      Aims:

        1. To assess the feasibility of switching a large group of patients on treatment with
           latanoprost to travoprost.

        2. To assess the efficacy and safety of travoprost compared to latanoprost after the
           switch.

      Intraocular pressure (IOP) is currently the only proven modifiable risk factor in the
      management of glaucoma.1 Either medical or surgical management can achieve the control of
      IOP. Prostaglandin analogs are the newer class of drugs among the various topical ocular
      hypotensive medications, with a proven safety and efficacy for controlling IOP.2 Their
      potency and once a day dosing and lower incidence of systemic side effects have made them
      popular for use as monotherapeutic and first-line agents. They include latanoprost,
      bimatoprost, travoprost and unoprostone. All of them have a similar molecular structure and
      they work by increasing the aqueous drainage via trabecular meshwork and the uveoscleral
      pathway.3 It has been shown that the efficacy of latanoprost, bimatoprost and travoprost in
      reducing IOP in ocular hypertension and primary open angle glaucoma is comparable.4
      Conjunctival hyperemia is one of the most common ocular side effects. There has been a
      reported higher incidence of hyperemia with bimatoprost and travoprost as compared to
      latanoprost.4 However, this hyperemia is usually benign and usually abates as the drug is
      used long term. The incidence of discontinuation of therapy due to hyperemia is very low and
      not different among the various prostaglandins.5 Among the prostaglandin analogues,
      latanoprost has been the market leader in Singapore for the past few years. However, the
      Singapore National Eye Center (SNEC) pharmacy recently accepted tenders from various drug
      companies for prostaglandin analogs. Alcon, the manufacturer of travoprost was awarded the
      tender. Since then, all subsidized patients previously treated with latanoprost were
      systematically switched to travoprost and this process will continue for the rest of this
      year. The switch is a systematic switch and is not based on intolerance or poor response to
      latanoprost.

      To date, there has been a single report regarding the feasibility and efficacy of a mass
      switch from latanoprost to bimatoprost.5 The study reported a high switch rate and good IOP
      control with minimal switch back. However, similar data on switching from latanoprost to
      travoprost is lacking. In this study, we propose to prospectively study the efficacy and
      safety of switching from latanoprost to travoprost in a large series of glaucoma patients at
      SNEC. A total of 372 consecutive patients being switched from latanoprost to travoprost will
      be followed up for 12 weeks following the switch. In addition to IOP, safety and tolerability
      (with particular emphasis on hyperemia) of travoprost will be examined.

      References:

        1. Leske MC, Heijl A, Hussein M et al. Factors for glaucoma progression and the effect of
           treatment: the early manifest glaucoma trial. Arch Ophthalmol. 2003 Jan;121(1):48-56.

        2. Alexander CL, Miller SJ, Abel SR. Prostaglandin analog treatment of glaucoma and ocular
           hypertension. Ann Pharmacother. 2002 Mar;36(3):504-11.3.

        3. Eisenberg DL, Toris CB, Camras CB. Bimatoprost and travoprost: a review of recent
           studies of two new glaucoma drugs. Surv Ophthalmol. 2002 Aug;47 Suppl 1:S105-15.

        4. Parrish RK, Palmberg P, Sheu WP; XLT Study Group. A comparison of latanoprost,
           bimatoprost, and travoprost in patients with elevated intraocular pressure: a 12-week,
           randomized, masked-evaluator multicenter study. Am J Ophthalmol. 2003
           May;135(5):688-703.

        5. Law SK, Song BJ, Fang E, Caprioli J. Feasibility and efficacy of a mass switch from
           latanoprost to bimatoprost in glaucoma patients in a prepaid Health Maintenance
           Organization. Ophthalmology. 2005 Dec;112(12):2123-30.
    
  