
    
      Background

      Chronic, unexplained pain is a heterogeneously defined, but common and recurring clinical
      problem, in general medical practice as well as in specialist care. Chronic, unexplained pain
      causes considerable loss of quality of life, frequent absence from work and it is a common
      reason for health care visits. From a pathophysiological point of view, an augmented and
      self-amplifying sensitivity for physical signals such as pain (as well as for other signals)
      seems to be important. This is referred to as 'generalised hypervigilance', a specific type
      of sensitisation. Central sensitisation mechanisms have been implied in several pain
      syndromes. In our own psychophysical pilot study, we confirmed the existence of amplified
      pain perception in chronic, unexplained pain, as well as the disturbed influence of
      attentional processes. Our study results probably reflect a general disturbance of
      perception, not associated with a specific body location. This general perceptual disturbance
      is expressed in a stronger fashion in the clinically affected body region. Abnormal pattern
      of cerebral pain processing have been found in functional MRI studies in other syndromes of
      unknown origin, such as fibromyalgia, somatoform pain disorder and irritable bowel syndrome.
      However, the role of several neurobiological factors in chronic, unexplained pain remain to
      be elucidated and to be placed in the context of the biopsychosocial model.

      Work plan:

      A 3T rapid event-related, Functional MRI-experiment into the cerebral processing of
      experimental pain stimuli in chronic, unexplained pain-patients versus healthy controls.
      Twelve chronic, unexplained pain-patients with unilateral limb pain and twelve healthy
      control subjects experience painful and non-painful electrical stimuli on the painful limb,
      whilst the attentional state of the subject is controlled. With functional MRI, we record the
      pain-related cerebral activations and compare them between groups, in order to characterise
      the cerebral correlates of altered pain processing in chronic, unexplained pain.
    
  