
    
      This preliminary/pilot study involves a prospective, randomized, open-label, parallel group
      comparison of Denver Health's current standard of care for prevention of venous
      thromboembolism (VTE), commonly known as blood clots, using LMWH (Fragmin) 5000IU
      subcutaneously daily, with a thrombelastography (TEG)-guided, algorithm-based, individualized
      regimen of LMWH (Fragmin) plus/minus anti-platelet therapy (aspirin) guided by platelet
      mapping, in patients admitted to the SICU following trauma.

      Approximately 50 trauma patients for whom prevention of VTE with LMWH is indicated, will be
      enrolled over a six month period.

      The specific aims of this study are as follows:

        1. To determine the incidence of, and to characterize, hypercoagulability using TEG and
           conventional clinical coagulation testing (APTT, INR), Antithrombin III levels and
           Protein C activity.

        2. In the group of patients receiving LMWH (Fragmin) therapy alone for prevention of VTE:

             1. to assess the anticoagulant effect of standard LMWH (Fragmin) dosing (5000IU
                subcutaneously once daily) using TEG and Anti-Factor Xa level measurement, and

             2. to determine the extent of correlation of relevant TEG parameters with measured
                Anti-Factor Xa levels (U/ml).

        3. To assess whether TEG is a useful clinical tool for monitoring and optimizing
           prophylactic LMWH (Fragmin) therapy and for identifying the need for anti-platelet
           therapy to minimize the risk of VTE in these patients.

        4. To evaluate the clinical utility of platelet mapping for guiding anti-platelet therapy
           in those patients for whom it is indicated by TEG results.

        5. To determine the incidence of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE) in
           each randomized group and in the subgroup receiving anti-platelet therapy in addition to
           LMWH (Fragmin) for prevention of VTE.

      The overall aim is to utilize the above data to evaluate a) the adequacy of our standard
      Fragmin dosing regimen (5000IU subcutaneously once daily) alone for prevention of VTE in our
      trauma/SICU patients, b) the need for anti-platelet agents in addition to LMWH (Fragmin) for
      prevention of VTE in our population, and c) to validate/further develop the TEG-guided
      algorithm for optimal prophylaxis of VTE using LMWH (Fragmin) plus/minus anti-platelet
      therapy guided by platelet mapping.
    
  