
    
      The purpose of this pilot study is to evaluate the immunologic and the clinical response to
      granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF, Filgrastim, Neupogen) administered to patients
      with Crohn's Disease. Crohn's disease, an incurable, chronic, relapsing inflammation of the
      small and large intestine, affects approximately 500,000 people in the United States. The
      disease is characterized by full-thickness involvement of the gut wall leading to episodes of
      abdominal pain, diarrhea, hematochezia, weight loss and complications such as bowel
      obstruction, fistula formation and extraintestinal manifestations. The rationale for this
      study is based on several observations. First, it has been shown that effector T cells and
      dendritic cells harvested following G-CSF administration display a Th2 phenotype. Second,
      Crohn's disease in animal models has been characterized as a Th1 inflammatory disease that is
      susceptible to Th2 counter-regulation. Lastly, G-CSF has been an effective treatment in
      Crohn's disease as well as other colitides with resemblance to Crohn's disease according to
      published case reports. Despite the standard therapeutic use of steroids, aminosalicylates,
      antibiotics, antimetabolite immunosuppressants (6-MP, methotrexate), and early agents of the
      emerging biologics class of drugs (anti-TNFalpha antibodies, e.g.), the treatment of Crohn's
      disease is still troubled by loss of effectiveness of standard therapy over time, outright
      nonresponsiveness, and serious medication side effects. For these reasons newer agents and
      strategies for the treatment of Crohn's disease need to be developed and tested.

      This pilot study proposes to measure the immunologic and clinical effect of two dose levels
      of G-CSF administered subcutaneously to patients with active Crohn's disease. The primary
      outcomes include documenting changes in immune parameters by measuring peripheral and lamina
      propria CD4 T cell cytokine release, dendritic cell phenotype and cytokine release, and
      changes in clinical parameters such as the Crohn's Disease Activity Index and endoscopic and
      histologic scores. Secondary endpoints include the rate and severity of adverse events. Our
      short-term goal is to document production of effector cells that have a Th2-cytokine profile
      and associate clinical improvement with these changes. The long-term goal of this study is to
      establish G-CSF as an effective alternative or adjunctive therapy with a low risk profile for
      the treatment of Crohn's disease.
    
  