
    
      The objective of this study is to compare an innovative mobile health (mHealth) platform to
      support participants being treated for opioid use disorder (OUD) with buprenorphine to
      treatment-as-usual (TAU). The application will provide video-based directly observed therapy
      (VDOT) which may result in better health outcomes for participants and less public health
      risk for diversion. This study is a randomized controlled trial with two arms: TAU and
      mHealth intervention. Randomization to the two study arms will be completed using computer
      randomization procedures. Participants in the intervention group will learn how to use the
      mHealth application on their personal smartphones or tablets. If a participant does not have
      access to a personal device or prefers to not use a personal device then a study-provided
      smartphone will be offered for the duration of the study. Intervention participants are asked
      to record one daily video of themselves taking buprenorphine. Buprenorphine clinical staff
      (i.e., physicians, nurses and medical assistants) of patients enrolled in the intervention
      group will be trained and have the opportunity to review the videos. Adherence for the
      intervention group will be measured through participation in VDOT, namely the percentage of
      daily medication doses that are observed through submitted videos. The TAU group will not be
      given access to the intervention and therefore will not have the opportunity to be exposed to
      the intervention.

      All participants will follow the same visit schedule. Interviews will occur at baseline (Week
      0) and the final visit (Week 12) to assess current and prior substance use, treatment
      history, medication adherence, drug diversion, general physical and mental health and
      treatment satisfaction. A point of care urine drug test will also be administered which will
      assess for opiates and other substances. In between the baseline and final visits,
      participants will meet with research staff weekly to conduct a urine drug test and assess
      self-reported adherence to buprenorphine. Research staff will review the electronic medical
      record at baseline and week 12 to assess engagement in treatment. Additionally, at 24 weeks
      post-enrollment the research staff will complete a review of the electronic medical record
      and record engagement in clinic treatment, changes in buprenorphine treatment during the
      study period and the results of any clinical urine drug testing.
    
  