
    
      Goals and research questions

      The first goal of MUSICPLAST is to explore in-depth the development of audiovisual perception
      in the healthy human brain describing in detail the corresponding cortical networks involved.
      High density EEG measurements (128 channels) are going to be employed for the realization of
      this goal following a stimulation protocol which incorporates auditory, visual and
      audiovisual correspondences in a unified multisensory oddball paradigm. Behavioral and
      neuropsychological evaluation of the multisensory perceptual abilities of the subjects will
      be performed in order to achieve a holistic understanding of the phenomenon. The within
      subjects comparison of the different conditions will reveal the corresponding network, while
      the between subjects, its developmental trajectory. The hypothesis of this experiment, is
      that the network underlying audiovisual perception will be comprised from cortical areas
      connecting widespread regions including dorsolateral regions of the frontal cortex. Regarding
      its development, and based on the fact that behaviorally multisensory integration continues
      to improve in healthy aging, it is hypothesized that the network will be reorganized showing
      enhanced density and efficiency as the age progresses.

      The second goal of MUSICPLAST is to explore in-depth the plasticity of the cortical network
      underlying audiovisual perception in the healthy human brain, as induced via a computer
      provided short-term musical reading training. Pre- and post- training high-density EEG,
      behavioral and neuropsychological measurements are going to be employed for the realization
      of this goal following the same stimulation paradigm as for the previously mentioned goal.
      The hypothesis of this experiment, is that the network underlying audiovisual perception will
      be reorganized showing enhanced global density and efficiency, greater connectivity between
      temporal and frontopolar regions and a gradual decline of the amount of plasticity as a
      result of the age increase.

      The third goal of MUSICPLAST is to evaluate the effectiveness of the proposed computerized
      music reading training protocol as a tool that will promote beneficial neuroplastic changes
      in pathological populations and specifically, dyslectic adolescents and elderlies. Pre- and
      post- training high-density EEG, behavioral and neuropsychological measurements are going to
      be employed for the realization of this goal following the same stimulation paradigm as for
      the previously mentioned goals. The hypothesis of this experiment, is that the network
      underlying audiovisual perception will be beneficially reorganized due to the training
      showing enhanced global density and efficiency, greater connectivity between temporal and
      frontopolar regions and that these changes will be accompanied from improvement in the
      corresponding behavioral and neuropsychological evaluation.

      Research design and methodology Participants

      A sample size analysis was conducted via G-Power based on the data from a previous relevant
      study of the PI and indicated that the desired sample size in order to reach a power of 0.8
      and a two sided significance level of a = 0.05 is 13 subjects in each group. In order to
      account for possible dropouts, MUSICPLAST will include 20 subjects in each group [adolescents
      (n = 20), young adults (n = 20), elderlies (n = 20) and controls (n=20)]. The study will be
      conducted according to the declaration of Helsinki with regard to the participation of human
      subjects in research.

      EEG and behavioral measurements

      Prior to the beginning of the training and after its completion, the participants will be
      subjected into 2 electroencephalographic measurements. The recordings will be performed in an
      electromagnetically shielded room located in the Medical Physics Laboratory of AUTH using a
      Nihon Kohden EEG-1200 system with 128 active electrodes. The first measurement will be of
      resting state activity, allowing a network analysis of resting state cortical connectivity
      while the second will record Event Potentials via a multisensory oddball paradigm which is
      appropriately adjusted for audiovisual perception, as it incorporates audiovisual, auditory
      and visual mismatches within one run. This paradigm has been proposed and successfully
      applied in a series of studies by the PI and it allows both a spatiotemporal analysis of the
      cortical activity as well as a functional connectivity analysis.

      Concurrently to the EEG measurements the subjects will respond behaviorally via button
      presses to an audiovisual congruency task on which they have to evaluate whether the images
      presented correspond to the tones they hear based on the rule "the higher the pitch of the
      tone - the higher the position of the circle". This measurement will allow the behavioral
      evaluation of the discrimination accuracy of congruent and incongruent audiovisual stimuli.

      Prior to the beginning of the training and after its completion, the participants will be
      subjected into a neuropsychological evaluation, which will consist of a battery including the
      following tests:

      All subjects:

      Stroop Test Trail A and B Digit Span Test Performance Subtest of Wechsler Intelligence Scale
      Children III or Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale according to the age.

      Elderlies only:

      Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE) Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) Geriatric
      Depression Scale

      Dyslectics only:

      Word and nonword reading Word and nonword spelling Phonological ability

      Intervention - MUSICPLAST training protocol

      Each subject will receive 20 sessions of the computerized training based on a simplified
      music reading within a period of 4 weeks. The training will be provided via a smartphone or a
      tablet. The application will record a log file for each training session, which will last for
      20 minutes and the log file will be directly available to the researcher, allowing him/her to
      follow the timely participation and commitment of the subject. The stimuli used in the
      training protocol will be constructed along the same principles of the audiovisual stimulus
      patterns used in the EEG recordings: a visual image will show a circle on top of a background
      of 5 horizontal lines. The duration of the patterns will be of a mean duration of 10 seconds.

      The position of the circle within the five lines will either follow the rule "the higher the
      pitch of the tone, the higher the position of the circle" or it will violate the above rule.
      This rule was in principle followed also in previous studies conducted by the PI with
      positive results regarding the induced neuroplasticity. The visual images will only represent
      the frequency of the pitch and not the rhythmical pattern. The participant will have to
      respond at the end of each trial via a button press whether the audiovisual input confirmed
      or violated the above presented rule. A feedback image of a smiling face for the correct
      responses or a not smiling face for the incorrect responses will be provided for each trial.
      The protocol will be of adjusted difficulty, having 5 levels of difficulty which will be
      based on 2 different factors: the presentation speed, and the difficulty of the musical
      pattern. In contrast to the EEG measurement procedure, during which the melodic patterns will
      be unknown to the subjects, the melodic patterns used in the training will be comprised of
      short but identifiable parts of known musical pieces in order to engage the participants and
      to provoke emotional response. The training will be improved in comparison to the
      corresponding previous studies of the PI by providing feedback and by the use of known
      musical pieces which will induce an emotional response to the trainees.

      EEG data analysis and statistical procedures

      The EEG data collected will be pre-processed using the Brain Electrical Source Analysis
      software (BESA research, version 6, Megis Software, Heidelberg, Germany). The recorded data
      will be separated in epochs of 1000 ms including a pre-stimulus interval of 200 ms. Epochs
      will be baseline corrected using the interval from -100 to 0 ms. Current Density
      Reconstructions (CDRs) will be calculated on the neural responses of each subject and each
      condition using the sLORETA method55 as provided by BESA. The Matlab ® (The MathWorks, Inc.,
      Natick, Massachusetts, United States.) toolbox HERMES56 will be used for calculating the
      adjacency matrix from the voxel time-series. The toolbox Network Based Statistic (NBS) will
      be used to statistically identify significant connections in the graphs, using a General
      Linear Model approach. For the statistical analysis of the data a 2 × 2 × 2 × 2 mixed model
      ANOVA design will be followed, with 3 within subjects factors: condition (congruent and
      incongruent), modality (audiovisual, auditory, and visual) and time (pre- and post- training)
      and one between subjects: (age group). The significance level will be set to p < 0.05
      corrected for multiple comparisons via Family Wise Error correction.
    
  