
    
      Age-related hearing loss is a substantial national problem due to its high prevalence and
      significant psychosocial consequences. However, the adoption rate of the primary intervention
      of age-related hearing loss, i.e., hearing aids (HAs), is quite low (15-30%). One of the most
      commonly reported reasons that people do not seek HA intervention is the high cost of devices
      plus the costly professional (e.g., audiologist) fitting services. This type of
      intervention-HAs fitted using the audiologist-based service-delivery model (AUD model)-is
      considered to be the best practice for management of adults with hearing loss. Because the
      AUD model is unaffordable for many Americans who need HAs (64%), there has been increased
      advocacy for a variety of over-the-counter service-delivery models (OTC models). In 2010, 1.5
      million Americans purchased amplification devices via OTC models to compensate for their
      impaired hearing.

      Although the OTC models are gaining popularity and are regarded as an important option for
      promoting accessible and affordable hearing healthcare, major questions remain unanswered.
      Specifically, the OTC models proposed to date rely on assumptions that patients can
      appropriately self-diagnose, self-select, self-fit and (in some cases) self-adjust
      amplification. However, there is little data to support any of the underlying assumptions. A
      recent study suggests that the AUD model yields better outcomes than the OTC models, but it
      is unclear if a rigorous randomized controlled trial can replicate this result. Furthermore,
      if there are outcome differences between AUD and OTC models, it is unknown if the clinical
      improvement in outcomes will be offset by the improved value (outcome relative to cost), or
      if it is possible to identify appropriate candidacy for each model to ensure optimal patient
      care for all. Finally, no prior research has investigated if "hybrid" service-delivery
      models, in which professionals provide streamlined services to fit OTC amplification devices,
      offer affordable and quality amplification interventions as has been recently advocated.

      The overall goal of this project is to characterize the differential effect of
      service-delivery models on provision of amplification so that accessible and affordable
      hearing healthcare can be facilitated. The central hypothesis is that an OTC model or a
      hybrid model is a viable solution for many, but not all, patients with
      mild-to-moderately-severe age-related hearing loss. Since the optimal OTC model and the
      definition of OTC amplification device is still in question, the investigators propose to
      focus on the role of professional services in the provision of cost-effective amplification.
      To answer the research questions, the investigators have designed procedures to implement an
      OTC model, in which research participants will take the full initiative and responsibility
      for learning and using amplification. The investigators then systematically add professional
      patient-centered services (e.g., device orientation and counselling) to the OTC model to
      create a hybrid model. Finally, the investigators add device-centered services (e.g., device
      adjustment under the guidance of real-ear measures) to the hybrid model to create an AUD
      model that serves as the control. The investigators will electronically configure HAs to
      simulate OTC devices (e.g., fixed frequency response) and will use the same devices as HAs in
      the AUD model. The investigators will conduct a two-site, randomized controlled study to
      document the intervention outcomes of these four models using a test battery that consists of
      behavioral and self-report measures. Several patient-centered variables, including degree and
      configuration of hearing loss, cognitive functions, and personality will be measured and used
      as candidacy predictors.

      Aim 1. To determine the outcome, value, and candidacy of the OTC model relative to the AUD
      model. The OTC model excludes professional services and represents the simplest form of the
      OTC model (referred to as the OTC model). The AUD model, in which professionals will use a
      core set of best practices to fit entry-level HAs, likely represents the most cost-effective
      AUD model (referred to as the AUD model). Based on the preliminary data, it is hypothesized
      that the OTC model will yield poorer outcomes than the AUD model. The value, which will be
      compared using cost-effectiveness analysis, is less predictable because the model
      hypothesized to yield better outcomes is more expensive. The investigators further
      hypothesize that at least some patient-centered variables will be predictive of outcome
      difference between the models and thus can be used to help decide which model a patient
      should choose.

      Aim 2. To determine the outcome, value, and candidacy of the hybrid model. The hybrid model
      is the OTC-Plus model, in which professionals provide streamlined services to fit OTC
      devices. It is hypothesized that the outcomes of the hybrid model will be poorer than the AUD
      model but better than the OTC model. Because the investigators are proposing a total of three
      levels of service (including no service), achieving this aim will also allow us to document
      the effect of professional service on outcome and value. It is hypothesized that professional
      services will contribute to outcomes, and that each increase in the level of professional
      service will lead to an incremental improvement in outcomes. The value of each level of
      service in the hybrid model is less predictable. It is also hypothesized that at least some
      patient-centered variables will predict equal outcomes for some individuals across hybrid and
      AUD models.
    
  