
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Define the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of paclitaxel (TAX) when given as a 3
      hour infusion in combination with cisplatin (CDDP), fluorouracil (5-FU), and radiation
      therapy. II. Define the toxicity profile of TAX when given as a 3 hour infusion in
      combination with CDDP, 5-FU, and radiation therapy. III. Evaluate the effectiveness of a TAX
      containing chemotherapy regimen and concurrent radiotherapy followed by resection in the
      treatment of locally advanced esophageal cancer as judged by the complete response rate,
      pathological complete response rate, time to recurrence, and overall survival.

      OUTLINE: Patients receive radiation to the tumor and nodal area 5 days a week for 5 weeks.
      Patients receive chemotherapy consisting of cisplatin (CDDP) via rapid intravenous infusion
      on day 1 followed by fluorouracil (5-FU) via 96-hour continuous infusion (CI) on days 1
      through 4; this is repeated on the last 4 days of radiation therapy (days 29-31), with an
      additional dose of CDDP on day 29 and a 96-hour CI of 5-FU on days 29-31. Patients also
      receive paclitaxel (TAX) as a weekly 3 hour infusion on days 1, 8, 15, and 29, with 3
      patients treated at each dose level and subsequent patients treated according to the toxicity
      observed in previous cohorts. TAX will be given prior to the CDDP and 5-FU on the weeks when
      it is given concurrently. The MTD of TAX is defined as the dose at which no more than 1 of 6
      patients experiences dose-limiting toxicity. Surgical resection takes place 2-8 weeks
      following completion of chemoradiotherapy in all patients except those with disease
      progression and those who are surgically unresectable or medically unfit (includes those with
      metastatic disease) to tolerate surgery. An additional course of TAX/CDDP/5-FU is given 28-35
      days after surgery.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Three patients will be entered into the lowest dose level of TAX, and 3-6
      patients entered into up to three additional dose levels of TAX for the phase I study. An
      additional group of up to 11 patients will be accrued for the first stage of the modified
      phase II study and 38 to the second stage, if warranted. The study will be completed within
      3-4 years.
    
  