
    
      Stroke often results in functional gait deficits and abnormal gait patterns. Typically,
      several features of gait are altered (e.g. knee joint movement decreases and step lengths are
      asymmetric). Data show that walking patterns after neurologic injury can be changed through
      gait training, but traditional rehabilitation approaches typically focus on changing one
      feature of gait at a time. However, the investigators have recently shown that in a single
      session individuals post-stroke are able to learn to change multiple components of this
      impaired gait pattern at the same time.

      To further leverage this ability to learn multiple things at once, the investigators have
      also studied how different forms of visual feedback about leg movements may best facilitate
      individuals to make meaningful changes to multiple features of the gait pattern.
      Specifically, they have studied two forms of visual feedback - 1) multidimensional, with
      multiple streams of information about leg movements, and 2) one-dimensional, which
      distills/summarizes multiple pieces of information about the gait pattern into a single
      source of feedback. They have shown that the one-dimensional summary feedback is more
      effective to help people learn a new gait pattern that requires changing multiple features of
      how they are walking. This work has focused on single training sessions in neurologically
      intact individuals, but the authors would like to study the effects of longer-term training
      with these different forms of feedback. Therefore, the purpose of this study is to gather
      preliminary data to inform the design of a clinical trial of gait training to treat walking
      deficits post-stroke. The investigators will gather data to determine whether training with
      different forms of visual feedback about leg movements are effective at improving gait
      patterns post-stroke - and which form of feedback may be more effective.

      The investigators will study adults with cerebral damage due to stroke. Subjects with
      hemiparesis will undergo training 3 times a week for a total of 12 training session. These 12
      sessions will be broken into 2 blocks of 6 sessions, with at least a 2 week break in between.
      In each block, training will occur with one form of visual (multi- or one-dimensional).
      Participants will complete training with both forms of feedback, the order of feedback forms
      will be randomly assigned. These studies will provide important new information about gait
      training with visual feedback in individuals post-stroke. This study is critical for
      developing procedural reliability processes, calculating effect sizes, and determining other
      salient clinical variables in preparation for a randomized clinical trial.
    
  