
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To determine the clinical benefits of hyperbaric oxygen therapy in reducing dysfunction
           in patients with pelvic cancer developing iatrogenic gastrointestinal symptoms as a
           result of previous radical pelvic radiotherapy completed at least one year ago.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to center and
      severity of symptoms (low vs high). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I (treatment group): Patients undergo hyperbaric oxygen therapy over 90 minutes, 5
           days a week, for 8 weeks for a total of 40 treatments. Oxygen at 100% is breathed for 30
           minutes, followed by a 5-minute "air break" and a further 30 minutes of breathing
           oxygen. A further 5-minute "air break" is followed by a further 30 minutes of breathing
           oxygen. During the final 10 minutes of oxygen breathing, the chamber is depressurized to
           ambient atmospheric pressure at a linear rate (14.2 kPa/min).

        -  Arm II (control group): Patients undergo hyperbaric oxygen therapy over 90 minutes, 5
           days a week, for 8 weeks for a total of 40 treatments. Oxygen at 21% is breathed for 30
           minutes, followed by a 5-minute "air break" and a further 30 minutes of breathing
           oxygen. A further 5-minute "air break" is followed by a further 30 minutes of breathing
           oxygen. During the final 10 minutes of oxygen breathing, the chamber is depressurized to
           ambient atmospheric pressure at a linear rate (3 kPa/min).

      Tissue samples from rectal biopsies may be collected and analyzed.

      Patients complete questionnaires (Health Economics, Inflammatory Bowel Disease Questionnaire
      [IBDQ], EORTC Quality of Life [QLQ]-C30, and QLQ-CR38) at baseline and then at 3, 6, 9, and
      12 months after the start of treatment.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed within 14 days and at 10 months.
    
  