
    
      Primary hypothesis

      Oral doxycycline 100mg daily for six weeks in patients with NS aged 8 years or older will
      reduce inflammatory responses and the proportion of patients with serum antibodies to NSPs or
      leiomodin 24 months after intervention by 40% compared to placebo.

      Primary efficacy objective

      To determine the effects of doxycycline 100mg daily for six weeks in patients with NS 8 years
      or older on serum levels of antibodies to NSPs (VGKC complex and others to be identified in a
      concurrent case-control study) or leiomodin at 24 months.

      Study Type

      This will be a two-arm, placebo-controlled (double blind) randomized phase II trial of oral
      doxycycline 100mg daily for six weeks.

      Study site

      Kitgum general hospital, Kitgum, Uganda.

      Study Population

      Study participants will be patients with confirmed NS as defined according to the World
      Health Organization (WHO) consensus case definition i.e. (i) Head nodding on two or more
      occasions, (ii) Occurring in clusters at a frequency of 5-20/minute, (iii) Onset between the
      ages of 3-18 years, (iv) Observed by a trained health worker or documented on EEG

      Plus any one of:

      a) triggered by food or cold weather; b) presence of other seizures or neurological
      abnormalities and cognitive decline and c) clustering in space or time), age ≥8 years, and
      with written consent from a parent or guardian.

      Study Interventions

      Participants will receive standard of care supportive treatment according to current
      guidelines for NS (antiepileptic drug treatment with sodium valproate, management of
      psychiatric disorders, nutritional, physical and occupational therapy as indicated).

      All will be hospitalised in the first weeks during which period, baseline measurements
      including clinical assessments, EEG, cognitive and laboratory testing will be performed and
      antiepileptic drug doses rationalised.

      Sample size: The sample size (115 participants per arm i.e. 230 total) is estimated based on
      the assumption that a six-weeks treatment course of doxycycline will reduce the proportion of
      participants with antibodies to NSPs or Leiomodin by 40% (from 50.0% to 30.0%) 24 months
      after initiation of the intervention while providing for 10% loss to follow-up (β=80%,
      α=0.05).

      Participants will then be randomised to either oral doxycycline (Azudox®, Kampala
      Pharmaceutical Industries, Ltd) 100mg daily for six weeks or identical placebo. Treatment
      will be initiated in hospital but will be continued at home. Each participant will be visited
      at home at 2, 4 and 6 weeks for adherence monitoring and assessment of safety and will report
      back to the hospital study clinic at 6, 12 and 24 months.

      Follow-up procedures:

      Participants will be followed up at 2, 4, and 6 weeks by the health visitor to document
      adherence and assess safety and will be assessed for outcomes in hospital at 24 months after
      initiation of the intervention.

      Data Analysis:

      Primary analysis will be by intention to treat. The investigators will examine the effect of
      doxycycline at 24 months on antibodies to host NSPs and leiomodin, inflammatory responses
      (CRP, C3a and C3b), on epileptiform discharges and seizure control, and microfilaria density/
      Wolbachia load, and on clinical (cognitive, motor, psychiatric and quality of life) symptoms
      compared to placebo.

      In a sub-analysis, the investigators will examine the effects of the intervention in new
      patients compared to patients with long standing symptoms.
    
  