
    
      General project outline Our aim is to perform a intervention study whether one year gluten
      free diet in children with newly diagnosed TID would make it possible to influence the speed
      of the beta-cells destruction and if this diet decrease the risk to develop CD after the
      disease A power calculation shows that we would need 600 participants to detect clinically
      relevant effects (see power calculation). As the power calculation is based on estimated
      effects we plan to first perform a pilot study including 100 patients. Based on the results
      of the pilot study we then plan to continue to design a larger study to get more robust
      information.

      All children will also at the start study and, after 1 and 2 years receive a KID-screen form
      to study the quality of life of time in children with diabetes and to compare children with
      diabetes without CD and to them who will develop or have undiagnosed CD. Furthermore all
      children will also be monitored by a dietician during the study period, at onset, after 1 and
      2 years according to the content (protein, fat, carbohydrate, gluten and vitamins) during the
      study.

      Population Consecutive patients with recent onset of diabetes at Swedish paediatric clinics
      are given information about the study and they and their parents are asked to participate in
      the trial.

      Informed consent given by patients and guardians/parents and inclusion criteria are; 1. Type
      1 diabetes according to the ADA classification with < 1 months diabetes duration at time of
      screening 2. Age 3.00 -17.99 years at time of screening 3. Fasting C-peptide at time of
      screening ≥ 0.12 nmol/L Exclusion Criteria

        1. Inability or unwillingness to comply with the provisions of this protocol

        2. Deemed by the investigator not being able to follow instructions and/or follow the study
           protocol Recruitment and Screening Eligible subjects and their parent(s) / guardian(s)
           will have the study explained to them, and will receive a written patient information.
           If, after this, the subjects agree to participate, they will personally sign and date
           the written informed consent form. In accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki, the
           investigator must explain to the patient that they have the right to withdraw from the
           study at any time, and that this will in no way prejudice their future treatment

      Sample size, power calculation:

      We are planning the study as a continuous response from independent control and experimental
      subjects with 1 control per experimental subject. In a similar study the response within each
      subject group was normally distributed with standard deviation 0,19. If the true difference
      in the experimental and control means is 0,05 we will need to study 250 subjects and 250
      controls to be able to reject the null hypothesis that the population means of the
      experimental and control group are equal with a probability (power) 0,8. The Type 1 error
      probability associated with this test of this null hypothesis is 0,05. Recalculation of
      sample size is needed on a pilot study, which we have chosen to 100 subjects, 50 in each
      group. This field also benefit from that smaller and shorter trials are conducted to obtain
      initial sense of efficacy prior to undertake a fully powered study.

      The risk to develop CD in the children with gluten free diet will be compared to the 8000
      children in the BDD who had been followed yearly with transglutaminse autoantibodies for CD.

      Study Design The trial is designed as a 2-arm not randomized, open, multicentre study
      comparing 1 year of gluten free diet with normal diet. In the pilot study 100 patients will
      be recruited at 7 sites in Sweden (and if the pilot study shows expected results we will
      include all 43 Swedish pediatric clinics and altogether an estimated 600 patients). The
      patients will not be randomized into two parallel groups as it could influence the compliance
      to a normal diet. Instead we will recruit group A (50 patients) during the first year and
      group B with 50 age and sex-matched patients during the second year. Group A will eat gluten
      free diet for a year after the onset of diabetes and B normal diet. Both groups will follow
      the same procedures according to the study visits and clinical routines in our diabetes care
      and follow up.

      Eligibility: Patients who qualify for the study have to have a C-peptide over above 0.12
      nmol/L and will be assigned with a number and this screening number together with the
      clinics, site number, will be used as patient identification. The patients will be assessed
      for eligibility at the screening visit (Visit 1) prior to the start of treatment with
      glutenfree diet and screened with a MMTT (mixed meal tolerance test) and fasting C-peptide
      levels.

      The patients will be followed for a total study period of 60 months which includes not more
      than 6 extra visits for the study (however these visits may be combined with regular diabetes
      care visits though all children with diabetes use to attend outpatient clinic at least every
      3 month and more often at the onset of the disease) Visit 1; 2 month within the onset, MMT
      and fasting C-peptide Visit 2; If eligible, randomized to group A (the first 50), contact
      with a dietitian, information of GFD, within 3 month from onset Visit 3; at 6 months; fasting
      C-peptide, immunological analyses and contact with a dietician; questionnaire and a registry
      (before the visit one week registry of the diet intake) Visit 4; at 12 months; MMTT fasting
      C-peptide, HbA1c, immunological analyses. HbA1c, immunological analyses for research, contact
      with a dietician; questionnaire and a registry (before the visit one week registry of the
      diet intake) Visit 5; at 18 months, MMTT fasting C-peptide, HbA1c, immunological analyses.
      HbA1c, immunological analyses, including Ttg (transglutaminse) Visit 6; at 24 months, MMTT
      fasting C-peptide, HbA1c, immunological analyses. HbA1c, immunological analyses, including
      Ttg (transglutaminse) yearly until 60 months. Questionnaire about quality of life and gluten
      content.

      Both group A and B will have same information and visits according to the diabetes care where
      contacts with a dietician is mandatory, but arm A will need special information about a
      gluten free diet and will also have x-support according to gluten free products.

      Both group A and B will be followed according to CD risk during 5 years with Ttg annually as
      a clinical routine.

      Experimental strategy

      AIM 1

        -  To investigate changes in beta-cell function the patients will undergo an MMTT
           (measuring C-peptide, 90 minute value and AUCmean 0-120 min) at basile baseline (Visit
           1) to 12 and 18 months). Our research nurse will perform this test on all patients
           included at the different sites and the samples are analyzed at the Clinical Chemistry
           at SUS, Malmö.

        -  We will also investigate and compare the proportion of patients with a stimulated
           maximum C-peptide level above 0.2 nmol/L after 12 and 18 months respectively as well as
           fasting C-peptide, change between baseline and month 6, 12 and 18 months between the
           groups.

        -  Differences between metabolic control, Hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c), change between baseline
           and subsequent visits

        -  Hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c, marker of metabolic control)) as marker for long term
           hyperglycemia will be analyzed at baseline and subsequent visits in both groups. We will
           also study if there are differences in exogenous insulin dose per kg body weight and 24
           hours, change between baseline and subsequent visits as indirect marker of beta cell
           insulin secretion.

      AIM 2 To follow the development of gluten-induced humoral autoimmunity, IgA
      anti-tissue-transglutaminase autoantibodies (Ttg) will be determined in blood samples
      collected at the onset, before insulin therapy,, and yearly up to five year after the onset
      of TID. Ttg autoantibodies will be analyzed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay Aim 3

      • To investigate the immunoregulatory effect of gluten-free diet we will perform a detailed
      analysis of the magnitude and the phenotype of both gliadin- and tTG-specific T cells.
      Quantitative analysis of antigen-specific T cells will be performed using multicolor flow
      cytometry and cytokine secretion Gender and ethnicity All our data will respect to gender and
      ethnicity is evaluated if there are any predictive factors associated: Diabetes is the
      autoimmune disease, which is more common in boys than girl, and the reason for this is
      unknown and Celiac Disease is more common in girls.

      Ethical considerations In spite of a very heavy, intensive, expensive treatment many patients
      with TID get life-threatening serious both acute and late complications. At diagnosis many
      patients have some slight residual insulin secretion. As long as this is the case it is much
      easier to keep blood glucose stable, the incidence of hypoglycaemia decreases as well as the
      risk of keto-acidosis. A trial with a gluten free diet is not very complicated and it is safe
      but may be a burden for the children and families involved. Gluten free special products are
      often more expensive, few products and are often considered not so tasty but when summarizing
      the pros and cons, there is a clear possibility of therapeutic benefit of great importance
      with no risk.

      Clinical implications Toward an individualized treatment: To find predictive a factors
      determining the remission period is important for people who develop diabetes. Every month in
      remission increase the quality of life, increase metabol control and thereby postpone late
      complications. To find triggering factors for to rate of beta-cells destruction unable us to
      design a more individualized treatment in respective individual. Increased remission period
      and decreased risk of developing Celiac Disease. Gluten free diet is a safe administer, well
      tolerable for the patients and the main long-term goal is to find a treatment at onset of
      Type 1 diabetes in young patients which is easy and safe and preserve residual insulin
      secretion and give the patients a better quality of life, with less acute complications and
      in the long run less risk of late complications. The identification of exogenous factors
      triggering and driving beta-cell destruction offers a potential means for intervention aimed
      at the prevention of T1D. Environmental modification is likely to offer the most powerful
      strategy for effective prevention of T1D, because such an approach can target the whole
      population or at least that proportion of the population carrying increased genetic disease
      susceptibility.

      Diet is a cornerstone in the diabetes treatment and individuals with diabetes must always be
      much aware of the carbohydrate content in the food which limits the arena of different
      beverages and make life more complicated and if the individual has both IDDM and CD this is
      even more complicated and limit the social and quality of life. If this study could prevent
      some individuals to develop CD it would increase their life quality extensively.
    
  