
    
      Study Drug Administration:

      If you are eligible to take part in this study, you will receive 1 or 2 cycles of induction
      therapy followed by up to 17 cycles of consolidation therapy. Each study cycle is 4 weeks.

      Induction Cycles:

      On Days 1-5, you will receive cladribine by vein over 1-2 hours.

      On Days 1-10, you will give yourself the cytarabine by injection twice a day about 12 hours
      apart. You will receive instructions on how give yourself the injections.

      You may receive up to 2 cycles at this dose and schedule.

      Consolidation Cycles:

      Consolidation cycles will begin on Cycle 2 regardless of how many cycles you received of
      induction therapy.

      During Cycles 2, 5, 6, 9, 10, 13, 14, 17, and 18:

        -  On Days 1-3, you will receive cladribine by vein over 1-2 hours.

        -  On Days 1-10, you will give yourself cytarabine by injection twice daily starting 3 to 6
           hours after the start of the cladribine infusion.

      Cycles 3, 4, 7, 8, 11, 12, 15, and 16:

      °On Days 1-5, you will receive decitabine by vein over 1-2 hours each day.

      Length of Treatment:

      You may continue taking the study drugs for up to 18 cycles. You will no longer be able to
      take the study drug if the disease gets worse, if intolerable side effects occur, or if you
      are unable to follow study directions.

      Your participation on the study will be over when you have completed follow-up.

      Study Visits:

      On Day 1 of every cycle:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your weight and vital signs.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

      On Day 21 (+/- 7days) of the induction cycle, you may have a bone marrow aspirate to check
      the status of the disease. After that, you will have a bone marrow aspirate every 2 weeks (or
      more often if your doctor feels it is necessary). If your routine blood tests show that there
      is still leukemia, you may not need to have the bone marrow samples collected.

      Blood (about 1-2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests at least 1 time weekly until
      remission, then every 2-4 weeks during treatment, the every 4-8 weeks while you are on the
      study.

      Follow-Up Visits:

      When you are off treatment, every 6 -12 months you will be contacted by a member of the study
      staff. You will be asked about any side effects you may be having. The phone calls will take
      about 5-10 minutes. You will continue to be called for as long as possible.
    
  