
    
      Hepatitis C virus (HCV)-related liver disease continues to be the most common indication for
      liver transplantation (LT) in both the United States and Europe. However, LT does not cure
      the infection, and re-infection of the liver allograft universally occurs. Recurrent HCV
      hepatitis often follows an accelerated course after LT, and histological recurrence occurs in
      approximately 50% of patients within 1 year after LT; 15-30% of them develop cirrhosis within
      5 years. In this context, a peculiar feature is represented by the rapid course of liver
      fibrosis. Therapeutic strategies for managing the primary cause of liver damage, i.e. HCV
      infection, irrespective of application in pre-, peri-, and/or post-LT periods resulted in
      very limited efficacy and tolerability in LT recipients.

      In view of its postulated safety profile, Silibinin seems an ideal drug to be used in the
      setting of HCV recurrent patients after liver transplantation.

      Silibinin, a flavonolignan representing the main component (60%) of Silymarin and proposed as
      an anti-hepatotoxic agent for the treatment of various liver diseases has been recently
      reported to beneficially modulate the pro-fibrogenic potential of HSC, thus representing a
      very attractive possibility in the transplanted population. Besides the anti-inflammatory
      properties, Silibinin is able to inhibit Tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α). This is a
      proinflammatory cytokine with a major role in both acute and chronic viral, bacterial and
      fungal infections.

      The primary objective is to determine the effect of post-transplant treatment with Legalon
      SIL on HCV viral load 30 days after the beginning of treatment.

      44 stable liver transplanted patients with HCV recurrence will be randomized 3:1 to receive
      Legalon-SIL or Placebo. Randomized patients will be treated for 14 consecutive days with
      Legalon-SIL or Placebo. Patients dropping-out before the end of treatment period will be
      replaced.

      Patients will be followed up for 1 year to monitor the effect of treatment on liver fibrosis,
      liver functional state, lymphocyte activation, and viral load.
    
  