
    
      If you agree to take part in this study, during an already-scheduled office visit, you will
      complete 5 questionnaires about your symptoms, your physical and emotional health, and your
      trust in the medical profession. These questionnaires should take about 17 minutes to
      complete.

      Study Groups:

      After you have completed the first 5 questionnaires, you will be randomly assigned (as in the
      roll of the dice) to 1 of 4 groups.

      Each group will watch 2 short videos that show actors playing doctor and patient roles,
      discussing different cancer-related symptom treatment options. Each video is about 4 minutes
      long and will discuss the same content, but setting of each video will be different.

      After watching the first video, you will complete 3 questionnaires about your opinions of the
      doctor's behavior. These questionnaires should take about 5 minutes to complete.

      After you watch the second video, you will complete the same 3 questionnaires. You will also
      complete 2 additional questionnaires about which doctor you would rather have as your doctor
      and why, and your opinion about the setting of the examination room in the video. It should
      take about 8 minutes to complete these questionnaires.

      Length of Study:

      It should take about 38 minutes to watch both videos and to complete all questionnaires. Your
      participation on this study will be over after you have completed the last questionnaire.

      Other Information:

      You must attend the study visit alone. Your family members should not be in the room with you
      while you are participating in the study. You may request to have family members remain in
      the room, but they must remain silent so that they do not influence your opinions.

      This is an investigational study.

      Up to 120 participants will be enrolled in this study. All will take part at MD Anderson.
    
  