
    
      Perioperative care

      Preoperative Period

      As per usual practice, the patient's staff surgeon will provide directives for preoperative
      fasting and fluid intake. These patients are encouraged to drink up to two hours before
      hospital admission, and also receive preoperative carbohydrate drinks the night before (100
      grams), and the morning of surgery (50 grams) when indicated. Additionally, routine use of
      mechanical bowel preparation is avoided, and is prescribed only in selected cases. The
      patient's weight will be obtained upon arrival in the operating room.

      Anesthetic and analgesic management

      Anesthetic management and choice of postoperative analgesia will be as per usual care, at the
      discretion of the staff anesthesiologist in-charge of the case. An arterial line or central
      venous line may be inserted, and Goal Directed Fluid Therapy (GDFT) employed if deemed
      necessary.

      Post-anesthesia Care Unit (PACU)

      On arrival to the PACU, basic hemodynamic parameters, including heart rate (HR), blood
      pressure (BP), oxygen saturation, respiratory rate, temperature, and central venous pressure
      (CVP), if available, will be recorded according to standardized PACU protocol. A research
      assistant will then collect initial PACU values for these hemodynamic variables. Surgical
      time, estimated surgical blood loss, urine output, and intraoperative fluid and blood product
      administration will also be recorded. PACU care will be dictated by the treating staff
      anesthesiologists. Patients will be discharged from PACU according to standard institutional
      criteria.

      Surgical floor

      Postoperative care management, including the commencement of oral diet and fluid management,
      will be at the discretion of the surgical team. If required, VE (volume of the solution to be
      infused and type of the intravenous solution) will be decided case by case by the surgical
      team. The patient's weight will be obtained daily until hospital discharge. Patients will
      typically be discharged if afebrile, able to tolerate oral diet, pain is controlled (numeric
      rating scale (NRS) < 4), and they are able to ambulate.

      Assessment of FR

      A research assistant working in the department of Anesthesia will assess FR on two occasions:

        1. When any VE is ordered by the treating team, either in PACU or on the surgical floor
           upon standard evaluation of hemodynamic parameters, urine output, surgical losses, and
           laboratory test abnormalities. FR will be assessed by measuring SV and Cardiac Output
           (CO) obtained by the ccNexfin system before 1 and 5 minute after VE. A patient will be
           considered a fluid responder if SV increases by at least 15% 1 minute after VE. A
           cut-off of 15% has been chosen as it represents the minimal clinical significant
           difference between two CO measurements obtained by thermodilution.

        2. Upon arrival to the PACU, and every day before breakfast during the hospital stay. FR
           will be assessed by measuring SV and CO obtained by the ccNexfin system before and after
           1 minute following 250 ml of Lactated Ringer's given as fluid challenge. A patient will
           be considered a fluid responder if SV increases by at least 15% after the fluid
           challenge.

      Prediction of FR

      A fluid challenge of 250 ml of Lactated Ringer's will be used to predict FR before the
      administration of any VE ordered by the treating team, either in PACU or on the surgical
      floor upon standard evaluation of hemodynamic parameters, urine output, surgical losses, and
      laboratory test abnormalities. A patient will be considered a fluid responder if SV increases
      by at least 15% 1 min after the end of a fluid challenge The utilization of fluid challenges
      has been shown to have high-accuracy (Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) curve of > 0.9)
      to predict FR in spontaneously breathing patients47. Furthermore, administration of fluid
      challenges to predict FR has already been described in several trials, including those with
      sick patient populations48 (ICU patients, patients undergoing major surgery, and patients
      with Ejection Fraction (EF) <40%).

      Measurement of FR

        1. Assessment of FR when VE is deemed necessary by the treating physician in PACU or on the
           surgical floor Prior to administration of a non-emergent fluid bolus (VE) ordered by the
           treating physician, nurses will additionally page the research assistant who will
           measure ccNexfin CO-Trek parameters as described earlier, and then administer a fluid
           challenge and measure FR. For simplicity, a single pager number will be used, and it
           will be affixed to the front of the chart of patients included in the study. A copy of
           the study protocol will also be given to nurses in the PACU and on the surgical floors
           for perusal.

           The need for VE will be evaluated by the anesthetist in charge in PACU, or by the
           surgical team on the surgical ward. Hemodynamic variables triggering fluid
           administration will be decided based on standard evaluation of hemodynamic parameters,
           urine output, surgical losses, and laboratory test abnormalities. The type and amount of
           intravenous solution to be used will be decided by the anesthetist in charge or by the
           surgical team.

           Before VE, hemodynamic variables including HR and BP will be measured by the research
           assistant. CVP will me measured in PACU if patients receive a central venous catheter.
           Then, the ccNexfin system will be applied in a standardized fashion according to
           manufacturer recommendations: an appropriately sized finger cuff will be selected and
           placed around the patient's middle finger. The wrist unit and heart reference sensor
           (HRS) will then be placed around the patient's wrist and ring finger respectively. The
           system will be zeroed, and the sensor end of the HRS will be placed at the level of the
           patient's heart, which allows for compensation for hydrostatic pressure differences
           between the finger and the heart. The ccNexfin will then calculate and display the
           values for an initial post-operative CO, Cardiac Index (CI), and SV. One and 5 minutes
           after the end of the VE, the same hemodynamic parameters will be measured. Should any
           further bolus of fluid be administered, FR and basic hemodynamic variables will be
           measured as above, upon administration of VE as ordered by the treating team.

        2. Prediction of FR before the administration of any VE ordered by the treating team

           A fluid challenge of 250 ml of Lactated Ringer's solution (Baxter, Lactated Ringer's
           Injection, USP, 1000 mL VIAFLEX Plastic Container) will be administered over 5 minutes
           by the research assistant before VE. One and 5 minutes following the end of the fluid
           challenge, basic hemodynamic values (as described above), as well as CO, CI, and SV
           obtained from the ccNexfin system, will again be recorded. An increase of SV by at least
           15% 1 minute after the end of the fluid challenge will be considered clinically
           significant. Upon termination of a fluid challenge, the decision on weather to proceed
           with VE will be taken by the treating physician based only on standard signs and
           measures of hypovolemia and not on any of the ccNexfin SV and CO measurements obtained
           during the fluid challenge. The proportion of patients identified as fluid responsive
           after VE will be compared with the proportion of patients responding to the fluid
           challenge.

           The research assistant will be available to measure FR from 6.30 AM to 7.30 PM every day
           during patient hospitalization. For patient safety, the research assistant must arrive
           at the bedside within ten minutes of being paged, in order to measure FR before VE.
           Intravenous fluids will be administered without measuring CO and administering a fluid
           challenge if:

             1. the research assistant will not be able to arrive at the bedside within ten
                minutes;

             2. the treating physician considers immediate administration of intravenous fluids
                necessary.

           CO measurements will not be taken before administering blood products. Blood product
           administration (erythrocytes, platelets, fresh frozen plasma, or cryoprecipitate) will
           also be at the discretion of the staff anesthetist (in PACU) or at the discretion of the
           surgical team (surgical ward).

        3. Daily assessment of FR

      After surgery in PACU, and daily (before breakfast) for the duration of the patient's
      hospital stay a research assistant will administer a fluid challenge. As described above, CO,
      CI, and SV will be measured by the research assistant using the ccNexfin system, to assess
      for FR. A fluid challenge of 250 ml of Lactated Ringer's solution (Baxter, Lactated Ringer's
      Injection, USP, 1000 mL VIAFLEX Plastic Container) will then be administered over 5 minutes.
      One and 5 minutes following fluid challenge completion, basic hemodynamic values (as
      described above), as well as CO, CI, and SV obtained from the ccNexfin system, will again be
      recorded. An increase of SV by at least 15% 1 minute after the end of the fluid challenge
      will be considered clinically significant.

      Daily assessment of FR, regardless of whether patients will receive intravenous fluids, will
      determine if FR is associated with an increased risk of complications and/or prolonged
      hospital stay.

      All ccNexfin values obtained before and after VE and any fluid challenge will be blinded to
      the treating anesthetist, the surgical team and the nursing team.
    
  