
    
      Tonsillectomy in children is a common elective day surgery. In the United States, 530 000
      children under 15 years of age underwent a tonsillectomy in 2006. This minor surgery
      generates moderate to severe pain and many postoperative complications, both in the early
      postoperative phase and for at least 7 days. Patients are discharged home a few hours after
      tonsillectomy, and parents take over their child's care. But not all parents have the ability
      and knowledge required to adequately manage the pain and complications. This sub-optimal care
      situation has a significant impact on the child's convalescence and can lead to poor pain
      management, dehydration, poor rest and sleep quality, nausea, vomiting as well as an increase
      in the risk of secondary haemorrhage. Many interventions have been evaluated to improve pain
      management, such as education strategies for parents or children and tools to guide parents.
      However, none of these strategies have obtained significant results on children's pain
      intensity post-tonsillectomy.

      A nurse telephone follow-up can significantly reduce pain intensity of adults who undergo
      ambulatory surgery. This intervention is defined as multiple telephone calls made to the
      patient by a nurse, after discharge, to provide information, and review discharge
      prescriptions and management of care by the patient himself or by a care-giver. Only a few
      studies have explored nurse telephone follow-up for children who underwent tonsillectomy. The
      design of these studies, including the time-periods chosen for data collection, were not
      properly determined to adequately evaluate the impact of the intervention on management of
      pain and prevention of postoperative complications. Thus, we planned to determine if a nurse
      telephone follow-up, made to parents following their child's tonsillectomy, would contribute
      to decrease pain intensity, incidence of postoperative complications and resort to other
      healthcare services.
    
  