
    
      This study is a prospective cohort clinical study, of tissue grafts containing nucleated
      adult derived autologous or allograft mesenchymal stem cells delivered via intra-discal or
      intra-facet injections in subjects with chronic low back pain due to either lumbar
      degenerative disk disease or degenerative facet disease at one to five lumbar levels from L1
      to S1 in patients who have been unresponsive to conservative therapy. A second cohort
      evaluating the development of adjacent segment disease in the lumbar disk and facet joints
      after nucleated adult mesenchymal stem cells are delivered via intra-discal or intra-facet
      injections during surgical treatment of adjacent levels for degenerative pathology in the
      spine. Traditionally, treatment of degenerative spinal conditions has focused on the
      reconstruction of damaged tissues within the motion segments of the spine. However, biologic
      treatment of degenerated spinal components should address the etiology of the disease process
      as opposed to reacting to symptomatology. Strategies to induce a reparative response within
      the disk and facet joint focus on rebuilding the chondrocyte population and inducing their
      production of healthy biomechanical extracellular matrix.. Current models to induce a
      reparative response include; injection of proteins to stimulate proteoglycan production or
      inhibit the inflammatory response; transfer of genetic material to cells within the dammed
      structures; engineering of newly formed tissues ex-vivo for implantation; and finally
      repopulation of the damaged tissues with cells that can repair the injured structures.
      Subjects who meet strict inclusion/exclusion criteria will be enrolled in the study for
      injection of allograft or autologous tissue grafting that includes mesenchymal stem cells
      into their degenerative lumbar spine and followed for a minimum of 2 years for efficacy and
      adverse events. This is a prospective clinical study cohort comparing allograft to autograft
      cellular tissue graft injections in subjects with chronic low back pain due to either lumbar
      degenerative disk disease or degenerative facet disease at one to five lumbar levels from L1
      to S1 in patients who have been unresponsive to conservative therapy for at least 3
      months.Pre-treatment imaging criteria including Pfirmann Lumbar disk Scores and/or Fujiwara
      Facet Joint Scores will be noted during the screening visits. After the screening and
      treatment visits, each subject will be evaluated at 2 weeks, 6 weeks, and again at 3, 6, 12,
      24 months after injection.

      MRI scanning will be performed at the 6 month post-procedure visit and Pfirmann or Fujiwara
      Scores will be calculated along with notation of adjacent level disease, epidural pathology
      (i.e. new disk herniations), or new imaging findings. Patients will be given informed consent
      to participate the individual treatment they are to receive. This informed consent will
      follow US FDA guidelines detailed in ICH E6 Section 4.8 of the US Department of Health and
      Human Services Center for Drug/Biologics Evaluation and Research. At completion of enrollment
      patients will have surgical sterile preparation and draping. All JCAHO Surgical Care
      Improvement Project protocols including pre-operative antibiotics will be adhered to. The
      disk or facet joint of interest will be verified by fluoroscopy and will be sterilely
      cannulated with an 21 to 11G needle based on anatomic requirements. At this point injection
      of FDA approved allograft or autograft mesenchymal stem cells within a demineralized bone
      matrix or hyalouronic acid carrier respectively will be injected in to the facet joint or
      disk space. Needle will be removed and sterile dressing will be placed. Patients will be
      placed in a post operative brace for stabilization of the index level to aid in healing.
      Patients will be discharged home once standard outpatient discharge criteria are met per
      JCAHO guidelines. Follow up periods will be adhered to as noted above. Patient safety will be
      strictly monitored in the pre-procedure, peri-procedure, and post-procedure periods for a
      minimum of 2 years. All patients will be assigned to a follow up surgeon at specific follow
      up periods and no patients will be denied any care during that period. Physical examination
      will be documented at each visit. Additionally, scheduled imaging studies will be performed
      throughout the study period to follow safety. Patients will be followed by their surgical
      investigator, who will be responsible for diagnosis and management of any complications or
      adverse events. Development of additional non-spinal disease processes will also be
      documented to follow any trends that occur including any new related or un-related diseases.
      Safety of patient confidentiality is an additional study related risk, which will be
      optimized to the fullest by adhering to the US Health Insurance Portability and
      Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA). Any Serious Adverse Events (SAE) as defined by the US FDA
      will be reported immediately to the IRB for evaluation. A SAE is classified as an adverse
      event that results in hospital admission or hospital stay, or alteration of the body in a
      permanent way. Surgeon investigators will provide pre-operative, peri-operative, and
      post-operative care for all subjects.

      Pre-operative, peri-operative, and post operative data will be collected. Patients will be
      followed for a minimum of 2 years within the US or Canada with a study investigator for data
      collection at 2 weeks (±1 wk), 6 weeks (±2 wks), and 3 months (±2 wks), 6 months (±1 mo), 9
      months (± 1.5 months), 12 months (±2 mos), and 24 months (±2 mos). Data may be entered as at
      additional time points as needed. Re-admission, re-injection, and additional
      hospital/outpatient events will be collected including possible additional surgical
      procedures. Data will be managed by the investigator or their designee in a computerized
      database accessible only by research staff with original information kept with the patient
      medical record in the hospital or follow up sub-investigator office. Comparative statistical
      analysis will be performed prior to any publication to validate data and conclusions. Study
      staff and the Principle Investigator (PI) agree to conduct the study(ies) in accordance with
      the relevant, current protocol(s) and will only make changes in a protocol after notifying
      the sponsor, except when necessary to protect the safety, rights, or welfare of subjects. The
      PI agrees to personally conduct or supervise the described investigation(s). The PI agrees to
      inform any patients, or any persons used as controls, when drugs or devices are being used
      for investigational purposes and the PI will ensure that the requirements relating to
      obtaining informed consent in US 21 CFR Part 50 and institutional review board (IRB) review
      and approval in US 21 CFR Part 56 are met. The PI agrees to report to the sponsor adverse
      experiences that occur in the course of the investigation(s) in accordance with US 21 CFR
      312.64. The PI understands the potential risks and side effects of all treatments,
      investigational and standard of care. The PI agrees to ensure that all associates,
      colleagues, and employees assisting in the conduct of the study(ies) are informed about their
      obligations in meeting the above commitments. The PI agrees to maintain adequate and accurate
      records in accordance with US 21 CFR 312.62 and to make those records available for
      inspection in accordance with US 21 CFR 312.68 if the study is applied and accepted for US
      FDA review. The PI will ensure that the IRB complies with the requirements of US 21 CFR Part
      56 will be responsible for the initial and continuing review and approval of the clinical
      investigation. The PI also agrees to promptly report to the IRB all changes in the research
      activity and all unanticipated problems involving risks to human subjects or others.
      Additionally, the PI will not make any changes in the research without IRB approval, except
      where necessary to eliminate apparent immediate hazards to human subjects. The PI agrees to
      comply with all other requirements regarding the obligations of clinical investigators and
      all other pertinent requirements in US 21 CFR Part 312. Medical Ethics are of primary
      importance during a study of that exposes humans to a new treatment. The scientific merit of
      the study protocol, potential social value of the research, skill and experience of the
      investigators, and potential financial exploitation of the study subjects are all of
      paramount concern. Thus, in addition to abiding by the US FDA Quality Assurance Policy (Form
      1572), the World Health Organization's "Declaration of Helsinki" involving the Ethical
      Principles for Medical Research Involving Human Subjects will be abided by throughout the
      trial. Finally, as this study involves subjects that reside within the United States, the
      investigators in this trial will also abide by Title 45 Part 46 of the Code of [US] Federal
      Regulations, Protection of Human Subjects (45 CFR 46).
    
  