
    
      Retinal telangiectasis is a group of rare, idiopathic retinal vascular anomalies affecting
      the retinal capillaries in which irregular capillary dilation and incompetence occur in the
      macula. This is the former group 2 in the Gass classification of idiopathic juxtafoveal
      telangiectasia in which fluorescein angiography showed leakage with capillary dilation. These
      patients typically are diagnosed in their fifth or sixth decade of life. Both sexes may be
      affected. Minimal exudation, superficial retinal crystalline deposits, and right-angle
      venules characterize this disorder. As the disease progresses, intraretinal pigment plaques
      and eventually subretinal/choroidal neovascularization develop. Currently, these patients
      will be classified as macular telangiectasia. The pathogenesis of the disease is unknown.
      Because of the leakage of the retinal vessels and also the finding of neovascularization, it
      is possible that vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) may be implicated in this disease.

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the possible role of ranibizumab for the treatment
      of five participants with macular telangiectasia with hyperfluorescence on fluorescein
      angiography, with vision decreased to 20/40 or worse, without neovascularization. The primary
      outcome will be a visual acuity change, either increase or decrease of 15 letters or more at
      one year. The secondary outcomes measured at one year will include visual acuity changes of
      10 letters or more, the change in retinal thickening documented by OCT, the extent and degree
      of fluorescein leakage, the change in area of hypofluorescence, and the change in central
      retinal sensitivity. This is a pilot study designed to evaluate the feasibility and potential
      efficacy of treating patients with macular telangiectasia in a larger, phase III study within
      the organization of the MAC TEL Research Group, sponsored by the Lowy Foundation. Currently,
      the research group is enrolling 200 patients affected with this condition for a natural
      history study in 22 international clinical centers.
    
  