
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess inflammatory changes over 6 weeks for lung and urine biomarkers in smokers in a
      clinical trial where smokers are randomized to continued use (n=32), complete switching to
      the nicotine standardized research electronic cigarettes (e-cig) (SREC) (n=32), complete
      switching to nicotine replacement therapy (NRT) (n=32), dual use (cigarettes [cigs] +
      nicotine SREC) (n=32), or nicotine-free SREC (n=32).

      OUTLINE: Participants are randomized to 1 of 5 groups.

      GROUP I: Participants undergo bronchoscopy over 30-60 minutes at baseline. Participants
      continue to smoke their usual brand of cigarettes. Participants undergo a second bronchoscopy
      on day 71.

      GROUP II: Participants undergo bronchoscopy over 30-60 minutes at baseline. Beginning 1 week
      after bronchoscopy, participants learn to use the SREC with nicotine for 2 weeks and switch
      completely to the SREC with nicotine starting day 15 for 8 weeks. Participants undergo a
      second bronchoscopy on day 71.

      GROUP III: Participants undergo bronchoscopy over 30-60 minutes at baseline. Beginning 1 week
      after bronchoscopy, participants learn to use the SREC without nicotine for 2 weeks and
      switch completely to the SREC without nicotine starting day 15 for 8 weeks. Participants will
      be offered varenicline to aid cessation. Participants undergo a second bronchoscopy on day
      71.

      GROUP IV: Participants undergo bronchoscopy over 30-60 minutes at baseline. Beginning 1 week
      after bronchoscopy, participants learn to use the nicotine-containing SREC for 2 weeks and
      use both their usual brand of cigarettes and the nicotine-containing SREC starting day 15 for
      8 weeks with the intention of smoking reduction to 5 cigarettes or less per day. Participants
      undergo a second bronchoscopy on day 71.

      GROUP V: Participants undergo bronchoscopy over 30-60 minutes at baseline. Beginning 2 days
      before the day 15 quit date, participants stop smoking using NRT comprising either patch,
      gum, or lozenge for 8 weeks. Participants undergo a second bronchoscopy on day 71.

      After completion of study, participants are followed up at 3 months.
    
  