
    
      The proposed study is a randomized controlled trial designed to test whether CBT plus mirror
      therapy (CBT+MT) is superior to supportive care (SC) for treatment of phantom limb pain (PLP)
      in amputees. The primary hypothesis is that CBT+ MT will lead to significantly greater
      reductions in PLP compared to SC. Secondary hypotheses will test whether CBT+MT also leads to
      significantly greater improvements in psychiatric symptoms, functioning, and quality of life
      than SC.

      Eighty veterans from the San Diego VA Healthcare System (SDVAHS) will be recruited. All
      veterans will have a unilateral upper or lower limb amputation. All participants will
      complete an intake assessment prior to treatment randomization. The assessment will include
      measures of pain (Phantom Limb Pain Questionnaire, Descriptive Differential Scale, McGill
      Pain Questionnaire) psychiatric symptoms (Patient Health Questionnaire, Posttraumatic Stress
      disorder Checklist), psychiatric diagnosis (Mini-International Neuropsychiatric Interview)
      and functioning (Trinity Amputation and Prosthesis Experiences Scale, Short Form-36).
      Participants will then randomized to either CBT+MT or SC. Participants will complete pain and
      mood assessments weekly during treatment, and be retested on the full assessment battery at
      the end of treatment and 12 and 24 weeks posttreatment.

      The CBT+MT intervention will consist of 8 individual sessions of CBT, including
      psychoeducation, cognitive restructuring, relaxation training, and acceptance techniques.
      Participants in the CBT+MT condition will also learn to use a mirror apparatus to reduce PLP,
      and will receive a set of mirrors to use at home. The SC treatment will consist of the
      therapist meeting with the patient and using listening and reflection skills to discuss the
      patient's pain. The SC condition will have no pain education or skills training component.

      Data analyses will use a repeated-measures ANOVA approach to test whether the two conditions
      differ on change in the primary measure (Phantom Limb Pain Questionnaire) as well as in other
      pain, psychiatric symptom, functioning and quality of life measures. Exploratory analyses
      will test whether patient variables and amputation characteristics predict treatment
      outcomes.
    
  