
    
      Arsenicosis is remaining as a precarious issue in Bangladesh for the last few decades. The
      fact of resentment is that this perilous condition still remains unresolved worldwide. So, it
      has become the demand of era to address this issue. Different diseases are manifested in
      different way. In arsenicosis melanosis and keratosis are the most common manifestations. The
      actual mechanism of development of keratosis is unclear. Chronic ingestion of arsenic
      contaminated water causes accumulation of arsenic in keratin rich tissues like skin, hair,
      nail and producing characteristic skin manifestations like melanosis and keratosis.
      Metabolism of arsenic depends on folate pathway and dietary deficiency of folic acid reduced
      the total arsenic excretion and leads to development of cancer. In different study results
      shown that folic acid reduces the blood arsenic level. As arsenicosis is a chronic disease
      condition, fungal infection is more common to them. Moreover the skin fungal pattern in
      arsenicosis yet not known. Therefore, this study will be conducted to determine is there any
      change in skin fungal pattern in patients with palmar arsenical keratosis before and after
      administration of iron and folic acid. Forty two patients with palmar arsenical keratosis
      will be recruited on the basis of inclusion and exclusion criteria. Twenty one patients will
      be furnished tablet placebo once daily for 12 weeks without any interruption. Another twenty
      one patients will be furnished iron (150 mg) and folic acid (0.5 mg) once daily for 12 weeks
      without any interruption. Water and nail samples will be collected for confirming the
      diagnosis. Skin sample will be collected two times (before and after giving iron and folic
      acid) for qualitative analysis of fungi. So, this study will determine any change in fungal
      pattern after administrating tablet iron and folic acid.
    
  