
    
      Introduction

      Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) is defined as carbohydrate intolerance first diagnosed
      during pregnancy [1]. It is associated with adverse pregnancy outcome for the mother, and the
      fetus with consequences regarding future health and development of the neonate. Maternal
      consequences include increased rate of operative and cesarean delivery, hypertensive
      disorders during pregnancy and future risk for type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) as well as
      other aspects of the metabolic syndrome, such as obesity, cardiovascular morbidities and
      recurrent GDM [2-4]. Also, children born to mothers affected by gestational hypertension have
      been found to have higher body mass index (BMI), systolic blood pressure, glucose and insulin
      levels [5]; this risk extends into adulthood, with an 8-fold increased risk of type 2
      diabetes among young adults exposed to gestational diabetes during fetal life [6].

      Of all types of diabetes, GDM accounts for approximately 90-95% of all cases [4, 7]. It
      complicates up to 14% of all pregnancies. Its prevalence is increasing and parallels the
      rising incidence of type 2 diabetes mellitus worldwide [3,4]. Risk factors for developing GDM
      in pregnancy include obesity, previously GDM, glycosuria, family history, ethnicity and
      hypertension [5,6].

      It has been clearly demonstrated that intensified management and the achievement of
      established levels of glycemic control using memory-based self-monitoring blood glucose,
      glyburide treatment or if needed multiple injections of insulin, diet, and an
      interdisciplinary team effort was associated with enhanced pregnancy outcome [8-10]. The
      above recommendations support the routine use of self-monitoring blood glucose in the
      management of the pregnancy compromised by diabetes. The recommendation of the American
      Colleague of Obstetrics and Gynecology as recently published [11] are four-times daily
      glucose monitoring preformed as fasting and either 1 or 2 hours after each meal with possible
      modifications made in diet-controlled GDM patients after reaching well controlled glucose
      levels.

      The role of self-monitoring blood glucose in intensified therapy in non-pregnant and pregnant
      women has become the standard to achieve targeted levels of glycemic control. Yet,
      self-monitoring blood glucose may have some disadvantages. It is painful to perform. Another
      shortcoming in the use of reflectance meters is that each glucose determination represents a
      sole glucose value during the day, a "snap shot" of glucose value.

      Recently, several companies have attempted to develop a new technology that measures
      continuous glucose. Some of these techniques are non-invasive while others are minimally
      invasive. Continuous glucose monitoring system (CGMS) employs four different approaches:
      transdermal, glucose electrode, micro-dialysis or open-flow micro perfusion. Currently, two
      are commercially available. The transdermal approach (Glucowatch; Cygnus, CA, USA) employs
      reverse iontophoresis by applying low voltage current to the skin surface causing
      interstitial fluid (containing glucose) to pass through the skin [12]. Glucose is then
      measured by an oxidase reaction. This data also contains information about skin temperature
      and sweat that are all included in the calculation process. The MiniMed CGM System (Sylmar,
      CA, USA) is composed of a disposable subcutaneous glucose-sensing device and an electrode
      impregnated with glucose oxidase connected by a cable to a lightweight monitor which is worn
      over clothing or a belt [13]. The system measures glucose levels every 10 seconds, based on
      the electrochemical detection of glucose by its reaction with glucose oxidase, and stores an
      average value every 5 minutes, for a total of 288 measurements per day. The glucose
      measurement is performed in subcutaneous tissue in which the interstitial glucose levels are
      in the range of 40-400 mg/dl. The data are stored in the monitor for later downloading and
      reviewing on a personal computer. The patients are unaware of the results of the sensor
      measurements during the monitoring period. Glucose values obtained with CGMS have been shown
      to correlate with laboratory measurements of plasma glucose levels [14] and with home glucose
      meter values [15].

      The CGMS has been studied in non-pregnant patients where it has demonstrated clinical
      usefulness by enhancing decision-making through detecting previously unrecognized
      postprandial hyperglycemia and nocturnal hyper-and hypoglycemia [16]. Scientific evidence on
      a HbA1c-reducing effect of CGMS use is limited [17, 18]. Although some studies do evaluate
      the effect of CGMS use on biochemical endpoints, such as HbA1c levels, data on clinical
      endpoints like diabetic complications, are lacking. The usefulness of CGMS use during
      pregnancy has hardly been evaluated up to now [18].

      There are only limited randomized clinical trials assessing the usefulness of CGMS in
      reducing the rate of diabetes related pregnancy complications with conflicting results [19,
      20]. Murphy et al. [19] showed in 71 pregnant women with Type 1 and 2 diabetes mellitus that
      intermittent (4-6 weeks interval) CGMS resulted in a significant reduction of HbA1C at 32-36
      weeks of gestation, lower birth weight, and reduced risk of macrosomia (odds ratio 0.36, 95%
      confidence interval 0.13 to 0.98, P<0.05) compared to standard antenatal care. However, this
      study was hampered by small sample size and both study groups differed in composition (e.g. 5
      set of twins in the intervention group as opposed to none in the control group). In contrast,
      a recently published study [20] of 154 pregnant women with preexisting diabetes mellitus
      randomized to either real time CGM for 6 days at 8,12,21,27 and 33 weeks of gestation or
      routine care only showed neither an improvement in glycemic control, reflected in similar
      rates of hypoglycemia events and HbA1C levels, nor a reduction of large for gestational age
      neonates rate in the CGM group. In a recent study, Wei et al. included a total of 106 women
      with GDM in gestational weeks 24-28 were randomly allocated to the antenatal care plus CGMS
      group or the self-monitoring blood glucose group [21]. The authors showed The proportion of
      GDM women with excessive gestational weight gain was lower in the CGMS group than in the
      self-monitoring blood glucose (SMBG) group (33.3% vs. 56.4%, P=0.039), and women who
      initiated CGMS earlier gained less weight (P=0.017). In addition, the investigators showed
      that the mode of blood glucose monitoring (adjusted OR 2.40; 95% CI 1.030-5.588; P=0.042) was
      an independent factor for weight gain.

      Since obstetric complications in diabetic pregnancies, especially macrosomia and large for
      gestational age newborn, seem to be related to glycemic control, the investigators
      hypothesize that the additional use of will reduce adverse pregnancy outcome related to
      pregnancies complicated with gestational diabetes.

      Aims:

      This trial evaluates the clinical effectiveness, costs and cost-effectiveness of Continuous
      glucose monitoring using FreeStyle Freedom Lite CGMS use with the aim to optimize glycemic
      control and pregnancy outcome of pregnancies diagnosed with GDM relative to standard control
      methods.
    
  