
    
      An alternative to polysomnography (PSG), which is done overnight in a lab, is home sleep
      apnea testing (HSAT). Also known as out-of-center testing, HSAT has emerged as a more
      convenient and increasingly widely used method to screen for sleep apnea. HSAT records fewer
      signals for assessment, is less cumbersome than traditional PSG, and allows patients to spend
      the night at home, eliminating the need for technical staff to be present during testing.
      HSAT is considerably less expensive than PSG to perform. Despite its advantages, there are
      concerns about false-negatives and underestimation of disease severity with HSAT. There is
      clearly a need to improve the accuracy of less costly screening tools for OSA. Zansors速
      wireless microsensor is a novel device to screen for sleep apnea, which measures breathing
      patterns and movement, and which will collect data and communicate with a smartphone via
      Bluetooth. In this study, investigators are comparing the Zansors microsensor to HSAT and PSG
      to assess its accuracy. Patients will be asked to wear the device during the clinical HSAT
      ordered by their doctor, and again at an in-laboratory sleep study. When patients are being
      trained to use the HSAT equipment, research staff will also show them how to put the Zansors速
      device on. They will then wear it at home on the night of their HSAT. At a later date, when
      they come for the in-laboratory sleep study, the device will again be worn overnight while
      they are being assessed by the full PSG equipment. Together in this study, all these device
      recordings will help to detect any sleep apnea and researchers will compare the results of
      the Zansors 速 microsensor with HSAT and PSG equipment. If the Zansors 速 device is confirmed
      to detect sleep hypopneas and apneas accurately, it can be used easily and inexpensively by
      people at home to screen for obstructive sleep apnea.
    
  