
    
      Workers in the United States spend large amounts of time on the job, making the workplace a
      key venue for preventive health programs. A workplace risk that has received limited
      attention is sun protection, despite the fact 8% of the U.S. workforce (over 9 million
      workers) work outdoors. The investigators have demonstrated that sun safety education can
      promote sun protection at work. In this revised application, the investigators propose to
      systematically study a more comprehensive approach to workplace sun safety that goes beyond
      employee education to promote institutional change. The investigators will implement and
      evaluate a proactive campaign to change workplace sun protection policies and promote sun
      safety to managers rather than individual employees. The investigators will assess whether
      policy adoption alters organizational operations in public employers rather than the private
      employers examined in our previous research. The specific aims are to: a) create a campaign
      comprised of personal contacts, printed materials, and Internet tools and resources (i.e.,
      pubic health communication) to promote workplace sun protection policies to managers at
      public employers, b) evaluate the effectiveness of the campaign at promoting adoption and
      implementation of workplace sun protection policies, and c) assess whether policy adoption is
      associated in increases in workers' sun protection practices. An advisory board of public
      administrators and health experts has been constituted to advise the investigators on
      campaign and evaluation procedures. Analysis of public employers' existing policies and
      practices, additional in-depth interviews with public administrators, information design
      analysis, and usability testing will be conducted to develop an effective campaign. The
      campaign will be evaluated in a group-randomized, pretest-posttest controlled design. City
      and county governments in Colorado will serve as the unit of randomization and analysis.
      Interviews will be conducted with a sample of administrators at these public employers at
      baseline, interim posttest (n=6 per employer) and final posttest (n=5 per employer). In a
      subsequent four-year follow-up, surveys with employees and front line supervisors will assess
      employees' sun protection practices and workplace actions to support employee sun safety; (2)
      on-site observations of sun protection actions by the employers (e.g., posters, sunscreen,
      shade structures) will be documented; and (3) costs of implementing the policy campaign and
      induced employer costs will be tracked. Public employers will be studied because they employ
      a sizable number of outdoor workers (but results should generalize to for-profit companies).
      Outcomes will be evaluated at the employer, administrator, and employee levels. At the
      employer level, adoption of workplace sun protection policies at pretest and each posttest
      will be assessed with a protocol for coding written workplace policies (primary outcome
      measure) that demonstrated high reliability in a pilot study. At the administrator level,
      policy implementation (secondary outcome), theoretical mediators of adoption and
      implementation, and individual, organizational, political decision making and program
      variables that might moderate change will be measured in baseline, interim posttest (halfway
      through the intervention) and final posttest (end of intervention) surveys. At the employee
      level, analyses will compare the sun protection practices of employees between workplaces
      that received the intervention and controls and among workplaces that provided education and
      adopted policy, provided education only, and control workplaces. Analyses will also determine
      if the extent of sun protection actions by employers influences employees' sun safety
      practices. At the cost level, the economic evaluation will estimate the return on investment
      (i.e., comparison of the estimated program benefits to combined cost elements). The proposed
      study is significant and innovative because it provides critical information applicable to a
      wide range of industrial sectors with outdoor workers on a workplace risk that has received
      scant attention. Determining the effectiveness and return on investment of prevention
      programs is essential for national and local resource investment.
    
  