
    
      Multiple Myeloma (MM) is an incurable haematological neoplasm that is characterized by
      homing, survival, and proliferation of malignant, antibody producing plasma cells in the bone
      marrow. All clinically relevant symptoms (cytopenia, hyperproteinemia and proteinuria with
      renal insufficiency, hypercalcemia, osteolysis) are due to the aggressive infiltration of the
      whole bone marrow by MM cells, while all other solid and lymphoid organs including the
      peripheral blood are normally spared. From these clinical observations and from many
      preclinical studies it is evident that adhesion of MM cells to the bone marrow cells
      characterizes the biology of this disease. Adhesion of MM cells leads to the secretion of
      stimulatory cytokines,upregulation of adhesion molecules, proliferation of MM cells, and drug
      resistance.

      Statins, like simvastatin, inhibit the 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA)
      reductase, which catalyzes the conversion of HMG-CoA to mevalonate. Interestingly, in MM
      models statins induce apoptosis, inhibit proliferation, overcome primary and secondary drug
      resistance, and synergize with cytotoxic drugs. Oligonucleotide microarray analyses
      demonstrated that de novo and acquired drug resistance are associated with an increase of
      HMG-CoA reductase gene expression. We have shown before that adhesion of MM cells to bone
      marrow stromal cells mediates strong multidrug resistance and that this can be overcome by
      co-treatment with simvastatin in non-toxic concentrations. Interestingly, statin induced
      apoptosis in MM cells is not hampered by adhesion to bone marrow stromal cells.

      Based upon these comprehensive preclinical findings clinical trials to investigate the
      in-vivo antimyeloma activity of statins are urgently needed. Our in vitro studies
      demonstrated that inhibition of cell adhesion mediated drug resistance by simvastatin is
      possible at low concentrations of about 1µM. We therefore suggested that cell adhesion
      mediated drug resistance can be treated with approved doses of simvastatin (80mg daily).
      Consequently we initiate a pilot phase II trial to investigate feasibility and clinical
      effects of simvastatin concomitantly with chemotherapy as preparation for a randomized trial.

      As the primary goal is to prove the hypothesis that simvastatin can overcome drug resistance
      in vivo only patients not responding to chemotherapy will be included. Chemotherapy is
      defined as bortezomib and bendamustin, as both are effective and approved drugs in the
      therapy of relapsed myeloma. Further inclusion criteria are age over 18 years, proven MM
      (serum protein below 11g/dl, life expectancy > 3 months) and treatment indication with
      measurable paraprotein. In the case of no change (paraprotein increase less than 25% and
      paraprotein decline less than 50%) after two cycles of bortezomib (one cycle: 1.3 mg/m2
      d1,4,8,11) or bendamustin (one cycle: 100 mg/m2 d1+2) the patients will receive two further
      cycles with concomitant simvastatin treatment (80 mg daily starting two days before
      chemotherapy and stopping two days after chemotherapy). Exclusion criteria are severe organ
      failure and risk factors for rhabdomyolysis (untreated hypothyroidism, active liver disease,
      terminal renal insufficiency, acute infectious disease, myopathy, heriditary myopathy in the
      family history, alcohol abuse, comedication with itraconazole, ketoconazole, erythromycin,
      clarithromycin, HIV protease inhibitors, nefazodone, cyclosporine, fibrates, niacin,
      amiodarone, verapamil).
    
  