
    
      Bladder tumors are one of the most commonly diagnosed urinary tumors in the world. Worldwide,
      it has been estimated that 429,800 new cases of and 165,100 deaths due to bladder tumor
      occurred in 2012. Transurethral resection (TUR) is the gold-standard treatment for non-muscle
      invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC). In muscle-invasive bladder cancer, TUR also plays a vital
      role as a bladder-sparing procedure regardless of whether it is applied as a monotherapy or
      in combination with chemo-radiotherapy.

      Whether radical resection of a tumor is initially performed can be essential in the treatment
      of bladder tumors. Incomplete TUR influences a patient's prognosis, regardless of whether it
      is part of a NMIBC treatment or part of bladder-sparing trimodal therapy. However, the
      quality of TUR is one of the greatest concerns in the treatment of bladder tumor. After
      initial TUR, approximately 70% of patients exhibit incomplete resection re-staging TUR. Of
      these patients, 30% exhibit residual tumors at the resection site. To solve this problem, a
      second TUR 4-6 weeks after the initial TUR is recommended by the guidelines, and these
      repeated TURs detect residual tumors in 26-83% of cases.

      The investigators sought to identify other therapies that can be combined with TUR to
      eliminate residual tumors. As a minimally invasive method, cryotherapy has been widely used
      for urological tumors, including prostate tumor and kidney tumor. With respect to bladder
      tumors, cryotherapy remains in the exploration phase. Only a few studies of the use of
      computed tomography (CT)-guided percutaneous cryoablation for the treatment of bladder cancer
      have been reported. Unlike solid viscera, such as the prostate or kidney, the bladder
      exhibits the features of hollow viscera. Cryoablation through the transurethral approach
      could be possible if the safety of the procedure can be ensured. Our recent animal study
      conducted in a porcine model demonstrated the feasibility and safety of transurethral focal,
      full-thickness cryoablation. No perforations were observed during two eight-minute freeze
      cycles. Based on the success of transurethral cryoablation in animal experiments, the
      investigators performed this study to explore the safety and efficacy of cryoablation as an
      adjuvant therapy with TUR in the treatment of bladder tumors.
    
  