
    
      1. Purpose

           To determine if Taylor's approach (paramedian, via L5-S1 interspace) to subarachnoid
           blockade produces less hypotension than the more commonly used paramedian lumbar
           approach (via L3-L4 interspace).

        2. Hypothesis

           Taylor's approach to subarachnoid blockade for total knee joint arthroplasty will result
           in less hypotension which requires treatment than a paramedian lumbar approach.

        3. Justification

           Taylor described a method of obtaining spinal anesthesia for urological procedures using
           a paramedian approach to L5-S1. This interspace is large and tends to be less affected
           by degenerative changes than the lumbar interspaces. Because of these attributes this
           approach can be used as an alternative to either midline or paramedian approaches to the
           lumbar vertebrae interspaces.

           Hypotension is a frequent and important complication of spinal anesthesia. As the degree
           of hypotension correlates with the height of blockade achieved, performing the dural
           puncture at a lower interspace may result in less hypotension. Several previous studies
           have compared the degree of hypotension resulting from a subarachnoid block performed
           via different lumbar interspaces with conflicting results. However a direct comparison
           of the lower Taylor's approach with a lumbar approach has not been investigated
           previously.

           Studies in the past used surface anatomy to determine the level of the lumbar
           interspaces, which has since been shown to be inaccurate. A study comparing
           identification of lumbar interspaces by palpation and with ultrasound showed that while
           palpation was correct 30% of the time, correct identification was able to be achieved by
           ultrasound 71% of the time. Similar rates of correct identification by ultrasound have
           been shown in subsequent studies.

           Using ultrasound in this study to identify the relevant Lumbosacral anatomy will enable
           us to make a direct comparison between these two approaches to subarachnoid blockade
           with rates of subsequent hypotension as well as ease of procedure and other side
           effects.

        4. Objectives

           a) Primary: To compare the degree of hypotension requiring treatment between Taylor's
           approach (L5-S1) and a paramedian lumbar approach (at L3-L4) to spinal anesthesia for
           total knee joint arthroplasty.

           Secondary: For each approach to compare:

           The ease of each technique assessed by:

             -  The number of needle insertion attempts and number of needle passes (insertion and
                redirection attempts) required to establish dural puncture.

             -  Procedure time including the time taken to establish landmarks with ultrasound.

           Patient acceptability

             -  Patient rated pain score immediately after procedure (0 - 10)

             -  Patient rated satisfaction immediately after procedure (1 - 5) Success of central
                neuraxial blockade

             -  The maximum block height achieved

             -  Time from completion of administration of spinal to block height of L1 dermatome

             -  Time from completion of administration of spinal to regression of block height to
                L3 dermatome

             -  Amount of additional analgesia required during the procedure

        5. Research method

      To fulfill our objectives the investigators plan to perform a randomized trial comparing the
      two approaches to spinal anaesthesia on patients undergoing primary total knee joint
      arthroplasty.

        1. Recruitment

           Eligible patients presenting for primary knee arthroplasty surgery at University of
           British Columbia Hospital will be identified by anesthesiologists at the anesthesia
           pre-assessment clinic before the day of their surgery. At this stage they will be
           informed of the study and given an information leaflet to read.

           On the day of the surgery a member of the research team will approach the eligible
           patient and inform the patient again about the option of participating in the study,
           what each treatment group entails and answer any questions that the patient may have.

           If the patient is interested in participating in the study they will be asked to sign a
           consent form and informed that they may withdraw from the study at any time without any
           consequence. There will be no monetary or material compensation to participants.

           Inclusion criteria are male and female volunteers who are over the age of 19 and are
           able to understand the study protocol and give their informed consent. They need to be
           presenting for elective primary total knee joint arthroplasty under spinal anesthesia
           and be American Society of Anesthesiology (ASA) class 1, 2 or 3.

           Exclusion criteria are patients who are ASA 4 or 5, unable to understand the study
           protocol or give informed consent. Patients who have elected not to have or are deemed
           clinically inappropriate for spinal anesthesia will be excluded as well as patients who
           are presenting for a revision of a knee joint arthroplasty.

        2. Randomization

           Prior to the procedure, for each participating patient, a sealed unmarked opaque
           envelope that contains one of the two treatment groups will be opened. Patients will
           receive their spinal anaesthetic either via a paramedian lumbar approach or Taylor's
           approach.

        3. Intervention

           For both treatment groups the patients will have the usual preparation for spinal
           anesthesia, which involves an intravenous line with intravenous fluids running, standard
           monitoring, and being appropriately positioned on the operating table. The patient will
           receive premedication of 0.02 - 0.05mg/kg of midazolam. The blood pressure obtained in
           the anesthesia pre-assessment clinic or in the preoperative area will be taken as the
           patient baseline blood pressure. An experienced anesthesiologist will then perform an
           ultrasound scan on the patient with a low-frequency (2 - 5 MHz) curved-array probe,
           identifying the relevant anatomy, prior to performing the spinal anesthetic.

           Taylor's approach:

           Patients randomised to the Taylor's approach group will first have the sacrum identified
           with the ultrasound probe in a transverse position in the patients' midline. The
           transducer will then be rotated 90 degrees into the paramedian axis and the L5 - S1
           interspace identified. The position of the transducer will be adjusted to obtain the
           best image of the interspace with it centred on the ultrasound screen. A marking pen
           will then be used to mark the midpoints of the probe's long and short edges. The point
           where these marks would intersect will be used as the initial needle insertion point for
           spinal anesthesia.

           The lumbosacral area will then be prepared in a sterile manner and with appropriate
           sterile technique spinal anaesthesia will be performed with a 25-gauge, 90 mm,
           pencil-point needle inserted through a 20-gauge introducer needle. Once dural puncture
           has been achieved and cerebral spinal fluid is obtained in the hub of the spinal needle
           12.5 mg of 0.5% bupivacaine (preservative free) will be injected.

           Paramedian lumbar approach:

           Patients randomised to the Paramedian lumbar approach group will be scanned in a similar
           manner to the Taylor's approach group. The sacrum will be identified first, then with
           the transducer in the paramedian axis the interspaces will be identified and counted up
           from L5 - S1 to L3 - L4. At the L3 - L4 interspace the image will be optimised and the
           skin marked as described above. Spinal anesthesia will then proceed in an identical
           manner with the same dose of bupivacaine.

           After spinal anaesthesia is performed in both groups the patient will remain in the
           sitting position for 5 minutes and then will be positioned supine for surgery. The
           patient will have their blood pressure and heart rate measured at 5 minute intervals (or
           more regularly at the discretion of the anesthesiologist). If a decrease of mean
           arterial blood pressure occurs, which is greater than 20% from the patients'
           pre-recorded baseline, or if there is a decrease in heart rate to less than 50 bpm then
           5 to 10mg increments of ephedrine will be administered. Sensory block will be assessed
           by bilateral application of ice at 5 minute intervals. Intravenous fentanyl in 25 - 50
           mcg increments will be administered if the patient complains of any pain during the
           surgery.

        4. Data Collection

           The patient's age, height and weight will be recorded, also any significant past medical
           problems, in particular if the patient has a history of hypertension. Baseline
           observations including blood pressure will be taken from the anesthetic assessment
           clinic visit prior to the day of surgery.

           An independent observer will record the time taken to establish landmarks with
           ultrasound imaging and the time taken to complete the spinal anesthesia. The number of
           needle insertions and redirections required to achieve dural puncture will also be
           recorded (as previously defined by Chin et al.). Immediately after the spinal
           anaesthesia has been administered, the patient will be asked by the observer to rate the
           pain they experienced during the procedure (from 0 - 10) and their satisfaction with the
           procedure (from 1 - 5).

           The sensory block height will be measured and recorded at 5 minute intervals. The number
           of 5 minute increments where the mean arterial blood pressure is measured as being
           greater than 20% below baseline will be collected as well as the amount of ephedrine
           required to treat each patient. The amount of intravenous fluid given during the
           procedure will be recorded. Other details related to the surgery will also be collected
           including time of first incision, tourniquet inflation and deflation times, estimated
           total blood loss and time of surgical completion.

           Any additional analgesia requirements during the procedure will be recorded as well as
           any other unexpected complications, including the need to convert to a general
           anesthetic.

           After the procedure the block height will be measured and recorded in 15 minute
           intervals until the block height has regressed to L3.

        5. Statistical Analysis

      Power calculation is based on the primary outcome of a reduction in hypotension. From
      clinical experience and a previous study by Carpenter et al. the investigators anticipate a
      35 - 40% reduction in the incidence of hypotension in the Taylor's approach group. Based on a
      p-value of < 0.05 the sample size calculation is 12 patients in each group. The investigators
      will aim to recruit 15 patients in each group.
    
  