
    
      Individuals with end-stage kidney disease requiring HD suffer from multiple symptoms, which
      have limited effective treatments. Symptom burden, the combined impact of number and severity
      of symptoms, negatively impacts functional status and health-related quality of life (HRQOL)
      in HD. Small interventional trials suggest exercise can mitigate specific individual
      symptoms, but impact of exercise on overall symptom burden in HD is unknown. Dialysis
      patients have identified improving symptom burden and HRQOL as research priorities. We
      propose the first randomized controlled trial (RCT) investigating the effect of exercise
      rehabilitation on symptom burden in individuals on HD.

      Hypothesis: In individuals on HD, participation in a 26-week exercise rehabilitation (rehab)
      program will reduce symptom burden and improve HRQOL, resulting in reduced disability and
      improved long-term clinical outcomes as compared with standard care.

      Study Design: Single-centre RCT with one-to-one parallel design, allocation concealment and
      assessor blinding

      Study Population: Adults receiving chronic in-centre HD for > 3 months with at least one
      dialysis-related symptom; n=150

      Intervention: Standard care plus 26-week structured rehab program (lifestyle education,
      resistance exercise and cycling during HD).

      Control: Standard care (baseline exercise counseling)

      Outcomes measured at baseline, 12, 26 and 52 weeks.

      Data Analysis: Will be performed on an intention to treat, available case basis with t-tests
      or Mann Whitney U for continuous outcomes, as per data distribution and Chi square tests for
      categorical outcomes. Mixed effects modeling will account for repeated outcome measures over
      time. Poisson regression will be performed for hospitalization analysis.

      Anticipated Outcomes: Mean symptom burden severity score will decrease by 20% from baseline
      in the intervention group. Due to sustained physical activity in the intervention group,
      symptom burden will remain lower in this group at 6 and 12 months. In contrast, the control
      group will see no improvement in symptom burden from baseline.
    
  