
    
      Hidradenitis suppurativa is a debilitating and mutilating disease and its pathogenesis is
      still poorly understood. It involves the development of recurrent, painful nodules in
      intertriginous areas that become inflamed, form abscesses that may rupture, and develop
      chronic fistula tracts. The cause of hidradenitis suppurativa (HS) is thought to be
      multifactorial and may begin with follicular occlusion and rupture, leading to a cascade of
      inflammatory responses in susceptible individuals. The disease has been associated with high
      body mass index, smoking and genetic predisposition. There is a known association between HS
      and the metabolic syndrome, an association that remains after controlling for body mass
      index. HS predominantly affects women and ethnic minorities and the prevalence is thought to
      be as high as 2%, although embarrassment and lack of awareness may lead to an underestimate
      of the true burden of disease.

      Although HS is a fairly common disease, relatively little is understood about its
      pathogenesis. Immune dysregulation is thought to play a role in disease development.
      Increased levels of interleukin (IL)-12, IL-17, IL-23, tumor necrosis factor α, IL-10 and
      IL-1β were found to be expressed in lesional skin of HS patients. Recent studies have also
      identified elevated levels of IL-17 in the serum of patients with HS.

      HS is associated with a significant impact on patient quality of life. Patients suffer from
      both the physical and psychological impact of disease. Many therapies have been used to treat
      HS, from topical antibiotics to oral retinoids to radical surgeries, but all have limited
      efficacy. Despite efforts to control disease, many patients live with chronic wounds and
      disability. The decision about appropriate therapy for HS, especially in the early stages, is
      mainly based on expert opinion, anecdotal evidence, and small studies. Topical and systemic
      antimicrobial treatments are often used as first line therapies, although studies have
      repeatedly shown that the abscesses of HS are sterile or contain only normal flora. The
      mechanism of improvement with antimicrobials may be through alterations in the local
      microbiome. Significant improvement in disease has been seen with dual therapy with twice
      daily use of 300mg rifampicin and 300mg clindamycin, neither of which have an FDA indication
      for use in HS. Doxycycline is used frequently in HS, but little evidence supports this.
      Despite success with the above therapies, the risk of antimicrobial resistance is real, and
      is increased with frequent and prolonged use of these medications in HS. Teratogenic effects,
      gastrointestinal upset, and photosensitivity with use of tetracyclines, risk for clostridium
      difficile colitis with clindamycin, and antimicrobial resistance with rifampicin highlight a
      need for safer and effective therapeutic options for the treatment of early HS.

      For more advanced disease (Hurley stage II and III), the tumor necrosis factor inhibitor
      adalimumab is the only FDA approved biologic treatment for HS. It has shown promise in severe
      disease, but only ~50% of patients achieved a clinical response at 12 weeks, and this
      clinical response declined over time. Additionally, newer biologic therapies have been used
      in small numbers of patients with HS with variable results. Importantly, the cost of these
      medications is considerable.

      Hydroxychloroquine, initially developed as an antimalarial, has been used successfully for
      over 70 years in the treatment of autoimmune disease. Its mechanism of action is still poorly
      understood, but it has been shown to have many varied immunomodulatory properties. Evidence
      suggests that hydroxychloroquine has an effect on inflammatory disease through decreasing
      levels of TNFα and Th-17 cytokines (including IL-6, IL-17, and IL-22). Additionally, studies
      have shown a beneficial effect of hydroxychloroquine on lipid metabolism and glucose.
      Patients with rheumatoid arthritis (which similarly to HS has an independent association with
      cardiovascular disease) who were treated with hydroxychloroquine had an overall decreased
      incidence of cardiovascular events. Hydroxychloroquine has a relatively benign safety
      profile, with retinopathy being the most concerning long term side effect. The retinopathy
      caused by hydroxychloroquine is reversible if identified early, and standard protocols for
      the use of this medication include yearly ophthalmologic examination.

      Patients with HS suffer daily from the physical and psychological effects of their disease.
      Despite insufficient data about disease progression and prognosis, early intervention with
      safe and effective therapies is our goal. Hydroxychloroquine has never been used to treat HS,
      but the good safety profile, based on many years of usage in other autoimmune diseases, and
      known ability to modify many of the aberrant metabolic and inflammatory components of HS make
      it an ideal candidate therapy for this debilitating disease.

      Research activities:

        1. Treatment with hydroxychloroquine 200mg twice daily. Treatment length will be 6 months.
           Patients will be allowed to continue or initiate use of topical therapies during the
           study.

        2. Telephone call to assess toxicity after 1 month of treatment

        3. Assessment of hidradenitis suppurativa disease activity using Sartorius scoring at
           baseline, and after 3 and 6 months of treatment

        4. Collection of patient serum at baseline and after 6 months of treatment

        5. Quality of life questionnaire at baseline, 3 and 6 months

        6. Follow up telephone call at ~9 and 12 months (3 and 6 months after therapy completion)
           to assess for toxicity

        7. Baseline ophthalmologic exam for patients on hydroxychloroquine will be conducted within
           the first year of treatment
    
  