
    
      Potential research participants will be recruited from the UC Davis Otolaryngology clinic.
      For this investigation, the investigators will be using the Tinnitus Functional Index, a
      standardized and validated survey for the impact of tinnitus on an individual's life. The
      study design will be an unblinded, quasi-experimental protocol to ascertain if transdermal
      lidocaine can reduce subjective tinnitus. This initial investigation will be studying the
      efficacy of 5% transdermal lidocaine patches in the treatment of tinnitus. Transdermal
      lidocaine is currently approved by the FDA for the treatment of post-herpetic neuralgia, but
      it is used off label for a wide assortment of conditions. The investigators will be following
      the guidelines used for the general use of transdermal lidocaine and will remain within the
      dosing approved by the FDA. The investigators intend to sequentially recruit 44 participants
      for this study, in the order that they present to the UC Davis Otolaryngology clinic.

      SUBJECTS Eligible subjects are greater than 18 years of age and have had at least a history
      of chronic subjective tinnitus. Prior to enrollment, all potential subjects will be screened
      to see if they meet the inclusion and exclusion criteria as listed in Section 6. Once
      inclusion and exclusion criteria have been evaluated, appropriate participants will undergo
      the informed consent process. Following informed consent, all selected participants will
      undergo a full history and physical exam. We will not be performing a pre-enrollment EKG, as
      it is not required for the general use of transdermal lidocaine. Each subject will have had
      an audiogram performed as standard of care for evaluation and management of chronic tinnitus.

      MATERIALS AND APPLICATION This investigation will utilize the UC Davis Otolaryngology clinic
      and its resource within for this investigation. TFI surveys will be provided for the
      participants. The drug used in this investigation will be 5% lidocaine patches (Endo
      Pharmaceuticals and Actavis Pharmaceuticals). Study drug will be prescribed by a physician in
      the Department of the Otolaryngology at UC Davis, to be filled at the pharmacy of the
      participant's choosing.

      The transdermal lidocaine patches will be administered to the participant's torso, either the
      upper back or chest, at his or her preference. If an individual is so slight of build that he
      or she can not apply three patches to either his upper chest or upper back, then other
      locations will be considered, including low back, buttocks, and thighs. Patches will be
      applied first thing in the morning to these areas daily, and kept on for twelve hours.
      Following patch removal at night, the patient will undergo a twelve hour drug recess off of
      the transdermal lidocaine.

      All relevant patient information including symptoms checklists, results of TFI, and other
      important patient care information will be recorded in the UC Davis Electronic Medical Record
      (EMR) for each encounter under the appropriate encounter subheading. These recording will be
      done in accordance with UC Davis Policies and Procedures manual Chapter 320, Section 10
      Records and Archives: Records Management Program, as well as UC Davis Health Center's Code of
      Conduct, specifically referring to Standards 6, Creation and Retention of an Accurate Patient
      and Institutional Record, and 14, Clinical Research. The patient data will also be transposed
      into a REDCap database for patient tracking, evaluation, and analysis.

      STUDY VISITS After the completion of the informed consent, each individual will be asked to
      complete the tinnitus functional index. If he or she does not have a baseline audiogram on
      record, they will be referred to the Audiology Clinic for this in accordance with standard of
      care for tinnitus. Using a previously created dot phrase in the EMR, the results of the TFI
      and the symptom checklist will be recorded into the participant's health record. Following
      completion of the tinnitus functional index, each participant will be prescribed thirty
      transdermal lidocaine patches, so that one patch can be applied daily for 12 hours, as
      indicated by the manufacturer. The participant will be asked to follow-up in 4 weeks by
      phone.

      All subjects will be enrolled sequentially and assigned a schedule that works best with his
      or her ability to follow-up. As such, for this pilot study there will not be any cohort
      assignment outside of the treatment group. Each participant will continue with either the
      baseline dosage or an increased dosage based upon his or her response and tolerance to the
      drug. For this quasi-experimental model, we will not be using controls and will compare final
      results to baseline measurements.

      After one month of treatment, the participant will be called by the research team. During
      this telephone call, the participant will first be asked if he or she would like to
      withdrawal from the study. This individual will then be asked to voice any and all concerns
      he or she may have up to that point in the study. During these calls, the participant will be
      asked the same questions he or she answered during the initial visit, including those of the
      TFI and the symptoms checklist. These results will be recorded in the EMR as a phone
      interaction, using the previously developed dot phrases. At the time of the call, the
      participant will be asked how many patches he or she has remaining from the previous month.
      These left over patches will be recorded as well in the EMR. At the conclusion of this first
      follow-up call, the participant will either continue the baseline dosage or have dosing
      increased to two transdermal lidocaine patches. These patches will again be applied to the
      upper back or shoulder 12 hours of each day. Patch application techniques will be similar to
      that of the first patch, but if he or she has any concerns about application of the patches
      he or she can ask the research team at any time for advice or guidance. We anticipate this
      follow-up call will take 30 minutes or less.

      At the end of this second 4 week period, 8 total study weeks, the participant will again be
      called by the research team and asked questions in a similar manner to the first follow-up
      phone call. During this telephone encounter, the patient will be asked if he or she would
      like to withdrawal from the study, and /or if he or she has any concerns. The participant
      will then be asked the same questions he or she answered during the initial visit, including
      the TFI and the symptoms checklist. The results will again be recorded in the EMR as a phone
      interaction, using the previously developed dot phrases. At the time of the call, the
      participant will be asked how many patches he or she has remaining from the previous month.
      These left over patches will be recorded as well in the EMR. At the conclusion of this
      follow-up call, the participant will have the opportunity to continue current therapy, or to
      increase his or her current regimen by a patch. This change would increase the total dose to
      either 2 or 3 transdermal lidocaine patches based upon his or her previous therapy. The
      patches will again be applied to the upper back or shoulder 12 hours of each day. Patch
      application techniques will be similar to that of the first patch, but if he or she has any
      concerns about application of the patches he or she can ask the research team at any time for
      advice or guidance. We anticipate this follow-up call will take 30 minutes or less.

      Following the third month of the study, 12 total study weeks, the participant will be asked
      to follow up in the UC Davis Otolaryngology clinic, and he or she will be seen in one of the
      clinical suites. The participant will have the opportunity to voice any concerns he or she
      may have with the trial. At this visits the participant will be asked again to complete the
      TFI, a symptoms checklist, report the number of patches he or she used over the previous
      month, and to undergo a focused physical examination of his or her head, neck, and
      cardiovascular system. The results of these questionnaires and exams will be recorded in the
      EMR. Following these repeat evaluations, the participant's results of the TFI will be
      reviewed. After reviewing these results, the participant will have the opportunity to
      continue the most effective dose of the medication for him or her, based on his or her
      symptoms and side effects.

      The above protocol will be followed unless the participant develops toxic effects of the
      lidocaine patches including but not limited to palpitations, chest pain, irregular heart beat
      (as diagnosed by either his or her primary care physician or other health care provider),
      severe allergic reactions, severe vestibular symptoms including severe dizziness, intractable
      nausea, or blurred vision. In such an occurrence the participant will be removed from the
      study. If a participant develops these or other concerning symptoms, they will be immediately
      referred to the emergency room for evaluation and treatment. The onset of these symptoms as
      well as the dosing at which they were experienced will be recorded for statistical analysis.
      A participant may also be removed from the study if they have an adverse event unrelated to
      the study including hospitalization for major illness or injury. The data that he or she
      contributed up until removal from the study will remain within the study and be evaluated on
      an intent to treat basis.

      If the participant has an adverse event following the increase of the dose of transdermal
      lidocaine he or she will be presented with two options. If he or she previously tolerated a
      lower dosage of the transdermal lidocaine, and would like to return to that dose, following
      the adverse event, he or she will have the option of returning to that regimen. He or she
      will also be presented with the option of treatment cessation following their adverse event.
      Their decision will be recorded and their data treated accordingly.

      A participant will be informed of his or her results from the survey at his or her request,
      as well as at the completion of the third month of follow-up. The results will be reviewed by
      one of the investigators with the participant, allowing adequate time for interpretation and
      questions.

      The data will be stored in three locations. The participant's informed consent documents will
      be scanned into the EMR, the participant will be asked to keep a copy of these forms, and we
      will keep the original hard copy forms in a secured drawer in the back of the Otolaryngology
      clinic, away from clinical activity. The participant will be asked to fill out paper copies
      of the TFI, and symptom checklist at the final clinical appointment, and these will be
      immediately transposed into the EMR. Once transposed, the paper copies of the TFI and symptom
      checklist will disposed of in secure shredding bins. All data will be stored in the REDCap
      database and available to only to the investigating team.
    
  