
    
      The medical record review will be conducted for 3 rounds in months 0, 12, and 24 after the
      first medical record abstraction. Before the beginning of the study, a sampling list will be
      created by Amgen by merging lists of oncologists (and their contact information) to be
      collected from Cegedim, the ESMO, from major cancer centers and oncology clinics in various
      countries within Europe. In each round of medical record review, potential participating
      oncologists will be randomly sampled from all identified oncologists. Potential oncologists
      will be contacted by letter, telephone or email. The oncologists will be introduced to the
      study, and their eligibility to participate in the study will be assessed using a
      standardized questionnaire. The number of oncologists sampled per country will be
      proportional to the number of oncology centers per country. Approximately 50 oncologists will
      participate in each round of the study. From each eligible participating oncologist, study
      staff will then obtain approximately 3 or more medical records for patients who have received
      Vectibix for the treatment of mCRC during the 6-month period prior to the time of contact
      with the relevant oncologist and are not involved in an experimental clinical trial when
      treated with Vectibix. A written consent may be obtained from participating patients to
      access their medical records, depending on local laws. Medical information will be abstracted
      from the medical records using standardized forms. Such medical information will include the
      occurrence and timing of treatment with Vectibix and oxaliplatin-containing chemotherapy,
      diagnosis of mCRC and the occurrence, timing and results of KRAS testing. The oncologist will
      also be asked to collect information from the pathology laboratory that performed the KRAS
      mutation test on the patient, using a standardized pathology data extraction form.
    
  