
    
      Prospective, randomized phase III trial Study population I: operable (T>/=2cm, N0-2,M0)
      primary breast cancer Study population II: locally advanced (T4 a-d, N0-3,M0) primary breast
      cancer patients

      All patients will receive 2 cycles of TAC. Thereafter

        -  Patients sufficiently responding (iPR, iCR) will be randomized to either 4 further
           cycles of TAC or 6 further cycles of TAC

        -  Patients non-sufficiently responding (iNC) will be randomized to either 4 further cycles
           of TAC or 4 cycles of NX:

      TAC: Docetaxel 75 mg/m² as a 1 hour i.v. infusion on day 1 every 3 weeks in combination with
      Doxorubicin 50 mg/m² as an i.v. bolus and Cyclophosphamide 500 mg/m2 as an i.v. bolus on day
      1 every 3 weeks

      NX: Vinorelbine 25 mg/m² as a 10 min i.v. infusion on days 1 and 8 repeated every 3 weeks and
      Capecitabine 2000 mg/m² orally in 2 daily doses on days 1-14 repeated every 3 weeks If a
      patient shows progressive disease during the first 2 cycles of TAC she will not be randomized
      and will be treated according to the discretion of the investigator. In patients with disease
      progression during further preoperative therapy, the treatment should be discontinued and
      patients should be treated by immediate surgery. In case of inoperability even after
      termination of chemotherapy further treatment is to the discretion of the investigator (e.g.
      radiotherapy).

      Dose reduction and/or treatment delay and treatment discontinuation are planned in case of
      severe hematological and/or non-hematological toxicities.

      After completion of chemotherapy and assessment of response, all patients should undergo
      surgery. Surgery should be performed 1-14 days after completion (i.e. day 21) of the last
      chemotherapy cycle. If the tumor is still too large for breast conservation, modified radical
      mastectomy is recommended. The patient can be offered autologous or heterologous
      reconstructive surgery. Sentinel node biopsy is allowed to be the only dissected axillary
      lymph node in patients with a pathological complete response and non involved sentinel node.
      Surgical reports will be collected and analyzed centrally.

      The excised breast tissue should be examined by the pathologist according to guidelines given
      in the appendix. Histology reports will be collected and analyzed centrally.

      Radiotherapy should be applied according to guidelines. Further postoperative systemic
      treatment is not planned except tamoxifen 20 mg p.o. daily for 5 years (starting after
      surgery) to patients with positive estrogen and/or progesterone receptors unless there is a
      contraindication for the use of tamoxifen therapy.
    
  