
    
      Fibromyalgia is a painful syndrome characterized by chronic diffuse pain and involvement of
      multiple muscles and soft tissues 1. The pain is very common, with prevalence around 2% in
      the adult population.

      In fibromyalgia, there is an increase of both somatic and visceral nociception, and
      dysfunction of central nervous.system According to the American College of Rheumathology
      diagnostic criteria for fibromyalgia are widespread pain and the presence of 11 of 18 typical
      tender points 3.

      Minor criteria in the inclusion of patients for the diagnosis of fibromyalgia, such as pain
      that changes with physical activity, sleep disturbance, fatigue, anxiety, depression,
      paresthesia, cramps, sensation of swelling 4. Several co-morbidities may be associated with
      pain such as migraine, myofascial pain syndrome, and irritable bowel syndrome.

      The symmetry of these conditions shows that fibromyalgia is associated with central
      sensitization 5. The pathophysiological mechanisms of fibromyalgia are related to changes in
      neurotransmitters 6,7,8. Cytokines may be involved in modulation of symptoms such as
      hyperalgesia, fatigue and depression, and maintenance of sympathetic pain 9.

      ] The substance P ( SP ) levels are increased in cerebrospinal fluid of patients with
      fibromyalgia compared to control groups 10.

      Antidepressants are the most widely used drugs for its treatment. The drug most commonly used
      is amitriptyline.

      Other drugs (muscle relaxants, anticonvulsants, NSAIDs, tramadol) are also employed. Physical
      activity is essential to control the symptoms. Physical measures, psychotherapy, occupational
      therapy are other treatments, but the effectiveness is variable 14.15. Sometimes a
      combination of drugs and techniques are needed to obtain satisfactory results.

      The infusion of local anesthetic is given intravenously for fibromyalgia when oral medication
      does not produce the proper effect. It promotes sympathetic blockade, vasodilation,
      anesthesia of the nerve endings in the vascular endothelium, stabilization of membrane and
      breaks the vicious circle that keeps pain 16.

      Local anesthetics are membrane-stabilizing and prevent the generation of ectopic impulses in
      lower concentrations than those needed to block the normal driving. The dose used by
      different authors ranged from 1 to 5 mg / kg, administered in 30-60 minutes 17-24. Side
      effects of lidocaine are: sedation, vertigo, dizziness, blurred vision, nausea and vomiting
      25.

      The effectiveness of intravenous lidocaine in neuropathic pain is well established 26.
      Despite evidence of analgesic effect, there is controversy in conditions without nerve
      injury. It may be that the selectivity of the effect for non-neuropathic and neuropathic pain
      is relative and depends on the plasma concentration reached25.

      For the use of systemic lidocaine in fibromyalgia, there are no well-controlled studies, and
      to assess changes of cytokines and substance P, which stimulated this research.
    
  