
    
      Design and Objective: This 2-year experimental study will evaluate the effectiveness, costs,
      and cost-effectiveness of four interventions designed to connect primary care patients who
      smoke with evidence-based stop-smoking treatment. The interventions to be tested are
      healthcare system interventions intended to better attract patients who smoke to stop-smoking
      treatments that work. Participants enrolled in the study will be randomized to 1 level of
      each of the following 4 intervention components: 1) to receive $40 each time they complete a
      first counseling telephone call in a new round of stop-smoking treatment (for up to 4 rounds
      of treatment) or no incentives for starting treatment; 2) to receive tailored letters
      encouraging use of evidence-based stop-smoking treatment every 4-6 months for 2 years, or
      non-tailored letters every 4-6 months for 2 years; 3) to receive calls every 4-6 months from
      a Tobacco Care Manager who will provide motivational counseling to patients to encourage them
      to use stop-smoking treatment, and will connect patients willing to quit with available
      treatments, or no Tobacco Care Manager calls; and 4) access to intensive treatment (standard
      12-week regimens of 2 nicotine medications used together, also called combination nicotine
      replacement therapy, or varenicline, a non-nicotine pill), with 3 telephone counseling
      sessions, all of which improve stop-smoking success rates), or standard care (referral to a
      quitline offering telephone counseling and 2 weeks of one nicotine medication provided by the
      quitline, and referral to the patient's primary care provider). The objective is to identify
      the intervention components and combination of components that best promote use of smoking
      cessation treatment and tobacco abstinence.

      Recruitment and Participants: Participants will be 1664 primary care patients recruited
      through their primary care clinics in 2 healthcare systems in central and eastern Wisconsin.
      At the launch of recruitment in a clinic, all patients known to smoke at that clinic will
      receive notice that a new tobacco specialist, a Tobacco Care Manager, is available to help
      them quit smoking and given information about how to contact them. At healthcare visits,
      patients will be asked if they smoke, and if they do, told that the clinic has a new program
      for smokers that will start with a phone call from a Tobacco Care Manager within the next few
      days. Patients will be able to opt out of receiving such calls if they do not want them. The
      Tobacco Care Manager will offer information to all patients who smoke about resources
      available to help them quit smoking, and will ask them if they are interested in a research
      study. For those not willing to quit within a month and interested in the study, the Tobacco
      Care Manager will describe this study and ask them if they want to be screened for
      eligibility for the study. Those who assent to and pass the screening will then be given
      detailed information about the study and asked to provide informed consent for participation.
      For those who consent to participation, the Tobacco Care Manager will administer a
      10-15-minute baseline interview over the phone, randomize patients to experimental condition,
      and inform them of the types of stop-smoking information and resources they will receive over
      the course of the 2-year study. Everyone in the study will receive a letter about their
      randomly assigned smoking cessation resources and study information by mail after enrollment
      and 4 more times over the next 2 years. Follow-up assessments will occur every 6 months over
      2 years to see if participants are still smoking, if they have tried to quit, and if they
      have used any stop-smoking treatment. One and two years after enrollment, some participants
      will be asked to come to their clinic for breath and urine tests to determine if they are
      still smoking. Patients may be asked to complete additional follow-up calls if they start
      stop-smoking treatment, to see if they are smoking, using treatment, experiencing withdrawal,
      and are still motivated and confident about quitting and treatment at 3, 12, and 26 weeks
      after trying to quit smoking.

      Outcomes and Analyses. The primary outcome of interest in this study is whether or not
      participants use the stop-smoking treatments available to them. The primary research question
      of interest is the extent to which each intervention improves the reach of stop-smoking
      treatments (i.e., how many people use the treatment), and whether particular packages of
      interventions do this particularly well. A second important research question is whether the
      study interventions help more people stop smoking during the 2-year study, and which packages
      of interventions do this well. A third question of importance to healthcare systems that may
      adopt these interventions is whether the interventions are affordable and whether or not they
      improve treatment use rates and tobacco abstinence rates in a manner that is cost-effective.
      Total costs of each intervention component will be estimated and used to compute costs per
      reach (initiating treatment), per quit (achieving abstinence), and per quality-adjusted
      life-year gained, and to estimate the net monetary benefit and incremental cost effectiveness
      ratio for each intervention component and combination of components.

      Knowledge to be Gained. This study will assess the effectiveness, costs, and
      cost-effectiveness of 4 promising strategies to connect more primary care patients who smoke
      with evidence-based treatment to help them quit smoking. Results will be used to select an
      optimized package of interventions that seems to work especially well. The results of this
      research have the potential to suggest effective and efficient ways to reduce smoking
      prevalence by connecting more primary care patients who smoke to evidence-based care.
    
  