
    
      Carbon monoxide is a leading cause of poison related lethality in France. Moreover, survivors
      may develop severe neuro-cognitive sequelae. Few studies sought to determine prognostic
      factors related to CO induced coma.

      Coma is defined as a Glasgow coma score of < 8. Neurological sequels will be considered
      persistent when present at hospital discharge.

      This is a retrospective observational study. All comatose patients with Glasgow coma score <
      8 due to carbon monoxide poisoning, treated by hyperbaric oxygen therapy in a tertiary
      hospital in the Île de France area, will be included in the study. Clinical, biological,
      iconographic and electrophysiological data collected from patient's medical files between
      January 2000 to December 2018 will be analysed retrospectively.

      Statistics

      Base-line characteristics will be summarized using tabulated Statistics, namely median
      [interquartile range, IQR] or percentages (*"Statistics") unless specified.

      Exact Fisher tests will be used to compare distribution of binary outcomes, while
      nonparametric Wilcoxon rank sum tests will be used for comparison of continuous variables.

      Logistic regression models will be used to measure the strength of association of the
      variables with the outcomes, by odds ratio (OR), either unadjusted or adjusted in
      multivariable models.

      Multivariate imputation by chained equations (MICE) will be used as the method of dealing
      with missing data in covariates. It operates under the assumption that given the variables
      used in the imputation procedure, the missing data are Missing At Random (MAR), which means
      that the probability that a value is missing depends only on observed values and not on
      unobserved values. A total of m = 30 imputed datasets will be generated, with Rubin's rules
      applied thereafter to provide mean estimates of the ORs. The package mice implemented the
      MICE procedure within R.

      All tests are 2-sided with p-values of 0.05 or less denoting statistical significance.
      Statistical analysis will be performed on R 3.5.1
    
  