
    
      This is a prospective, multi-center registry of patients who are currently undergoing spray
      cryotherapy using the trūFreeze® device. The registry population consists of patients who are
      being treated using the spray cryotherapy trūFreeze® device for the removal of unwanted
      tissue, such as malignant or pre-malignant conditions in the pulmonary or gastrointestinal
      settings.

      Patients eligible to participate in the registry will have disease and treatment specific
      data collected throughout therapy and long-term follow-up. Subjects will be considered to
      have completed the registry when data from the 5 year follow-up visit has been collected. The
      beginning of the follow-up period commences with the first endoscopic treatment session.

      Subjects may be withdrawn prior to this for any of the following reasons:

        1. Death, or

        2. Lost to Follow-Up, or

        3. Withdrawal of consent, or

        4. Discontinuation by the investigator. Three attempts at contact using two different
           methods are required prior to determination that the subject is lost to follow-up.
           Attempts at contact must be with certified letters OR documented telephone contact.

      The registry will utilize electronic case report forms using a web-based platform housed at
      the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Access to the database will be limited to
      individuals involved in the research registry and will require a unique user ID and password.
      All access to the database and web-based application will be encrypted (HTTPS) and electronic
      systems compliant with applicable privacy and security regulations. To maintain patient
      confidentiality, all subjects will be assigned a registry identification number, and this
      will be the only link between subject identity and treatment information. Read-only access
      will be provided to any personnel who is not an administrator or responsible for data entry.

      All data requested on the case report form must be recorded. All missing data must be
      explained. The system allows sites to directly enter data electronically, however sites are
      still responsible for ensuring they have source documents that support all data entered
      electronically that are separate and verifiable. The registry system will maintain an audit
      trail that captures when electronic entries are changed, what the change was, and who made
      the change.

      The investigators will ensure the capability for inspections of applicable registry-related
      facilities (e.g. pharmacy, diagnostic laboratory, etc.). The registry will be monitored by
      the sponsor, and allow auditing by the Institutional Review Board, government regulatory
      bodies, and University compliance and quality assurance groups of all registry related
      documents (e.g. source documents, regulatory documents, data collection instruments, registry
      data, etc.).
    
  