
    
      Objective: To determine the underlying brain reorganization that occurs in children with
      hemiplegic cerebral palsy before and after pediatric Constraint-Induced therapy.

      Background: A promising new therapy for adults with hemiparesis consequent to stroke, known
      as Constraint-Induced Movement (CI) therapy, has recently been modified for use in children
      with cerebral palsy. Children with cerebral palsy treated with CI therapy show significant
      gains in motor skills after receiving this intensive and extended treatment.

      There is evidence to suggest that, after an acute stroke in adults, the undamaged motor
      cortex exerts greater control over movements in the affected hand than is normally seen in
      neurologically intact subjects. While this might seem to be an advantage, combined functional
      magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) studies
      demonstrate that it is associated with poor motor recovery in adults after a stroke and
      impaired hand function in patients with cerebral palsy. Thus, anomalous motor control of the
      affected hand by the unaffected cortex may reflect a less efficient cortical reorganization
      process.

      There is controversy about how CI therapy produces an improvement in motor function.
      Conflicting evidence from fMRI and TMS studies in adult patients with stroke have shown that
      patients may have either an increase in ipsilateral motor cortical activation or an increase
      in activation in the damaged hemisphere. The answer to this controversy may be related to the
      presence of ipsilateral projections. Since ipsilateral projections are associated with worse
      functional outcome, determining the type of response to CI therapy may give insights into
      those patients who need more intense therapy.

      Subject Population: Children with hemiplegic subtype of cerebral palsy; age-matched children
      with no neurological abnormalities

      Design: We will assess motor cortex activation before and after CI therapy using fMRI and
      neurophysiologic tests including TMS and muscle reflex studies in children with hemiplegic
      cerebral palsy with and without evidence for ipsilateral projections.

      Outcome measures: Patients will be stratified by the presence of mirror movements. Primary
      outcome measure will be laterality index on cortical activation of the fMRI before and after
      CI therapy. Secondary outcome measures will be standardized measures of sensory and motor
      function. We will examine the relationship between the presence of anomalous ipsilateral
      motor control and cortical reorganization following CI therapy.

      Significance: Understanding this relationship is essential for planning large randomized
      controlled trials. Since anomalous ipsilateral cortical reorganization reflects an
      inefficient cortical reorganization process, treatment outcome of CI therapy may also be
      worse in this group. In this case, future studies may need to stratify children on study
      entry according to types of brain reorganization.
    
  