
    
      Introduction Anxiety disorders are some of the most prevalent mental illnesses affecting
      350.000-400.000 Danes every year. Obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD) is one of the most
      disabling anxiety disorders and is characterised by the presence of intrusive thoughts,
      urges, or images that cause anxiety, and, in turn, by repetitive behaviours that are often
      performed in an attempt to reduce the anxiety. OCD has a lifetime prevalence of 2-3 %. If
      left untreated, OCD is a chronic anxiety disorder resulting in deteriorating mental health
      with high personal costs and negative impacts on multiple areas of life. OCD is also
      associated with more functional impairment, more use of healthcare services and poorer
      quality of life than seen for any other patient group (including substance abuse and somatic
      illnesses). Additionally, OCD often precedes the onset of other common comorbid anxiety,
      mood, eating and substance abuse disorders and is strongly associated with suicide. The
      negative impact of OCD carries over into the families of patients and to society at large. In
      Denmark, anxiety disorders are estimated to be the most expensive of all disorders with
      annual costs estimated at 9.4 billion DKK, and they are the most common reason for forced
      retirement. The high personal and societal costs of OCD makes it a significant public health
      concern. Despite having been conceptualized as an illness with a poor prognosis, systematic
      reviews have consistently shown that cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) including exposure
      and response prevention (ERP) is an effective treatment for OCD. This has made CBT the first
      choice for treating OCD in many mental health settings, as also recommended by the Danish
      Health Authorities. Nonetheless, a relatively large group of OCD patients does not benefit
      from CBT. Reviews of CBT-based treatment studies show that up to 50% of patients do not
      respond to CBT or terminate treatment prematurely. Despite the large number of
      non-responders, no significant progress for OCD treatment has been made since initial
      efficacy CBT trials in the 1970´ies. Thus, it is crucial to establish more effective
      psychotherapies (for the non-responders of CBT-based treatments) for OCD. Preliminary
      findings suggest that Acceptance and Commitment therapy (ACT) may be an effective treatment
      for OCD. ACT aims at increasing the participants valued actions in life (e.g. family life,
      work, sports), and the willingness to experience unpleasant emotions and thoughts. Both
      aspects are especially relevant for individuals with OCD, as a substantial amount of time is
      spent on OCD-behavior and avoiding the experience of distress and anxiety. To date, the
      support for ACT stems from smaller case studies and one controlled trial comparing ACT to
      Progressive Muscle Relaxation (PMR), including 79 individuals with OCD. The case studies
      showed that ACT was effective for OCD, and these positive results were also found in the
      controlled trial showing an effect size of 0.77 at post-treatment and of 1.10 at follow-up
      (3-months). Of the participants randomized to ACT, 46% showed significant symptom change
      compared to 13% of the participants who received PMR. Importantly, participants rated ACT as
      highly acceptable. However, serious limitations of the currently available evidence limit the
      conclusions that can be drawn on the effectiveness of ACT for OCD. First, the studies
      included relatively small samples. Second, PMR has not shown to be an effective treatment for
      OCD. Third, none of the previous studies have investigated the long-term effect of ACT on
      OCD. Thus, studies including a large sample and comparing the effect of ACT to the gold
      standard treatment, CBT, is warranted. Furthermore, studies should examine the long-term
      effect of ACT. In addition, previous studies have primarily been conducted in laboratory
      settings with maximal exclusion criteria which compromises the external validity. But OCD is
      commonly seen with comorbid depression and/or other anxiety diagnoses, so results based on
      highly selected patient samples treated in research clinics that specialize in OCD treatment
      are not generalizable to typical individuals with OCD or to clinics which treat most OCD
      patients. In sum, controlled trials comparing the effectiveness of ACT to CBT are warranted
      to confirm whether ACT is indeed the sought-after alternative to CBT.

      What treatment works for whom? Another crucial step in order to improve the treatment for OCD
      is to consider individual patient characteristics in the composition of optimal treatment
      setups facilitating personalized treatment. This requires extensive knowledge of predictors
      and moderators of OCD treatment success. However, to date no reliable predictors or
      moderators have been identified. Previous predictor and moderator studies have suggested that
      attachment patterns and anxiety sensitivity may be related to treatment outcome for ACT and
      CBT. Accumulating studies also highlights the relevance of investigating biological markers
      in relation to OCD. However, very little is known about the role of biomarkers in OCD and in
      psychotherapy although studies are emerging.

      Purpose This study aims to test the (long-term) effectiveness of ACT for OCD and to compare
      the effectiveness to CBT in a naturalistic clinical setting. Additionally, the aim is to
      identify reliable markers to guide efficient treatment choice by examining several
      theory-driven, putative predictors and moderators: 1) moderators which are theoretically
      connected to the two treatments (e.g. thought-action-fusion, anxiety sensitivity) 2)
      personality and interpersonal characteristics involved in the maintenance of OCD (e.g.
      emotion regulation, attachment style, personality traits) and 3) biomarkers known to be
      associated with comorbidity, chronicity and treatment refractivity. Finally, 4) the study
      will investigate the moderating effects of clinical and demographic characteristics (e.g.
      comorbid depression, gender, education, age). Main hypotheses 1: In the overall sample, both
      the ACT and CBT treatment will yield clinically significant results, indicated by a change in
      Yale-Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale (Y-BOCS) scores from pre- to posttreatment, with ACT
      and CBT being equally effective. 2: The effect at 6- and 12-months follow-up will be equal
      for ACT and CBT, measured with Y-BOCS. 3: Participants with comorbid depression at baseline
      will benefit more from ACT than CBT. Method The study is a double blinded, pragmatic,
      non-inferiority, parallel, multi-center randomized controlled trial of ACT vs CBT for OCD. In
      total, 180 patients are recruited from two regional MHS centers across Capital Region of
      Denmark and included in two intervention arms. The participants will be assessed with
      diagnostic interview and self-report measures at baseline, post-treatment, 6-months and
      12-months follow-up. Randomization The randomization will be carried out based on an
      allocation list with permuted blocks using the Region´s secure system REDcap by a person not
      attached to the project.

      Power calculations and data analysis To calculate the sample size, G*Power 3.1. was used.
      Based on previous studies, we expect that there will be a medium to large effect of the
      ACT-intervention (similar to the CBT-intervention), corresponding to effect sizes (Cohen's f)
      between 0.25 and 0.4. To detect a large effect (f = 0.4) between the two intervention groups
      at the four measurement points, we need a total sample of 34 in each arm to power the study
      sufficiently (80%) at a α-level of 0.05. To detect a medium effect (f = 0.25) a total sample
      size of 82 is needed. To be conservative, it is expected to find a medium effect. Previous
      clinical studies show a drop-out rate of 25%, thus a total sample of 124 is recruited at
      baseline.

      Longitudinal data will be analyzed using Mixed Model Repeated Measures (MMRM) and
      Hierarchical Linear Modeling (HLM) and an intend-to-treat sample including all randomized
      participants. Detection of the moderating value of the proposed variables will be analyzed in
      the two domains, using the method proposed by Kraemer. The possible moderators will be
      examined for individual effect sizes and then entered into a forward-stepwise regression
      model predicting differential treatment response. K-fold cross validation will be used to
      identify the number of variables to be included in the final moderator model in order to
      identify moderators in rank-order. Timeplan The project is planned to start in January 2019
      and will run over 4 years.
    
  