
    
      Up to 48 adult participants, ages 18-70, diagnosed with type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM) may
      be enrolled, aiming for approximately 40 completers. Participants must have ≥6 months
      experience using a rapid-acting insulin analog delivered via tubing-based insulin pumps and
      infusion sets and must demonstrate willingness and ability to use a continuous glucose
      monitor (CGM). Study participants will be drawn from existing T1DM patient populations
      meeting the study eligibility at the study center.

      Existing patient populations at the study center will be screened for study eligibility
      within 21 days of planned study randomization. Eligible participants will complete written
      informed consent and will be assigned a unique study ID. Enrolled participants will complete
      a one-week run-in period to assess participant compliance to collect adequate CGM data (>80%
      of possible readings) with the study CGM. Participants who do not achieve this goal will be
      given a second week of CGM data collection; failing the second week of adequate data
      collection they will be discontinued from study.

      At the Day of Insertion (Day 0) clinic visit, study participants will be randomized to insert
      (under supervision) either an investigational SteadiSet or a commercially-available Teflon
      infusion set (different to their routine set); an automatic insertion device will be used for
      all infusion set insertion procedures during study. Participants will undergo training and be
      provided written instructions if infusion set failure occurs and set change is required
      during the up to 14-day wear period. Visual inspection and photographic documentation of the
      infusion set insertion site will be recorded at Day 0. Participants will be asked to conduct
      daily insertion site visual inspection and report/record site reactions, unexplained hypo-
      and hyperglycemic events and symptoms and/or the need for infusion set change (Days +1 to
      +14).

      Upon completion of a wear period (after 14 days or sooner, in the event that infusion set
      change out has occurred), participants will be asked to insert a new set at home and thus
      start the next 14-day wear period. After two periods participants will return to the study
      site to cross over into the last two periods with the respective other infusion set
      (SteadiSet or Control device, self-insertion under supervision). A total of four infusion
      sets will be studied in each participant, two SteadiSet and two commercially available Teflon
      infusion sets.

      Insulin therapy will be performed by the participants using their own insulin pump as under
      routine conditions. Participants will continue to use the rapid acting insulin analog they
      also use under routine conditions (insulins aspart or lispro). Insulin reservoir and tubing
      change will be performed as under routine conditions every 6 (insulin aspart) or 7 (insulin
      lispro) days (or sooner for participants who use more than 300 units every 6-7 days). The
      infusion set will NOT be changed at the time of reservoir change.

      Continuous glucose monitoring will be performed throughout the study. At least four-point
      capillary blood glucose measurements will be performed each day (pre-meal, bed-time).
      Participants will be asked to perform capillary ketone measurements in case of unexplained
      hyperglycemia (glucose >250 mg/dL or 14 mmol/L). Unexplained hypo- or hyperglycemia measured
      by CGM needs to be verified by capillary glucose measurements. Data from the participant's
      blood glucose and ketone monitor will be downloaded upon completion of each infusion set wear
      period. The diary will be collected at each study center visit.

      End-of-study will occur at the clinic visit following the fourth study period or upon 30-day
      follow-up of ongoing adverse events.
    
  