
    
      The cohort has been created in 2005 with the general objective to better define the natural
      history of HCV/HIV co-infection in terms of morbidity and mortality. Furthermore, the cohort
      aims to determine factors associated with morbidity and mortality and to better understand
      interactions between the two viruses and their respective treatments.

      The ANRS CO13 Hepavih is currently composed of 28 french metropolitan clinical centers of
      infectious diseases and hepatogy diseases (mostly teaching hospital).

      The period of patient inclusion has been divided in three distinct phases: the first phase
      (Phase 1) that started in 2005 and ended in 2008, was dedicated to the inclusion of adult
      HCV/HIV co-infected patients. The following inclusion phase (Phase 2) that concerns patients
      who received a triple-agent anti-HCV therapy including Boceprevir or Telaprevir, started in
      2008 and ended in march 2016. The third one (Phase 3) focusing on patients initiating a DAA
      anti HCV treatment started in June 2014 and ended in November 2015. Regarding Phase 3, the
      specific objectives were organized into five thematic domains including clinic, virology,
      pharmacology, public health and methodology.

      Since 31 march 2016, the inclusions are closed and 1,850 patients have been included. The
      ended of the follow-up is planned on the 31 december 2018.

      At the inclusion and during the follow-up period (at least once a year or every 6 months in
      case of cirrhosis, until 2018 and probably also beyond that date), each HCV/HIV co-infected
      patient is offered a clinical examination as well as an interview. Additional
      self-questionnaires are filled by the included patients at the same time points (Social
      sciences data). The types of data collected from each co-infected patient included in the
      cohort are organized according to five major thematic classes: socio-demography and behavior,
      HIV characteristics, HCV characteristics, clinical relevant events, anthropometry, paraclinic
      data.

      The ANRS CO13 HEPAVIH cohort has the purpose to become a facility for specific research
      regarding the physiopathological and therapeutic aspects of the HCV/HIV co-infection at the
      disposal of the entire scientific community.

      In july 2016, the cohort has pusblished 29 originals articles and 10 as a part of national
      and European collaborations.

      The ANRS CO13 HEPAVIH cohort has adopted functional governance. The Steering Committee,
      made-up of clinicians, methodologist, the sponsor as well as the cohort coordinators, is
      focused on logistic and operational aspects of the cohort. The Scientific Committee is the
      scientific decision-making organization, made-up with scientist experts in main research
      fields including methodology, hepathology, infectiology, pharmacology, virology and social
      science, and representatives of the ANRS and patient organizations. It assesses requests for
      the access to the cohort and provides advices on scientific, methodological and ethical
      aspects in order to ensure an effective scientific conduct of the research. The Steering
      Comitee meet once a month and the Scientific Comitee 2/3 times a year.
    
  