
    
      OBJECTIVE :

      To evaluate pexacerfont, an orally available, brain penetrant selective CRH1 antagonist for
      its ability to modulate emotional and motivational processes in anxious, recently detoxified
      alcohol dependent patients.

      STUDY POPULATION:

      Up to 70 anxious, alcohol dependent subjects, aged 21-65 years will be enrolled to complete
      the study in 50 patients.

      DESIGN

      Subjects will be inpatients and enter the present protocol once withdrawal treatment, if
      needed, is completed. They will undergo interviews for construction of guided imagery scripts
      during a 3 day pre-treatment phase, after which they will receive randomized double blind
      treatment with active medication or placebo for 23 days, followed by a 3 day post-treatment
      inpatient monitoring phase, and two follow-up outpatient visits. While hospitalized, repeated
      measures of spontaneous craving for alcohol, ratings of psychopathology, and blood chemistry
      including cortisol will be obtained over this time. During the second week of treatment,
      craving responses will be assessed in a challenge session that combines a social stressor and
      exposure to physical alcohol cues. During the final week, three sessions of guided imagery
      will be carried out, on separate days and in a counter-balanced order, exposing the subject
      to personalized stress-, alcohol- or neutral condition associated stimuli. The final week
      will also include an fMRI session with emotional and motivational tasks, on a day separate
      from any guided imagery session. Subjects will remain hospitalized throughout the study, will
      remain on the unit for a 3 day post-medication monitoring period, and will return for follow
      up app. 1 and 4 weeks following completion of randomized treatment.

      OUTCOME MEASURES

      The primary outcome will be craving for alcohol on guided imagery challenge sessions.
      Secondary outcomes will include craving as measured in the combined social stress alcohol cue
      challenge session, spontaneous craving and psychopathology ratings repeatedly measured on the
      inpatient unit over time. Exploratory blood biomarkers and brain responses to positive and
      negative affective stimuli on the fMRI session will also be obtained.
    
  