
    
      Peripheral arterial disease affects more than 12 million Americans, and its incidence is
      growing annually. The male/female ratio of patients with claudication is just under 2/1. The
      arteries involved by atherosclerosis involve the arteries to the thigh and leg. These include
      the femoral and popliteal arteries. Fifty percent of people with femoral-popliteal PVD are
      symptomatic. Symptoms are typically related to exertional fatigue of thigh and calf muscles.
      These symptoms, referred to as claudication, seldom represent a life or even limb-threatening
      process. They do, however, result in significantly decreased productivity and an often
      devastating quality of life.

      Traditional interventions for lower extremity claudication include technologies invented in
      the first half of the 20th century including surgical bypass; and those invented in the
      second half of the twentieth century, including balloon angioplasty and stenting. These
      interventions have substantial shortcomings. It is, however, relevant to note that
      endovascular (aka endoluminal or endovascular surgery) is becoming increasingly popular and
      gaining wide-spread support from vascular interventionalist societies wordwide.

      The main shortcomings of angioplasty and stenting is the resultant inflammatory response. The
      mechanical injury to blood vessels is followed by a complex repair response comprising
      intimal vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) hyperplasia, vessel wall scarring and shrinkage of
      the vascular lumen, often resulting in reduced blood flow and subsequent muscle (or end
      organ) ischemia. Rodent, rabbit and large animal models have provided valuable insights into
      the pathophysiology of these responses.

      The devices utilized in this protocol are both FDA approved for the procedures described in
      the protocol. The devices include the Silverhawk™ System (FoxHollow Technologies, Redwood
      City, CA) and the PolarCath™ Peripheral Dilatation System, Boston Scientific, Natick,
      Massachusetts). Hereafter both products will be referred to as the "Devices."
    
  