
    
      In-Depth Interviews:

      Study Visit:

      If participant is eligible and agrees to take part, the following will occur at their visit:

      Questionnaire:

      Participant will complete a questionnaire on a computer that will include questions about
      their thoughts about smoking, their smoking history, their ability to understand health
      information, and basic questions about their age, education, and income. This may take up to
      45 minutes to complete.

      Individual In-Depth Interviews:

      After completing the questionnaire, participant will take part in an individual, in-depth
      interview. As part of the interview, the study chair will ask participant about their
      smoking, any previous attempts at quitting, and what they would like to see included as part
      of a program to help smokers like them with quitting smoking.

      The interview should last 30-45 minutes and will be audio-recorded. No identifying
      information will be included in recorded interviews (participant's name will not be used).
      Recordings will be transcribed (written down). Audio recordings will be permanently deleted
      within a year after the completion of data collection.

      Length of Study Participation:

      It may take up to 2 hours to complete this visit. Participation in this study will be over
      after participant completes the interview.

      Pilot Study:

      Baseline Visit:

      If participant is eligible and agrees to take part in this study, the following will occur
      when they start the study (also called a baseline visit):

        -  Participant will complete a questionnaire on the computer that will include questions
           about their feelings, mood, health, thoughts about smoking, thoughts about quitting
           smoking, and their smoking history. It will also include questions about participant's
           age, education, and income. This may take up to 1 hour to complete.

        -  Participant will complete a breath test to help the research team learn about the amount
           of cigarette smoke they inhale. The breath test uses a disposable cardboard tube
           attached to a machine, and participant will be asked to blow a long, slow, steady breath
           into it.

        -  Participant will then be randomly assigned (as in the flip of a coin) into 1 of 2 study
           groups (explained below). This is done because no one knows if one study group is
           better, the same, or worse than the other group. There is an equal chance of being
           assigned to either group.

      Study Groups:

      If participant is in Group 1 (ST):

        -  Participant will receive a 6-week supply of nicotine patches and instructions on how to
           use them.

        -  Participant will receive brief advice to quit smoking.

        -  Participant will receive phone counseling for support in quitting smoking (5 sessions
           over the course of 6 weeks) with a counselor at the Texas Quitline, an organization that
           helps people quit smoking. Counseling is designed to help participant to improve their
           problem-solving and coping skills, and plan for quitting smoking. Calls are expected to
           last up to 45 minutes.

      If participant is in Group 2 (HALT):

        -  Participant will receive a 6-week supply of nicotine patches and instructions on how to
           use them.

        -  Participant will receive brief advice to quit smoking.

        -  Participant will receive 5 individual, in-person counseling sessions for support in
           quitting smoking. Sessions are designed to help participant to improve their
           problem-solving and coping skills, overcome barriers to quitting smoking, and plan for
           quitting smoking. These sessions will take place at either of Literacy Advance's 2 main
           campuses over 6 weeks. Participant will attend sessions the week before they quit
           smoking, on the day that they quit, and 1, 2, and 4 weeks after quitting. Each of these
           sessions will last about 45 minutes.

      Weekly In-Person Visits (Groups 1 and 2):

      Participant will complete questionnaires in person and at Literacy Advance over 6 weeks (the
      week before they quit smoking, on the day that they quit, and 1, 2, and 4 weeks after
      quitting). These questionnaires will ask about participant's current smoking, motivation to
      quit smoking, confidence for quitting, stress, and emotions/mood. Participant will also
      complete a breath test to help researchers learn about the amount of cigarette smoke
      participant inhales. This should take about 30 minutes to complete.

      3-Month In-Person Follow-Up Visit (Groups 1 and 2): Eight (8) weeks after the last counseling
      session (or 3 months after beginning the study), participant will attend an in-person,
      follow-up visit in which they will complete questionnaires and a breath test to help the
      researchers learn about the amount of cigarette smoke participant inhales. This should take
      about 30 minutes to complete.

      Length of Study:

      If participant does not quit smoking on their "Quit Day" (Week 0), they may continue
      participating in the study and may select another "Quit Day."

      Participant will take part in the study for up to 3 months. Participation will be over when
      participant completes the study visit at Month 3.

      This is an investigational study. The nicotine patch is FDA approved and commercially
      available.

      Up to 50 participants will take part in this pilot study. Up to 80 participants overall will
      take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  