
    
      Alveolar bone loss which results from tooth extraction, trauma or age-related factors, gives
      rise to the functional or structural inefficiency of implant-supported prosthetic
      rehabilitation. Therefore, bone augmentation techniques and graft materials are required to
      improve esthetic outcomes and long-term prognosis of dental implant treatment. The purpose of
      the present study is to evaluate the effect of i-PRF enriched with allograft on bone
      regeneration when compared with autogenous block bone graft. The hypothesis of the study is
      that i-PRF enriched with allograft will provide similar results to autogenous block bone
      graft for three dimensional bone reconstruction. This split-mouth randomized study was
      conducted in the Department of Oral Surgery of the School of Dentistry. The research protocol
      and informed consent forms for all procedures on patients, were approved by the local ethics
      committee of the University in accordance with the Helsinki Declarations of 1983.Selection of
      the participants was determined by clinical and radiological examination according to the
      inclusion criteria.Before augmentation surgery, the treatment allocation of bilateral
      posterior atrophic mandibles were randomly assigned to one or other of the two surgical
      sides: either the test group ( i-PRF + particulate allograft with screw tent-pole technique +
      L-PRF) or the control group (autogenous block bone graft + L-PRF) by use of the
      computer-generated method. Blood samples from thirteen participants were collected by a nurse
      at the beginning of the surgery.The L-PRF preparation was performed as follows; the venous
      blood samples were collected in 9 ml x 4 glass tubes without anticoagulant and immediately
      centrifuged at 2700 rpm for 12 min. After the centrifugation of the samples, the red blood
      cells (RBC) and platelet-poor plasma (PRP) were separated from the 'buffy coat' described as
      L-PRF. Then the L-PRF was placed on a special press kit to obtain membrane form.

      Non-coated, 8 ml plastic tube without anticoagulant was immediately centrifuged at 2700 rpm
      for 2 min to obtain i-PRF. Following centrifugation, i-PRF was collected the tube by using a
      disposable syringe and mixed with allograft material. All surgeries were performed under
      local anesthesia. A mid-crestal incision was made on either side to expose the edentulous
      alveolar ridge. Furthermore, a posterior releasing incision was made over the external
      oblique ridge to provide access to the donor site, in control group.

      Control site was treated with autogenous block bone graft and the opposite side (test site)
      was treated with I-PRF enriched allograft material. L-PRF membrane was used to cover
      augmentation sites.

      The primary outcome variables of this study were the radiographic changes of augmented bone
      at postoperative 6 months as well as the percentage of newly formed bone, graft material and
      residual bone in the groups.

      The secondary outcome variables were the clinical data on implant survival rate and nerve
      alterations.
    
  