
    
      Pathologically staged squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck, stage III or IVa (AJCC
      6th edition 2002) of the oral cavity, larynx, or hypopharynx that is status post potentially
      curative surgical resection without gross residual tumor, except the following: a)T3N0
      laryngeal primary and b) any T1N1, if there are no high-risk pathologic features (high risk
      defined as positive margins, extracapsular spread, and perineural or angiolymphatic
      invasion). Patients should not have gross residual disease. No prior chemotherapy,
      biologic/targeted therapy (including any prior therapy which specifically and directly
      targets the EGFR pathway), or radiotherapy for head and neck cancer. A brief course, up to 2
      weeks, of prior neoadjuvant single-agent biologic/targeted therapy of any type (except EGFR
      monoclonal antibodies) prior to surgical resection is permitted. No more than 7 weeks
      (minimum of 3 weeks) should have elapsed between surgery and initiation of radiation. No
      prior radiation or chemotherapy for head and neck cancer. ECOG performance status of 0-1.
      Patients must have normal organ and marrow function as defined below: absolute neutrophil
      count >=1,500/mL; Platelets >=100,000/mL; Hemoglobin >=10 g/dL; Total bilirubin 1.5 x normal
      institutional limits; Creatinine clearance > 60 ml/min. No prior invasive malignancy unless
      the DFS is 3 years or more. Age >= 18 years. Pregnant or breast-feeding women are excluded
      (see exclusion criteria). Informed consent must be obtained from all patients prior to
      beginning therapy. Patients should have the ability to understand and the willingness to sign
      a written informed consent document. Patients who have tumor tissue available from previous
      diagnostic or therapeutic procedures should submit the specimen for assessment of EGFR and
      related biomarkers after signing informed consent. In-Eligibility: Uncontrolled intercurrent
      illness including, but not limited to, ongoing or active infection or psychiatric
      illness/social situations that would limit compliance with study requirements. Significant
      history of uncontrolled cardiac disease; i.e., uncontrolled hypertension, unstable angina,
      recent myocardial infarction (within prior 6 months), uncontrolled congestive heart failure,
      and cardiomyopathy with decreased ejection fraction. All patients will have a baseline EKG.
      If abnormalities consistent with active coronary artery disease are detected, the patient
      will be referred to a cardiologist for appropriate evaluation and management prior to
      treatment on study. Patients with history of hypertension must be well-controlled upon study
      entry (≤150/90) on a stable regimen of anti-hypertensive therapy. Patients should not have
      any prior history of hypertensive crisis or hypertensive encephalopathy.Patients may not be
      receiving any other investigational agents. No history of prior malignancy, with the
      exception of curatively treated squamous cell or basal carcinoma of the skin or in situ
      cervical cancer, or malignancy that has been treated with a curative intent with a 3-year
      disease-free survival. No patients with significant baseline sensory or motor neurologic
      deficits (> grade I neuropathy) will be treated on this study. Pregnant women are excluded
      from this study because chemotherapy and radiation therapy have the potential for teratogenic
      or abortifacient effects. Because there is an unknown but potential risk for adverse events
      in nursing infants secondary to treatment of the mother with chemotherapy, breastfeeding
      should be discontinued if the mother is treated with chemotherapy. Prior to study enrollment,
      women of childbearing potential (WOCBP) must be advised of the importance of avoiding
      pregnancy during trial participation and the potential risk factors for an unintentional
      pregnancy. In addition, men enrolled on this study should understand the risks to any sexual
      partner of childbearing potential and should practice an effective method of birth control.
      All WOCBP MUST have a negative urine pregnancy test at baseline, or within 7 days prior to
      receiving investigational product. The minimum sensitivity of the pregnancy test must be 25
      IU/L or equivalent units of HCG. If the urine pregnancy test is positive, a serum pregnancy
      test will then be performed to confirm the result. In the event that both the urine and serum
      pregnancy tests are positive, the subject must not receive investigational product and must
      not be enrolled in the study. In addition, all WOCBP should be instructed to contact the
      Investigator immediately if they suspect they might be pregnant (e.g., missed or late
      menstrual period) at any time during study participation. The Investigator must immediately
      notify Amgen in the event of a confirmed pregnancy in a patient participating in the study.
      Prior severe infusion reaction to a human monoclonal antibody.Prior severe infusion reaction
      to a human monoclonal antibody.
    
  