
    
      An autoimmune disease occurs when a person's immune system begins to respond to normal bodily
      substances and tissues as if it were foreign or related to disease. There are a number of
      autoimmune disorders, some of which can affect the brain by targeting the surface of brain
      cells, for example signalling proteins like the NMDA receptor or voltage gated potassium
      channel complex. Some cases of encephalitis, a disorder of brain inflammation that can be
      autoimmune, are caused by these antibodies, but often present with psychotic experiences,
      such as hallucinations, and may see a psychiatrist at this stage, before they go on to
      experience seizures and brain swelling, and are seen by a neurologist. These patients are
      treated with immunotherapy, and after treatment see a reduction in both seizures and
      psychotic symptoms.

      Recently the investigators identified patients with psychosis who test positive for these
      antibodies, but do not go on to experience these other symptoms of encephalitis. It has been
      suggested that these patients suffer from an autoimmune disorder similar to the encephalitis
      described above. Small pilot studies in these antibody positive psychosis patients have shown
      various immunotherapies can reduce both symptoms of psychosis and number of autoantibodies
      present in their blood. A randomised clinical trial (RCT) is required to confirm this.
      However a feasibility study is required first to investigate whether it is possible to
      deliver the immunotherapy treatments in patients with psychosis. The treatments require an
      infusion over a few hours (IVIG) or an admission to an acute medical ward for several
      days(plasma exchange). Both may be challenging for people who are paranoid or agitated. The
      investigators need to assess whether it is possible to deliver these treatments before
      proceeding to a large scale, clinical trial.

      This is a multicentre, randomised, uncontrolled, open label feasibility study. Patients with
      psychosis and a positive blood test for antibodies will be identified from one of 24
      recruiting centres across England. They will undergo screening assessment for eligibility
      (interview with psychiatrist and neurologist and baseline investigations where possible,
      including MRI, EEG and lumbar puncture) and give informed consent for the study. A further
      blood sample (10ml) will be taken for future research. 10 Participants will be randomised to
      one of two clinical care pathways: either an infusion of intravenous immunoglobulins, or
      plasma exchange treatment. Both groups will receive steroid tablets, and both groups will
      continue to receive psychiatric treatment, including antipsychotic medication, as normal.

      At two months after randomisation the research team will speak to the treating clinicians to
      gather the primary outcome measure which is whether the patient received the allocated
      treatment within two weeks of allocation. The researchers may also confirm this outcome from
      the clinical records.
    
  