
    
      Radical cystoprostatectomy (RCP) is the standard treatment of muscle invasive, and refractory
      high grade, superficial bladder cancer. RCP involves the removal of the bladder and prostate.
      While this is an effective treatment for patients with organ confined disease almost all men
      following RCP are impotent due to resection of the neurovascular bundles that control
      erectile dysfunction. While neobladders (new bladders formed out of detubularized bowel
      connected to the native urethra) allow patients to void normally, many of these patients have
      difficulty with urinary incontinence. Two modifications have been developed to improve the
      functional outcomes of this surgery. Nerve sparing cystectomy (NSC) attempts to spare the
      cavernosal nerves that travel immediately adjacent to the lateral prostate and are routinely
      divided during a standard RCP. Published series of NSC have shown improved preservation of
      sexual function and less urinary incontinence without compromising cancer control. Another
      alternative, prostate capsule sparing cystectomy (PCSC), removes the adenoma and prostatic
      urethra along with the urinary bladder, but leaves in situ the prostatic capsule and
      subsequently the surrounding neurovascular bundle. Several retrospective series have
      demonstrated preservation of sexual function and improved urinary continence compared to
      standard RCP and neobladder. A concern with PCSC is that prostate or urothelial cancer
      invading the prostate could be left behind with preservation of the prostate capsule. Most
      reported series in which patients were screened with digital rectal exam, prostate and
      prostatic urethral biopsy, and PSA blood testing could identify patients at risk for having
      prostate or urothelial cancer in the prostate capsule preoperatively to recommend an
      alternative approach. Therefore, both NSC and PCSC appear to offer better urinary and sexual
      function in properly selected patients over conventional RCP in retrospective series.
      However, these procedures have not been evaluated prospectively in a randomized fashion. Our
      intent is to evaluate the functional outcomes of PCSC and NSC with orthotopic neobladder in
      terms of urinary and sexual function using the bladder cancer index, a validated quality of
      life instrument, and determine the surgical margin status, and complications of the two
      surgical techniques.
    
  