
    
      Background:

      Postoperative wound complications are a frequent cause of surgical morbidity and a
      large-scale health problem. Surgical site infection leads to excess morbidity, prolonged
      hospitalization and increased strain on healthcare resources. It is estimated that the total
      annual cost for hospital-acquired infections was $9.8 billion, with SSIs contributing 33.7%
      to overall cost (approximately $20,785 per case). Patients undergoing major laparotomy such
      as elective colorectal procedures, bowel resections, solid organ tumor resection and complex
      abdominal wall repair (CAWR) are at high risk of developing wound complications. As a
      tertiary care teaching hospital, the volume of surgical cases is high which includes but not
      limited to Complex Abdominal wall reconstruction (CAWR) with biological mesh, elective
      colorectal procedures, solid organ tumor resection and organ transplant.

      Investigators have started using Prevena™ incision management system over primarily closed
      surgical incision after all the above mentioned procedures and subjectively observed the
      decrease in surgical site infection.

      Study Design:

      This is a Prospective, Randomized, Controlled study to evaluate the efficacy of applying
      Prevena Plus to closed surgical incision in patients who had or undergone Complex Abdominal
      Wall Reconstruction with biological mesh and other major laparotomies (treatment Group) as
      compared to Standard of Care (SOC) surgical incision dressing (dry sterile dressing/gauze,
      steri-strips) in preventing surgical site infection.

      Study Procedures:

      Screening/Baseline: The subjects who are scheduled and or admitted at our institution for
      complex abdominal wall reconstruction procedure with biological mesh and other major
      laparotomies will be screened for eligibility to participate in the study and screening will
      start whenever patient comes for pre-operative visit usually 1- 3 weeks prior to and
      including the day of surgery. If patient agrees to participate in the study and signs the
      consent he/she will be randomized in the study intra-operatively. Baseline information like
      past medical history, past surgical history, comorbid conditions, concomitant medications,
      will be collected and subjects will be asked to complete the questionnaires at screening
      visit.

      After signing the consent form, subjects will be assigned a unique, consecutive screening
      number for screening log tracking purposes and the screening log will also include reason for
      screen failure. Screening log will be filed in regulatory binder.

      Screen Failure: Any eligible patient who met all the inclusion criteria and signed the
      consent to participate in the study but later decides not to participate in the study or if
      they meet any of the intra-operative exclusion criteria, randomization will not be performed
      and they are considered as screen failures. There will be no further study related contacts
      with these patients.

      Randomization:

      Randomization will occur intra-operatively after surgical incision closure and after
      confirmation of all the intra-operative inclusion criteria and none of the intra-operative
      exclusion criteria are met. After subjects have been assessed for eligibility and randomized
      in the study, they will be randomly allocated to any one of the groups in the ratio of 1:1.
      Randomization means that the researcher does not control which subject gets put in which
      group. Each participant has an equal chance of being assigned to each group. The participant
      will be assigned to a group by chance to eliminate bias.

      Group assignments will be contained in sequentially numbered, opaque, sealed envelopes to
      conceal allocation from participants and investigators. Each subject will be provided with
      unique four digit number (1001 etc) so the data that is collected during the study
      participation will be saved under that unique four digit number. Once a subject number is
      assigned, it is not re-assigned to another subject. If subject is randomized but does not
      receive study treatment, he/she will be withdrawn from the study and the enrollment log will
      be completed with assigned subject number and includes reason for withdrawal. Enrollment log
      will be filed in regulatory binder.

      Group I: Study Intervention: Subjects will receive PREVENA Plus after surgery and will apply
      for at least 5 days.

      Group II: Standard of Care (SOC): Postoperative Surgical incision dressing (dry sterile
      dressing/gauze, steri-strips) which is currently the standard of care at our institution.

      Study Intervention

      Group-I subjects:

      Patients randomized to the Group-I will receive PREVENA Plus, which is currently being used
      at our institution (Prevena, KCI) and it is FDA-approved device. Dressings will be applied
      under sterile conditions at the end of the surgery while still in the operating room and will
      continuously apply for 5 days.

      Duration of Prevena Plus Therapy

      • Continuously applied up to 5 days (removed earlier if there is a suspicion for wound
      infection or bleeding).

      Group-II: Standard of Care Dressing Subjects randomized to SOC surgical incision dressing arm
      will receive SOC dressing for 4 days immediately following surgery. The closed incision will
      be covered with materials which may include sterile gauze pieces, surgical tape and tegaderm.

      Any material used for the SOC dressing will be documented.

      Duration of Study Participation:

        -  Screening: starts at Pre Admission Testing visit and includes day of surgery (subjects
           undergoing elective or emergent procedures).

        -  Treatment Duration:

             -  Prevena Group: 5 days

             -  SOC Group: 4 days

        -  Follow-up Phase: After randomization -Day 0 through 30 days (+ 7days).

      Research Subject Population:

      Number of Subjects Approximate number of subjects to be enrolled in this study is 170 (85 in
      each group).

      Gender of Subjects There will be no gender based restrictions for this study.

      Age of Subjects Adults 18 years of age and above will be included in this study.

      Racial and Ethnic Origin There will be no enrollment restrictions based upon race or ethnic
      origin

      Data Collection Time Periods Data will be gathered from the patients and the medical record.
      Data will be collected on factors such as medical history, comorbid conditions, prior
      surgeries, pre-operational factors, surgical technique, functional status and other items as
      indicated in the data collection form. This data collection will be broken down into three
      main time periods.

      Preoperative:

      Demographics: age and gender Social History: recreational drug use, smoking and alcohol.
      Vitals: systolic blood pressure (SBP), diastolic blood pressure (DBP), heart rate (HR),
      temperature (temp), respiratory rate (resp. rate), height, weight and BMI (body mass index)
      Lab reports: the lab tests that are done as standard of care during the hospital stay will be
      collected. The following lab values will be collected for the study only if they are
      available in subject's medical record: hemoglobin, hematocrit, white blood count
      (differential), sodium, BUN (blood urea nitrogen), lactate, pH, glucose, creatinine, platelet
      count, serum albumin, coagulation profile (PT (prothrombin time)/PTT (partial thromboplastin
      time) /aPTT (activated partial thromboplastin time), if available, cultures from blood,
      urine, sputum, trachea, wound and peritoneal fluid will be collected as well.

      Comorbid Conditions: Obesity, history of Diabetes, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
      (COPD), Cardiac disease, malignancy, solid organ transplant, peripheral vascular disease,
      cerebrovascular accident, immunosuppression, functional dependency, cirrhosis, history of
      acute or chronic renal failure, cirrhosis, ascites and nutritional status.

      Concomitant Medications: all medications including antimicrobial medications that the subject
      is taking from the time subject signed the informed consent through the duration of the
      study.

      Intraoperative:

      Duration of surgery: start time and end time Amount and type of fluids Received: IV fluids
      and blood products received General: ASA score, Number of drains, planned/unplanned
      procedures and amount of blood loss Type of surgery and technique: Investigators will note
      the type and placement of incision , measurements of the incision, location of the mesh
      placement (sublay, underlay, overlay or bridge), size of mesh in cm2, anterior/posterior
      component separation, number of drains placed, setting of surgery (elective vs
      emergent/urgent).

      Postoperative:

      Plan for monitoring heart rate and blood pressure:

      As per standard of care, if a patient is in the intensive care unit blood pressure and heart
      rate is monitored every hour. If patient is on the floor heart rate and blood pressure is
      monitored every 4hours. Arrhythmia is monitored by placing a multi-lead electrocardiogram
      (ECG) on the patient. As long as monitoring for arrhythmia is not hindered in any way, having
      a PREVENA dressing on the body does not pose any risk to the patient. Since this study does
      not involve any Cardiothoracic procedures and positioning of multi lead ECG for monitoring of
      Arrhythmias will not pose any risk to the patients. Arrhythmia is not a contraindication or a
      non-indicated application, it's more of PREVENA dressing placement issue when other
      interventions are necessary.

      General: date of discharge, time of discharge, hospital length of stay, intensive care unit
      length of stay, (ICU LOS), ventilator days, transfer back to ICU, time of drain removal and
      mortality Complications: any of these postoperative complications will be collected and
      reported based on Clavien-Dindo classification- wound infection, Pneumonia, MI, stroke,
      Seroma, fistula, sepsis, urinary tract infection, venous thrombosis, pulmonary embolism,
      adult respiratory distress syndrome, and paralytic ileus. Post-operative seroma will be noted
      and documented according to Morales-Conde classification.

      Investigators will also note other surgical site occurrence (SSO) dehiscence: primary and
      secondary. Surgical site infection: superficial and deep SSI-purulent drainage from incision,
      fluid accumulation, purulent fluid that is drained or positive culture with signs/symptoms.

      Organism isolated from aseptically obtained culture of fluid or tissue, antimicrobials,
      Percutaneous or open drainage by surgeon. Debridement, hospital and ICU length of stay
      Disposition: home, acute rehabilitation center or subacute rehabilitation center.

      Study Follow-up Visits Duration of the study is 30 days and all the follow-up visits are
      standard of care. Wounds will be assessed postoperatively at regular intervals until wound
      healing is achieved. This will occur at 2 weeks and 4 weeks after surgery, which are standard
      intervals in our current postoperative protocol. Investigators will analyze stitch line, pain
      at the incision site, any evidence of surgical site occurrence such as infection, necrosis,
      seroma, bulge or recurrence. All enrolled subjects are in the study for only 4 weeks and
      after that there will be no additional study visits but patients randomized to group-I or
      group-II will be followed in the clinic regularly per standard of care.

      End of the Study: Study will end after the last enrolled subject completes the 30 day
      follow-up visit and the final study report will be submitted to IRB after manuscript or other
      publications are submitted and accepted.
    
  