
    
      Sudden cardiac death (SCD) is a major public health problem, causing ~50% of cardiac
      fatalities and accounting for ~20% of all deaths in Europe. The majority of SCD cases are
      associated with coronary artery disease, mostly as a result of ventricular tachyarrhythmias
      (ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation) after previous myocardial infarction
      (MI). A predictor for increased risk of SCD after MI is a severely impaired heart function as
      expressed by a reduced left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF). Based on this and on
      historical multi-national landmark trials, which found improved survival in patients with
      severely reduced LVEF who received an ICD, current clinical guidelines recommend prophylactic
      ICD implantation in post-MI patients with a LVEF ≤35% to improve overall survival by
      prevention of SCD.

      Current practice of ICD implantation based solely on LVEF has significant limitations and
      results in substantial over- and undertreatment of patients. Furthermore, current clinical
      practice is substantially limited by the fact that it is based on out-dated evidence, a point
      already highlighted in the last version of the ESC guidelines for prevention of SCD. Indeed,
      since then, mortality and specifically SCD following MI has dramatically decreased. As a
      result, the risk for SCD has decreased significantly in the last decades rendering
      questionable whether the clinical benefits attributed to ICD implantation may not be much
      lower nowadays than that observed in the pivotal trials conducted 15-20 years ago. Due to the
      inherent risks and considerable costs of the ICD, detailed evaluation of the patient's risks
      and benefits of ICD implantation is required on a case-by-case basis - leading to a
      personalised rather than a "one-size-fits-all" treatment approach. To do so, identification
      of low-risk patients who would not benefit from ICD implantation in parallel with
      identification of post-MI patients who are at true high risk of SCD regardless of LVEF status
      is urgently needed. Thus, in sum-mary there is a compelling clinical need to identify
      patients at high individual risk for SCD in order to protect them effectively with ICD
      implantation but at the same time refrain from ICD implantation in patients with low
      individual risk for SCD.

      The objective of the study is to demonstrate that in post-MI patients with symptomatic heart
      failure who receive optimal medical therapy for this condition, and with reduced LVEF ≤ 35%
      but low risk for SCD according to a personalised risk score, optimal medical therapy without
      ICD implantation (index group) is not inferior to optimal medical therapy with ICD
      implantation (control group) with respect to all-cause mortality.

      PROFID-Reduced is a non-commercial, investigator-driven, prospective, parallel-group,
      randomised, open-label, blinded outcome assessment (PROBE), multi-centre, non-inferiority
      trial without dedicated investigational medical device (Proof of Strategy Trial) with two
      groups with 1:1 randomi-sation. It will be conducted in about 12 European countries with more
      than 150 clinical sites participating

      The study is event driven and the number of randomised patients is estimated to be 2,480,
      required to collect 374 first primary outcome events within 30 months of mean follow-up.

      Total study duration:

      Enrolment of 30 months. All patients will be followed until 374 valid primary endpoints are
      reached (event-driven trial) which is expected about 15 months after last patient in. Total
      study duration of 47 months is expected which might be adapted based on a blinded interim
      analysis of the overall occurrence of the primary endpoint.

      Individual study duration:

      Expected median follow-up time will be about 30 months per patient with a minimum follow-up
      time of 15 months and a maximum follow-up time of presumably 45 months.
    
  