
    
      Invasive X-ray coronary angiography remains the "reference standard" for the evaluation of
      coronary artery stenoses. Recently, intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) has been introduced as an
      invasive method for the evaluation of coronary artery stenoses and has been shown to be
      highly accurate in stenosis detection when compared to X-ray angiography. While invasive
      X-ray angiography and IVUS evaluate morphological features of coronary arterial plaques,
      fractional flow reserve (FFR) is an invasive measure of the hemodynamic significance of a
      stenosis obtained in the catheterization laboratory by measuring changes in intracoronary
      arterial pressure before and after maximal vasodilation induced by intravenous adenosine. An
      FFR value less than 0.75 has been shown to predict ischemia in vascular beds distal to the
      stenosis by radionuclide perfusion modalities and has been shown to be associated with worse
      outcomes. Therefore, FFR is considered to be an invasive hemodynamic "reference standard" for
      the evaluation of the hemodynamic significance of coronary arterial stenoses. While IVUS can
      provide additional morphological information in intermediate stenoses, it can not provide
      further functional information.

      We are currently conducting investigation in the validation of IVUS against FFR in
      intermediate coronary artery stenoses in each coronary arteries. However, the difference of
      the values of IVUS data in each coronary artery, eg. left anterior descending artery or right
      coronary artery, has not been validated against invasive hemodynamic measurements of
      fractional flow reserve in patients with intermediate stenoses by invasive X-ray angiography.
      We hypothesize that IVUS-derived measurements are interpreted differently in each coronary
      arteries in the diagnosis of hemodynamically significant coronary artery stenoses, using FFR
      as the reference standard in patients with coronary artery stenoses 40%< and <70%.
    
  