
    
      Design:

      This study is a superiority trial designed as a stratified international multicenter
      randomized controlled trial of doctors in highly specialized centers that diagnose and/or
      treat skin- and mole cancer.

      Stratification and randomization Eligible participants will be stratified based on gender,
      results on the pre-test, age, type of clinic and self-reported years of experience diagnosing
      skin lesions, before being randomized (allocation ratio 3:1) into either the intervention or
      control group.

      Intervention:

      The intervention group is given access to a digital educational smartphone app (E-app)
      developed by the research group, are asked to register all skin lesions seen with the
      registration app (R-App) also developed by the research group, and will be given clinical
      feedback on every registered skin lesion.

      Participants in the control group are asked from day one to register all skin lesions with
      the R-App, but their clinical feedback and their access to the E-App is delayed for 30 days.

      The delayed educational intervention of the control group serves as a baseline to show the
      natural development of diagnostic accuracy.

      Feedback on removed/biopsied skin lesions is given directly from the pathologist. Feedback
      un-biopsied skin lesions will be provided by a minimum of 4 independent experts in skin
      cancer diagnostics ( >10 years of experience) through a web-based review system developed by
      our group, as in a previous study designed by the same group.

      Statistics:

      The average increase in diagnostic accuracy for the population of participating GPs as an
      effect of the hours spent with the E-App is calculated using Generalized Estimating Equations
      (GEE).

      As benign lesions can be excised/treated for other reasons than suspicion of malignancy we
      will analyse correctly diagnosed benign lesions treated for different reasons (cosmetic or
      functional complaints etc.) separately.

      We expect a majority of registered lesions to be benign, despite most of the patients already
      having been seen by GPs before referral.

      For our statistical analysis we will use a clinically conservative estimated average of 12502
      lesions (11 doctors, 7 departments, 5 lesions per day each and a 50% registration rate).

      Ethical considerations:

      Patient participation contains no immediate strain or discomfort for the patient, and no
      change to current clinical practice, as dermoscopic evaluation is part of the clinical
      examination of skin lesions. The images captured are stored safely and anonymously with no
      risk for the patient.

      With the current low diagnostic accuracy of young doctors the educational nature of the
      intervention justifies the study for the sake of all future patients with skin lesions that
      are less likely to be misdiagnosed.

      Educational interventions on doctors do not require approval by The National Committee on
      Health Research Ethics in Denmark. However ethical considerations have been made and the
      project is in concordance with the Helsinki Declaration II.
    
  