
    
      What are the purpose and objectives of the research?

      The primary aim of this prospective, masked, controlled comparative study is to measure the
      agreement in diagnosis between IP optometrists and the reference standard of consultant
      ophthalmologists.

      A secondary aim is to measure agreement in management of the diagnosis, including the
      decision whether or not to prescribe medication. The choice of not prescribing medication is
      an important prescribing decision and will be counted as such. This measure is the novel
      aspect of the research as it provides evidence of IP optometrists' ability to safely
      prescribe.

      What is the scientific justification for the research?

      The NHS's emergency services are experiencing increasing demand (Ismail et al 2013), which is
      also true of MREH's Acute Referral Centre where IP optometrists work as part of a
      multidisciplinary team. There is a scientific need to provide an evidence base to validate
      and support the role of optometrists working in acute ophthalmic services, as well as provide
      evidence of IP optometrist's ability to safely prescribe medication. This evidence base may
      in turn lend support to nationally extending the role of IP Optometrists' and their skills to
      the benefit of the Health Service. Establishing an audit meets the clinic need to monitor
      performance of IP optometrists working in this extended role. Guidelines for IP optometrists
      working within MREH Acute Ophthalmic Services offer a way to optimise the running of the
      clinic as patient can be triaged to clinicians and ophthalmologists feed to see complex
      cases.

      A novel aspect of this study is that it will compare optometrists' management decisions
      involving the prescribing of ocular medication since IP was introduced (General Optical
      Council 2014). There is no evidence of studies into the safety of such prescribing decisions
      by IP optometrists in acute ophthalmic care. Hau et al (2007) study entitled 'An evaluation
      of optometrists' ability to correctly identify and manage patient s with ocular disease in
      the accident and emergency department of an eye hospital' was before the introduction of IP.

      Duration

      The study will begin in Summer 2015, pending ethics approval, and will last for 18 months.

      Sample size

      A sample of up to 1500 may be achieved based on 20 participants per week over a period of 18
      months. This breaks down to 2.5 participants per study session. It is anticipated that the
      principal IP optometrist of the Acute Referral clinic who works there 4 sessions a week will
      have the potential to perform ~690 clinical assessments for the study. The remaining three IP
      optometrists who work one session a week will have the potential to perform ~172 clinical
      assessments.

      A sample size of 500 with disagreement on diagnosis in 15 individuals is required to give a
      target disagreement rate of 3.0% (binomial 95% CI 1.7-4.9%). The larger anticipated sample
      size will ensure that at least 500 are available where a prescribing decision has been made,
      whilst maintaining small binomial confidence intervals.

      Method

      The protocol for the study is as follows:

        1. Recruitment Patients will be invited to take part in the study and given the study
           information either while being triaged in the walk-in, nurse-led Emergency Eye Centre
           (EEC) to the appointments-based Acute Referral Clinic (ARC) or at arrival at ARC. An
           approved poster will advertise the study and will be place on the wall in both ARC and
           EEC. There will be a smaller version on the reception desk at both ARC and EEC
           accompanied by a participant information leaflet.

           Willingness to participate may depend on the individual and their presenting complaint.
           It may be expected that someone with severe symptoms who is triaged to be seen more
           urgently would be less inclined to have two clinical assessments. Analysis of the
           presenting complaints may identify trends in the severity versus participation in the
           study. It will be made clear that there is no obligation to participate and that if
           people do decide to take part that they can withdraw at any time.

        2. Informed consent There are aspects about the way that the data will be used that
           warrants the consent of participants, with adequate assurance that privacy and
           confidentiality will be maintained. All participating optometrists and ophthalmologists
           will take informed consent. The clinicians will be trained in Good Clinical Practice and
           taking informed consent. Consent may take place during the 4 hour wait in the clinic or
           upon returning for a follow up appointment where appropriate (participants can only have
           the comparative clinical assessments once to ensure masking).

        3. Participant allocation and capping Where there is time and space, participants will be
           allocated to have a clinical assessment by the IP optometrist during their wait for the
           clinical assessment with the ophthalmologist. Both clinical assessments are needed to
           obtain measurement of agreement.

           Sessions where a Consultant Ophthalmologist is in ARC will be allocated as a 'study
           session'. The study sessions will need to be allocated to ensure that approximately
           equal numbers of patients will be seen by the participating IP Optometrists. Consultant
           ophthalmologists with various specialties work with IP optometrists across 8 half day
           clinics during the week. A limitation of collecting data from these set times is that if
           there are conditions specific to presenting on an evening or weekend they will not be
           sampled representatively. Whilst this restricts analysis of certain conditions it
           ensures the focus of the study, evaluation of management by IP Optometrists to be
           achieved.

           A pragmatic approach will be required for the recruitment of patients into the study
           given organisational issues or limited time and rooms available to see patients. The
           recruitment per session for the comparative arm of the study can be capped by the
           Ophthalmologist within the clinic. Allowing a cap ensures that waiting times are kept
           within reason and the level of care is maintained. The cap risks introducing selection
           bias as potential participants presenting to clinic early may be more likely to be have
           the two comparative clinical assessments. The time of attendance in clinic will be
           recorded to monitor if this happens.

        4. IP optometrist's clinical assessment The following protocol is relevant for participants
           undergoing the two comparative clinical assessments. The IP optometrists will receive
           the patient's notes, temporary if presenting on the day, or full notes if attending a
           follow up. There may be nursing notes including from the same day including the
           following; patient history record of measured vision or visual acuity (including pin
           hole visual acuity where it is reduced to 0.20logMAR or less), findings from an
           assessment by slit-lamp of the front of the eye, measurement of intraocular pressure, a
           record of pupil reaction and time of pupil dilation where appropriate.

           The consultation will be documented on the study proforma and include the following:

             -  history and symptoms including where appropriate; medical history, medication,
                previous ocular history, family history, occupation, driving status.

             -  examination of the anterior segment of the eye by slit-lamp or direct
                ophthalmoscopy.

             -  examination of the posterior segment where appropriate by direct ophthalmoscopy or
                indirect biomicroscopy

             -  tonometry (if not previously recorded)

             -  other diagnostic tests as needed (e.g. pachymetry, colour vision).

           The assessment is expected to lead to the formation of a working diagnosis and
           management plan including the following where appropriate; prescribing ophthalmic
           medication, follow-up, referral or discharge. The proforma will have boxes to record
           diagnosis (primary and secondary where appropriate), management plan, treatment
           (including strength and dosing regimen), advice to patient and in addition a comments
           box to permit a judgment on whether the case could have been managed solely by an IP
           Optometrist. There may be occasions where conditions present outside of the scope of the
           IP Optometrists experience, which will be recorded in the comments box noting any
           reasons for this.

        5. Masking and storage IP optometrist's proforma The first study proforma will be filed
           into one drawer of a cabinet in a lockable office. The proformas will be returned to the
           patient notes after the ophthalmologists assessment has concluded and anonymous
           photocopies taken of both proformas by the research optometrist (or where there is
           absence or holidays a different IP optometrist to ensure masking).

        6. Ophthalmologist's clinical assessment The ophthalmologist will receive their own copy a
           proforma along with the patient's notes, but remain masked to the IP optometrist's
           assessment. They will follow the same protocol and then confirmation of participant's
           diagnosis and management plan.

        7. Masking and storage of ophthalmologists proforma The ophthalmologist's proforma will be
           securely stored in a separate drawer in the lockable office. The proforma will be
           returned to the patient notes after anonymous copies of the proforma are photocopied by
           the end of the clinical session.

        8. Storage of data Daniel Todd will analyse the anonymous copied proformas and keep the
           data stored securely to adhere to the legal requirement of data protection. Proformas
           will be kept in secured locked office and electronic data will be encrypted and stored
           on secure NHS computer.

        9. Statistical analysis of agreement The results of the IP Optometrists' proformas compared
           for agreement in diagnosis (primary outcome) and management including prescribed
           medication (secondary) against the consultants' proforma. Percentage agreement, kappa
           (κ) and weighted κ will be calculated for a range of parameters. A system adapted by
           Marks et al (2012) in a comparative of study between ophthalmologists and optometrist in
           glaucoma management, which is originally based one by Banes et al (2006) will be
           employed where the following scores are given; 1.00 = agreement, 0.75 = 1 step from
           agreement, 0.50 = 2 steps from agreement, 0.25 = 3 steps from agreement and 0.00 = 4
           steps of more. Agreement between diagnoses and clinical management plans would support
           IP Optometrist's role in the field and provide evidence of their ability to safely
           prescribe.

       10. Arbitration of disagreement An arbitrator will confirm where there is disagreement; it
           may be that several diagnoses apply or different ways of prescribing are acceptable.
           Arbitration refers to assessment of agreement and not to the clinical care provided.
           Disagreement will be confirmed by showing a participant's notes and proformas to the
           arbitrator, who is a second ophthalmologist participating in the study specialty
           relevant to the participant's complaint. The arbitrator would provide their diagnosis
           and management plan while being masked to those reached by the IP optometrist and first
           ophthalmologist. Weekly meeting with each arbitrator will be arranged by Daniel Todd.

       11. Dissemination of results Once the study's data has been collected and analysed then
           discussion and conclusions will be published. Where participants have expressly
           requested feedback from the study, they will be informed as requested (by telephone,
           e-mail or letter).
    
  