
    
      HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN IPCRR

      Step One: The IPCRR forms are available online at
      http://www.pachyonychia.org/patient-registry/. The Consent Form protects your privacy and the
      Questionnaire gathers important details that distinguish PC from other conditions and helps
      to identify specific characteristics of each type of PC. You may stop and start as often as
      needed before completing the forms. If you are not certain about an answer, you may skip that
      question.

      Step Two: Take photos as shown in the Questionnaire sample photo page. You can upload the
      images online with the Questionnaire. If you prefer, you may email the photos. Photos of your
      PC are very important. Note: If you do not have access to a computer and wish to have the
      IPCRR forms mailed, please contact PC Project.

      Step Three: When your Consent Form, Questionnaire, and Photos are received by PC Project, we
      will have an intake call with you to review your information and to discuss the next steps.

      Step Four: If referred for genetic testing, you will then be sent the special saliva test kit
      (no travel required). Usually, only saliva is needed and from only one family member. The
      sample is collected by spitting into the vial in the kit and then mailing it in the envelope
      provided. Genetic testing is complex and time-consuming - it is not like a sugar test or
      pregnancy test, and can take many months to be completed, but the testing begins as soon as
      your sample arrives.

      When the confirming results are received, a full genetic testing report is provided to you
      with precise information and suggestions specific to your condition. You may find the report
      very valuable with physicians or other medical providers as well as for school personnel,
      employers, disability hearings, or other special needs. All information is held
      confidentially by PC Project and the research is reported anonymously. There is no cost to
      you for any of these tests or assistance from PC Project. You may also request additional
      consultations as needed.
    
  