
    
      Adult patients referred to the MGMC Acupuncture Clinic for this study must have an
      established Western medical diagnosis, have exhausted all standards of care for the reduction
      and/or resolution of pain, meet the inclusion and exclusion criteria and be clinically
      evaluated prior to entry in the study. 1000 patients will be entered into the study; no male
      and female patient ratios will be required. Patients under 18 years of age will be excluded.
      There are no upper age limits.

      Acupuncture point(s) selection and acupuncture techniques will be individualized for each
      patient. All treatments will be approved by the physician principal investigator. Treatment
      will generally be administered with the patient either prone, supine, or seated position.
      Standards of reporting interventions in controlled trials of acupuncture, based on STRICTA
      requirements, will be followed. The following acupuncture data will be collected:

        -  Acupuncture point locations (palpation or electronic detection)

        -  Techniques employed: (e.g. dry needling, acupuncture, electro-acupuncture ,
           auriculotherapy, electro-auriculotherapy, laser, piezo-electrical stimulation
           micro-current techniques, E-field)

        -  Types of needles employed (e.g. ASP gold/stainless steel, needle tacks, Seirin needles,
           etc.)

      Baseline demographic data and information on pain levels (using the Numerical Rating Scale),
      patient satisfaction (using the Patient Satisfaction Questionnaire), functional health status
      (using the SF-8), and concomitant medical care (including medication use) will be collected
      prior to treatment. Follow-up data on pain levels and concomitant medical care will be
      collected via telephone 24 hours, 1 week, 2 weeks, and 4 weeks post-therapy. Patient
      satisfaction and functional health status data will be collecetd again at 4 weeks
      post-treatment. Relapses of pain will be noted and appropriately evaluated. In addition, the
      following clinical data will be collected:

        -  Subjective, Objective, Assessment, and Treatment(SOAP) parameters

        -  Medication use

        -  Range of motion

      A cost analysis will be performed by comparing patients who seek acupuncture treatment to
      those who receive only conventional medical care during the same time period, by matching
      cohorts based on ICD-9 diagnostic codes and basic demographic information.

      A series of appropriate parametric and nonparametric tests will be performed to look for
      pre-post differences in patient outcomes on a number of relevant baseline variables;
      including demographic information, intensity and duration of pain, SF-8 scores, patient
      satisfaction, and utilization of concomitant medical services.

      An ancillary study will be conducted to investigate personality factors and pretreatment
      expectations as predictors of treatment outcome of medical acupuncture. Specific Aims of this
      ancillary study include:

        1. To assess perceived health outcomes after acupuncture treatment by military medical
           acupuncturists.

        2. To identify psychosocial and demographic predictors of perceived health outcomes from
           acupuncture treatment by military medical acupuncturists.

        3. To help clarify which patients are more likely to respond to acupuncture and hence more
           likely to benefit from a referral to a trained medical acupuncturist.
    
  