
    
      After tooth extraction, the supporting tissues, bone and mucosa will undergo a loss of volume
      associated with the loss of the cementum-periodontal ligament-bone attachment complex.

      This alteration in volume can affect aesthetic results, especially when the tooth involves
      the anterior area, where the alveolar bone is narrower.

      To compensate for the lost volume loss, some authors promote delayed implant placement, which
      would facilitate soft tissue management after healing.

      The conventional immediate implant placement technique proposes the use of bone regeneration
      biomaterials in the space between the implant wall and the residual vestibular bone. The aim
      of this technique is to compensate for this bone resorption, thus improving the aesthetic
      results. In the same sense of compensating for the resorption that will occur, some authors
      recommend the use of soft tissue grafts in the same operative act of extraction and placement
      of the immediate implant.

      Some years ago, some authors presented the technique of partial extraction of the tooth as an
      alternative to the conventional technique of immediate implant placement after extraction
      with the aim of avoiding or minimising this resorption. The technique consists of leaving a
      piece of tooth (shield) inserted in the vestibular alveolar bone area so that the resorption
      process is slowed down.

      The presence of bone between the dentine wall of the tooth fragment and the implant has been
      demonstrated in both animal and ex-vivo histological studies.

      From a clinical point of view, the Socket-Shield or partial extraction technique has been
      shown to maintain the vestibular volume in post-extraction implants placed using this
      technique in both posterior and anterior areas with high aesthetic compromise, maintaining
      adequate clinical values and patient satisfaction.

      On the other hand, a 2015 systematic review, comparing immediate and delayed implantation
      techniques, reports no significant differences between the two, especially at the soft tissue
      level, although it mentions a lack of quality in the RCTs analysed.

      A 2017 randomized clinical trial compared the conventional immediate implant placement
      technique with the delayed or early implantation technique, advising against the former when
      aesthetics were compromised and limiting it to well-selected cases.

      In contrast, another more recent randomized clinical trial found no aesthetic, clinical or
      radiographic differences between the two techniques, and reported similar levels of patient
      satisfaction.

      Likewise, a higher rate of early failure has been found in the immediate implantation
      technique, mentioning the lack of randomised clinical studies comparing both techniques,
      especially in terms of soft tissue volume changes.

      A recent randomised clinical study comparing the Socket-Shield technique with the
      conventional implant placement technique found better levels of marginal bone and pink
      aesthetic assessment in the former, considering it a safe and feasible technique in the
      anterior sector.

      Given the lack of evidence in the literature, there is a palpable need for clinical studies
      to compare the best technique and/or timing of implant placement after tooth extraction.
    
  