
    
      In the United States, approximately one in two men and one in three women will develop
      cancer. Today, more than 15 million people live with cancer in the United States alone. The
      direct annual medical cost of cancer is over 86 billion US dollars. The indirect cost,
      representing loss of wages and productivity, exceeds 130 billion US dollars annually. It is
      estimated that 90% of all cancer patients report pain. About 63% of patients with advanced
      stage cancer or with metastasis suffer from pain that is classified as "moderate to severe".
      The majority of cancer patients suffer from excruciating pain. Even those who survive cancer
      may still experience pain. Of all cancer survivors, 59% report pain secondary to
      chemotherapy. Even after patients are cured from their cancer, 33% of these patients will
      still suffer from severe pain due to their chemotherapy. Inadequate pain management results
      in 67% of patients with severe pain. Notably, 32% of cancer patients reported a desire for
      suicide secondary to their pain.

      Opioids have been the gold standard to treat cancer pain. Sadly, there are many side effects
      associated with chronic opioid use. It has been shown in animal models that chronic use of
      opioids has been associated with paradoxical effects. Rats that have been exposed to chronic
      opioids developed hyperalgesia, which is an exaggerated response to a painful stimulus and
      allodynia, which is a painful response to a non-painful stimulus. There have been several
      mechanisms proposed to explain the paradoxical hyperalgesia phenomena observed. This
      phenomenon has been recognized in patients inflected with chronic pain and managed with
      chronic opioid. It has been long observed that patients with chronic pain require gradually
      increasing doses of opioids. The reasons for this increase in opioid requirement may be
      complicated. While the progression of the disease may play a significant part in increasing
      doses of opioid, other factors such as tolerance and opioid induced hyperalgesia cannot be
      ignored. Tolerance is a characteristic of opioids that is well investigated and results in
      increasing the doses of opioids to maintain the original analgesic effects. Changing of brain
      circuitry enables opioids to play a sinister role allowing it to produce pain. Additionally,
      patients develop physical dependence with their use of opioids. A more significant aspect of
      chronic use of opioid is the psychological dependence on opioids. While its understandable
      and necessary for cancer patients to have opioids to control their pain, finding adjuvant
      pain control therapy may lessen the amount of opioids needed. Using neuropathic pain
      medications as adjuvants to supplement opioids had mixed results. Therefore, a different
      agent with different mechanism is action may be needed for better pain control with less
      opioids.

      Cancer cells have high metabolic rate that generate high oxidative stress burden. Cancer
      cells require glutathione to combat oxidative stress for survival. Cysteine is required for
      the synthesis of glutathione. Cells acquire cysteine be exchanging intracellular glutamate
      for the extra cellular cysteine through the Cysteine/Glutamate antiporter. Excreting
      glutamate results in increased pain through the activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor
      (NMDA). If an agent can be identified that inhibits the Cysteine/Glutamate antiporter, the
      cancer cells will have less chances of survival secondary to decreased glutathione that's is
      needed for protection from oxidative stress. Additionally, decreased amount of the glutamate
      secreted from the cells may lower the amount of pain produced.

      Sulfasalazine is a safe and well-established anti-inflammatory drug with potent inhibitory
      properties of the cysteine/glutamate antiporter. Utilizing sulfasalazine for cancer patients,
      in conjunction with opioids, may reduce the amount of opioids needed in two different
      methods. First, sulfasalazine may decrease the survival rate of cancer cells, thus lowering
      the mechanical burden of the cancer. Second, sulfasalazine may decrease the amount of
      glutamate released by cancer cell resulting in less activation of the NMDA receptor.

      The investigator proposes a clinical trial to administer sulfasalazine to initially focus on
      breast cancer patients with pain. The pain may be from the primary tumor or from metastasis.
      The investigator hypothesis that sulfasalazine will reduce cancer pain, the amount of the
      opioids needed, and the undesirable side effects associated with high doses of opioid.
    
  