
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine if combination therapy with topical eflornithine hydrochloride ointment and
           topical diclofenac sodium gel over 3-months increases the efficacy versus either agent
           used alone in the treatment of moderately sun-damaged skin.

      Secondary

        -  To evaluate the safety of sequential administration of topical eflornithine
           hydrochloride ointment and topical diclofenac sodium gel.

        -  To determine the correlation of karyometric changes with histopathologic,
           immunohistochemical, clinical, and genetic polymorphism data.

        -  To obtain materials for microarray analysis.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

        -  Eflornithine hydrochloride : Patients apply topical eflornithine hydrochloride ointment
           to their left forearm twice daily on days 1-90.

        -  Diclofenac sodium : Patients apply topical diclofenac sodium gel to their left forearm
           once daily on days 1-90.

        -  Eflornithine hydrochloride/Diclofenac sodium : Patients apply topical eflornithine
           hydrochloride ointment as in arm I twice daily and topical diclofenac sodium gel as in
           arm II once daily on days 1-90.

      Prior to treatment, three 4-mm punch biopsies are taken from the skin of the left lateral
      forearm for assessment of histopathology, the cyclooxygenase-2 enzyme and p53 expression,
      apoptosis, and nuclear chromatin karyometry. Tissue is also obtained for future use in
      microarray analysis. Blood is drawn for assessment of ornithine decarboxylase polymorphisms
      and for banking for subsequent studies. Biopsies are repeated 2-3 weeks after completion of
      treatment.

      Digital photographs are taken at baseline and 1-2 weeks after completion of study therapy to
      document improvement of sun damage, appearance of new skin lesions, and toxicity.
    
  