
    
      A severe physical disability has a dramatic impact on a person's life, whether it is caused
      by a neuro-degenerative disease such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), a brainstem
      stroke, or a spinal cord injury. Someone with these conditions may be effectively
      "locked-in," retaining their cognitive ability, but unable to perform any movement except,
      possibly, the most basic eye movements.

      Areas of the brain that retain structural and functional integrity throughout the lifespan of
      people with ALS may be suitable for a technology called brain-computer interfaces (BCI). One
      day, BCIs-which can be operated "just by thinking"-may allow people with neurological
      disorders, such as ALS, to communicate and regain some mobility with the assistance of
      electronic devices.

      In this study we will use functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to track areas of the
      brain that retain structural and functional integrity throughout the lifespan of people with
      ALS.

      The trial involves visits to the study facility every 2-6 months for up to 30 months or until
      visits are no longer possible. During each visit, participants will undergo a fMRI exam.
      During that time they will view visual images and be asked to perform 4 different motor
      tasks: 1) actual finger tapping, 2) actual fist clenching, 3) imaginary finger tapping, and
      4) imaginary fist clenching. Each of the mini-experiments (tasks) lasts for about 6-7
      minutes. While the participants are performing the tasks their brains will be repeatedly
      imaged using fMRI. We will then use the images to look for correlations to the tasks, which
      in turn will result in identifying the brain areas responsible for the activities. After the
      fMRI, participants will be asked to fill out questionnaires. Performing the tasks takes about
      90 minutes and filling out the questionnaires takes about 30 minutes.

      The facility is located on the North Campus of the University of Michigan-Ann Arbor. The
      study coordinators currently are enrolling participants with ALS and creating a database of
      healthy volunteers whom they will contact at a later date.

      Information gained from this study will contribute to a better understanding of ALS disease
      progression, and could lead to significant quality-of-life improvements for persons with
      end-stage ALS.
    
  