
    
      Neonates are unique due to maturational differences in their coagulation systems. During the
      first few months of life, distinct differences exist between the coagulation system of a
      neonate and that of an adult including differences between the concentration of coagulation
      proteins, the ability to generate thrombin and the ability to inhibit thrombin once it is
      formed (1). One important coagulant protein that is quantitatively deficient in the first
      several months of life is prothrombin. In the coagulation cascade, prothrombin is converted
      into thrombin, a major regulator of hemostasis. In healthy newborns mean prothrombin values
      are less than 70% of adult mean values (1), and investigators have found that neonatal
      prothrombin level is directly proportional to the amount of thrombin generated (1). In fact,
      the impaired ability of newborn plasma to generate thrombin in the face of deficient
      prothrombin has been shown to be similar to adults who are being treated therapeutically with
      an anticoagulant (2). Therefore, low prothrombin levels in neonates have important
      implications when considering anticoagulant therapy.

      For neonates with congenital heart disease presenting for cardiac surgery, anticoagulation
      for cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) is necessary to prevent clotting as blood comes into contact
      with the unphysiologic surfaces of the extracorporeal circuit. This is achieved by the use of
      high dose heparin, which is used to inhibit the formation and activation of thrombin. Since
      neonatal prothrombin levels are low, rendering them unable to generate large amounts of
      thrombin, neonates with congenital heart disease requiring anticoagulation for CPB have
      historically been considered heparin sensitive (3). However, in a recent investigation
      conducted by this group, elevated baseline levels of thrombin production and activity were
      consistently found in neonates presenting for cardiac surgery (4). Additionally, despite
      routine heparin dosing, elevated markers of thrombin production were also found in these
      neonates during CPB when compared to their adult counterparts (4). Perhaps the assumption
      that neonates with congenital heart disease are similar to other healthy neonates in their
      impaired ability to generate thrombin is incorrect. Contact activation may occur
      preoperatively from the presence of indwelling umbilical catheters and central lines or from
      interventional manipulations in the cardiac catheterization lab and stimulate their
      coagulation systems to generate more thrombin than anticipated. Elevated thrombin levels in
      neonates presenting for cardiac surgery would consequently have important implications in
      determining the optimal heparin dose needed to provide adequate anticoagulation for CPB.

      A technique has been developed to monitor the thrombin generating capacity of plasma (5). A
      thrombin generation curve (TGC) can be constructed from a sample of plasma and the area under
      the TGC, called the endogenous thrombin potential (ETP), is a good indicator of the
      coagulability of the sample. Currently, we have found no published data addressing the TGC in
      the neonatal population. Therefore, we propose a prospective study between neonates with
      congenital heart disease presenting for cardiac surgery and other healthy neonates to compare
      their respective abilities to generate thrombin by measuring TGCs.
    
  