
    
      Holistic health is an integration and interaction of physical and psychosocial health.
      Positive psychology is a science of happiness, which focuses on positive emotions and
      personal strengths. It is used as a preventive and complementary medicine, which also is
      crucial component in family holistic health (happiness, harmony and health). Healthy diet can
      help to achieve energy balance and healthy weights. Sufficient daily consumption of fruit and
      vegetables, as well as limitation on the intake of sugar, salt and fat could prevent major
      diseases, such as cardiovascular diseases and certain cancers. Physical activity is believed
      to contribute to physical and mental health, as well as social well-being. However, physical
      inactivity was found to be a local and worldwide issue and most Hong Kong people are having a
      sedentary lifestyle. Studies show that the increase of physical activity and healthy diet
      reduce the risk of chronic diseases, and improve cardio-pulmonary functions; whereas
      sedentary behaviors increase the risk

      Although people understand the harmful effect of family disharmony, physical inactivity and
      unhealthy diet, which may cause different kinds of physical and mental illnesses, healthy
      living attitudes and behaviours are lacking.

      Over the past six years, the FAMILY project has been working on community-based projects to
      promote FAMILY health, happiness and harmony (3Hs). In view of the health challenges locally
      and globally, the new phase of FAMILY project will put more emphasis on health in the
      upcoming three years. Following the theme on FAMILY 3Hs, the new work focus is to promote
      family holistic health with emphasize on the interaction and integration of physical and
      psychosocial health. The investigator will initiate and develop a series innovative
      community-based projects and training program with vigorous evaluation in order to evaluate
      the effectiveness of the programs.

      The investigator hypothesize that the training programs would promote the health awareness
      and the health of the participants. During the training, the investigator will conduct
      physical fitness test and collect data from the participants. Those participants would
      conduct community programmes for their own institution to enhance the personal and family
      well-being of their service users.

      In order to assess the effectiveness of the training program on improving individual and
      family well-being and their capability of community programme implementation, Self-reported
      questionnaire would be used at baseline, one month and three months after training; and focus
      group interview would be conducted after participants finishing their community programmes.
    
  