
    
      This is a multicenter, randomized, controlled, open-label study including patients with
      localized and locally advanced diffuse and mixed type adenocarcinoma of the stomach and Type
      II/III GEJ scheduled to receive perioperative chemotherapy combined with intraoperative HIPEC
      procedure.

      The scope of the trial is to evaluate the efficacy as well as the safety and tolerability of
      the combination of perioperative chemotherapy combined with an intraoperative HIPEC for
      resectable diffuse and mixed type gastric and GEJ (types II/III) adenocarcinoma.
      Intraoperative hyperthermic chemoperfusion is summarized under the abbreviation HIPEC in the
      following.

      Patients with localized and locally advanced diffuse or mixed type adenocarcinoma of the
      stomach and Type II/III GEJ (i.e. ≥cT3 any N or any T N-positive) with exclusion of distant
      metastases and after receiving neoadjuvant FLOT- therapy will be included in this trial after
      a central review.

      All enrolled patients will have received 3-6 pre-operative cycles (de-escalation or dose
      modification allowed) of biweekly FLOT (Docetaxel 50 mg/m² in 250 ml NaCl 0.9%, iv over 1 h;
      Oxaliplatin 85 mg/m² in 500 ml G5%, iv over 2h; Leucovorin 200 mg/m² in 250 ml NaCl 0.9%, iv
      over 30 min; 5-FU 2600 mg/m², iv over 24 h, q2wk) in the preoperative treatment phase.

      After completion of neoadjuvant FLOT- therapy followed by pre-operative tumor assessment,
      (also including diagnostic laparoscopy prior to start of FLOT), patients without disease
      progression (expected to be approximately 90% of the patients) will be included into the
      trial, stratified by initial clinical stage (T1/2 vs. T3/4 and/or N- vs. N+), histological
      type of tumor (Lauren classification diffuse vs. mixed) and study site.

      Patients will be randomized 1:1 to receive either postoperative FLOT (Arm A) or postoperative
      FLOT + intraoperative HIPEC (Arm B).

      Arm A (FLOT) Surgery in Arm A is planned to occur 4 to 6 weeks after d1 of last FLOT. Surgery
      is carried out in kind of gastrectomy, transhiatal extended gastrectomy. Following surgery,
      patients will receive four further 2-week treatment cycles FLOT in the post-operative
      treatment phase. Post-operative treatment should start 6 to 8 weeks, but at maximum 12 weeks
      after surgery.

      Arm B (FLOT/ HIPEC) Surgery in Arm B is planned to occur 4 to 6 weeks after d1 of last FLOT.
      Surgery is carried out in kind of gastrectomy, transhiatal extended gastrectomy. Surgery will
      be combined with an intraoperative Hyperthermic IntraPEritoneal Chemoperfusion (HIPEC)
      including cisplatin solution administered at a temperature of 42°C for 90 minutes. Following
      surgery, patients will receive four further 2-week treatment cycles FLOT in the
      post-operative treatment phase. Post-operative treatment should start 6 to 8 weeks, but at
      maximum 12 weeks after surgery.

      In both of the arms, tumor assessments (CT or MRI) are performed before randomization prior
      to surgery, and then every 3 months (radiological tumor assessment) thereafter until
      progression/relapse, death or end of follow-up. A change from CT into MRI in the follow up
      period is possible at any time.

      During treatment, clinical visits (blood cell counts, detection of toxicity) occur prior to
      every treatment dose. Safety of FLOT/ HIPEC will be monitored continuously by careful
      monitoring of all adverse events (AEs) and serious adverse events (SAEs) reported.

      The phase III design starts with a safety run-in phase. After 20 patients had curatively
      intended resection in Arm B, an interim safety analysis is performed that shows feasibility,
      safety, and tolerability of Arm B planned at the time 8 weeks after the 20th patient in Arm B
      had curatively intended resection. It is not planned to discontinue recruitment for the
      interim safety analysis.
    
  