
    
      1. Background Multidisciplinary trauma teams reduce mortality and have become an important
           part of modern trauma care. Activation of the trauma team (TTA) when receiving patients
           with potentially severe injuries and protocols for TTA, are widely implemented
           throughout Scandinavia. Trauma team activation guidelines vary somewhat among
           Scandinavian trauma centers, but resemble the recommendations from the American College
           of Surgery - Committee On Trauma (ACS-COT). The criteria are based on parameters of
           physiologic compromise, anatomic injury classification, and mechanism of injury (MOI).
           They are designed to prevent undue delay of vital care as the trauma team is activated
           when prehospital information indicates that at least one of the TTA criteria is
           fulfilled. A substantial overtriage (activation of the trauma team despite only minor or
           moderate injury) is common and may reach 70%, mostly reflecting the limited precision of
           criteria relating to MOI. Overtriage is mainly a resource problem, as assembly of the
           multidisciplinary trauma team diverts personnel from other important activities in the
           hospital. Undertriage delays diagnosis and treatment of severely injured patients and
           may compromise the clinical outcome and even increase mortality. ACS-COT suggests that
           an overtriage as high as 50% is acceptable in order to minimize undertriage.

           Triage criteria should be adapted to the local case-load and injury pattern, which may
           vary considerably between geographical regions. The predictive properties of triage
           criteria depend on the prevalence of severe injuries. Typical for most Scandinavian
           trauma hospitals is a predominance of blunt over penetrating injuries. Furthermore, the
           frequency of severe polytrauma admissions is low.

           In 2011, we published an evaluation of the trauma team activation protocol in our
           hospital, leading to a change in the criteria. This study represents an evaluation of
           those changes and also addresses whether there may be a potential for further
           improvements.

        2. Aim of the study The aim of the study is to establish the predictive properties of our
           TTA protocol, and its individual criteria, and if possible to suggest changes that
           reduce over- and undertriage.

           The study will also give an overview of the frequency and type of emergency procedures
           at a university hospital trauma center, which can contribute to optimal resource use and
           indicate which type of surgical skills are necessary in our trauma emergency procedures.

        3. Method Identification of patients and inclusion-/exclusion criteria The trauma register
           at UNN Tromsø registers all patients admitted with TTA. Also included are patients with
           penetrating injury to the head/neck/torso/extremities proximal for elbow or knee, all
           patients with New Injury Severity Score (NISS) >12 and all patients with a head injury
           with AIS≥3. Excluded from the trauma register are patients with a chronic subdural
           hematoma, and patients with injuries from drowning, inhalation and asphyxia
           (strangulation/hanging).

           From the patients in the trauma register in the time period 1.2.2013 - 31.01.2015, we
           will identify and include patients.

           Data collection Almost all necessary data will be available from the trauma register.
           Criteria used for activation of the trauma team, is not registered in the trauma
           registry, and hence, will be registered from the documentation in the emergency medical
           dispatch centre (AMK) in Tromsø.

           Classification of injuries All injuries will be classified according to the Abbreviated
           Injury Scale (AIS)) and the extent of injuries will be classified with the Injury
           Severity Scale (ISS). Both classifications will be performed by authorized registrars.

           Triage The TTA protocol is evaluated against two standards, ISS and emergency procedure.
           Triage is considered correct when ISS>15 or an emergency procedure is performed aimed at
           stabilizing respiration or circulation. Overtriage is defined as the fraction of TTA
           where the patients are not severely injured (ISS≤15) or did not receive an emergency
           procedure. Undertriage is defined as the fraction of severely injured (ISS>15) or an
           emergency procedure was performed, and the patient was admitted without TTA.

           The ability of a criterion to predict severe trauma and/or need for an emergency
           procedure, is given as the percentage of patients that fulfilled the specific criterion
           that also had an ISS >15 and/or were subject to an emergency procedure.

           Hypothesis Previously, there was an undertriage of 12 % and an overtriage at UNN Tromsø
           of 70 %. On the 01.04.2011, the trauma team activation protocol at UNN Tromsø was
           revised, and of the previously 27 criteria, five criteria had been removed. We plan to
           assess if the current protocol has lead to an improvement in under- and overtriage. We
           also want to identify criteria which are seldom used (< 5 % of patients) and/or with a
           low positive predictive value (< 10 %), and these criteria will be considered omitted.

           A last hypothesis is to analyze if "walking wounded" is safe to admit without mobilizing
           the trauma team (a "walking wounded" patient is an injured patient with no loss of
           conscience and is up and walking on his own), given that there is enough prehospital
           information to assess this.

        4. Design The study is a prospective cohort study, based on data from the trauma register
           at UNN Tromsø.

        5. Parameters

           Baseline characteristics for included patients are:

             -  sex

             -  age

             -  mechanism of injury

             -  classification of injuries with AIS and ISS

             -  transfer from other hospitals

           Outcome parameters include

             -  type and frequency of emergency procedures performed at the local hospital and at
                UNN Tromsø

             -  Criteria used for trauma team activation.

             -  mortality

           Emergency procedures includes:

             -  Chest tube insertion

             -  Hemostatic surgery in the abdomen

             -  Hemostatic surgery in the pelvis with packing

             -  Thoracotomy

             -  Primary stabilization of fractures (external fixation)

             -  Endotracheal intubation (our addition)

        6. Statistical methods Simple statistical methods like frequency, mean, median and
           percentage will be used.

        7. Study group Supervisor is dr.med. Kristian Bartnes, Avd. for hjerte-/lunge-/karkirurgi,
           UNN.

           Coworkers are dr.med. Knut Fredriksen, Akuttmedisinsk avd. UNN; cand.med. Svein Arne
           Monsen, Anestesiavd. UNN and cand.med. Trond Dehli, Gastrokirurgisk avd, UNN.

           Trond Dehli is responsible for the practical follow-up of the study.

        8. Time Schedule Data collection will start 1.2.13 and continue until 31.01.15. Since
           registration of data in the trauma registry most likely will be delayed by 2-12 weeks,
           the registration of data will continue until all patients in the registry are completed.
           Presentation of the study in the form abstract/posters and a manuscript will be written
           during 2015.

        9. Ethics and publication The protocol will be sent to the regional ethical committee for
           approval. We plan to present the results in national and international conferences, and
           also in a peer-reviewed medical journal.
    
  