
    
      The primary objective of this prospective pragmatic randomised controlled trial (PRCT) in
      3546 patients is to evaluate the possible superiority of a CT-based patient management over
      an ICA-based management strategy in stable chest pain patients with intermediate pretest
      probability (10-60%) of coronary artery disease. The primary outcome measure is the
      occurrence of MACE (MACE = major adverse cardiovascular events; defined as at least one of
      the following: cardiovascular death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, and nonfatal stroke)
      after a maximum follow-up of 4 years after CT or ICA. Secondary outcomes include health
      related quality of life, cost-effectiveness, cross-over to ICA/CT. Procedural complications
      are classified into major and minor. Major procedural complications are a composite end-point
      and include death, nonfatal stroke, nonfatal myocardial infarction, and further complications
      prolonging hospitalization by at least 24 hrs,as well as dissection (coronary, aorta),
      cardiogenic shock, cardiac tamponade, retroperitoneal bleeding, cardiac arrhythmia
      (ventricular tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation), cardiac arrest. Possible minor
      procedural complications: Hematoma at the puncture site, secondary bleeding at the puncture
      site, bradycardia, angina without infarction, allergoid contrast agent reaction, stent
      migration, hypotension requiring treatment, headache, hyperthyreodism, skin tissue and nerve
      injuries, extravasate, cardiac arrhythmia, contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN), infections,
      femoral arterial occlusion (or arterial access vessel) or dissection, new requirement for
      dialysis, DVT/pulmonary embolism, closure or injury of vessels, injury of the heart (e.g.
      valve or myocardium), , perforation, gastrointestinal bleeding, genital-urinary bleeding,
      other major bleeding, red blood cell (RBC)/whole blood transfusion, twisting or rupture of
      the catheter part, other equipment mishaps (e.g. retained foreign body guidewire fracture),
      development of arterio-venous fistula(s), development of pseudo aneurysm at puncture site,
      dissection (except coronary dissection), permanent edema (e.g. due to lymphatic congestion at
      puncture site), embolisation of central or peripheral vessels due to thromboembolis, acute
      closure of coronary vessels, stent infection, heart failure, wrong patient or wrong procedure
      and other.

      This study is a European multicentre study conducted at 26 clinical centres in 16 European
      countries and is methodologically based on the single-centre CAD-Man trial conducted by
      Charité (NCT00844220). The pragmatic approach of the study ensures generating practical and
      usable outcomes for clinical decision-making according to comparative effectiveness research
      methodology.

      In a preceding pilot study, data for cost-effectiveness analyses and image-quality analyses
      are collected and methods are defined for implementation in the main PRCT. Also appropriate
      instruments for health related quality of life are being chosen.

      DISCHARGE receives funding from the 7th Framework Programme of the European Commission (EC-GA
      603266).
    
  