
    
      1. The anticipated number of patient subjects will reach 120 in the study. The patient's
           condition should be informed to his/her next of kin and then agree to signs the informed
           consent.

        2. When passing spontaneous breathing trials and removing tracheal tube, the patients
           should be divided into two groups by random digital table.

        3. Group A/HFNO group: the patients should receive the treatment of high flow nasal oxygen
           immediately after extubation. The initial flow speed was set at 30L/min and increased at
           5L/min in titrated type until the patient feels uncomfortable. The temperature was set
           at 37℃. The fraction of inspiration O2 was set in accordance with specific condition of
           patient to insure oxygen saturation more than 95%.

           Group B/NIV group: the patients should receive the treatment of non-invasive ventilation
           immediately after extubation. The initial pressure are set at a lower level (inspiratory
           pressure: 6-8cmH2O, expiratory pressure: 4cmH2O) and adjusted to a suitable level in
           10-20min. The fraction of inspiration O2 was set in accordance with specific condition
           of patient to insure oxygen saturation more than 95%.

        4. The criteria of successful extubation: the patient doesn't require re-intubation within
           48 hours after extubation.

           The criteria of extubation failure: the patient needs re-intubation and ventilation
           support within 48 hours after extubation.

        5. (1) Investigators should keep a record of these patient's general condition, for
           instance, age, sex, diagnosis, Apache II score, treatment, etc.(2) Investigators should
           routinely detect clinical manifestation, ventilation parameters and physiological
           indices of the recruited patients. Elementary monitoring indicators consist of vital
           signs, oxygen saturation, ECG, tidal volume, breathing rate, inspiratory pressure,
           expiratory pressure and blood gas analysis. Blood gas analysis should be evaluated on an
           average of 12 hours, within the range of 48 hours after extubation.(3) Clinical
           prognosis of these patients should be recorded, including the rate of weaning failure,
           re-intubation rate, time for re-intubation, causes of re-intubation, duration of
           HFNO/HIV, length of ICU stay, hospitalization time and number of death.（4） The data of
           adverse effect derived from devices applied in the study should be recorded. HFNO group:
           dry nasal cavity, dry oropharyngeal cavity, dysphagia.HIV group: dry oropharyngeal
           cavity, skin injury caused by mask oppression, gaseous distention, vomiting, respiratory
           aspiration, air leak, drying sputum, difficulty in coughing up phlegm and
           claustrophobia.
    
  