
    
      Background:

      Residents in residential care homes are at a high risk of being infected by COVID-19 due to
      the advanced age, associated co-morbidities, and state of dependence of the residents .
      According to the licensing requirements for RCHs in Hong Kong, a registered nurse is
      designated as an Infection Control Officer (ICO) to coordinate matters related to the
      prevention and handling of infectious diseases in each RCH. During the pandemic, the ICOs
      disseminate the COVID-19 guidelines, which were developed by the Centre for Health Protection
      (CHP) under the Food and Health Bureau of the Hong Kong government, to all staff in RCHs .
      Whether the staff understand and can correctly interpret the contents and adopt the
      guidelines into practice is unclear. There is nothing in the literature about the infection
      control training given by ICOs to the staff in RCHs.

      Innovations:

      The key innovation in this study is the adoption of the concept of gamification in COVID-19
      infection control training. The investigators apply elements of game design (short video
      clips/interactive video games in the form of quizzes) in non-game environments (RCHs) within
      non-game contexts (infection control training). Gamification is widely used as an educational
      tool in different disciplines. For example, in the current study, one of the simulated
      situations is visitor management to avoid the entry of COVID-19 in RCHs. Sequential
      allocation in visitor management could be utilized in the gamified training programme, to
      allow learners the chance to practice in a virtual environment. The inappropriate management
      of visitors could lead to the spread of COVID-19 infections in an RCH, and learners could
      have a second chance to do better in a virtual environment.

      Gamified training offers many benefits, the major one of which is that it allows learners to
      learn at a convenience time and place. The use of gamification restructures the experience of
      a traditional boring activity into something enjoyable, interactive, and competitive, with
      the result that learners can remain active and engaged throughout the learning process. In
      addition, training with the use of games can improve compliance with decided behaviour.
      Learners were found to have developed new skills and/or new habits via gamified training.

      Objectives:

      This study aims to assess the effect of the Blended Gaming COVID-19 Training System (BGCTS)
      on infection control practices, compliance rates and knowledge of standard precautions among
      all staff in residential care homes (RCHs).

      The specific objectives and hypothesis of the study include:

        1. To assess whether more staff in the intervention group (IG) perform infection control
           practices (by on-site observations) than the staff in the control group (CG) after
           receiving the BGCTS;

        2. To assess whether more staff in the IG have infection control knowledge, positive
           attitudes towards infection control, and self-reported compliance rates than the staff
           in the CG.

      Method:

      This study collects data through on-site observations of infection control practices which
      requires resources and special training. Observations will be the primary outcome of this
      study. Special arrangements on conducting on-site non-participatory unobtrusive observations
      in RCHs will be made to ensure the validity and reliability of the results.

      Unobtrusive non-participatory observations of the infection control practices of healthcare
      personnel will be conducted in the RCHs. Healthcare personnel will include doctors, nurses,
      occupational therapists, physiotherapists, health workers, and personal care workers who are
      working in the RCHs. Observations will be made at baseline (before the intervention) and
      after the intervention (post-intervention). Observations will be made in five areas: hand
      hygiene, respiratory hygiene, the use of personal protective equipment (PPE), environmental
      cleaning and disinfection, and the proper handling of used or contaminated materials. A total
      of 200 observation opportunities per RCH unit will be made to avoid measurement bias.

      At least three cameras (webcams with recording function) will be set up in each RCH to
      capture the staff's hand hygiene practice. The number of cameras will be determined after
      site visit to the RCH. The investigators would cover substantial areas of the RCH (including
      most of the hand washing facilities). Prior to the initiation of camera monitoring, staff of
      RCHs will be clearly informed about the recording. Camera recording will be made for 2 weeks
      in each RCH. Each week, the research assistant will go to the RCH and download the recordings
      to the designated computer for the sake of protecting the security of the recording (data).
      The obtained video recording will be evaluated by the research nurse, who will randomly
      select 20 to 30-minute recording per shift for observation (morning shift, afternoon shift
      and night shift). To protect privacy of the RCH staff, the staff will be de-identified and
      anonymized before observation, and all actions will be examined in confidentiality. This is
      designed to minimize the Hawthorn effect due to observations (that is, healthcare personnel
      perform differently when being observed) because the observer's presence gradually becomes
      insignificant to the healthcare personnel. In an RCH unit, more than one healthcare personnel
      provides care to the residents. Observations will be made of the first healthcare personnel
      to provide direct care to the residents before the other healthcare personnel take action.
      There will be no interference with the care procedure during the observations.

      Data analysis:

      To examine the difference in the change in the primary outcome - the observational-based
      compliance rate for hand hygiene - from baseline to post-intervention between the IG and CG,
      investigators will perform a linear mixed-effects model with a log link function to control
      for the clustering effect at the RCH level with Time, Group, and the interaction term (Time x
      Group) as independent variables. A significant result in the interaction term (Time x Group)
      will indicate a differential change in the outcome variable between the two groups, and will
      support hypothesis H1.

      To examine differences in the changes in the secondary outcomes, including the
      observational-based compliance rate with other infection control practices, self-reported
      compliance, knowledge, and attitude rates (Hypotheses H2 - H5), investigators will perform a
      separate linear mixed-effects model for each of the secondary outcomes, similar to that for
      the primary outcome. A significant result in the interaction term (Time x Group) will
      indicate a differential change in the outcome variable between the two groups.

      The investigators will also perform sub-group analyses by demographic and experience data to
      explore whether the effect of the intervention is homogeneous with respect to the different
      demographic and experience characteristics of the participants. Specifically, an interaction
      term, Group x characteristic, will be added to the model to explore the effect of that
      particular characteristic on the effect of the BGCTs. Further, investigators will also
      examine a model by adding parameters from the BGCTS (attempts to the video-clips/pictures,
      the time spent, and the results of each game) as potential factors associated with the
      outcome.
    
  