
    
      Aim 1: Evaluate the impact of universal preventive service coverage for obesity screening and
      counseling on weight loss, diabetes incidence, and diabetes outcomes, in patients with
      diabetes or at high risk for diabetes (defined by body mass index (BMI) ≥ 25). The
      investigators will determine how the annual probability of receiving obesity and/or
      nutritional counseling (as defined by Current Procedural Terminology (CPT) code) changed pre-
      and post-policy across all insurers in a cohort of patients with diabetes and at high risk
      for diabetes. The investigators hypothesize that individual patients are more likely to
      receive counseling following coverage implementation. Further, the investigators hypothesize
      that patients who receive a greater number of face-to-face visits will have greater weight
      loss compared to those who receive fewer visits.

      Aim 2: Compare patient weight loss and diabetes-related outcomes among those who receive
      obesity screening and counseling to those who do not, following implementation of preventive
      service coverage. The investigators will examine post-policy impact of obesity screening and
      counseling in a cohort of patients with diabetes and at high risk for diabetes. Specific
      outcomes to be examined include weight loss, diabetes incidence, and diabetes outcomes
      (including hemoglobin A1c, controlled blood pressure, use of a statin medication). Further,
      the investigators will determine patient characteristics, including demographics (age,
      race/ethnicity, rurality), and practice characteristics, including provider type, and their
      impact on receiving/providing obesity screening and counseling. Understanding patient and
      practice characteristics most likely to engage in obesity counseling can identify best
      practices and inform how to increase engagement by both patients and providers.

      Aim 3: To understand the impact of telemedicine access (telephonic and/or virtual visits)
      compared to no telemedicine visits for outpatient care for patients with, or at risk of, type
      2 diabetes during the pandemic on patient-centered outcomes including hemoglobin A1c and
      healthcare utilization, with sub-group analysis of patients with COVID-19;

      Aim 4: To evaluate the risk of severe COVID-19 disease (defined by hospitalization and
      mortality) in patients with diabetes and/or elevated BMI, with a focus on identifying
      modifiable factors (i.e., medication use, treatment timeline/location, chronic comorbid
      conditions) and associated with improved outcomes to inform immediate intervention and future
      study.
    
  