
    
      There are a number of interventions that aim to reduce recidivism among youth in the juvenile
      justice (JJ) system, some of which have documented evidence of effectiveness. However, the
      average reduction in recidivism following the implementation of these programs is modest at
      best, leaving a majority of JJ-involved youth at risk for recidivism. Many previous
      interventions have not been designed to address trauma-related symptoms despite evidence that
      most youth in the JJ system have a history of trauma and exposure to traumatic events is a
      predictor of recidivism. The pathway by which trauma exposure can lead to and perpetuate
      delinquency may be explained by some of the survival-oriented biological changes that occur
      in the brain of children who have been exposed to trauma - namely the compromised
      self-regulation systems that are responsible for reward/motivation, distress tolerance and
      executive function. As a result, youth with a history of trauma often have an impaired
      ability to modulate their behavioral and cognitive responses to a wide range of stressors.
      Thus, in light of the prevalence of trauma exposure in this population, interventions for
      JJ-involved youth should address trauma and, specifically, provide youth with resources
      related to enhancing self-regulation skills. Though some trauma-informed interventions have
      demonstrated empirical evidence of effectiveness with JJ-involved youth, many have
      methodological limitations and have not tested whether complementary mindfulness or
      somatically-oriented interventions can reduce recidivism by enhancing self-regulation in this
      population. The investigators propose to refine, implement and evaluate a trauma-informed,
      mindfulness-based yoga intervention that will enhance self-regulation among youth in the
      Georgia Department of Juvenile Justice (DJJ) system. The objectives of this mixed-methods
      investigation are to refine and pilot a trauma-informed, mindfulness-based yoga (TIMBY)
      program, assess the preliminary impact of this program on youth behavioral and psychosocial
      outcomes and test key aspects of the study design to inform the design of a full scale trial.
      The aims of this proposal are: (1) employ an iterative drafting and revision process to
      refine a trauma-informed yoga intervention specifically for youth in the JJ system, (2)
      conduct an initial pilot of the draft TIMBY intervention with JJ-involved youth at 2 DJJ
      facilities and (3) conduct and evaluate a small scale feasibility study of the TIMBY
      intervention. The expected products of the proposed research include a refined intervention
      protocol and manual of procedures, preliminary data regarding the impact of the intervention
      on participant outcomes, and data on intervention acceptability, adherence, fidelity,
      dose/duration, participant recruitment, retention and attrition, assessment feasibility and
      other barriers and facilitators to large-scale implementation. These products and data will
      enable a rapid launch of a subsequent, large-scale pragmatic cluster RCT funded through a
      future application.
    
  