
    
      Multi-center, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, parallel group design. 1:1
      randomization.

      Screening (Day 0-1): Patients hospitalized for COVID-19 within the past 24 hours will be
      screened. If patient consent can be obtained, baseline assessments will be carried out:
      Physical examination (including vital signs), ECG including QTc interval assessment,
      echocardiogram to measure left-ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF), chest X-ray, local
      laboratory (including CBC, AST/ALT, alkaline phosphatase, bilirubin, creatinine/eGFR, INR,
      pregnancy test (in women with child-bearing potential only), lymphocyte count and LDH. A
      C-SSRS will also be completed. Frozen plasma will be retained for central analysis of
      CardiolRx™ levels, hs-troponin, NT-proBNP, D-dimer as well as inflammatory markers (hs-CRP,
      ferritin, TNF-alpha, IL-1 beta, IL-6, IL-10).

      If all eligibility criteria are met, the patient will be randomized to either CardiolRx™ or
      placebo.

      Study treatment will be initiated immediately after all baseline assessments have been
      completed and the patient is randomized (Day1). Oral administration is as follows:

        -  Day 1 and Day 2: Initial dose: 2.5 mg/kg of body weight b.i.d. with food: CardiolRx™ or
           placebo

        -  Day 3 and Day 4: Increased to 5 mg/kg of body weight b.i.d. with food: CardiolRx™ or
           placebo

        -  Day 5 to Day 28: Increased to 7.5 mg/kg of body weight b.i.d. with food: CardiolRx™ or
           placebo For the first 7 days and on Day 10, an ECG will be recorded 4 hours post morning
           dose with QTc intervals measured. If the QTc interval is >500 msec or an increase of >
           60 msec from baseline is observed, the study medication must be stopped immediately.

      If the next higher dose is not tolerated for other reasons, the dose will be reduced to the
      previous tolerated dose. The highest tolerated dose will be administered until Day 28.

      If the patient is discharged before Day 10, the assessments up to Day 10 will be carried out
      as home visits. After Day 10, all remaining scheduled assessments will be carried out during
      out-patient visits (or home visits, if out-patient visits are not feasible).

      In addition to prolongation of the QTc intervals, careful observation is required to detect
      other Adverse Drug Reactions (ADRs) and Drug-Drug Interactions (DDIs). Because CardiolRx™,
      may inhibit the metabolism of other drugs, new symptoms may represent toxicity from a
      concomitant medication that had previously been well tolerated.

      A nasopharyngeal swab will also be done every day until Day 7 and on Day 14 to test for
      presence of the SARS-CoV-2 virus.

      After Day 7, assessments will be carried out on a weekly basis except for as noted above on
      Day 10.

      Frozen plasma will be retained for central analysis of CardiolRx™ levels, hs-troponin,
      NT-proBNP, D-dimer, inflammatory markers (hs-CRP, ferritin, TNF-alpha, IL-1 beta, IL-6,
      IL-10) and additional parameters of interest every two days until Day 7 as well as on day 28.

      The assessments on Day 28 include the following: Physical examination (including vital
      signs), ECG (recorded 4 hours post morning dose for measurement of QTc interval),
      echocardiogram to measure LVEF, chest X-ray, local laboratory assessments, including CBC,
      AST/ALT, alkaline phosphatase, bilirubin, creatinine/eGFR, INR, lymphocyte count and LDH. In
      addition, a C-SSRS will be completed and the patient will be asked to answer a PICQ.

      Further follow-up visits are scheduled for Day 45 and Day 60 post randomization. These
      include a clinical assessment (including vital signs) as well as the completion of the PICQ
      (PICQ on Day 60 only). Any changes in concomitant medications and (S)AEs will also be
      recorded.
    
  