
    
      Background The selection of teeth for dentures has difficulties. The main problem is that
      patients find it hard to envisage how a particular shape or 'mold' of tooth will look in
      their mouth. They are currently shown a number of different shaped teeth asked to express
      their preference.

      This research team has developed computer software which now offers an alternative way to
      assist patients in the selection of the different shaped teeth. The new method uses
      'Augmented Reality' (AR) to show the patient a live image of themselves with a selection of
      teeth in position in the picture. Effectively the patient takes a live video 'selfie' and the
      image on the screen shows the chosen teeth in their smile. The investigators want to know if
      this new method of selection improves the process of tooth selection.

      Investigation Design This is a prospective observational cohort study which follows selected
      patients over 2 clinical visits carrying out a questionnaire based investigation of the new
      Augmented Reality (AR) method to select teeth for dentures.

      Objectives This aim of this research is to investigate the effectiveness of the technology.
      This will be undertaken using 5 questionnaire based outcome measures to be completed by
      patients, dentists and dental technicians.

      Primary Objective The primary objective is to assess the use of Augmented Reality (AR) for
      tooth selection.

      Secondary Objectives

      The secondary objectives use structured questionnaires to determine:

        1. the patients' assessment of using the Augmented Reality (AR) for tooth selection.

        2. the clinicians' assessment of using the Augmented Reality (AR) for tooth selection

        3. the dental technicians assessment of using Augmented Reality (AR) for tooth selection

        4. the clinicians' assessment of the quality and reality of the images produced by the
           Augmented Reality (AR) for tooth selection

        5. the dentists' assessment of the quality and reality of the images produced by Augmented
           Reality (AR) for tooth selection

      Number of Patients 30 patients will be recruited

      Informed Consent Witten Informed consent will be obtained from each participant.
    
  