
    
      The Mediterranean diet, in which olive oil is the main source of fat, has shown to be
      protective for chronic degenerative diseases. These diseases, such as cardiovascular, cancer,
      and neurodegenerative, and even the aging process, are linked to oxidative stress and
      inflammation. Recently, the Prevention through Mediterranean Diet Study has provided for
      first time evidence of the benefits of the Mediterranean diet on the primary prevention of
      cardiovascular disease. In human, randomized, controlled studies olive oil, and particularly
      the virgin one rich in phenolic compounds, have been shown to provide benefits on oxidative
      damage, inflammation, and on the generation of cell adhesion molecules, a key process for
      atherosclerosis development.

      Olive oil, besides its high content of a healthy fat, the monounsaturated (MUFA) one: the
      oleic acid, has minor components with bioactive properties. The minor components of virgin
      olive oil are classified into two types: the unsaponifiable fraction, defined as the fraction
      extracted with solvents after the saponification of the oil, and the soluble fraction which
      includes the phenolic compounds. The content of the phenolic compounds (polyphenols) of an
      olive oil depends of the variety of the olive fruit, the cultivar, the climate, the ripeness
      of the olive, and the type of processing. Virgin olive oils obtained from the first press of
      centrifugation of the olives are those with high phenolic content. On November 2011, the
      European Food Safety Authority (EFSA, 2011) released a claim concerning the benefits of the
      daily ingestion of olive oil rich in phenolic compounds, such as the virgin olive oil. The
      Panel considers that in order to bear the claim, 5 mg of hydroxytyrosol and its derivatives
      (e.g. oleuropein complex and tyrosol) in olive oil should be consumed daily. These
      quantities, if provided by moderate amounts of olive oil, can be easily consumed in the
      context of a balanced diet (EFSA, 2011). The conditions for the use of the claim in the
      bottles, are regulated in the Commission Regulation (EU).Nº 432/2012 of 16 May 2012 (Official
      Journal of the European Union , L136/1. 25, 5, 2012). According to this regulation: "The
      claim may be used only for olive oil which contains at least 5 mg of hydroxytyrosol and its
      derivatives (e.g. oleuropein complex and tyrosol) per 20 g of olive oil. In order to bear the
      claim, information shall be given to the consumer that the beneficial effect is obtained with
      a daily intake of 20 g of olive oil". This implies that only high phenolic content olive oils
      can bear the claim. Due to this, the need to optimize the olive oil processing in order to
      obtain high phenolic content olive oils is one of the current goals in terms of increasing
      the nutritional value of an olive oil. To obtain an optimized olive oil with high phenolic
      content (OHPCO) has been one of the achievements within the frame of the NUTRAOLEOUM Project.
      In this sense we must point out that, among minor olive oil components, not only polyphenols,
      but components of the unsaponifiable fraction such as the triterpenes have also shown to have
      potential for providing benefits for health. The seeds and the skin of the olives, used to
      produce pomace olive oil, are very rich in triterpenes. Pomace olive oil and triterpenes,
      such as oleanolic and maslinic acids, have shown anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, and
      vasodilatation properties in cellular and animal models. Due to this, the enrichment of an
      OHPCO with olive triterpenes, by joining the healthy properties of virgin and pomace olive
      oil, will result in a Functional Olive Oil (FOO) with a high bioactive potential for health.
      This FOO has also been developed in the frame of the NUTRAOLEUM Project. Consumers are every
      day asking for an "added value" in the nutritional properties of the food to be purchased and
      responses from the Olive Oil Industry are needed.

      However, the healthy properties of the new olive oils (OHPCO and FOO), according to the
      Evidence Based Medicine must be tested in proper clinical randomized trials. New olive oil
      products need to be tested in front of the parental ones (i.e. virgin olive oil obtained by
      common procedures) in order to ensure that their healthy properties are highlighted. This is
      the purpose of the NUTRAOLEUM Study. In order to be able to obtain future health claims from
      EFSA or FDA, for the products, we will also examine the bioavailability in humans of the
      active principles (phenolic compounds and triterpenes) of the olive oils, as well as possible
      basic mechanisms involved in the potential health benefits of the olive oils tested.
    
  