
    
      For Specific Aim 1, we will be monitoring the post-operative complication of clinically
      relevant pancreatic fistula within one week of surgery per the standard clinical guidelines
      as noted above. Common clinical presentations of pancreatic fistula include abdominal pain,
      leukocytosis and fever (temperature >100.4 degrees). Diagnostic work-up of pancreatic fistula
      will be with CT abdomen with contrast, which has a sensitivity of 63% and specificity of 83%
      for detecting pancreatic fistula. The pancreatic fistulas will be categorized into grades A,
      B or C as previously reported. Our study will be investigating only clinically relevant
      pancreatic fistulas, i.e. grades B or C. Depending on the grade of pancreatic fistula,
      patients will be treated as indicated with conservative treatment options including bowel
      rest, antibiotics, somatostatin analogues and percutaneous drainage or surgical
      re-exploration. We will also track other relevant post-operative complications such as
      delayed wound healing, development of wound dehiscence or wound infection.

      The tissue analyses will include review of the immunohistochemical (IHC) stains for actin,
      hyaluronic acid staining with binding protein probe, proliferation as measured by ki-67% and
      Phospho-histone H3 (Ph-H3); cell apoptosis as evaluated by IHC stain for cleaved caspase 3
      (CC3) and Tunel. If limited tissue sample is obtained via the core biopsies, the priority of
      tissue analysis will be as follows: (1) fixed in formalin for H&E and IHC (Ph-H3; CC3/Tunel;
      Hyaluronic Acid (HA) binding); (2) fixed in Optimal Cutting Temperature (OTC) such that IHC
      with difficult antibodies can be done (to potentially obtain mRNA or DNA). The IHC studies
      will be done at the UCSF Helen Diller Family Comprehensive Cancer Center Immunohistochemistry
      and Molecular Pathology Core. The tissue analyses of the biopsy and surgical specimens will
      be done by study pathologist.

      The CT and magnetic resonance (MR) imaging analyses will be performed at the Abdominal
      Imaging at UCSF. To decrease the impact that metal stents may have on the functional MRI
      results, we will include only patients who have plastic stents in our study. In addition, to
      reduce variability in results, the DCE-MRI and DWI-MRI will be obtained on the same MR
      machine at a similar time of day as the baseline scan. The DCE-MRI images will be analyzed by
      calculating Ktrans and DWI-MRI images will be analyzed by calculating apparent diffusion
      coefficient (ADC) as described elsewhere. We will scan patients in a torso coil on a 3T
      clinical MR scanner. Imaging will include MR diffusion with b-values of 0, 125, and 500 for
      estimates of perfusion and tumor, and dynamic contrast-enhanced MR imaging (DCE-MRI) for
      measurement of Ktrans, blood volume, and blood flow. The region of tumor will be determined
      by MR imaging in reference to the baseline CT scans. The native T1 of the pancreas and liver
      will be calculated from a series of four, 3D, spoiled gradient recalled echo (SPGR) sequences
      with different flip angles. The conventional DCE-MRI will be acquired as a 3D, fast spoiled
      gradient echo sequence, covering the targeted areas of the pancreas or liver, at a temporal
      resolution of 5 sec over 6 minutes after the administration of 0.1 mmol/kg gadobenate
      dimeglumine. DCE-MRI images will be post-processed using MIStar software (Apollo Medical
      Imaging, Melbourne, Australia), which allows for motion correction to account for any shifts
      in data. Datasets with artifacts will be eliminated before further post processing. After
      contrast delivery, the new T1 is calculated and is presumed to change with the Gd
      concentration such that [Gd] = (1/T1-1/T10)/R1 where R1 is assumed to be 4.5 sec-1 mmol/L-1
      at 3T.

      Run-in Period with PEGPH20

      - Days 1, 4

      PEGPH20 3 ug/kg Dexamethasone 8mg PO 1-2 hours pre-PEGPH20 and PO 8-to-12 hours post-PEGPH20

      *Start enoxaparin 1 mg/kg subcutaneous daily on day 1 (to be continued throughout the trial)

      - On day 8 of run-in period with PEGPH20, EUS-directed core biopsy, CA 19-9, functional MRI
      and CT chest, abdomen (pancreatic protocol) and pelvis will be obtained.

      Cycle 1 and onward

      -Day 1, 8, 15

      PEGPH20 3 ug/kg + Gemcitabine 1000mg/m2 + nab-Paclitaxel 125mg/m2 Dexamethasone 8mg PO 1-2
      hours pre-PEGPH20 and PO 8-to-12 hours post-PEGPH20

        -  Gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel will be administered 2-4 hours post-PEGPH20.

        -  Neoadjuvant therapy will be four 28-day cycles with CT chest, abdomen and pelvis scans
           and CA 19-9 measurements every 8 weeks. Patients will be taken off of the study if there
           is any evidence of disease progression.

        -  After four cycles of neoadjuvant therapy, patients will be evaluated for surgical
           resection depending on the CT scan findings obtained on cycle 4, day 21.

        -  If they have resectable disease, they will have a functional MRI following the restaging
           CT scan. If patients have successful resection, they will receive 2 additional cycles of
           gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel. If they are found to have unresectable disease in the
           operating room, an intra-operative core biopsy will be obtained.

        -  If they have unresectable disease on the restaging scans following 4 cycles of therapy,
           they will be taken off of the study.
    
  