
    
      The aim of this study is demonstrate that artificial intelligence guided treatment in chronic
      disease of hypertension and type 2 diabetes mellitus will yield actionable medication dosing
      optimization.

      Study Objectives

        1. Artificial intelligence (CURATE.AI) pilot deployment using prospective data in patients
           with hypertension and type 2 diabetes mellitus.

        2. Artificial intelligence (CURATE.AI) for behavioural assessment and compliance prediction
           to disease management programme in patients with hypertension and type 2 diabetes
           mellitus.

      Methods and Analysis Design and setting

      This prospective cohort feasibility study will evaluate the blood pressure (n=20) and
      glycaemic (n=20) control of patients using the CURATE.AI platform. Participants will be
      recruited for a period of 4 months from the day of baseline visit and followed up for up to 4
      clinic visits.

      Recruitment Participants will be recruited from the study site, Alexandra Hospital, Singapore
      during their routine clinic visits. The doctor will identify individuals who meet the
      inclusion criteria and the research team will share further details regarding the study
      including the inclusion/ exclusion criteria that is presented below.

      Interested individuals who meet the eligibility criteria will be required to sign the
      Informed Consent From prior to any study activity and a baseline visit will be scheduled.

      Inclusion criteria

        -  Adult patients (≥ 21years) with T2DM or hypertension

        -  Expected to be followed up in Alexandra Hospital for the next 4-months

        -  Signed informed consent form

      Exclusion criteria

        -  Patients with cognitive impairment

        -  Patients with active cancer undergoing chemotherapy

        -  Patients on haemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis (which can cause rapid fluctuation of
           BP and blood sugar, respectively)

        -  Pregnant patients

        -  Patients whose medications for T2DM and hypertension are changed simultaneously during
           the first clinic visit

        -  Serious concomitant disorders that would compromise the safety of the patient or
           compromise the patient's ability to complete the study, at the discretion of the
           investigator.

      Study procedures The CURATE.AI correlation requires three data-points to calculate the
      initial drug dose. Ongoing readings provide further data-points for dose modulation.

      Once a patient with hypertension or T2DM is identified and consented, a BP or blood sugar
      will be recorded (1st data-point) and baseline assessment performed

      Following any change of hypertension (or T2DM) medications, a 24-hour ambulatory BP (or
      continuous glucose monitoring) will be done during the 7-15 days after baseline visit
      (data-point 2 or data-point 3 if retrospective data is available). Data from these recordings
      will be used to titrate medications, if necessary, in the follow-up visits.

      One month after baseline the patient will return to the clinic for follow-up (data-point 3 or
      data point 4 if retrospective data is available) and dose adjustment, if required.

      Dosing decisions at this point and going forward will be made by CURATE.AI and verified by
      the clinician. If dose adjustment is required, then the patient will repeat the home
      monitoring (24-hour ambulatory BP or continuous glucose monitoring). If dose adjustment is
      not needed the patient will undertake no home monitoring. Either way each patient will return
      one month later for clinic follow-up (clinic visit 2). This monthly cycle is repeated until
      each patient has reached 4-months follow-up.

      At the final clinic visit (4-months after baseline) the baseline assessments are repeated. At
      this point patients will also be approached to complete a patient experience survey.
    
  