
    
      RATIONALE:

      Herlitz junctional epidermolysis bullosa (H-JEB), an incurable and fatal inherited skin
      disease, is caused by loss-of-function mutations in LAMA3, LAMB3 and LAMC2. These mutations
      result in diminished laminin 332 and epidermal-dermal adherence. 85% of JEB patients have
      nonsense mutations in LAMA3, LAMB3, or LAMC2, suggesting that H-JEB is a prime therapeutic
      target for nonsense suppression therapy. The investigators recently demonstrated in three
      patients that topical gentamicin created new and stable laminin 332 at the dermal-epidermal
      junction (DEJ), and also improved wound closure and skin quality. Furthermore, these
      preliminary studies showed that intravenous gentamicin also induced laminin 332 and
      transiently improved patients' clinical outcomes. No untoward side effects occurred. The
      investigators propose to optimize the intravenous gentamicin regimen including dosage and
      infusion schedules to enhance the therapeutic outcome.

      INTERVENTION:

      There will be two study designs on JEB patients with nonsense mutation(s):

      A. Short Term Daily IV Gentamicin Study: Three patients of any age with JEB caused by
      nonsense mutation(s) in the LAMA3 and LAMB3 genes will receive intravenous gentamicin (10
      mgs/kg) daily for 24 days and then stop. Prior to treatment and at 1 month and 3 months post
      treatment, selected skin test sites will have skin biopsies and the specimens evaluated for
      the expression of laminin 332 at the dermal-epidermal junction by direct immunofluorescent
      staining of the skin. Safety parameters such as physical exam, review of systems, laboratory
      tests, audiometry, and renal function at the same time periods.

      B. Long Term Biweekly IV Gentamicin Study: Three patients of any age with JEB caused by
      nonsense mutation(s) in the LAMA3 and LAMB3 genes will receive intravenous gentamicin (10
      mgs/kg) twice weekly for 3 months (24 total infusions) and then stop. Before and after
      evaluations will be performed and will be the same as those in the short term intravenous
      study outlined above.

      STUDY POPULATION:

      3 adults/children for who have JEB due to nonsense mutations in the LAMA3 or LAMB3 gene for
      each intervention arm.

      STUDY ENDPOINTS OR OUTCOMES Analysis of safety parameters, wound healing, and generation of
      new laminin 332 at the dermal-epidermal junction of the skin by direct immunofluorescent
      stain.

      FOLLOW-UP Participants will be followed out to 90 days post treatment

      STATISTICS Without treatment, these JEB patients have little or no laminin A3/laminin
      B3/laminin 332 at their dermal-epidermal junction. The expression of any newly generated
      laminin 332 will be measure against normal human skin (100%) by NIH Image J software.

      PLANS FOR ANALYSIS Safety parameters are outlined above and will be examined at baseline and
      after each patient visit. Efficacy parameters outlined above will be measured at baseline and
      at post treatment days 30 and 90.
    
  