
    
      For children (5-12yrs) from low-income households, summer vacation is a "window of
      vulnerability" and represents an extended period of time (typically 9-10 weeks) in which
      declines in academic performance occur. For 30 years, empirical evidence has indicated that
      children from low-income households experience greater declines in reading and math skills
      during the summer vacation than their middle-to-upper income peers. Additionally, a growing
      body of evidence demonstrates that the amount of weight gained during summer vacation is 3-5
      times greater than the amount of weight gained during the school year. Moreover, this
      excessive weight gain during summer is more pronounced for low-income, minority children, the
      same children experiencing the greatest summer learning loss. What children eat and drink,
      the types of physical activity opportunities, and the amount of screen-time and sleep (two
      important correlates of weight gain) they engage in during summer vacation is unknown.
      However, a substantial body of literature indicates that children engage in a greater number
      of obesogenic behaviors during less-structured times (e.g., weekend days) compared to
      more-structured times (e.g., week/school days). This phenomenon is refered to as the
      Structured Days Hypothesis. These behaviors include 1) increased time spent sedentary, 2)
      reduced engagement in physical activity, 3) displaced sleep patterns, and 4) unhealthy
      dietary patterns. This study hypothesizes that summer vacation is simply one long weekend
      where the effect of children's obesogenic behaviors on weight are compounded over a three
      month time period. However, should children be involved in a structured program over the
      summer they would not engage in obesogenic behaviors and they would not experience unhealthy
      weight gains and fitness loss. Recently, one school district in the Columbia, SC area adopted
      a year-round calendar for an elementary school. This provides a unique opportunity to conduct
      a natural experiment examining the effects of shorter periodic breaks vs. one prolonged break
      from structured days (i.e., school days) on the obesogenic behaviors, weight gain, and
      fitness. This study will use a two arm accelerated longitudinal cohort design to complete the
      following specific aims: Aim 1: Compare changes in BMI z-scores and fitness during the
      traditional 3-month summer and 9-month school year between children attending a school that
      follows a year-round school calendar to children attending match-paired schools that follow a
      traditional school calendar. Aim 2: Compare changes in sleep, physical activity, sedentary
      behaviors, and diet during the traditional 3-month summer and 9-month school year between
      children attending a school that follows a year-round school calendar to children attending
      match-paired schools that follow a traditional school calendar. This study is significant
      because the reason for children's weight gain and fitness loss during the summer is unknown.
      This study is innovative because no studies have examined the effects of prolonged (9 weeks
      all at once) vs. periodic breaks (3 week breaks distributed throughout the year) from a
      structured environment on children's weight and fitness.
    
  