
    
      Febrile neutropenia (FN) is a worrying outcome in children receiving chemotherapy because it
      increments the risk of major complications, reduces quality of life and increments treatment
      costs. Moreover, it is the most common diagnosis in pediatric oncology patients that enter
      emergency rooms and the second most important cause of hospitalization, just behind
      hospitalization for administration of chemotherapy.

      In Mexico, incidence of FN is of 62% of children with solid tumors treated with
      cisplatin-based chemotherapy (CBC). Cisplatin is one of the most nephrotoxic drugs being used
      in clinical settlements. The assessment of nephrotoxicity is made with the manifestation of
      tubular damage that causes electrolyte losses, specially of magnesium. Recently, our
      investigation group reported that there is an association of hypomagnesemia and the
      apparition of FN. This association has a biologic explanation in the fact that magnesium is a
      necessary cofactor for the neutrophil's diapedesis and the activation of complement cascade.
      To our knowledge, the role of magnesium supplementation has not been explored. With this
      evidence in mind, the investigators wondered if oral supplementation with magnesium will
      reduce FN episodes in pediatric oncology patients treated with CBC.

      Objective: Determine the efficacy of oral supplementation with magnesium to reduce FN
      episodes in pediatric oncology patients treated with CBC.

      Hypothesis: Previous clinical trials made in adult population have reported that
      supplementation with magnesium salts reduce episodes of hypomagnesemia in between 13 and 50%.
      Thus, oral supplementation with magnesium oxide will reduce 20% of FN episodes in pediatric
      oncology patients treated with CBC.

      Materials and Methods: Randomized Clinical Trial, open-label, parallel groups of children
      over the age of nine with solid tumors treated with CBC at the Haemato-Oncology Department of
      the Hospital Infantil de México. To prove the hypothesis, it is required to randomize 107 CBC
      cycles to the intervention group and 107 CBC cycles to the control group. The sample size
      calculation was made by using the two proportions formula. Randomize of children will be made
      when they receive CBC indication. Patients assigned to the intervention group will receive
      institutional attention protocol plus a bottle of magnesium oxide, at the moment of
      hospitalization discharge. Patients assigned to the control group will receive only
      institutional attention protocol. The follow-up of patients will be made until an episode of
      FN appears or until the patient comes back for another CBC cycle. FN assessment will be
      measured with a unique temperature >38.3°C or a sustained temperature >38°C over the course
      of an hour plus a count of neutrophils under 1000 cells/mm3. The efficacy of oral
      supplementation with magnesium oxide will be determined by a Relative Risks calculation with
      confidence interval of 95% (CI95%). Moreover, Absolute Risk Reduction will be calculated, as
      well as Necessary Number to Treat. To adjust the principal variable a multivariate analysis
      will be made with a multiple logistic regression. The analysis will be made by protocol and
      by intention to treat.
    
  