
    
      WHAT IS INVOLVED IN THE STUDY?

      A. Screening process - not experimental:

      Patients with pulsatile tinnitus, evidence of narrowing of the large veins of the brain, and
      failure of prior conservative treatment will be considered for enrollment. All patients will
      undergo the standard of care evaluation for tinnitus by a specialist physician for diseases
      of the ear (Ear, Nose and Throat [ENT] physician or otorhinolaryngologist). If it is
      determined that the narrowing of the large veins of the brain ("dural venous sinuses") is the
      most likely etiology for the tinnitus, then the possibility of enrollment in the trial will
      be discussed. Imaging studies of the head and temporal bone will be performed in order to
      further confirm venous sinus stenosis as the etiology of the pulsatile tinnitus and to rule
      out other possible causes. Additionally, patients will answer the questions listed on the
      Tinnitus Handicap Inventory questionnaire.

      During the screening process, investigators will review the results of tests that are not
      experimental and are performed as part of participants' routine care. In other words, these
      tests are performed regardless of participation in the study and are termed "standard
      procedures".

      B. Participating in the study:

      Participating in the trial means that the participants will undergo an experimental procedure
      called "venous sinus stenting" to open up the narrowing in the vein that is causing the
      tinnitus. This procedure requires taking two blood thinners called aspirin and Plavix. Both
      blood thinners will be initiated 1 week prior to the procedure and continued for 1 month
      after the procedure. At that time the Plavix will be stopped and aspirin will be continued
      for 11 more months (total of 12 months).

      - Direct Retrograde Cerebral Venography (DRCV) and Manometry: A DRCV is a non-experimental
      procedure to look at the veins of the brain. This procedure is done by inserting a catheter
      (soft plastic tube) through a vein in the groin (upper leg) and guide it though the veins all
      the way to the neck. It is done under local anesthetic and moderate sedation. After placing
      the catheter in the neck, a special dye (contrast) is injected through this catheter into the
      veins, while X-ray cameras take multiple pictures of the veins. Then, a smaller catheter is
      further advanced to the area of narrowing and by this catheter investigators will measure the
      blood pressure at that point. This helps us to identify the severity of the narrowing. If the
      pressure before and after the narrowing is significantly different, then the investigators
      will continue with the placement of the stent in order to reopen the narrowing.

      - Venous Sinus Stenting (experimental): Venous sinus stenting is the experimental procedure
      being tested in this protocol and consists of placing a stent into the narrowed veins of the
      brain. The participants will be placed under general anesthesia because it is important to
      not move at all during the procedure. A catheter will be inserted through the upper part of
      the leg (groin area) and guided through the veins all the way to neck. Then, a balloon will
      be advanced through the catheter and positioned across the stenosis. The balloon will be
      carefully inflated for a few seconds. This process is called angioplasty and will partially
      re-open the narrowing, making placement of the stent easier. The balloon will be removed and
      then the stent will be advanced through the catheter in neck across the stenosis and
      carefully deployed.

      - Post-procedure Care: After the procedure, participants will stay in the intensive care unit
      for 24 hours for observation.

      C. Follow-up period:

      There will be no experimental procedure or test during the follow-up period. The following
      office visits and standard tests will be performed to evaluate the effects of the study
      intervention.

      - Office visits: Office visits and neurological evaluation will be performed at 1, 6, 12, and
      24 months after study intervention. At this time, participants will also fill the Tinnitus
      Handicap Inventory Questionnaire. The visits will be about 45 min.

      - Audiometric assessment: An audiometric assessment will be performed at 3 months after the
      stenting procedure in order to assess inner ear function.

      - Non-invasive imaging studies: Magnetic Resonance Venogram (MRV) is a special Magnetic
      Resonance Imaging (MRI) scan with injection of a dye through a vein in the arm that will
      allow investigators to check whether the stent is still open without new narrowing. It will
      be performed 12 months after the venous sinus stenting procedure. If there is clinical
      concern about stent patency, an expedited or intermediate MRV will be performed. If MRV is
      contraindicated, Computed Tomographic Venogram (CTV) will be performed instead.

      D. Medications:

      For the purpose of the study, the participants need to take antiplatelet drugs ("blood
      thinners") that are necessary to prevent formation of clot in the stent. This is a standard
      precaution for every stent procedure. The participants will take two drugs (called aspirin
      and Plavix) for 1 month and then aspirin alone for 11 more months (total time on aspirin is
      12 months). It is essential that the drugs are taken every day as prescribed. As these drugs
      are dangerous during pregnancy, if the participant is a woman of childbearing age, then
      should discuss this issue with her physician, and avoid becoming pregnant during the 12
      months that these drugs are needed.
    
  