
    
      Objectives of the study:

      Principal objective : To evaluate the evolution 6 months after a fall occurring at home in
      people over 75 equipped or non-equipped with a precocious detection device. Prospective
      interventional study.

      Secondary objective : To establish a relation between the alert emitted by the device, the
      time separating the fall from the arrival at hospital and the potential MORBI-mortality To
      describe the sequences of intervention of the different operators Methodology :Multicenter,
      prospective, cohort, interventional study. Pattern of the study : The study will comprehend 2
      visits to be realized in a 10-month interval.

      Visits:

        1. Randomization, inclusion and selection visit(Visit 1): The inclusion of the subject will
           be effective once the enlightened consent signed, after check of the inclusion criteria.
           Inclusion and standardized questioning will be realized by the medical evaluators. The
           data will be obtained by questioning the subject and if need be of relatives and GP. The
           questioning will be carried out with a questionnaire on independent card comprising the
           frailty elements. Independently, a follow-up will be operated at home by a nurse of HPGM
           Les Magnolias hospital for the maintenance of the adhesive patch to be changed regularly
           nearly every 10 days in the persons equipped, the study plans the installation of
           Vigi'Fall® device as the only peculiar measure during the coverage. At the conclusion of
           that first report, the whole questionnaires will be picked up again by a participant in
           charge of completing the potential missing data. Via this colligation of missing data,
           the exhaustiveness of the data will be automatically checked.

        2. End of study visit (Visit 2): 10 months 10 months after the installation of Vigi'Fall®
           device, a contact will be established with the subject and if need be relatives and GP
           to be informed of the evolution but as well the appearance of potential falls with their
           characteristics.

             -  Relation between alert, intervention time and evolution : Theses relations will be
                investigated with the most possible accuracy. The standardized questioning will be
                completed by an investigator up to a maximal exhaustiveness.

             -  Description of the sequences of intervention:These sequences will be evaluated via
                a simple and standardized questionnaire.

             -  Expected results, perspectives and scientific data: To quantify with accuracy the
                evolution in persons over 75 equipped with a precocious detection device after a
                fall occurring at home in comparison with a witness population non equipped. To
                establish a relation between the alert emitted by the device, the time separating
                the fall from the arrival at hospital and the potential MORBI-mortality. To
                describe with the most possible accuracy the time sequences of the different
                operators To quantify the rate of subjects hospitalized (with the duration of
                hospitalization), of subjects still living at home or having left to be admitted in
                institution (nursing home, retirement home...) in the different groups. The
                information hence obtained will enable a better knowledge of the tools for
                detection and precocious alert in falls of the elderly.

             -  Direct benefit for geriatricians, sanitary and care professionals and emergency
                physicians:

      Change in practices :Prevision of subjects likely to benefit of a precocious detection
      device. Development of prevention in hospital geriatric departments, geriatric care networks,
      emergency departments and local services for the elderly and disabled (SDPAH).

      Education : Sensitize the medical, paramedical and social teams to the usefulness of
      precocious detection devices in elderly subjects at risk for falls.
    
  