
    
      In 2004, the UK National Health Service mandated the practice of sending patients copies of
      all correspondence between clinicians involved in their care. Such a policy is consistent
      with the principle of autonomy and with the right of the patient to access information about
      themselves (Somerville, 1994). It is also supportive of a collaborative model of service
      delivery in which patients are viewed as active agents in their own wellbeing, as opposed to
      passive recipients of treatment.

      Letter interventions have boosted attendance rates for cervical screening (McDowell, Newell &
      Rosser, 1989a), blood pressure checks (McDowell, Newell & Rosser, 1989b), and mammography
      follow-up (Saywell et al., 2003). They have also resulted in improved adherence to
      antihypertensive medications and lipid lowering agents (Atthobari, Monster & de Jong-van den
      Berg, 2004). However, caution has been urged in relation to the use of letters in some
      patient subpopulations, such as persons who lack the capacity to consent and patients who
      have psychiatric diagnoses (Jelley, van Zwanenberg & Walker, 2002).

      Despite these cautions, psychiatric patients react positively to the idea of receiving a copy
      of the letters containing clinical information that are routinely sent to their GP. At least
      three quarters of patients who had never received such a letter wished to do so (Dale,
      Tadros, Adams & Deshpande, 2004; Marzanski, Musunuri & Coupe, 2005), and at least 80% of
      patients who had received a letter supported the practice (Asch, Price & Hawks, 1991;
      Nandhra, Murray, Hymas & Hunt, 2004). Most psychiatric patients wished to continue to receive
      such letters, and a number commented that "seeing their problems understood and described
      objectively helped them to gain perspective" (Nandhra et al., 2004, p. 41).

      Some psychiatric patients and practitioners, even those who favour letter interventions in
      principle, have expressed reservations. One commonly expressed concern is over the
      preservation of patient confidentiality, especially with regard to psychiatric reports that
      containing highly personal information (see, for example, Marzanski et al., 2005; Nandhra et
      al., 2004). To date, however, there have been no reported breaches of confidentiality in
      Britain. In fact, most patients are happy for letters to be mailed to them, as are the carers
      of patients with dementia (Harris & Boaden, 2003). Some patients and practitioners are also
      concerned that the contents of the letter may cause distress (Marzanski et al., 2005; Nandhra
      et al., 2004). However, the reaction reported by most psychiatric patients themselves was
      that when they read the letter they did not experience any distress at all. A minority of
      patients did initially feel distress, but they reported that once they had regained composure
      they found the letter helpful and were glad they had received it (Nandhra et al.).

      An issue that has not yet been clarified is whether receipt of a letter improves adherence to
      treatment recommendations in cases of psychiatric illness. This is a critical issue; a recent
      review of adherence to antidepressant medication found drop out rates as high as 33%
      (Pampallona & Bollini, 2002). The major aim of the current study is to establish whether
      adherence to treatment is boosted by a letter intervention. If such an effect is found, it
      should follow that increased adherence leads to improved reduction in the severity of
      symptoms, and consequently to improved patient outcomes.

      Hypotheses: (1) that receiving the assessment report will improve patient adherence to
      treatment recommendations; (2) that receiving the assessment report will improve patient
      outcomes.

      Method:

      Participants: 200 patients over the age of 18 years who are referred to the Primary Mental
      Health Team for assessment and who receive primary diagnoses of a depressive or anxiety
      disorder will participate.

      Design: A Group (control v. experimental) x Time (baseline x 1 month x 3 month) x Condition
      (depressive disorder v. anxiety disorder) will measure (a) patient adherence to treatment
      recommendations and (b) the severity of symptoms. In addition, qualitative analysis of
      reasons for suboptimal adherence to treatment recommendations will be performed.

      Procedure: Consent will be sought from General Practitioners who refer patients to the PMHEIT
      for psychiatric assessment (see Appendix A). The patients of consenting GPs will form the
      participant pool. It is current practice that on referral, patients are given a brochure that
      explains the function of the PMHEIT and the assessment procedure. This brochure contains a
      section alerting the patient to the fact that they may be asked to participate in research
      (see Appendix B). After the clinical interview, patients will be given a participant consent
      form which contains information on the research (see Appendix C). If consent is obtained,
      patients will complete the Depression and Anxiety Stress Scales (DASS) and the SF12
      questionnaire (a measure of disability). Those whose primary diagnosis is any anxiety or
      depressive disorder will be selected for inclusion in the trial.

      Participants will be randomly assigned to control and experimental groups. For patients
      assigned to the experimental group, the assessment report will be simultaneously sent to the
      GP and by registered mail to the patient. Reports will be mailed to referring GPs of control
      group participants, but will not be mailed to the patient themselves. These patients will be
      mailed a thank-you letter reminding them of the next follow up call (see Appendix D).

      Three weeks after the assessment interview, all participants will be mailed a copy of the
      DASS and a reminder letter. One week later, a researcher attached to the Primary Mental
      Health Team will contact the participant by phone. She will ask the participant for his/her
      responses to the DASS items and will ask a short series of questions regarding adherence to
      the treatment recommendations. Where adherence is partial or absent, the interviewer will ask
      the reasons (see Appendix E). This procedure will be repeated three months after the initial
      interview, when the SF12 will also be administered. On completion of the research, all
      participants and their GPs will be mailed a summary of the research findings.

      Inclusion/exclusion criteria: Criteria for inclusion consist of any of the DSM IV anxiety
      disorders or depressive disorders. Exclusion criteria will include a primary substance abuse
      disorder (though co-morbid substance abuse will not be an exclusion criterion), significant
      personality disorder, psychosis, high suicidal risk or risk of harm to others, or inability
      to speak and read English to a standard that allows independent completion of the
      questionnaires. Clinician discretion will also be used to exclude participants for whom a
      letter would be contraindicated. Assessing clinicians will indicate on their record of
      assessment if inclusion in the study is not contraindicated.

      Randomisation procedures: Patients will be allocated to groups based on a random number
      sequence recorded in sealed envelopes.

      Statistical analyses: A Group (control v. experimental) x Time (Initial x 1 month x 3 month)
      x Condition (depressive disorder v. anxiety disorder) factorial ANOVA will be performed. Post
      hoc tests may include Tukey and/or Scheffe analyses. Qualitative analysis of responses to
      adherence questions will be undertaken using a thematic analysis.

      References

      Asch, R., Price, J., & Hawks, G. (1991). Psychiatric outpatients' reactions to summary
      letters of their consultation. British Journal of Medical Psychology, 64, 3 - 9.

      Atthobari, J., Monster, T. B., & de Jong-ven den Berg, L. T. (2004). The effect of
      hypertension and hypercholesterolemia screening with subsequent intervention letter on the
      use of blood pressure and lipid lowering drugs. British Journal of Clinical Pharmacology, 57,
      328 - 336.

      Dale, J., Tadros, G., Adams, S., & Deshpande, N. (2004). Do patients really want copies of
      their GP letters? A questionnaire survey of older adults and their carers. Psychiatric
      Bulletin, 28, 199 - 200.

      Harris, C. & Boaden, R. (2003). Copying letters to patients: Summaries of 12 pilot project
      sites. England Department of Health. Available:

      Jelley, D., van Zwanenberg, T., & Walker, C. (2002). Copying letters to patients: Concerns of
      clinicians and patients need to be addressed first. British Medical Journal, 325, 1359.

      Marzanski, M., Musunuri, P., & Coupe, T. (2005). Copying letters to patients: A study of
      patients' views. Psychiatric Bulletin, 29, 56 - 58.

      McDowell, I., Newell, C., & Rosser, W. (1989a). Computerised reminders to encourage cervical
      screening in family practice. Journal of Family Practice, 28, 420 - 424.

      McDowell, I., Newell, C., & Rosser, W. (1989b). A randomised trial of computerised reminders
      for blood pressure screening in primary care. Medical Care, 27, 297 - 305.

      Nandhra, H., Murray, G., Hymas, N., & Hunt, N. (2004). Medical records: Doctors' and
      patients' experiences of copying letters to patients. Psychiatric Bulletin, 28, 40 - 42.

      Saywell, R. M., Champion, V. L., Zollinger, T. W., Maraj, M., Skinner, C. S., Zoppi, K. A., &
      Meugge, C. M. (2003). The cost effectiveness of 5 interventions to increase mammography
      adherence in a managed care population. American Journal of Managed Care, 9, 33 - 44.

      Somerville, M.A. (1994). Labels versus contents: Variance between philosophy, psychiatry and
      law in concepts governing decision-making. McGill Law Journal, 39, 179 - 199.
    
  