
    
      Colorectal cancer is the second commonest cause of cancer death. Patients with colitis have a
      substantially increased risk of death from colorectal cancer which increases with lenght of
      time the patient has had colitis. This can be as high as a 30% chance of colorectal cancer
      after 30 years of colitis. Colonoscopic surveillance of colitis patients has been shown to
      reduce the risk of colorectal cancer and allow detection at an earlier stage, but even with
      meticulous examination, some precancerous lesions or cancers are missed.

      Precancerous lesions in colitis are difficult to see and endoscopist have used spraying dye
      on the lining of the bowel (chromoendoscopy) successfully to improve detection of abnormal
      areas: however this is time consuming and requires extra time and equipment and despite the
      benefits seen in multiple studies is not widely used in routine clinical practice in the UK.

      Narrow band imaging (NBI) is a technique that relies on light filters to improve contrast for
      the smallest blood vessels in the bowel lining which shows up precancerous areas as they have
      a richer vascular network. It is sometimes described as "digital chromoendoscopy" as the
      images produced are similar to chromoendoscopy, but it is much simpler and quicker to use.
      With magnification it allows assessment of the fine mucosal surface pattern (pit pattern) of
      lesion which allows and assessment of their likelihood of being precancerous.
      Autofluorescence endoscopy uses short wavelength light and light filters to produce a false
      colour image of the bowel lining where polyps stand out. These techniques have been used with
      some success in the oesophagus and stomach but little work is available for the colon.

      We aim to see if NBI with magnification is better that standard colonoscopy for detecting
      precancerous areas. This is likely as it produces images similar to chromoendoscopy which is
      already shown to help. If a potentially precancerous area is found we will use other types of
      endoscopy, particularly NBI autofluorescence to see if these techniques are helpful for
      discriminating between pre-cancerous and non pre-cancerous areas
    
  