
    
      There are a large number of serious non-malignant diseases of childhood, most of them
      congenital and rare, which can be corrected by HSCT. These diseases are all characterized by
      deficiencies, either in number or in function, of marrow derived cells. These diseases
      usually affect immune or blood cells and frequently involve transfusion therapy with
      erythrocytes, platelets or granulocytes. Examples of such diseases include sickle cell
      disease, thalassemia major, Glanzmann thrombasthenia, Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome,
      chronic-granulomatous disease, severe congenital neutropenia, leukocyte adhesion deficiency,
      Shwachman-Diamond syndrome, Diamond-Blackfan anemia, Fanconi anemia, dyskeratosis-congenita,
      Chediak-Higashi syndrome, and severe aplastic anemia.

      Allogeneic blood HSCT, whether performed for a malignant or a non-malignant condition, relies
      on the use of a pre-transplant conditioning regimen. Traditionally, very high doses of
      chemotherapy or total body irradiation have been utilized as conditioning. The use of
      intensive conditioning, which, practically speaking eliminates the host marrow and immune
      system, however, can produce serious and sometimes fatal infections and injuries to vital
      organs, such as the liver and lung. In children, the use of intensive conditioning can also
      produce serious late effects, including hypogonadism, stunted growth, impaired cognitive
      development and secondary malignancies.

      Over the past decade, there has been a move to minimize the risk for such complications by
      reducing the intensity of conditioning regimens. Added impetus for reducing conditioning
      intensity arose from the observation in transplantation for thalassemia and sickle cell
      disease that sustained mixed chimerism, that is partial donor engraftment, is usually
      sufficient to cure non-malignant diseases. This observation suggested that sustained
      engraftment could be achieved without "ablation" or elimination of the host marrow.
      Pre-clinical studies demonstrated in small and large animals that sustained mixed chimerism
      can be achieved with preparative regimens consisting of TBI doses as low as 100-300 cGy (by
      comparison, standard intensity regimens typically employ 1000 cGy or more in combination with
      chemotherapy).

      This approach was first translated in a clinical trial involving 45 adults with hematological
      malignancies who were not candidates for standard conditioning because of older age or
      serious co-morbidities. Using a single 200 cGy dose of TBI, sustained engraftment was
      achieved in 80% of cases and, remarkably, transplant related mortality was only 6.7% in this
      frail group of patients at 14 months. It is also notable that these transplants were
      performed primarily in the outpatient setting-the median length of hospitalization was 1 day.
      Low-dose TBI based conditioning has also been safely and effectively utilized for infants and
      children with severe combine immune deficiency and other severe immune deficiencies,
      undergoing related and unrelated donor transplantation. This clinical experience strongly
      suggests that if an effective low-dose TBI conditioning regimen can be developed for children
      with non-malignant diseases it could transform BMT from a costly, highly morbid, and
      sometimes life-taking procedure to a relatively inexpensive, safe and well-tolerated one.

      Thousands and thousands of children around the world suffer from sickle cell disease and
      thalassemia major. There is a myriad of other less common serious non-malignant hematological
      diseases, which have even more devastating effects, for which HSCT remains the only viable
      cure. Low-dose TBI based conditioning represents a minimally toxic approach to
      transplantation for these children-a way to overcome alloimmunization, however, is needed to
      make this approach more effective. Alefacept, the only currently FDA approved agent that
      specifically targets memory T cells, the investigators believe, holds the key to making
      low-dose TBI based conditioning more effective and could, thereby, dramatically alter the
      field of transplantation for non-malignant diseases. sustained donor engraftment needs to be
      developed.
    
  