
    
      Aggression can have devastating interpersonal and societal consequences, including
      incarceration, family violence, disruption of treatment-facilitating factors, and death.
      About 50% of Veterans with full and subthreshold posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD)
      reported engaging in aggression after returning from deployment. This level of aggression is
      higher than Veterans without PTSD5 and civilians with PTSD. Current psychotherapy options to
      reduce aggression include present centered therapies (PCTs), anger management, and evidence
      based psychotherapies (EBP) for PTSD. Anger management reduces aggression in civilian samples
      with small to moderate effect sizes. However, few anger management treatment studies have
      examined Veterans with PTSD and measured acts of aggression. Consistently, VA clinicians also
      provide PCTs and EBP for PTSD. It is unknown how effectively PCTs reduce aggression.
      Unfortunately, even with gold standard EBP for PTSD Veterans only experience small to
      moderate reductions in aggression. While any decline is an improvement, these treatments
      leave room for novel methods to help Veterans reduce aggression.

      Emotion regulation ability may be a key to reducing aggression. The team revealed that among
      Veterans with PTSD and aggression, impulsive aggression (emotionally charged, reactive, and
      uncontrolled) is more common than premeditated aggression (deliberate, instrumental, and
      planned). Emotion dysregulation, or the inability to detect emotions, accept emotions, and/or
      engage in content-appropriate regulation, is related to impulsive aggression and to PTSD
      severity. The investigators demonstrated that emotion dysregulation fully mediated the
      relationship between PTSD and impulsive aggression in Veterans.

      Increasing emotion regulation ability of many emotions is an innovative method to reduce
      aggression. Full-length treatments that incorporate emotion regulation training (8-12
      sessions) have augmented EBP for PTSD and improved Veterans' emotion regulation skills.
      However, a brief format is needed for returning Veterans. Eight weeks of treatment,
      particularly when offered prior to EBP, is an unfeasible commitment for many Veterans who are
      reintegrating into their communities. Additionally, most drop outs from EBP for PTSD occur
      prior to session three making the initial sessions a critical time for skill development.
      Finally, Veterans have experienced wait times to receive treatment due to the growing
      population of returning Veterans. To address these challenges, the team developed a 3-session
      emotion regulation treatment, called Manage Emotions to Reduce Aggression (MERA). Male combat
      Veterans who completed MERA in an open trial (N=20) endorsed the brief model, utilized the
      skills, and found the treatment helpful at the 4-week follow up. MERA had a low dropout rate
      of 8% from active treatment. MERA completers demonstrated a medium to large pre- to
      post-treatment reduction in frequency of aggression (Cohen's d = 0.73).

      The goal of the proposed study is to conduct a 2-site randomized clinical trial (RCT) to test
      if MERA is efficacious at reducing aggression and emotion dysregulation compared to 3
      sessions of PCT, which is often the standard of care for Veterans with aggression.

      Aim 1: Determine if MERA results in reductions in frequency of impulsive aggression compared
      to PCT in Veterans (N = 204) with subthreshold or full PTSD who have deployed for combat
      operations since 9/11.

      Hypothesis 1: MERA will demonstrate statistically significant greater reductions in frequency
      of aggression (measured by the Overt Aggression Scale) relative to PCT at the 2-month
      posttreatment assessment.

      Aim 2: Examine if MERA reduces emotion dysregulation relative to PCT. Hypothesis 2: MERA will
      demonstrate statistically significant greater reductions in emotion dysregulation (measured
      by Difficulties in Emotion Regulation Scale) relative to PCT at the posttreatment assessment.

      Exploratory Aim. Veterans who learn to regulate their emotions rather than avoid them may be
      more likely to engage in EBP for PTSD. The investigators will examine if Veterans who
      complete MERA have higher rates of EBP initiation compared to Veterans who complete PCT.
      Exploratory Hypothesis: Veterans who complete MERA will have statistically significant higher
      rates of EBP initiation than Veterans who complete PCT.

      If the hypotheses are supported, the VA will have a brief treatment that can help Veterans
      manage their aggression by directly targeting emotion dysregulation. MERA may also be
      applicable to Veterans with emotion dysregulation and other psychological disorders.
    
  