
    
      Introduction :

      Renal transplantation is characterized by ischemia-reperfusion lesions in allografts.
      Prolonged cold ischemia duration, age of donor (older than 50) or donor cardiac arrest are
      common factors associated with delayed graft function. In cardiac surgery, Sevoflurane (a
      volatile-inhaled anesthetic) protects the heart from ischemia-reperfusion lesions and
      preserves glomerular filtration function in patients. This cardioprotective effect involves
      K+-ATP mitochondrial channels which are also known to be expressed in renal cells.

      Therefore, it is interesting to evaluate Sevoflurane effects in the context of renal
      allograft transplantation in order to shorten the delayed graft function and enhance
      post-operative renal function

      Objectives:

      Main goal:

      Evaluate time necessary to obtain serum creatinine levels inferior to 200µmol/l of the
      recipient in the group receiving Sevoflurane in comparison with the group of patients
      receiving propofol infusion for general anaesthesia

      Secondary goals:

        -  Compare serum creatinine levels in the two groups at day14

        -  Compare patient survival and acute rejection occurrence over a period of one-year
           follow-up in the two groups

        -  Compare the safety of both anesthetics assessed as renal tubular injury-toxicity (by
           measuring serum levels of NAG) and levels of serum inorganic fluor products in the
           post-operative period; and by referencing all adverse events

        -  Compare the effect of both anesthetics on delayed-recovery graft function by assessing
           clinical end-points (daily diuresis, number of haemodialysis sessions in the two weeks
           following transplantation) and biological end-points (serum creatinin and cystatinC
           levels in the two weeks following transplantation)

      Patients:

      120 patients scheduled to undergo a renal allograft transplantation with transplants defined
      by either a cold ischemia duration of more than 20h or a donor's age older than 50 years or a
      donor cardiac arrest will be randomized in 2 groups of sixty patients undergoing two
      different general anesthesia protocols. All patients will be included in the Renal
      Transplantation Unit of Bordeaux University Hospital, Aquitaine, France.

      Methods:

      This study will be a clinical randomized trial on 2 parallel groups. It will be double-blind
      for nephrologists and biologists who evaluate the end-points and will involve a population of
      renal transplanted patients.

      The study will compare clinical and biological outcomes according to the type of general
      anesthesia undergone for transplantation:

        -  One group of patients with inhaled anesthesia by Sevoflurane (evaluated treatment)

        -  One group of patients with intravenous anesthesia by propofol (reference treatment).

      Patients will be evaluated over a period of one year follow-up. This study is multicentric,
      based in Aquitaine for a period of three years, involving anaesthesiologists, nephrologists,
      and urologists.

      Baseline brain-dead donor and graft donation characteristics will be collected by the
      Hospital Coordination team in Bordeaux, Pau and Bayonne.

      Statistical analysis will be on intention-to-treat basis. Expected results: 1-Demonstrate
      Sevoflurane benefit for ischemia-reperfusion protection in renal allograft and a shortened
      recovery of renal graft function in the two-week post-operative period in the group allocated
      for Sevoflurane exposure during anaesthesia. 2-Confirm the good safety of Sevoflurane
      exposure in chronic end-stage renal diseased patients undergoing renal transplantation.
    
  