
    
      Catheter ablation of the cavotricuspid isthmus (CTI) is an effective and safe procedure in
      patients with atrial flutter (AFL) with excellent long-term results in preventing AFL
      recurrences. However, new-onset atrial fibrillation (AF) commonly develops after this
      procedure and has important clinical implications for patient management. Few studies have
      assessed the long-term incidence and prevalence of AF after CTI ablation via intensive
      continuous rhythm monitoring with an implantable cardiac monitor. Furthermore, whether the
      development of AF can be impacted beneficially by adjunctive therapeutic approaches is not
      known. The co-primary objectives of this pilot study in patients with typical atrial flutter
      (AFL) but no previously detected AF are: 1) to accurately determine the long-term incidence
      of new-onset AF after CTI ablation using an implantable rhythm monitor; 2) to compare the
      rates of new onset AF in subjects randomized to standard, usual-care, medical therapy
      following CTI ablation compared with those randomized to treatment with an aldosterone
      antagonist (spironolactone) in addition to their usual care medications. The patient
      population will be subjects with typical atrial flutter and a history of hypertension or
      heart failure, but no known AF episodes, scheduled to undergo catheter ablation of the CTI
      for treatment of AFL. Patients will be randomized to remain on their standard, usual-care.
      medications or to take oral spironolactone (a standard, FDA-approved medication used in the
      treatment of hypertension and heart failure) starting after their ablation procedure. The
      primary study endpoint will be any atrial tachyarrhythmia episode (AF, AFL or atrial
      tachycardia) lasting greater than one minute detected via the implanted cardiac monitor after
      CTI ablation during long-term follow-up. The incidence of new-onset AF after CTI ablation
      will be compared between subjects randomized to be treated with usual care vs. those treated
      with usual care plus spironolactone on an intention to treat basis.
    
  