
    
      Purpose I, step 1. To investigate whether plasma salusin-alpha is associated with lipid and
      lipid-related abnormalities in hemodialysis (HD) patients, plasma salusin-alpha
      concentration, expression of receptor CD36 on macrophages, serum lipid parameters,
      anthropometric and laboratory indices of nutrition and biomarkers of inflammation will be
      cross-sectionally analyzed. In chronic kidney disease (CKD) patients there is a close
      association between atherosclerosis (A), malnutrition (M) and inflammation (I), known as MIA
      syndrome, so interactions between all these parameters will be obviously present and should
      be taken into account. In addition, homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance
      (HOMA-IR) will be applied as insulin resistance is a metabolic abnormality occurring in
      advanced CKD, in metabolic syndrome shown in about 50% of HD patients and diabetic mellitus
      (DM), being a cause of CKD in approximately 40% of cases. Results of correlations and
      associations shown in HD patients will be compared with those of healthy controls and obese
      persons with normal renal function for evaluation of salusin-alpha relationships under
      different metabolic conditions, which may exert not uniform influence.

      Study populations:

      HD patients (n = 200) Obese persons (n = 50) Controls (n = 60)

      Data collection:

      Medical history (with special attention for demographics - age, gender, cause of CKD, renal
      replacement therapy vintage, changes in body weight, habits and data required for inclusion
      and exclusion criteria.

      Physical examination (with special attention for skin abnormalities related to lipid
      disturbances and blood pressure).

      Anthropometric indices:

        -  directly measured: height, body weight, hip and waist circumferences, midarm
           circumference (MAC), triceps skin fold thickness (TSF)

        -  calculated or estimated: hip to waist ratio (WHiR), height to waist ratio (WHeR), body
           mass index (BMI), in HD patients - dry body weight (DBW) Laboratory parameters

        -  Apolipoprotein A1 (APOA1)

        -  Apolipoprotein B (APO B)

        -  Cholesterol - total

        -  Cholesterol HDL

        -  Cholesterol LDL directly measured

        -  CD36

        -  Free fatty acids (FDA)

        -  High sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP)

        -  HOMA-IR

        -  Interleukin 6 (IL-6)

        -  L-carnitine

        -  Lipase

        -  Lipoprotein(a)

        -  Salusin-alpha

        -  Triglycerides

        -  Basic serum biochemistry

      Purpose I, step 2. HD patients suffering from type 2DM or having metabolic syndrome (MeS) are
      at risk of more severe lipid abnormalities than the remaining ones. Data collected in Step 1
      will be helpful in diagnosis of MeS in the examined HD patients. The investigators expect
      that also in controls they will find persons with abnormal serum lipid profile. Differences
      inside these both groups may influence plasma salusin-alpha levels and the examined
      associations. Thereby, the following groups will be analyzed separately and compared to each
      other:

      For HD patients:

        -  group with MeS and with type 2 DM

        -  group only with MeS

        -  group only with type 2 DM

        -  group without MeS and without DM

      For controls:

        -  group without detected serum lipid abnormalities

        -  group with detected serum lipid abnormalities

      Validation of correlations/associations found in the cross-sectional study will be done in
      the prospective studies (Purpose II) and at the final analysis (Purpose III).

      Purpose II. The treatment with atorvastatin lowers serum LDL cholesterol in HD patients.
      Using this statin during the study, the investigators can observe dynamic changes in serum
      LDL cholesterol in HD patients with known plasma salusin-alpha concentration before
      atorvastatin medication. With repeated salusin-alpha measurements during continued
      atorvastatin treatment the investigators can follow concomitantly occurring (or not
      occurring) changes in plasma salusin-alpha concentrations, which can be related to
      atorvastatin directly or to its LDL cholesterol lowering effect. To elucidate this aspect,
      the investigators plan to examine hyperlipidemic HD patients treated with a prescribed diet
      and increased physical activity as well as obese persons (not taking lipid lowering
      medication) during weight lowering therapy, which usually decreases lipidemia. Results of
      these persons may give the answer whether a decrease in lipidemia without pharmaceutical
      medication leads (may be also leads) to changes in plasma salusin-alpha concentration.

      The prospective study is planned in two groups of persons:

      HD patients, participating in Step 1 (n = 200), Obese persons, participating in Step 1 (n =
      50).

      Purpose III. Annual mortality rate in HD patients is 10 - 15%. LDL cholesterol and total
      cholesterol are predictors of mortality in end-stage renal disease patients. If salusin-alpha
      is associated with lipid abnormalities, it is a reasonable to check whether this peptide may
      be a predictor of mortality in HD patients. To investigate this aspect the investigators plan
      to perform the analysis of HD patients outcome after two years from the first salusin-alpha
      determination and to check whether there is any association between plasma salusin-alpha
      concentration and death from cardiovascular events and all cause death.
    
  