
    
      Overview of Systemic Sclerosis

      Scleroderma, also known as systemic sclerosis (SSc), is a multisystem disease affecting skin
      and, more variably, other tissues, commonly including joints, muscles, lungs, the
      gastrointestinal tract and kidneys. It is one of a group of diseases in which fibrosis is
      associated with organ dysfunction. Fibrosis can involve the liver (Lefton et al., 2009;
      Pinzani et al., 2005), lung(Frankel and Schwarz, 2009), kidneys (Schnaper, 2005), and less
      commonly other organs, representing a final common pathway to organ dysfunction. In SSc
      tissue fibrosis is widespread, variably involving skin, lungs and the gastrointestinal tract.

      Although SSc can affect almost any part of the body, skin disease is the most consistent
      clinical manifestation. Skin disease typically starts in the hands with an edematous phase of
      hand swelling lasting one to several months. The skin then progressively thickens and tethers
      to underlying tissues. In diffuse cutaneous SSc (dcSSc), skin thickening, induration and
      tethering typically extend proximally up the arm and can involve the torso, abdomen, face and
      legs. Patients with limited cutaneous SSc (lcSSc) have skin disease limited to below the
      elbow and face and neck as well as other characteristic clinical features. SSc skin pathology
      (diffuse and limited cutaneous SSc) shows fibrosis and variable perivascular lymphocyte
      infiltration in the deep reticular dermis.

      SSc affects multiple other body systems. Most severe complications are seen more frequently
      in dcSSc with considerable morbidity and mortality(Steen and Medsger, 2000). Lung disease
      manifests as interstitial fibrosis or pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH, more common in
      lcSSc). Lung disease remains the leading cause of death among SSc patients. Gastrointestinal
      disease primarily results from dysmotility. In the esophagus and stomach this most commonly
      leads to esophagitis. In the small and large bowel this most commonly leads to constipation,
      bowel obstruction and/or malnutrition. Renal disease is primarily manifest as accelerated
      hypertension and renal insufficiency. Angiotension converting enzyme inhibitors are generally
      though not uniformly effective for treating this manifestation, which previously led to
      significant mortality.

      Other important clinical manifestations include cold-induced vasospastic disease in
      extremities (Raynaud's phenomenon) and digital ulcers. SSc can also have cardiac
      manifestations. Pericarditis is the most frequent cardiac manifestation. Subclinical
      pericarditis is common with large effusions developing occasionally. Myocardial involvement
      with low-grade myocardial fibrosis is relatively common, but not frequently of clinical
      importance (Follansbee et al., 1985). Fibrosis most commonly manifests as the appearance of a
      septal infarction pattern on EKG in patients with normal coronary arteries, or as ventricular
      conduction delays. Occasionally myocardial fibrosis leads to heart failure. Cardiac
      arrhythmias are seen in ~5% of patients with SSc. Most common are atrial or ventricular
      ectopy, generally not associated with more serious rhythm disturbances. However, thallium
      perfusion defects are associated with sudden cardiac death (Steen et al., 1996).

      Current treatment for SSc is limited (Steen, 2001). For most disease manifestations treatment
      is primarily symptomatic and generally inadequate. The exception is renal disease,
      scleroderma renal crisis, once a major cause of mortality in SSc patients, can often be
      treated successfully with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors. Pulmonary complications
      now represent the major cause of mortality. Cyclophosphamide provides some benefit in
      patients with interstitial lung disease (ILD), the most lethal complication of SSc. However,
      the effect of this agent on SSc-associated ILD is modest and transient (Tashkin et al., 2006;
      Tashkin et al., 2007). Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) also leads to considerable
      mortality in SSc patients. PAH may respond to vasodilators such as epoprostanol and bosentan,
      but frequently responses are incomplete and mortality still high(Badesch et al., 2009) .
      Bowel hypomotility also leads to considerable morbidity and sometimes mortality. Esophageal
      hypomotility is treated, frequently without success, with pro-motility and acid-blocking
      agents. Dysmotility of the lower bowel and its complications are even more difficult to treat
      with pro-motility agents providing modest relief in some patients and antibiotics helping in
      cases of small bowel overgrowth. Thus there are limited therapeutic alternatives for SSc
      patients faced with progressive lung or bowel disease.

      Skin fibrosis, the hallmark feature of SSc remains without effective treatment. Although skin
      changes in SSc are not a cause of mortality, they cause considerable morbidity, may reflect
      similar pathological processes to those that occur in the bowel and lungs, correlate highly
      with prognosis and disease progression in other organ systems, and can be reproducibly
      assessed by skin score testing. Skin disease is of particular interest for evaluation in
      clinical trials since it is easily biopsied and can thus be repeatedly assessed for
      pathological changes during clinical trials (Lafyatis et al., 2009).

      Part of the difficulty in finding effective treatments for SSc has been a continuing
      uncertainty regarding what initiates pathogenesis. The cause of disease manifestations in SSc
      remains obscure, although three major pathophysiologic explanations have been advanced.
      Prominent pathologic changes in dermal and pulmonary tissues show fibrosis, suggesting
      abnormalities in matrix deposition. Vascular disease, resulting in scleroderma renal crisis,
      digital ischemia and pulmonary hypertension suggests dysfunction of the vascular endothelium.
      Autoantibodies in SSc patient sera suggest that immune dysfunction and autoimmunity may
      contribute to or cause disease. The different pathological features in different organs have
      provided support for each of these mechanisms, but not clarified which is most important in
      overall pathogenesis.

      Background: IL-1 Rationale for blocking IL-1 in Systemic Sclerosis: The inflammasome and
      fibrosis Several observations have implicated IL-1 in fibrotic diseases and SSc.
      Environmental or occupational exposure to silica dust leads to fibrosis (Cohen et al., 2008)
      and has been associated with SSc (Rustin et al., 1990). Recently, several groups have shown
      in murine models that silica dust activates inflammation and fibrosis through the
      inflammasome (Cassel et al., 2008; Hornung et al., 2008) . Activation of the inflammasome
      also contributes to bleomycin-induced lung injury (Gasse et al., 2007).

      Rilonacept blocks IL-1β signaling by acting as a soluble decoy receptor that binds IL-1β and
      prevents its interaction with cell surface receptors. Rilonacept also binds IL-1α and IL-1
      receptor antagonist (IL-1ra) with reduced affinity.

      Rationale for Rilonacept In This Study SSc presents special problems for developing therapies
      due to the heterogeneous clinical presentation, the variability of disease progression and
      the difficulty quantifying the extent of disease. The variability of disease progression
      presents particular challenges for deciding whom to treat, leading to overtreatment of
      patients as well as misinterpretation of open label trials. This heterogeneity of disease
      progression has also required recruitment of relatively large patient numbers into clinical
      trials, many with skin disease that is going to stabilize or improve spontaneously (Amjadi et
      al., 2009).

      Purpose/Objectives

      This study will utilize a 4-gene biomarker of skin disease as the primary efficacy outcome in
      a short duration, placebo-controlled clinical trial of rilonacept, designed to provide
      preliminary data for a larger trial. The change in 4-gene SSc biomarker skin score from day 0
      to day 42 or last observation carried forward(LOCF) will be measured in both
      rilanocept-treated patients as well as placebo patients and the scores will be compared.
      These gene biomarkers should provide a strong surrogate for such trials in the future and, if
      IL-1 is indeed the cytokine leading to fibrosis in this disease, provide a highly significant
      start to finding a therapeutic for SSc that for the first time might dramatically affect
      fibrosis. A central hypothesis of this study is that IL-1 inhibition will downregulate the
      4-gene biomarker over a relatively short period of time, much shorter than is historically
      thought necessary to see changes in the MRSS. Entry criteria will include the recent onset of
      dcSSc as this is the population most likely to show progressive skin disease and also the
      population examined in previous studies showing correlations between MRSS and the 4-gene
      biomarker.

      Secondary outcomes will include other validated measures of SSc disease activity. MRSS, SSc
      health assessment questionnaire (SHAQ), which includes the health assessment questionnaire
      (HAQ) and a SSc specific, patient visual analogue scale (VAS) for organ specific involvement
      will be followed during the trial. Several studies suggest that the SHAQ accurately measures
      disease activity and may detect smaller changes in health status. This study will also test
      the effect of rilonacept on global skin gene expression using microarray analyses of skin
      biopsies. In addition, serum biomarkers of SSc disease activity (COMP, THS-1 and IFI44) and a
      biomarker of inflammasome activation (CRP) will be tested before and after treatment. The
      change in MRSS score, SHAQ score, skin myofibroblast score, gene expression, CRP and serum
      biomarkers from day 0 to day 52 will be compared between the rilanocept-treated patients and
      the placebo-treated patients.
    
  