
    
      Title: Exploratory study of biomarkers associated with clinical response to extracorporeal
      photopheresis in the treatment of acute and chronic graft-versus-host disease post allogeneic
      hematopoietic stem cell transplantation

      Objectives:

        1. To evaluate the clinical efficacy of the use of extracorporeal photopheresis in the
           treatment of acute or chronic Graft-versus-host disease under standard clinical
           indications as pre-defined by the participants Centers (Spanish Group for Hematopoietic
           Transplantation).

        2. To explore and identify biomarkers of clinical response to extracorporeal photopheresis
           by means of a comprehensive analysis of different immune populations including T, B and
           Natural Killer cells, prior to and within the episodes of clinical graft-versus-host
           disease and the kinetic profile of plasma cytokines (Interferon-gamma, B cell activating
           factor, Tumor Necrosis Factor-alfa and Interleukin-6) in relation with Graft-versus-host
           disease .

      Methods:

      50 patients with acute or chronic graft-versus-host disease after Allogeneic hematopoietic
      stem cell transplantation whatever be the cell source (blood, bone marrow or cord blood),
      diagnosed and treated in one of the participant centers with closed extracorporeal
      photopheresis in the indications detailed bellow, will be analyzed in order to identify
      potential biomarkers of Graft versus host disease-response. Analyses of T, B and Natural
      Killer populations will be performed by Intracellular Cytokine Staining and Flow Cytometry.
      Cytokine measurement in plasma will be performed by Enzyme-Linked ImmunoSorbent Assay.
      Participants Centers:

        -  Hospital Clinico. Valencia. Spain

        -  Hospital Clinico. Salamanca. Spain

        -  Hospital Ramon y Cajal. Madrid. Spain.

        -  Hospital Murcia. Spain

        -  Hospital de Navarra, Pamplona. Spain

      Each Centre will obtain approval of the study by the Local Ethical Committee and patients
      will sing inform consent. No risks are expected of the participation of the patients in this
      exploratory analytical study.

      Frequency of treatment The frequency of treatment will depend on the type of
      Graft-versus-host disease (acute or chronic) and will be modified depending on the clinical
      response. All samples will be obtain at the same time that other standard blood samples.

      Acute graft versus host disease: treatment will be initiated using 3 sessions/week, 1st week.
      Usually response will be determined in 3-4 weeks. If clear progression after 2 weeks of
      treatment or no response after 6-8 weeks treatment will be withhold and additional treatment
      will depend on the investigator decision. If response, the frequency of treatment will be
      reduced according to the following schedule:

        -  2 treatments every week from week 2 to week 12

        -  1 treatment every 2 weeks from week 13, until total suppression of corticosteroid
           treatment.

      Response evaluation:

        1. Complete remission: resolution of all signs of Graft-versus-host disease

        2. Partial remission: improvement in at least 1 grade.

        3. Absence of response

      Chronic Graft-versus-host disease : treatment will be initiated using 3 sessions during week
      1, 2 sessions every 2 weeks during weeks 2 to 12. If no progression, first evaluation will be
      done at 3 months (week 12). If no response, extracorporeal photopheresis will be withhold,
      except for sclerodermiform graft versus host disease in which evaluation will be done at 6
      months. If response on week 12: 2 sessions every month for 3 additional months, after
      suppression of corticosteroid treatment. Use of NIH Consensus Group criteria of response
      (2006)

      Biomarkers study: Samples: 2 x 10 ml whole blood in ethylenediaminetetraacetate. will be
      obtain in each time point analysis: pre-extracorporeal photopheresis and on days +7, +14,
      +21, +30 post-extracorporeal photopheresis in acute GVHD and pre-extracorporeal photopheresis
      and on days +15, +30, +45, +60, +75, +90 post-extracorporeal photopheresis in chronic Graft
      versus host disease. Samples will be processed in each participant Center in order to obtain
      mononuclear cells following the attached protocol and stored freezed until transportation to
      the Centralized processing Laboratory at the Hospital Clinico, Valencia, Spain and sending
      the clinical information included in the attached Excel Database.

        1. Analyses of T, B and Natural Killer populations including Treg cells and dendritic cells
           Will be performed by Intracellular Cytokine Staining and Flow Cytometry (BD and
           Bioscience).

           Cell-populations and time-point to be monitored: pre-extracorporeal photopheresis and on
           days +7, +14, +21, +30 post-extracorporeal photopheresis in acute Graft versus host
           disease and pre-extracorporeal photopheresis and on days +15, +30, +45, +60, +75, +90
           post-extracorporeal photopheresis in chronic Graft versus host disease.

        2. Cytokine measurement in plasma (Interferon-gamma, Tumor Necrosis Factor-alfa,
           Interleukin-10, B cell activating factor and Interleukin-6)
    
  