
    
      This is a Phase 2 protocol evaluating the safety and efficacy of standard dose insulin-like
      growth factor-1 (IGF-1) for the treatment of growth failure in patients diagnosed with
      X-linked severe combined immunodeficiency (XSCID). This condition is a fatal inherited
      immunodeficiency caused by defects in the common cytokine receptor gamma chain (gc), a
      subunit shared by many cytokine receptors. The common gamma subunit signals through the Janus
      kinase/signal transducers and activators of transcription (JAK/STAT) pathway, a complex
      intracellular signaling pathway used by many cytokines and growth factors, including growth
      hormone (GH). Studies have suggested that the gc defect may result in hyporesponsiveness to
      GH. This is supported by a report of GH hyporesponsiveness in an XSCID child that was
      successfully ameliorated following immune reconstitution using bone marrow transplantation
      (BMT). Haplo-identical BMTs for XSCID children often achieve only partial immune
      reconstitution, and many BMT recipients experience ongoing problems with growth failure,
      achieving heights well below 2 standard deviations for their chronological age. It is
      possible that in these partially corrected conditions, administration of IGF-1, a substance
      the body produces downstream in response to GH, may achieve an improved growth response.

      This study proposes to evaluate the safety and efficacy of Increlex(Trademark) (recombinant
      human IGF-1) for the treatment of patients with XSCID who have growth failure (children with
      heights less than 3rd percentile for age). Increlex(Trademark) is a Food and Drug
      Administration-approved drug for treatment of growth hormone non-responsiveness in the
      general population of children with growth hormone hyporesponsiveness or primary IGF-1
      deficiencies. The scientific objectives are to determine safety and to assess the efficacy of
      using subcutaneous IGF-1 in XSCID patients with growth failure. The long-term goal of this
      study is to establish improved treatment regimens for growth failure in children with XSCID.
    
  