
    
      The investigators will enroll 120 TB-HIV co-infected patients initiating TB treatment.
      Participants will be randomized to either high dose (35mg/kg) or standard dose (10mg/kg)
      rifampicin in addition to either dolutegravir (DTG) or efavirenz (EFV), for those who are
      antiretroviral therapy (ART) naïve. Patients who are already on ART will remain on their
      current ART regimen. The randomization groups (30 participants in each arm) include:Arm One
      A: R35mg/kg Isoniazid/Ethambutol/Pyrazinamide (HEZ) + DTG, Arm One B: R10mg/kg HEZ + DTG
      (Control 1), Arm Two A: R35mg/kg HEZ + EFV, Arm Two B: R10mg/kg HEZ + EFV (Control 2).

      High dose rifampicin will be administered for the first 8 weeks (intensive phase) of TB
      treatment. All other anti-TB drugs will be administered at the standard dose using fixed-dose
      combinations (FDC). All participants will receive standard dose rifampicin during the
      continuation phase (weeks 9 -24). Pharmacokinetic (PK) blood sampling will be performed after
      6 weeks (±2 weeks) of TB treatment. PK sampling will occur pre-dose and at 1, 2, 4 and 8
      hours after observed dose for rifampicin and DTG concentrations and approximately 12-14 hours
      post-dose for EFV (to measure mid-dose interval (MDI) concentration). The EFV MDI and
      rifampicin pre-dose samples will be collected concurrently in the EFV arms. Safety laboratory
      tests including liver and renal function tests will be measured every two weeks or when
      patients present with symptoms suggestive of toxicity. In participants with culture positive
      TB at baseline, sputum cultures will be performed after 8 weeks of anti-TB treatment.

      The investigators will use population pharmacokinetic modelling to determine the rifampicin
      and DTG exposure in each arm. Using these models the investigators will evaluate for
      drug-drug interactions between ART and the standard and high dose of rifampicin.
      Investigators will compare the mid-dose concentrations of EFV and trough concentrations of
      DTG in each intervention and control arm using Wilcoxon rank-sum test. The investigators will
      also compare the proportion of participants with grade 3 or 4 adverse events in each arm
      using the chi-squared test. Investigators will compare the proportion of participants who are
      sputum culture negative after 8 weeks of treatment among those in the high dose and standard
      dose arms using the chi-squared test.
    
  