
    
      Abdominal wall defects or hernias are commonly seen after open surgery performed electively
      or under emergent conditions. During the last decade numerous advances have been made in the
      management of patients with abdominal wall defects. These defects are repaired by various
      surgical techniques including mesh repair (synthetic vs. biologic), primary repair, etc.
      However, the outcomes of patients after these injuries are highly variable and many of these
      patients suffer from in-hospital complications, mesh infections requiring explantation, and
      recurrence. Various factors play a role in the final outcome of the patient. These include
      factors associated with the reasons for initial surgery or disease (trauma or emergency
      general surgery), patient demographics (age, gender, co-morbidities), preoperative features
      (hemoglobin and other biochemical indicators, surgical technique used during the repair and
      use of repair (onlay, inlay, retro rectus) and the types of mesh used.

      Study Design Two different datasets from Institutional Review Board (IRB) approved studies
      L#12,083 and L#12,086 will be used to compare the sample characteristics between subjects who
      received Strattice mesh for abdominal wall reconstruction at Westchester Medical Center and
      Americas Hernia Society Quality Collaborative (AHSQC) registry.

      Primary Objective: To determine the degree to which our sample of Strattice® recipients
      resemble AHSQC Strattice® recipients.

      Study Summary:

      This study involves two different datasets from our existing studies L#12083 and L#12,086
      which are approved by New York Medical College, IRB on 6/14/2017and 7/7/2017 respectively.

      Study L#12,083 is a retrospective data collection of subjects who had abdominal wall
      reconstruction and received Strattice mesh during 1/1/2011 to 12/31/2018 at Westchester
      Medical Center. A total of 105 records from this study will be used for comparison study.
      Study L#12086 is a prospective study of subjects who had abdominal wall reconstruction using
      biological mesh. A total of 77 records will be used from this study. From both the studies
      combined we have about a total of 182 records of extracted data and same data variables will
      be used to compare with AHSQC registry. The data that will be compared includes preoperative
      info, hospital course, complications, re-hospitalizations and 2weeks follow-up.

      Research Subject Population:

      Number of Subjects Total of 182 records met the inclusion criteria and data has been
      collected.

      Gender of Subjects There will be no gender based restrictions for this study.

      Age of Subjects Subjects 18 to 85 years old will be included in this study.
    
  