
    
      Surgical treatment is needed for distal radius fractures that can not be treated with a
      simple plaster cast, and is indicated in a substantial amount of these patients. There is a
      well known correlation between a good anatomical result and a good functional outcome for the
      patient. The most common methods for operative fixation are external fixation with a metal
      frame, percutaneous pin fixation, and open surgery with insertion of a metal plate and screws
      on the dorsal or the volar side of the fracture. Biomechanical studies have shown differences
      in mechanical stability between different plate fixation systems.

      The investigators are conducting this randomized trial to investigate the differences in
      outcome after treatment with a DVR volar plate and a DNP dorsal nail plate. The DVR volar
      plate follows the same principles of fixation as other volar plates using locking screws
      and/or pegs. It has smooth or threaded pegs that are multidirectionally placed in the distal
      part of the plate. The dorsal nail plate (DNP) is a relatively new implant that is inserted
      through a less invasive technique, with a minimum of soft tissue exposure. It is inserted
      through a 3-4 cm long incision on the dorsal side of the wrist and is introduced into the
      medullary canal. It is fixed with screws on the proximal (nail) side of the fracture and
      threaded or smooth locked multidirectional pegs on the distal (plate) side of the fracture.
      It has been suggested as a good alternative to regular plate fixation where less invasive
      surgery is desired. Clinical patient series have been published showing good clinical
      results.

      There are no clinical trials comparing these two types of treatment. Therefore the
      investigators want to conduct a randomised controlled trial, with the purpose of finding
      potential differences in functional outcome for the patients.
    
  