
    
      The purpose of this study is to measure peak skin interface pressures and the total area of
      the body exposed to skin interface pressure above 30 mm Hg at different areas of the body in
      the supine position on two different support surfaces applied to a standard North Atlantic
      Treaty Organization (NATO) litter (NSN: 6530-01-380-7309) and a Raven 90C Litter
      (NSN6530-01-432-5114). The Raven 90C is the official litter for the U.S. Navy. It is approved
      for flight on United States Air Force (USAF) aircraft. It can be easily folded for storage
      and transport to remote settings. The support surfaces are the Warrior Evacuation Litter Pad
      (WELP) and the Dolphin Fluid Immersion Simulation Stretcher System (FIS). In theory,
      mattresses that reduce and/or minimize pressure on the capillary bed's perfusion can help
      reduce pressure related injury such as pressure or decubitus ulcer development. Skin
      interface pressure measurements using a pressure mapping system and transcutaneous
      oxygenation readings will allow us to determine these differences between support surfaces. A
      better understanding of skin interface pressure associated with the litter support surfaces
      is vital for military nurses to develop and implement preventative interventions to reduce
      pressure ulcer development in our patients. In addition, this study will provide information
      to help determine the usefulness and feasibility of incorporating the fluid immersion system
      (FIS) as a litter support surface.

      This research protocol has one major aim:

      To determine the difference in the pressure redistribution qualities between the WELP and the
      Dolphin FIS

      There are also two secondary aims:

        1. To determine the difference in the pressure redistribution qualities of the WELP when
           used as the mattress on the NATO litter and Raven litter.

        2. To determine the difference in the pressure redistribution qualities of the Dolphin FIS
           when used as the mattress on the NATO litter and Raven litter.
    
  