
    
      Supraventricular tachycardia (SVT) is an arrhythmia condition that affects 1 in 250 to 1/1000
      children. While there are many different mechanisms for SVT, having an additional electrical
      pathway in the heart is the most common underlying reason. The extra electrical pathway may
      be in the form of an accessory AV pathway that bridges the atrium and ventricle or a slowing
      conducting pathway in the AV nodal region. SVT may cause significant disability from the
      sudden unexpected rapid increase in heart rate. Symptoms associated with SVT may include
      dizziness, syncope, shortness of breath, chest pain and exercise intolerance. Prolonged
      episodes that do not self terminate may require the patient to be evaluated in an emergency
      room. If left untreated, SVT may result in congestive heart failure and the potential for
      sudden cardiac arrest.

      Catheter based ablation involves the localized application of energy to the site responsible
      for the SVT, effecting a permanent cure. Ablation has become the primary mode for treating
      patients with SVT. Ablation is achieved by the focal and limited application of energy
      (either heating the tissue to temperatures beyond viability, radiofrequency energy (RF)) or
      cooling the tissue (cryoablation)) to functionally destroy the underlying myocardial tissue.
      Both energy sources are very effective in achieving this end point, and the elimination of
      arrhythmias.

      SVT involving the AV node, known as AV node reentry tachycardia (AVNRT), is one of the most
      common forms of this arrhythmia. While a conceptual construct for understanding AV node
      reentry tachycardia has evolved over the years, the subtleties of the exact pathophysiologic
      mechanism leading to its occurrence is undefined. Most of the medical literature endorses the
      concept of two (dual) inputs into the compact AV node. Circus movement or reentry
      incorporating the fast and slow pathways (two AV nodal pathways) is thought to facilitate
      this form of SVT. Current ablation practice is centered on modification of the slow AV nodal
      pathway conduction, leaving the fast AV nodal pathway intact so as to allow for a normal
      conduction interval between the atrium and ventricule, the PR interval.

      Approaches for ablation of the slow AV nodal pathway differ among pediatric centers. The two
      most used techniques for ablation of the slow AV nodal pathway to prevent AV nodal reentry
      tachycardia involve: 1) an anatomical/electrogram approach based on physical position of the
      ablation catheter and the electrogram morpholog (Standard Technique), and 2) mapping of
      electrogram voltage in the triangle of Koch to define an area of low voltage with assessment
      of the site for wave front collision of electrical activity traveling over the fast and slow
      AV nodal pathways (New Technique).
    
  