
    
      The diagnostic difficulties result in increased risks of both negative appendectomies and a
      delayed diagnosis, both leading to increased morbidity, more complications, longer hospital
      stay, and higher costs. These risks are further increased in the younger children. The doctor
      delay is a known cause contributing to late diagnosis in young children. Other studies, with
      patients under 3 years and 4 years of age, have found parent delay to contribute as well to
      the late diagnosis. Our clinical experience, confirmed by the literature, shows that the
      younger children with acute appendicitis deviate from the typical presentation and clinical
      findings observed in older children with acute appendicitis.

      The use of a clinical score, based on patient history and examination, is one way to possibly
      improve the diagnostic procedure. There are several available scores. In this systematic
      review, Pediatric Appendicitis Score (PAS) were considered the most reliable. Pediatric
      Appendicitis Score is the only score specifically developed for children, composed by Samuel
      in 2002 when analyzing children between 4 and 15 years of age. Pediatric Appendicitis Score
      has been validated and recommended by some authors, but only one of these studies has
      included children less than 4 years of age.

      We hypothesized that PAS could be helpful in diagnosing young children with appendicitis and
      that we would find both parent delay and doctor delay contributing to the often late
      diagnosis in this age group. The aims of this study were to (1) evaluate Pediatric
      Appendicitis Score in children, operated on for suspected appendicitis, with respect to
      Pediatric Appendicitis Score sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, and
      negative predictive value; (2) investigate if there was a delay in diagnosing appendicitis;
      and (3) identify factors responsible for the possible late diagnosis in younger children In
      order to improve the diagnostic accuracy of acute appendicitis, ultrasound, computed
      tomography and post-appendectomy histopathological examination have been used as clinical
      aids in cutting down the rate of negative appendectomy without increasing morbidity and
      mortality.
    
  