
    
      In 2015, a national Egyptian health issue survey was conducted to describe the prevalence of
      hepatitis C virus infection. The prevalence of hepatitis C virus antibody was found to be
      10.0% and that of Hepatitis C virus Ribonucleic acid (HCV RNA ) to be 7.0% in the age group
      between 15-59 years. While In children, 1-14 years old, the prevalence of Hepatitis C virus
      (HCV) antibody and Hepatitis C virus Ribonucleic acid (HCV RNA) were 0.4% and 0.2%
      respectively.

      The primary goal of HCV therapy is to cure the infection, i.e. to achieve a sustained
      virological response (SVR) defined as undetectable Hepatitis C virus Ribonucleic acid (HCV
      RNA )12 weeks or 24 weeks after treatment completion. The infection is cured in more than 99%
      of patients who achieve asustained virological response (SVR). Asustained virological
      response (SVR) is generally associated with normalization of liver enzymes and improvement or
      disappearance of liver necroinflammation and fibrosis in patients without cirrhosis. Patients
      with severe liver disease remain at risk of life-threatening complications; however hepatic
      fibrosis may regress and the risk of complications such as hepatic failure and portal
      hypertension is reduced .

      Previous data suggest that the risk of Hepatocellular carcinoma and all-cause mortality is
      significantly reduced, but not eliminated, in cirrhotic patients who clear Hepatitis C Virus
      compared to untreated patients and non-sustained virological responders . Hepatitis C Virus
      is also associated with a number of extrahepatic manifestations and effective viral
      suppression induces reversal of most of them .

      Studies in those with hepatitis C-related decompensated cirrhosis have demonstrated that
      sustained virological response can indeed be achieved in the majority of these individuals,
      and short-term follow-up from these studies has shown that Sustained virological response is
      often accompanied by improvement in measures of decompensation including Model for End-Stage
      Liver Disease (MELD) score and Child-Turcotte-Pugh (CPT) score. Moreover, because hepatitis C
      recurrence after Orthotopic liver transplantation is associated with worse outcomes,
      achieving Sustained virological response before transplant in a decompensated population with
      chronic hepatitis C will likely allow these patients to achieve long-term outcomes not
      different from non-Hepatitis C virus-infected populations .

      In the SOLAR-1 and SOLAR-2 studies, those with decompensated cirrhosis with genotypes 1 and 4
      were randomized to receive sofosbuvir/ledipasvir with low-dose ribavirin for 12 or 24 weeks .
      No difference was seen in Sustained virological response in the 12- or 24-week arms, and the
      therapy was well tolerated. Moreover, these studies both reported improvement in Model for
      End-Stage Liver Disease (MELD) score and Child-Turcotte-Pugh (CPT) scores 4 weeks after
      therapy had been stopped with longer-term follow-up results expected.

      Liver stiffness measurement by transient elastography is a noninvasive, painless, rapid, and
      objective method for the evaluation of fibrosis or cirrhosis . Systemic reviews and
      meta-analyses have demonstrated the high sensitivity and specificity of Liver stiffness
      measurement in the diagnosis of hepatic cirrhosis.

      In a systematic review conducted at 2007, repoted that at a threshold of approximately 0.60,
      the sensitivity and specificity of the FibroTest were 47% (35-59%) and 90% (87-92%). For
      FibroScan (threshold approximately 8 kPa), corresponding values were 64% (50-76%) and 87%
      (80-91%), respectively.

      In another systematic review conducted at 2010, reported that the pooled estimates for
      sensitivity of fibroscan were 87% (84%-90%), specificity 91% (89%-92%) in stage IV fibrosis
      (cirrhosis). While in patients with stages II-IV fibrosis, they reported that the pooled
      estimates for sensitivity were 70% (67%-73%), specificity 84% (80%-88%).

      Multicenter observational, cohort, prospective study included 90 patients with hepatitis C
      genotype 1 treated with telaprevir or boceprevir who had advanced fibrosis evidenced by liver
      stiffness and achieved Sustained virological response reported that liver stiffness was
      significantly reduced 2 weeks after treatment. This suggested the possibility of liver
      cirrhosis regression evidenced by liver stiffness after sustained virological response in a
      significant proportion of patients .

      In a study included 182 Egyptian patients with HCV infection to validate and compare the
      diagnostic performance of Fibroscan , APRI Score , FIB4 for the prediction of hepatic
      fibrosis and treatment outcome in HCV infected patients receiving pegylated interferon and
      ribavirin, the authors reported that Fibroscan and noninvasive scores as APRI , FIB4 can be
      used as good predictors of liver fibrosis in chronic hepatitis C. However, they are not good
      predictors of response to pegylated interferon and ribavirin .

      In a study 2010, they concluded that liver stiffness measurement can be useful for monitoring
      regression of liver fibrosis during entecavir treatment in patients with chronic hepatitis B
      virus infection.

      A few studies showed a consistent relationship between Doppler Ultrasonography findings and
      liver histology. showed that Doppler Ultrasound findings are sensitive to haemo dynamic
      changes in liver fibrosis. Doppler Ultrasonography scoring was significantly related to liver
      fibrosis staging.

      The Doppler Ultrasound signs for portal hypertension are: (1) reduced portal vein blood flow
      velocity (time-averaged mean vel. < 14-16 cm/s2), with sensitivity and specificity between
      80-88% and 80-96%, respectively; (2) portal vein congestion index > 0.08. This parameter,
      however, is not used routinely, probably due to its being difficult to measure and its lower
      reproducibility; and (3) measurements of the hepatic arterial Resistive Index are less
      useful. In the course of Liver cirrhosis, the appearance of clinically significant portal
      hypertension worsens prognosis and Doppler ultrasound is very useful in evaluating portal
      hypertension. . astudy showed a significant reverse correlation between the velocities of the
      main portal vein and fibrous staging of the liver.
    
  