
    
      Background:

      Many investigators now believe that bone marrow-derived stem cells or endothelial progenitor
      cells can be recruited to and incorporated into tissues undergoing neovascularization,
      including cardiac tissue.

      Stem cells which include hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs), endothelial progenitor cells
      (EPCs), mesenchymal stem cells / stromal stem cells (MSCs), myoblasts, and undifferentiated
      side population cells have been used as an alternative therapeutic strategy for ischemic
      cardiovascular diseases that cannot be treated by routine interventional approaches.

      In a porcine pre-clinical study we found that cells survived after intramyocardial injection
      and differentiated into vascular cells, smooth muscle or endothelial cells. Functional
      analysis of regional wall motion and ejection fraction demonstrated statistically significant
      improvement in function in cell treated animals after six weeks compared with baseline and
      sham controls.

      A variety of studies have been conducted in subjects with coronary artery disease using
      different cell types and routes of administration. This study will be the first of its kind
      to administer autologous BMSC via direct intramyocardial injection in a rigorous clinical
      trial in the U.S.

      Objectives:

      To evaluate the safety and feasibility of direct intra-myocardial injection of autologous
      bone marrow stromal cells (BMSCs) in adult subjects undergoing coronary artery bypass graft
      (CABG) or transmyocardial revascularization (TMR).

      A secondary objective is to assess whether direct intra-myocardial injection of autologous
      bone marrow stromal cells (BMSCs) improves the patient s cardiac function, quality of life,
      and reduces cardiac events compared with historical controls at three and six months after
      intervention.

      Eligibility:

      Adult subjects with three-vessel coronary artery disease who plan to undergo CABG or TMR at
      the NIH Heart Center at Suburban Hospital and are willing to participate, who have stable
      angina, LV EF less than or equal to 50%, and who have evidence of hypokinetic segments.

      Subjects will be excluded if they have had a recent myocardial infarction (MI), bleeding
      disorder, infection, HIV or who are unable to wait 3 weeks for surgery while cells are being
      expanded prior to injection.

      Design:

      Bone marrow aspiration will be performed on subjects who suffer from ischemic heart disease
      with depressed left ventricular function three weeks before their admission to have CABG or
      TMR in the NIH Clinical Center Outpatient Clinic.

      Data will be presented based on the subject s treatment regimen:

      Group 1 CABG+Cells (total of 10 evaluable subjects)

      Group 2 TMR + Cells (total of 10 evaluable subjects)

      The autologous MSCs will be isolated from the marrow aspirate, cultured and expanded in vitro
      for 3 passages (approximately 21 days (+/- 4 days)) in the Clinical Center Cell Processing
      Laboratory (CPS), located in the Department of Transfusion Medicine (DTM), Clinical Center,
      NIH.

      During the surgery at Suburban Hospital, the MSCs will be injected directly into the ischemic
      area after CABG or TMR. Patients will be assessed for functional improvements pre, 3, 6, 12
      and 60 months after the surgery by transthoracic echocardiography and/or by MRI at pre, 3 and
      6 months after surgery. Toxicity data will be reported from time of surgery to 6 months after
      surgery, unless later toxicities occur that are related to cell injection.
    
  