
    
      This investigation involves a 10 weeks randomised, balanced, double blind parallel group
      between-subjects design aimed to analyse the effects of combining exercise and a post
      exercise nutrition strategy (hydrolysates beef protein, whey protein or a isocaloric only
      carbohydrate placebo) on training outcomes, body composition and blood markers after a period
      of regular training and feeding intervention. Participants will be divided in three-treatment
      groups 1) Hydrolysed meat-protein (Beef); 2) Whey (Whey) and 3) non-protein iso-energetic
      placebo (CHO).

      Once considered eligible for the study, and after an initial familiarisation period and
      baseline tests, participants will be randomly assigned to one of the intervention groups:
      Beef; Whey and CHO. Each group will follow a 10-week periodised endurance training
      intervention combined with one of the three specific supplementation treatments (Beef, Whey
      or CHO). Measurements of blood, body composition, muscle structure and endurance performance
      will be determined before and after the training intervention.

      Once informed consent and health history have been obtained, after the baseline Assessment
      (t1), participants will divided into three similar profile groups, matched by body mass, age,
      sex and performance (Vo2max). 1) The Beef protein group (Beef n=12) that will take 20g of
      hydrolysates beef protein powder and 250 ml of water 2) The whey group (n=12) will take 20 g
      of whey intact isolate powder mixed with 250 ml of water 3) the contrast group (CHO n=12)
      that will take an iso-energetic non-protein, only carbohydrate (20 f of maltodextrin plus 250
      ml of water) contrast.

      Participants: Thirty six participants, recruited from Kent, Medway University Campus, will
      take part in the project. After being informed of all risk, discomforts, and benefits
      involved, participants will sign a written informed consent regarding their participation.

      Intervention Familiarization period: Participants will undertake 1 sessions of
      familiarisation with the testing procedure. A qualified conditioning coach will control and
      assists participants in order to guarantee a correct understanding of the assessment
      procedure (Body composition, vo2max test, muscle thickness, etc). All participants will be
      instructed about the appropriate use of the Rate of Perceived Exertion (6-20) Borg scale and
      the heart rate monitor to control the load and training intensity during test and training.

      Endurance Training: Participants will commit to follow a polarised triphasic
      endurance-training model. This model contains three intensity zones calculated as low
      intensity [≥ the first ventilatory threshold (VT1), ~ 70% HRmax]; moderate intensity [between
      VT1 and respiratory compensation point or ventilatory threshold 2 (VT2), >70 < 90% HRmax];
      and high intensity [>VT2, 90% HRmax] (Esteve-Lanao et al., 2007). Participants will train 4
      to 6 times per week with a total percentage distribution of 75 to 80% at low intensity; 10%
      at moderate intensity, and 15 to 10% at high intensity.

      Supplementation protocol: Training days: Immediately (<10 min) after com Non-training days:
      before breakfast.

      Supplements and placebo will be provided in powder form and should be mixed with 250 ml of
      plain water at the moment of consumption. Supplements and placebo will looks and tastes
      identical.

      Thus, a total of one 20g doses will be administered on daily bases. Participants should
      ingest a total of 70 doses for a total of 10 weeks of study intervention.

      Supplement will be provided in 14 days based by a blind researcher after Participants should
      return back the empty bag of the supplement/placebo consumed during the previous 14 days
      period.
    
  