
    
      Aim of the study is to compare paravertebral block and PECS block success rate in patients
      undergoing elective breast surgery (mastectomy or quadrantectomy) with a combined anesthesia
      technique.

      Primary outcome is block success rate defined as a VAS score of 30 or less in PACU and at 6,
      12 and 24 hours after surgery. Secondary outcomes are: rescue opioids requirement; incidence
      of procedure related complications; incidence of postoperative side-effects; patients'
      quality of life level during the first 24 postoperative hours; patients' satisfaction.

      A prospective, randomized, controlled, double-blinded, non-inferiority trial was designed in
      order to compare paravertebral block and PECS block with regard to block success over the
      first 24 hours postoperatively in patients undergoing mastectomy or quadrantectomy procedures
      with a combined anesthesia technique.

      Inclusion criteria: adult patients, ASA class 1 to 3, scheduled for elective mastectomy or
      quadrantectomy. Exclusion criteria: patients refusal, contraindication to regional
      anaesthesia (coagulopathies, concurrent anticoagulant therapy, allergy to local anaesthetics,
      infection at puncture site).

      After written informed consent, patients will be randomized into two cohorts, the first being
      treated with a paravertebral block, while the second with a PECS block. Both procedures will
      be standardized with regard to injection technique, local anaesthetic drug and volume and
      performed under ultrasound real-time guidance. Both groups will undergo the regional
      anesthesia technique after induction of general anaesthesia to be blinded with regard to the
      type of block. This will be standardized as well, according to our centers current clinical
      practice. Postoperative pain will be than measured on a validated visual analogue scale (VAS
      0-100) in the recovery room and periodically after discharge to the ward until 24 hours
      postoperatively. Rescue opioids requirement will be recorded. Eventual procedural
      complications occurred will be recorded as well as postoperative side effects. A
      questionnaire about patients' satisfaction and quality of life during the first 24
      postoperative hours will be filled in for every patient. Data collected will be initially
      inserted in a form and subsequently collected, pooled and anonymously registered in an
      electronic data base.

      A sample size calculation has been preliminary performed with regard to the primary outcome.
      A 20% difference in the blocks success rate (defined as a postoperative pain on VAS scale of
      30 or less) will be considered as clinically significant.

      In our practice, paravertebral block is the current gold standard and it is associated on
      average to a 50% mean value on VAS scale during the first 48 postoperative hours. PECS block
      will be thus compared to this standard of care. A total of 39 patients per arm will be
      required (95% confidence interval). Accounting for a 10% drop-out rate, we will include 43
      patients per arm.

      Pain levels will be measured as medians and interquartile ranges. Statistical analysis will
      be performed using Student t-test for normally distributed variables while Mann-Whitney test
      was applied to non-normally distributed variables.

      This study will be conducted in compliance with the protocol, the current version of the
      Declaration of Helsinki, the ICH-GCP or ISO EN 14155 (as far as applicable) as well as all
      national legal and regulatory requirements.
    
  