
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the pathologic complete response rate (pCR) in patients with resectable
      desmoplastic melanoma treated with neoadjuvant MK-3475 (pembrolizumab). (Cohort A) II. To
      evaluate the complete response rate (confirmed and unconfirmed) in patients with unresectable
      desmoplastic melanoma treated with MK-3475 (pembrolizumab). (Cohort B)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the 9 week response rate (RR) (unconfirmed complete and partial responses)
      among patients with measurable disease. (Cohort A) II. To estimate the median overall
      survival (OS). (Cohort A) III. To evaluate safety and tolerability of MK-3475 (pembrolizumab)
      in the neoadjuvant setting. (Cohort A) IV. To estimate the median progression-free survival
      (PFS). (Cohort B) V. To estimate the median overall survival (OS). (Cohort B) VI. To evaluate
      safety and tolerability of MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) in this setting. (Cohort B)

      OTHER OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the hypothesis that higher mutational load in the patient derived baseline
      tumor biopsy samples is associated with higher pathologic complete response (pCR).

      II. To evaluate T cell infiltration into the tumors in DM patients and correlate with
      response to programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) blockade.

      III. To evaluate the clonality of tumor infiltrating T cells in DM patients and correlate
      with response to PD-1 blockade.

      IV. To evaluate adaptive immune resistant mechanism in DM tumors.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 cohorts.

      COHORT A: Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1.
      Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 3 cycles. Patients with potentially resectable
      disease undergo surgery. Patients with tumor progression and unresectable disease may receive
      one additional cycle of pembrolizumab.

      COHORT B: Patients with unresectable disease receive pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on day
      1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 34 cycles in the absence of disease progression
      or toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 6 and 12 weeks, then every 3
      months for 1 year, and every 6 months for 4 years.
    
  