
    
      Anesthesia service is the medical specialty that focuses on peri-operative medicine and the
      administration of anesthetics. It expresses traditionally as the conditions of no pain
      perception during surgical procedure. This includes three broad categories: 1) General
      Anesthesia is a medically induced state of unconsciousness with loss of protective reflexes;
      2) Sedation is a state of irritability or agitation reduction to facilitate a medical or
      diagnostic procedure; and 3) Regional Anesthesia is a technique to abolish either or both
      motor and sensory sensitivity in a specific part of the body.

      Siriraj Hospital, Mahidol University, Bangkok is a tertiary, general hospital with more than
      2,200 beds. Annually, the Department of Anesthesiology has responsibilities to take care of
      more than 50,000 patients peri-operatively. Currently, it plays a part in many surgical
      departments: Traumatic surgery (TRAU); Orthopedics surgery (ORT); Eye surgery (EYE); Ear,
      Nose and Throat surgery (ENT); Plastics surgery (PLA); Cardio-thoracic surgery (CVT);
      Neurosurgery (NEU); General surgery (GEN), Urological surgery (URO); Head and Neck surgery
      (H&N); Pediatric surgery (PED); Obstetrics surgery (OBG); Gynecological surgery (GYN);
      Electro-convulsive therapy (PSY); Radiological services (RAD); Endoscopic center (SCOP);
      Intensive Care Unit (ICU); Acute Pain service (APS); Pain Clinic (PC); and Pre-Anesthesia
      Assessment Center (SiPAC).

      According to Maslow's hierarchy of needs; human's pleasure is classified as physiological,
      safety, belonging, esteem and self-actualization. Likewise, patients' satisfaction seems to
      cover all these aspects; since participants crave for an excellent healthcare services. As a
      result, their contentment become a crucial factor to determine the quality of care
      particularly in Anesthesia procedure. This includes many processes in peri-Anesthesia
      management such as patient safety in operating theater, pain controlling and mutually
      convenient inter-relationship, etc. To solve these procedural running by means of patients'
      desires, a quality survey seems to be a promising tool that right on the target.

      Since defining and measuring quality of healthcare service is an inevitable challenge for all
      institutes in medical fields, many organizations try to work out intensively. Currently,
      there are many leading quality assessment tools in healthcare services, namely Hospital
      Consumer Assessment of Healthcare Providers and System (HCAHPS), Patient Satisfaction
      Questionnaire (PSQ), Service Quality Questionnaire (SERVQUAL), Quality of Recover after
      anesthesia 40 (QoR-40), Post-operative Quality of Recovery Questionnaire and Developing and
      Testing Questionnaire. These tests have been already verified for its validity and
      reliability.

      HCAHPS a 33-item survey in three dimensions, comprises nurse and doctor communication,
      medical communication, responsiveness of hospital staff, pain management, discharge
      information, care transition 17 items; cleanliness and quietness of hospital environment 2
      items; as well as overall rating of hospital and willingness to recommend hospital 2 items.

      PSQ an 18-item questionnaire in seven dimensions, consists of general satisfaction, technical
      quality, interpersonal manner, communication, financial aspects, time spent with doctor as
      well as accessibility and convenience.

      SERVQUAL a questionnaire related to hospital services in five dimensions, is composed of
      tangibles, reliability, responsiveness, assurance and empathy.

      QoR-40 a 40-item questionnaire concerning good quality recovery after anesthesia and surgery,
      includes emotional states, physical and physiological support, physical independence and pain
      management.

      Based upon the previously mentioned; investigators, therefore, would like to develop a
      questionnaire to assess the quality of our services. The Siriraj Anesthesia Quality
      Assessment Questionnaire (Si-2-AQ), a simply 40-item tool in seven dimensions, comprises
      Accessibility and convenience (5 items), Communication and Information (10 items), Process of
      care (8 items), Technical Quality (9 items) Psychological support (4 items) Physical support
      (2 items) and Royalty (2 items).
    
  