
    
      The management of significant duodenal injuries and combined duodenal-pancreatic injuries
      continues to be challenging and controversial. Several techniques have been advocated over
      the years to prevent the dreaded complications of repair breakdown, fistulization, and
      intra-abdominal sepsis. These include duodenal diverticulization, triple tube ostomy, tube
      duodenostomy, and pyloric exclusion. These techniques are all designed to decompress, heal
      without undue intraluminal pressure or flow. Recently, surgeons have questioned whether
      aggressive adjunctive diversion is truly necessary, especially for less severe injuries, and
      many have noted complications associated with the reconstructions apart from the injury.

      An alternative to routine diversion/decompression/exclusion is the damage control/planned
      reoperation strategies following laparotomy for severe visceral injuries that have become
      prevalent in the past two decades. Instead of performing a primary duodenal repair with
      enteral diversion or decompression in a single operation, many surgeons employ a surveillance
      and "touch-up" strategy over the course of 2-4 abdominal explorations. The abdominal fascia
      is not closed until the healing phase has commenced and the surgeon feels confident the
      repair will hold.

      At the trauma center, the advent of damage control and other planned re-operation strategies
      as resulted in an evolution in our management of duodenal lacerations and combined
      duodenal-pancreatic injuries. The investigators perform noticeably fewer decompression,
      diversion, or exclusion procedures and have increasingly relied on serial abdominal
      explorations for surveillance of the repair.

      In this retrospective review, we intend to quantify our change in practice and to report its
      outcome compared to previous practice.

      Using the OHSU Trauma Laparotomy Outcomes Database, we will identify all patients receiving
      trauma laparotomy in which a duodenal or combined duodenal-pancreatic injury was identified
      in a 20-year period from 1989-2009. The medical records of these patients will be reviewed to
      confirm duodenal injury and to tabulate other factors.

      The patients will be categorized based on management of the duodenal injury, e.g. primary
      repair, decompression, diversion, or exclusion. Patients will also be categorized according
      to laparotomy strategy, e.g. damage control, planned reoperation, or primary fascial closure
      without planned reoperation. Duodenal-related complications will be tabulated and the various
      groups compared. The investigators anticipate including up to 50 patients.
    
  