
    
      Rationale: Transition from paediatric to adult endocrinology is a challenge for adolescents,
      families and doctors. Up to 25% of young adults with chronic endocrine disorders are lost to
      follow-up ('drop-out') once the young adult moves out of paediatric care. Non-attendance and
      sub-optimal medical self-management can lead to serious and expensive medical complications.
      In a pilot study, adolescents suggested the use of e-technology to become more involved in
      the transition process. The investigators have designed and developed the YESS! game, a tool
      to help improve medical self-management in adolescents with chronic endocrine disorders. The
      hypothesis is that adolescents playing the YESS! game will show a larger increase in
      self-management score during the first year of transition and will have a lower drop-out rate
      at the adult endocrine outpatient clinic (OPC), compared to adolescents who do not play the
      game.

      Objective: 1.To improve medical self-management. 2.To prevent drop-out from the adult
      outpatient clinic. Study design: multicentre randomized controlled trial Study population:
      160 transition patients from 15 to 20 years old from the participating countries Spain, The
      United Kingdom, Belgium and the Netherlands. Patients are diagnosed with a chronic endocrine
      disorder. Intervention: The study consists of 4 study arms: receiving the YESS! game and
      toolkit (group YT), receiving the control game and toolkit (group GT), receiving the toolkit
      only (group T) and receiving regular transition care (group O). Every group will receive
      regular transition care. The transition toolkit consists of paper cards with assignments,
      ideas and tips regarding medical self-management. Main study parameters: Primary outcome: the
      Self-management and Transition to Adulthood with Rx (=treatment) (STARx) questionnaire score
      12 months after inclusion in group YT compared to group O. Secondary outcome: the STARx
      questionnaire score 6 months after inclusion in group YT compared to the other study groups,
      the STARx questionnaire score 12 months after inclusion in group YT compared to group GT and
      T and the drop-out rate to the adult outpatient clinic in the first year after the last visit
      to the paediatric endocrinologist (i.e. one year after the moment of transfer) in group YT
      compared to groups GT, T and O.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation: The participants are
      not exposed to any risks. The YESS! and the control game are safe apps played on a mobile
      phone or tablet. The burden consists of filling out the STARx questionnaires and playing the
      YESS! or control game. The questionnaires will be filled out online at home at the start of
      the study and after 6 and 12 months. Every 6 months the subject has an appointment at the
      outpatient clinic. The participant can play the YESS! game for a maximum of 15 minutes a day
      to prevent game addiction. The control game could be played for an unlimited amount of time,
      but will unlikely cause game addiction since the game is not considered challenging and
      exciting enough.
    
  