
    
      Data for this study will be obtained via both retrospectively and prospectively. Affected
      individuals (who have cancer) with a family history suggestive of a known hereditary syndrome
      or meeting National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) criteria will be accrued from routine
      clinical care to form a "real world" baseline of diagnostic yield using a multicancer panel.
      These participants will not be additionally consented for WES as part the clinical study.

      Other affected individuals identified as having five or more relatives with discordant
      cancers will receive standard of care (SOC) multicancer panel. Families without any mutations
      identified (with at least a minimum of 2 members with cancer, 1 without) will be considered
      for additional sequencing as part of this study's primary objective of describing novel
      inherited cancer syndromes.

      If the individual being evaluated in cancer genetics clinic (i.e. index patient) consents and
      their family members express interest in the study, they will move on to study visit 1.
      During this visit, pedigree information and medical histories will be explained, consent
      verified, and individual genetic counselling provided. Individuals will decide whether or not
      to be notified that incidental findings exist in their genomes.

      Lab requisition will be done to facilitate blood draws and DNA extraction/storage and WES
      analysis will be completed. Any identified monogenic variants of interest will be sent to an
      industry partner with Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA)/College of American
      Pathologists (CAP) certification for validation.

      Study visit 2 to be completed within the next 6 months, at which any identified monogenetic
      variants of interest will be discussed with the participant. Those undergoing Germline High
      Functional Impact (gHFI) variant counting will be notified if they have more or less than the
      general population. Appropriate genetic counselling, recurrence risk, and additional clinical
      referrals will be made as necessary. Participants will be notified with a binary yes/no of
      any American College of Medical Genetics incidental findings and a routine clinical genetics
      follow-up appointment will be made

      The primary objective of the study is to identify novel gene variants associated with
      generalized cancer susceptibility that is manifesting as a personal history of multiple
      primary tumors or a family history of discordant cancers. This will be done through
      exploratory, research grade (ie NOT CLIA/CAP certified) whole exome sequencing (WES) studies
      provided to patients/families with family histories of discordant cancers as an adjunct to
      SOC clinical genetics evaluation in order to clinically describe novel syndromic
      manifestations of cancer susceptibility. Suspected germline variants supporting a generalized
      cancer susceptibility will be further validated in a CLIA/CAP certified laboratory prior to
      being reported out to the patient's medical chart
    
  