
    
      We will recruit 30 Veterans from the primary care clinics located at the Buffalo Veterans
      Affairs medical center in Buffalo, New York. Thirty eligible participants will be randomized
      in a 1:1 ratio into either (1) Brief Cognitive Behavioral Therapy for Chronic Pain (Brief
      CBT-CP) plus treatment as usual (TAU) or (2) TAU only. We will engage in recruitment during
      the second quarter of Year 1 through the end of the first quarter of Year 2. We aim to
      recruit and enroll 7-8 participants per quarter during that time frame. Post-treatment
      follow-up will be conducted at eight weeks and at 12 weeks. Two recruitment methods will be
      used. Veterans with chronic musculoskeletal pain who self-report functional impairment will
      be referred by their primary care team, in response to a recruitment flyer posted in primary
      care, or by contacting the principal investigator or study staff directly after hearing of
      the study by word of mouth or other sources. This approach will be supplemented by a
      case-finding procedure in which study staff review electronic medical record data to identify
      potential patients, who will be subsequently contacted by letter and screened by telephone.
      Following telephone screening, potentially eligible participants will complete a baseline
      assessment to assess pain and related characteristics as well as remaining exclusion
      criteria. Those passing baseline measures will be randomized to (1) Brief CBT-CP plus TAU or
      (2) TAU only. Assignment to Brief CBT-CP will be stratified based on degree of pain
      interference.

      Brief CBT-CP is a manualized protocol that includes six, 30-minute sessions over the course
      of 6 weeks. Brief CBT-CP session outlines and patient handouts are included in the appendix.
      Session one focuses on foundational pain education and the development of treatment goals.
      Session two emphasizes balanced engagement in physical activity and pleasurable events.
      Session three emphasizes skills training for easily implemented relaxation techniques.
      Sessions four and five focus on recognizing and modifying unhelpful thoughts that negatively
      impact pain. Session six focuses on relapse prevention and independent implementation of
      CBT-CP skills following treatment. Brief CBT-CP will be delivered by a masters-level
      interventionist either at the medical center or by telephone depending on the preference of
      the participant.

      Participants assigned to TAU only will receive standard medical care from their primary care
      provider including pain medications, brief advice (e.g., use of relative rest, application of
      heat or ice, other self-care strategies), or referral to pain-related adjunctive
      interventions (e.g., physical therapy), as indicated. Participants in TAU only will not
      receive behavioral intervention from the primary care clinic behavioral health provider.

      We will conduct brief interviews with up to 24 purposefully selected participants (i.e., 12
      providers and 12 patients). The provider group will include 6 primary care providers and 6
      behavioral health providers I providers who staff Veterans Affairs primary care clinics.
      Interview items are based on implementation constructs relevant for early stage intervention
      development: acceptability (or agreeableness and satisfaction with treatment components),
      appropriateness (or perceived fit/compatibility of the intervention), and feasibility (or
      whether the intervention is suitable for use.) Up to 12 patients who were randomized to Brief
      CBT-CP will be asked to complete a 30-minute interviews (i.e., telephone or face-to-face,
      depending on participant preference) following their 12-week assessment (as described in the
      consent procedures prior to the trial). We will include participants who completed all study
      procedures but will also attempt to include those who discontinued Brief CBT-CP.
    
  