
    
      Visceral Leishmaniasis (VL) is a neglected disease and it is fatal if left untreated.

      Until recently the first line treatment in East Africa was 30 days of Sodium Stibogluconate
      which can be cardiotoxic. Since 2010 WHO recommended Sodium Stibogluconate and Paromomycin
      for 17 days which is a shorter treatment but there remains the toxicity associated with these
      drugs. The second line treatment is Ambisome given as 6-10 intravenous infusions, whilst this
      has a better safety profile than other VL regimens it is expensive.

      So there is an urgent need for short course oral treatment for VL particularly in the East
      African region.

      Fexinidazole is a 2 substituted 5-nitroimidazole formulated for oral administration.
      Fexinidazole through its metabolites has demonstrated potent activity againts L. donovani
      intracellular amastigotes in vitro and in vivo in a visceral leishmaniasis mouse model.

      The dose selected for this study (1800 mg/1200 mg for 4/6 days) has been based on the dose
      selected for a phase II trial on Human African Trypasonomiasis. It is albeit well tolerated
      and is one dose level below the maximum tolerated dose level established in phase I.

      The trial is designed and will be analysed according to a sequential method known as the
      triangular test, using day 28 data. This sequential design allows for repeated interim
      analysis (every 10 patients). The null hypothesis is that the proportion cured is less than
      or equal to 75%. The primary endpoint is initial cure at day 28. The primary population for
      interim analyses and interim decision making will be the per protocol population.In the final
      analysis of cumulative patient data, Intention to Treat and Per Protocol Population analyses
      will be conducted.

      The conventional 6 months (day 210) follow up outcome is still an important secondary
      endpointfor the final decision on whether to proceed with clinical development of
      Fexinidazole for VL.
    
  