
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To model the trajectory of patient reported outcomes (PROs), as measured by the National
      Institutes of Health (NIH) Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS)
      Global Health Scale (version [v]1.2), among men newly diagnosed with prostate cancer who are
      engaged in either active surveillance or active treatment, while enrolled in an e-health
      coaching program.

      Ia. To compare the trajectories of (PROs) between men who are engaged in either active
      surveillance or active treatment, while enrolled in an e-health coaching program.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the effect of digital health coaching program on:

      Ia. Physical and mental health of men newly diagnosed with prostate cancer as measured by the
      subscales of the PROMIS Global Health Scale (v 1.2).

      Ib. The global health outcomes of men with prostate cancer who are in active treatment by
      active treatment type (i.e. surgery, radiation, chemotherapy, hormonal therapy, or a
      combination of these methodologies).

      Ic. The symptom experience of men newly diagnosed with prostate cancer as measured by the MD
      Anderson Symptom Inventory (MDASI).

      Id. The frequency of emergency room visits and hospital admissions for patients receiving
      treatment in the ambulatory setting.

      II. To evaluate the relationship between financial toxicity, as measured by the Consumer
      Score for Financial Toxicity (COST), and quality of life, as measured by the Expanded
      Prostate Cancer Index Composite for Clinical Practice (EPIC-CP).

      OUTLINE:

      Patients are contacted once weekly by a health coach by text message, phone call, email, or a
      mobile application, for 3 months. The total time interacting with the health coach is about
      3.5-4.5 hours across the study. Patients also complete surveys over 30 minutes each time at
      baseline and every 30 days for 3 months.
    
  