
    
      Summry description

        -  Dental implants represent a reliable mean for replacing missing teeth and restoring
           dental function.

        -  With increased use of dental implants in replacement of missing teeth in partially
           edentulous patients the need for implants that satisfy both esthetics and function .

        -  Thus, the concept of restoration-driven implant placement has been introduced to provide
           a good match between the position of implant and the future position of the implant
           supported-restoration to provide a good clinical outcome.

        -  The concept of prosthetic-driven implant dimensional changes are expected in the hard
           and soft tissues.

        -  About 50% of alveolar bone loss occurs in the buccolingual direction in the first 12
           months after tooth extraction.

        -  The alveolar process can be too narrow to facilitate a complete bony surrounding of the
           placed dental implant.

        -  Which may lead to a peri-implant bony dehiscence when placing an implant.

        -  One stage ridge augmentation procedure has been advocated in management of buccal
           dehiscence and fenestration defects that may develop with implant placement according to
           prosthetic-driven implant placement concept.

        -  Guided bone regeneration techniques (GBR) are commonly used in management of these
           defects.

        -  However, controversy still exists concerning the complications that may arise such as
           membrane exposure and its effects on bone regeneration and the possibility of using bone
           grafts alone to overcome these problems.

        -  This research promotes the evaluation of A-PRF in combination with xenograft in one
           stage ridge augmentation.

        -  The addition of A-PRF to bone grafts has been reported to enhance the process of bone
           regeneration through different mechanisms.

        -  Ridge augmentation according to the principle of GBR using collagen membrane and bone
           graft has been proven to be predictable in producing significant bone gain promoting
           implant placement.

        -  The aim of the study is to clinically evaluate vertical bone gain in buccal peri-implant
           dehiscence and fenestration defects following application of advanced PRF plus xenograft
           compared to guided bone regeneration using collagen membrane and xenograft.

      Surgical procedure:

      - Control group: (Implant placement with xenograft and collagen membrane) After Para crestal
      incision and raising the mucoperiosteal flap at the top of the alveolar process, the exact
      position of the dental implant will be defined as determined by preoperative measurements,
      dental setup, and surgical guide. Bone level implants will be placed 3 mm apical to the
      expected cervical border of the crown.

      The titanium surface of the dental implant will be covered with bone graft (xenograft), and
      coverage with a resorbable collagen membrane.

      -Test group: (implant placement with xenograft and A-PRF) The alveolar bone exposure and
      implant osteotomy will be prepared and inserted in same manner as in the control group. The
      titanium surface of the dental implant will be covered with A-PRF and xenograft.
    
  