
    
      The hypothesis for this study is that weaning to an extensively hydrolyzed infant formula
      will decrease the incidence of type 1 diabetes in subjects with risk-associated HLA genotypes
      and a first degree relative with type 1 diabetes, as it does in all relevant animal models
      for the disease.

      Specific Aims:

      I.a: To determine if weaning to a casein hydrolysate infant formula reduces the frequency of
      diabetes-predictive auto-antibodies in subjects with risk-associated HLA genotype and a first
      degree relative with type 1 diabetes (mother, father and/or full sibling).

      I-b: To determine if weaning to a casein hydrolysate infant formula reduces the frequency of
      clinical diabetes in subjects with risk-associated HLA genotype and an affected first degree
      relative.

      A secondary aim is to determine relationships between cow's milk antibodies, a measure of
      cow's milk exposure, and diabetes-associated auto-antibodies.

      The mother of the unborn child is recruited during pregnancy. Randomization to one of two
      infant formulas takes place before birth (after 35 weeks gestation) or immediately after
      birth.

      Experimental Arm: Use of extensively hydrolysed cow's milk based infant formula when needed
      in supplementation or substitution for breast milk through 6-8 months from birth.

      Control Arm: Use of non-hydrolysed cow's milk based infant formula when needed in
      supplementation or substitution for breast milk through 6-8 months from birth.

      All families are encouraged to breast feed their infants for as long as possible. The study
      infant formula is only used if exclusive breast feeding ceases before 8 months of age.

      Cord blood for genotyping is obtained at birth, or failing that from a heel prick by 7 days
      of age. Only subjects with genotypes indicating increased genetic risk for type 1 diabetes
      remain in the intervention trial. All other subjects are withdrawn from the study.

      All subjects will be followed until the youngest subject turns age 10 years.
    
  