
    
      Most mental health problems emerge by age 14, often leading to chronic impairments and
      adverse impacts for individuals, families, and societies. Similarly, suicidal thoughts and
      behaviors are relatively rare during childhood but increase significantly during the
      transition to adolescence. Self-injurious thoughts and behaviors (SITBs), which include
      suicidal thoughts and behaviors and nonsuicidal self-injury (NSSI; intentional self-harm
      enacted without suicidal intent), are among the best predictors of future suicidal thoughts
      and attempts in the current state of literature on the topic. There is also significant
      escalation from suicidal thoughts to suicidal behaviors during this developmental period.
      Most youth who transition from suicidal thoughts to suicidal behaviors will do so within 1-2
      years after the onset of suicide ideation, which tends to begin in adolescents. Taken
      together, adolescence is a key developmental period for effective depression and suicide
      intervention and prevention. The goal of these studies is to test Single Session
      Interventions (SSIs) (defined below) that are designed to boost coping and resilience in
      adolescents. The investigators hope that this research will be valuable in ensuring that
      these SSIs are accessible to more adolescents.

      Despite significant strides in the development of psychosocial treatments for youth mental
      health problems, up to 80% of youth in the United States with mental health needs receive no
      services at all. Even when services are accessed, the definition of "treatment" is incredibly
      broad, with evidence-based interventions being the exception, not the rule. More typically,
      "treatment" may involve a single, unstructured contact with a medical doctor, counselor,
      emergency hotline, religious leader, or other health professional (e.g., occupational
      therapist), the benefits of which are unknown.

      This reality poses a critical challenge to the field of clinical intervention science-one
      that has been articulated many times before. Eight years ago, Kazdin and Blase (2011) called
      for a "rebooting" of psychotherapy research and practice, stating that "mental health
      professionals are not likely to reduce the prevalence, incidence, and burden of mental
      illness without a major shift in intervention research and clinical practice" via a portfolio
      of novel approaches to service delivery. Yet again, Kazdin (2019) asked us to reconsider how
      psychotherapy can and should be delivered: He argues that without removing requirements of a
      face-to-face format, an 'expert' with years of training, and a physical office, the
      need-to-access gap will likely stay stagnant. Indeed, Kazdin (2019) asserts the need to think
      about therapeutic action through an entirely new lens, asserting that "interventions may or
      may not rely on the psychological treatments that continue to dominate research."

      Any action-focused path to reducing the need-to-access gap will require moving beyond the
      dominant settings, formats, and systems that have constrained intervention delivery to date.
      Indeed, as Chorpita (2019) asserts, "it may well be time we move past thinking about
      'treatments' as our only form of solutions" (p. 475), with "treatments" referencing the
      dominant design of current psychosocial therapies: weekly, clinician-delivered interventions
      in brick-and mortar clinical settings, which are too often inaccessible to those they are
      designed to serve.

      Brief, online interventions:

      Even among youths who do access services, treatment is often brief: U.S. youths who begin
      therapy attend an average of ~4 sessions, and the modal number of sessions attended is one.
      This creates a need to quantify and capitalize on what can be accomplished, given appropriate
      targeting and structure, in a short period of time.

      Single-session interventions (SSIs) have been found to benefit youth and help reduce
      depression symptoms. SSIs are brief and could be easily accessed online, thus, potentially
      limiting barriers to accessing treatment. Therefore, SSIs could markedly increase the
      capacity to address teen mental illness and SITBs in a cost-effective manner (Barak & Grohol,
      2011). Indeed, SSIs can successfully reduce mental health problems: In a meta-analysis of 50
      randomized trials including 10,508 youth participants (ages 4-19) SSIs significantly reduced
      psychopathology of multiple types (mean g = 0.32), including self-administered SSIs-those
      that did not involve a therapist (e.g., online SSIs; mean g = 0.32). To date, two types of
      SSIs have been shown to reduce depressive symptoms in adolescents and/or young adults.
      However, only one of these two SSIs is designed for online administration (the other is
      administered by a therapist and therefore more challenging to disseminate). In the present
      series of studies, the investigators aim to test the efficacy of SSIs self-administered
      online to reduce depression and SITBs in a large sample of teenagers.

      The Current Research

      The goal of this study is to test single session interventions (SSIs) that are designed to
      boost coping and resilience in adolescents. Specifically, participants (aged 13-16) will be
      randomized to: (1) an online, active control group program encouraging feelings disclosure
      (i.e. supportive therapy SSI), or (2) an online program targeting nonsuicidal self-injurious
      behavior (i.e. Project "SAVE"-Stop Adolescent Violence Everywhere-SSI).

      The investigators will test whether participants randomized to the SAVE SSI report:

        1. Lower self-reported likelihood of future NSSI immediately post-intervention

        2. Lower self-reported frequency of non-suicidal self-injury (in the past 3 months) at 3
           month follow-up

        3. Lower self-reported frequency of suicide ideation (in the past 3 months) at 3 month
           follow-up
    
  