
    
      Cervical myelopathy is a common condition due to degeneration of the cervical spine causing
      stenosis and cord compression, with a higher prevalence in Asian population. It leads to
      decreased hand dexterity and function, sensory loss, gait and sphincter disturbance. Natural
      history shows a stepwise deterioration in most cases, whilst a slow progressive deterioration
      or sudden deterioration is observed in small number of subjects.

      The myelopathy hand was first described by Ono et al. on the analysis of finger motion
      impairment caused by cervical myelopathy. They described a 10 second grip and release test,
      which documents the number of times a subject can make a fist and release it as rapidly as
      possible within 10 seconds. The clumsiness associated with intrinsic finger weakness
      decreases the number of cycles a patient can perform during the test. They quantified
      patients' neurologic deficit and found that &lt;20 grip -release cycles in 10 seconds
      represented symptomatic myelopathy. The presence of this sign is not only pathognomonic of
      cervical myelopathy but also correlates with disease severity. This is a sensitive and
      specific sign of pyramidal tract involvement and has since become a classical sign and
      objective test of the condition. The presence of myelopathic hand signs aids the diagnosis of
      symptomatic cervical myelopathy and its grading acts a guide to the severity of the condition
      to the treating surgeon.

      However, this quantitative analysis only provides a crude representation of the clumsiness
      that patients experience from their deterioration of hand function. In the original
      description, Ono et al. noted the quality of this movement was affected particularly in
      advanced cases, where there was difficult, slow and incomplete finger extension, exaggerated
      wrist flexion with attempted finger extension and exaggerated wrist extension with finger
      flexion. This was considered to be caused by a failure of synergy between the wrist and the
      fingers. Finger motion is complex, varies greatly and clinical evaluation is often difficult.
      Apart from the counting the number of cycles a patient can perform, the classical grip and
      release test contains other critical clinical information that has been widely described by
      surgeons but in very vague terms that are neither reproducible nor meaningful in clinical
      practice. Although this uncoordinated finger motion and inability to move their fingers
      smoothly in grip and release cycles are well-known phenomena in myelopathy patients, they
      have been only vaguely recognized. Presently these kinematic characteristics have not been
      quantified or studied, and it is not known which types of myelopathy present with them, how
      it correlates with disease severity and its prognosticating value.
    
  