
    
      This is a randomized, controlled, parallel, active comparator arm, outcome assessor blind,
      feasibility study. The aim of study is assess the efficacy of ticagrelor plus aspirin in
      reduce of minor non-cardioembolic ischemic stroke or high risk TIA recurrence during first 3
      months after primary event. 90 patient with diagnosis of ischemic stroke admitted in Bou-Ali
      Sina Hospital, Sari, Iran will be randomized to intervention or control group by using 4
      block randomization method. Inclusion criteria is : age>40, signing inform consent, recent
      ischemic stroke within 24 h, diagnosed by brain CT or MRI mild stroke with NIHSS =<8,high
      risk TIA with ABCD >4, no cardioembolic source such as low E/F, MS, AF ,... no specific
      etiology such as dissection, vasculitis, ... no carotid stenosis > 50 % in side of
      involvement. Exclusion criteria is :history of hypersensitivity to consumptive drug any
      indication for anticoagulant therapy acute phase treatment with intravenous thrombolysis or
      thrombectomy any contraindication for consumptive drug history of intracranial hemorrhage
      history of GI bleeding during past 6 m candidate for endarterectomy history of coagulopathy
      active hemorrhagic diatesis during randomization. Patients in control group will be treat
      with standard minor ischemic stroke regiment including ASA 325 mg stat and clopidogrel 300 mg
      stat, then ASA 80 mg and clopidogrel 75 mg daily for 21 days. Intervention group will be
      treat with ASA 325 mg stat and ticagrelor 180 mg stat, then ASA 80 mg daily and ticagrelor 90
      mg BID for 21 days. Then all groups will be treat with ASA 80 mg daily after day 21. Three
      fallow up visit plan by a neurologist or neurology resident on month 1 and 3.Clinical data
      including NIHSS score, MRS score and other data will record on case report form. Stroke
      recurrence or cardiovacular event is efficacy end point. Major bleeding according to STICH
      criteria is study safety end point. Primary outcome is ischemic stroke recurrence during
      first 3 months after first event documented by new lesion on brain CT or MRI. Secondary
      outcome is major hemorrhagic events, stroke recurrence during first 30 days and any
      cardiovascular event during first 3 month.
    
  