
    
      Intermediate risk papillary thyroid carcinoma(PTC) patients with no structural and functional
      lesions and stimulated thyroglobulin( s-Tg) 1-20ng/ml were randomly divided into low-dose
      group (30 mCi) and high-dose group (100 mCi). The 3-years disease-free survival was compared
      between two groups.The successful remnant ablation, efficacy, 3-year progression-free
      survival and safety (short-term and long-term adverse reactions) were compared between two
      groups (30mci, 100mci).The 3-year disease-free survival of low-dose group (30mci) may not be
      lower than that of high-dose group (100mci) in intermediate-risk thyroid papillary carcinoma
      patients with no structural or functional lesions and stimulated thyroglobulin 1-20ng/ml.This
      study is a single-center, randomized, double-blind parallel controlled study initiated by
      Southern Medical University. The follow-up period was 3 years.The study was divided into two
      groups: the test group (30mci) and the control group (100mci). And the subjects were randomly
      assigned to the test group or the control group. This study is a double-blind trial. The
      specification of the outer packaging of the control drug is the same as that of the test
      drug, and the subjects are blinded. According to literature reports and pre-clinical data,
      the disease-free survival of the control group was 92%, non-inferiority cutoff value was δ =
      7%, A total of 254 subjects are generated from a=0. 025 (one-sided test), Power=0.8,
      proportion=0.5(control group) and lost rate =10% (two groups) by Power Analysis and Sample
      Size(PASS) software. Patients admitted to the department for 131I therapy are recruited by
      means of propaganda, science popularization and so on. A total of 254 patients with PTC were
      enrolled in the study which was conducted in the Nuclear Medicine Department, Zhujiang
      Hospital of Southern Medical University from June 2019 to June 2024. The test group: low
      dosage (30mci).The control group: high dosage (100mci).The name, appearance and packaging of
      the test group and the control group are the same, the dosage forms are different, but
      participants can be made into the same volume. Therefore, the products of two groups can not
      be distinguished with the naked eye but measuring instruments. Subjects must be screened
      within one week before random enrollment. The informed consent of the patient will be
      obtained after a detailed explanation of the study to each subject and before any screening
      process or evaluation.

      During the screening visit, the following procedures will be carried out / the following
      information will be collected:

      Demographic characteristics (Include date of birth, gender and race); Medical and treatment
      history; Operation and postoperative pathology; Vital signs（breath/ pulse /blood pressure/
      pulse rate）; Physical examination; Lab examination (hematology/biochemistry/urinalysis);
      Thyroid function test; Tg / TgAb; Tumor markers; Pregnancy test (fertile women); 12-Lead
      Electrocardiogram; Neck ultrasonography; CT of neck and chest; 131I whole-body scan; Neck MRI
      (not-required item, performed when neck ultrasonography suggests suspicious lymph nodes but
      can not be diagnosed).

      Combined medications and adverse events record Treatment Stage 1(V2,0) Vital signs（breath/
      pulse /blood pressure/ pulse rate）; Physical examination; Lab examination
      (hematology/biochemistry/urinalysis); Thyroid function test; Tg/TgAb; 12-Lead
      Electrocardiogram; Neck ultrasonography; 131I whole-body scan; Combined medications and
      adverse events record. Following Stage(V(n+1),8 weeks±n day（s)） Lab examination
      (hematology/biochemistry/urinalysis); Thyroid function test; Tg/TgAb; Tumor markers; Neck
      ultrasonography; CT of neck and chest; 131I whole-body scan; Neck MRI (not a necessary item,
      performed when neck ultrasonography suggest suspicious lymph nodes but can not be diagnosed);
      PET/CT(not a necessary item,performed when stimulated thyroglobulin >10ng/ml and 131I whole
      body scan negative) Combined medications and adverse events record. Observation Index

      (1) Effectiveness observation Index: disease-free survival, successful remnant ablation,
      efficacy, Progression-free survival

        1. Primary observation Index: That is the Percentage of patients who achieve excellent
           response in the 3-year follow-up period in the study.

        2. Secondary observation Index: Successful remnant ablation, efficacy, Progression-free
           survival.

      Successful remnant ablation: Subjects evaluated at 6-12 months after the initiation of
      treatment met one of the following two conditions: 1) absence radioactive iodine uptake in
      the thyroid bed according to a diagnostic 131I whole-body scan. 2) Serum stimulated
      thyroglobulin was <1 ng/ml or suppressed thyroglobulin was <0.2 ng/ml.

      Efficacy: Excellent response, Intermediate response, Biochemical incomplete response,
      Structural incomplete response.

      Progression-free survival: Subjects met any one of the following conditions: 1) functional or
      structural lesions appeared during follow-up; 2) When sTg> 1 ng/ml or suppressed Tg> 0.2
      ng/ml, the serum Tg level increased by more than 25% compared to the previous;3)TgAb was
      negative at the time of enrollment, and it was positive and persistently elevated during
      follow-up. The others were defined as progression-free survival.

      (2)Safety index: Incidence of short-term and long-term adverse reactions after 131I
      treatment(time points to distinguish short-term and long-term is 3months ) are listing in
      table 2, which includes gastrointestinal side effect, radiation thyroiditis, salivary
      adenitis, myelosuppression, secondary cancer, etc.

      Observation time point Patients return to our hospital every 3-12 months to be performed neck
      ultrasound and thyroid function, Tg / TgAb and other tests, if it is necessary, neck and
      chest CT, diagnostic 131I whole body imaging, or PET / CT were performed according to
      patients'condition.

      Evaluation Index Primary Evaluation Index Disease-free survival, defined as the Percentage of
      patients who achieve excellent response in the 3-year follow-up period in the study.

      Secondary Evaluation Index

        1. Effectiveness Evaluation Index: successful remnant ablation, efficacy,progression-free
           survival

        2. Safety Index: Incidence of short-term and long-term adverse reactions after 131I
           treatment(time points to distinguish short-term and long-term is 3months )，which
           includes gastrointestinal side effect, radiation thyroiditis, salivary adenitis,
           myelosuppression, secondary cancer, etc.

        3. Health economics evaluation index: Average hospital isolation day and cost of
           hospitalization when patients received treatment, the hospital isolation day is
           determined by the radiation dose of the patient's body, and the national discharge
           standard must be met when discharged (400MBq or 25µsv/h).

      Data management The original medical records and Case report form（CRF） should be truthfully
      and carefully recorded as required, and the contents should not be changed easily once filled
      in. In case of any error, the original record shall not be altered, but shall be supplemented
      by an additional statement, signed and dated by the physician in charge. All the observed
      results and abnormal findings in clinical trials should be verified and recorded in time to
      ensure the reliability of the data. All kinds of instruments, equipment, practice, standard
      products and so on used in various inspection items in clinical trials should have strict
      quality standards and ensure that they are working in normal condition.

      All data will be programmed with computer software for double input. During this period, the
      question form will be forwarded to the researcher for data review through the clinical
      inspector, who should answer and return as soon as possible. The data will be locked by the
      lead researcher, the applicant, the statistician and the drug supervisor after the blind
      state audit and think that the established database is correct. No further changes are
      allowed in the locked data file. The database will be submitted for statistical analysis.

      Statistical analysis

        1. Statistical software: Statistical Analysis System（SAS）9.4 statistical software is used
           for statistical analysis.

        2. Basic principle: All statistical inferences are performed by two-sided test. The
           statistically significant test level is set to 0.05, and the confidence interval of the
           parameters is estimated to be 95% confidence interval. Use the parametric method as much
           as possible. When the data does not meet the conditions of the parameter method, it can
           be analyzed by conversion method. If it is still not satisfied, consider using a
           non-parametric method.

        3. Missing data: The integrity of the data is monitored in real time. If the patient is
           found not to be followed up in time, he will be notified by phone and the data will be
           filled in time. Withdrawal subjects do not fill in the data.

        4. Abnormal data: analysis of causes, exclusion of objective and subjective reasons.

        5. Descriptive statistics: The mean number, standard deviation and confidence interval are
           given in the measurement data. The minimum value, maximum value, P25, median, and P75
           are given if necessary; the mean and standard deviation of the difference are given for
           the paired measurement data; and the median and average rank are given when the
           non-parametric method is used. The frequency distribution and the corresponding
           percentage are given by counting data. The frequency distribution and the corresponding
           percentage, as well as the median number and the average rank, are given. The positive
           rate, positive number and denominator number are given by qualitative data.

        6. analysis of baseline data: descriptive analysis of baseline data (including demographic
           indicators, etc.).
    
  