
    
      This is an interventional study examining the effects of indwelling diurnal catheter use in
      10 to 21 year old individuals with neurogenic bladder due to Spina Bifida or spinal cord
      injury.Subject participation is expected to last up to 6 months.Eligible, interested patients
      will complete a pre-study visit for a clinical assessment by a pediatric urologist, informed
      consent completion and education regarding the diurnal use of indwelling foley catheters.
      Each patient will be screened to ensure that they have completed standard studies of urologic
      function within the last six months including a serum chemistry panel, renal ultrasound, KUB,
      and urodynamic studies. Within four weeks prior to study onset, a UA and culture, pad
      weighing test and voiding diary will be completed. After initiation of diurnal catheter use,
      weekly screening calls and adverse event screening will be completed by the study coordinator
      with involvement of a pediatric urologist for evaluation and management as required for all
      screens with responses concerning for either symptomatic urinary tract infection or adverse
      event. There will be clinical assessments at SHCNC by the nurse practitioner or pediatric
      urologist at Week 4, 12 and 24 of participation (adverse event assessment, quality of life
      questionnaire completion, pad weight tests, voiding diary completion and UA/ culture). At the
      Week 12 and 24 visits, a renal ultrasound will be completed.

      The option that the investigators propose is novel and is the use of an indwelling urethral
      catheter placed in the morning, remaining in place for 8 hours ('diurnal' indwelling
      catheter). Bladder drainage will occur on a scheduled basis during the school day or workday
      by the simple opening of the closed catheter. After eight hours, each evening, the indwelling
      catheter will be removed with resumption of CIC. This would be a convenient and practical
      solution that could simultaneously avoid many of the risks associated with long-term
      indwelling urethral catheter use, while still allowing for the improved independence,
      convenience and privacy desired by youth with spina bifida or spinal cord injury.
    
  