
    
      While globally there has been a downward trend in the incidence of gastric cancer, it remains
      the second leading cause of cancer mortality in the world. In Chile is the leading cause of
      death from malignant tumors in both sexes, and is recognized as a problem and public health
      priority in our country. Detection of gastric cancer in early stages has a huge impact on
      healing and therefore the prognosis of patients. In countries like Japan, where the incidence
      of this neoplasm is one of the highest in the world, mass screening programs have failed to
      demonstrate significant impact at the population level, there is a body of evidence to
      support endoscopic screening especially with the advent of new minimally invasive procedures
      such as endoscopic mucosal resection for gastric cancers detected in early stages. In our
      country, it is estimated that about half of the patients already have lymph node metastases
      or involvement of adjacent organs at diagnosis. The best way to reduce disease burden from
      this disease would be through primary prevention interventions or effective early detection.
      For this purpose the upper gastrointestinal endoscopy is the method of choice to examine the
      gastric mucosa in search of early lesions, and this is the point where adequate visibility of
      the mucosa is overriding. Mucus, foam and bubbles accumulated in the gastrointestinal tract
      mucosa interfere with adequate endoscopic visualization and thus represent risk of failing to
      diagnose early lesions. For this reason is that various anti-foam agents, anti-bubbles are
      widely used in endoscopic centers mainly in Japan, where its use is almost a rule, unlike the
      West where its use is limited by the theoretical risk of aspiration. Simethicone has been
      proven as a good anti-foam agent prior to endoscopy to remove mucus and bubbles. It has also
      been studied in other scenarios such as colonoscopy as an additive in the preparation of the
      colon to eliminate bubbles in endoscopic capsule for small bowel preparation as well as
      Endoscopic Ultrasound which reduces artifacts and increases the accuracy of the study.
      Currently N-acetylcysteine, a mucolytic agent, either alone or in combination with
      Simethicone has proven effective in removing mucus and gastric bubbles when used 20 minutes
      prior to the upper endoscopy, improving the visualization of the gastric mucosa. Other agents
      such as pronase have also been described as useful in this task are not yet available in our
      area. In the context of the relevance of gastric cancer in our environment, our low rate of
      early cancer detection and the absence of national policies on the preparation and agents
      that may improve visualization of the mucosa, this study aims to compare the effect of
      products available in our country in preparation for an endoscopy in order to improve
      visualization of the mucosa and increase the chance of recognizing early lesions.
    
  