
    
      Acute physical stressors such as surgery, trauma and intense physical exertion are well-known
      triggers of cardiovascular events. The connection between acute emotional stress and the
      heart has been controversial for many years. However, emotional stressors are now
      increasingly recognized as precipitants of cardiovascular events including myocardial
      infarction (MI). For example, on the day of the Los Angeles earthquake in 1994 the number of
      cardiac deaths and hospital admissions for acute myocardial infarction was 2-5 times higher
      than the usual rate. Furthermore, the risk of myocardial infarction in the short period
      following an acute emotional stress such as anger outburst, seems to be twice that of other
      periods and may be a more common precipitant than physical exertion1. While the association
      between acute stress and cardiovascular mortality and morbidity is well established,
      controversy still exists whether there is the same association with chronic stress, both
      physical and emotional. Data regarding this question are extremely limited since there has
      been no objective and reliable mode for the assessment of physical stress and for the
      quantification of overall chronic stress. Furthermore, the fact that all the information
      regarding the association between chronic stress and acute MI derives from retrospective
      studies further complicates this issue.

      Both physical and emotional stress activate several neuroendocrine systems, the most
      important being the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis that stimulates the production and
      secretion of glucocorticoids (especially cortisol) from the adrenal cortex. Therefore,
      cortisol is considered to be a "stress hormone" and higher levels of serum cortisol have been
      observed in patients with acute stress such as those presented with acute MI, compared to
      healthy controls.

      Currently, there are several modalities for measuring cortisol levels including serum,
      urinary and salivary techniques. However, all these methods represent indicators of acute
      stress and do not reflect accumulation of stress over time.

      Recently there has been a growing interest in measuring hair cortisol level. Hair grows
      approximately 1 centimeter per month, and hair analysis accurately reflects long-term
      endogenous production of cortisol. This provides for the first time a reliable mode for the
      measurement of the accumulation of cortisol over time and a potential biomarker of chronic
      stress. Indeed, several reports have demonstrated an association between high hair cortisol
      levels and chronic stress in both animal models and in humans. Nevertheless, the possible
      association between hair cortisol and the risk of acute MI has not been studied yet.

      Aim of the study:

      To evaluate whether hair cortisol levels are elevated in patients admitted with acute MI
      compared to controls.
    
  