
    
      Older adults are the fastest growing segment of the population in many countries around the
      world, and the maintenance of independence has emerged as a major public health priority.
      Although a significant decline in physical function was once considered an inevitable
      consequence of aging, many studies have demonstrated that targeted exercise programs can
      dramatically improve physical function, even into advanced age. There is also evidence that
      appropriately timed protein intake is important for exercise recovery and the growth and
      maintenance of lean body mass. Other nutrients may be important to muscle strength and
      function as well. Yet many older adults have poor nutritional status. A combined exercise and
      nutrition program for functionally at-risk older adults, conveniently offered in the senior
      housing facilities where many reside, has great potential to improve functional status and
      quality of life in this population.

      Main objective

        -  The primary objective of this study is to evaluate changes in functional status that
           result from the Exercise-Nutrition Program (ENP).

        -  The primary hypothesis is that over the 6-month intervention period subjects in the
           intervention group will realize significant improvements in lower extremity function
           compared to a control group.

      Secondary objectives

      The secondary objectives of the research project are:

        -  To evaluate changes in nutritional status that result from the ENP.

        -  The secondary hypothesis is that subjects in the intervention group will realize
           significant increases in circulating IGF-1 and 25-hydroxy vitamin D (25(OH)D) and
           demonstrate improvements in nutritional status compared to the control group.

        -  Subjects in the ENP will exhibit reductions in circulating plasma IL-6 concentrations,
           which are indicative of systemic inflammatory status.

        -  To evaluate changes in psychosocial factors that result from the ENP.

        -  The related hypothesis is that over the 6-month intervention period subjects in the
           intervention group will increase exercise self-efficacy, intrinsic motivation to
           exercise, and satisfaction of psychological needs compared to a control group.

        -  Additionally it is hypothesized that subjects in the intervention group will realize
           improvements in mood and quality of life compared to a control group.

      Another major objective is to assess the feasibility of conducting the Exercise-Nutrition
      Program in a senior housing center facility setting.

      TRIAL DESIGN

      Type of trial The study objectives will be achieved in the context of a controlled,
      randomized field trial. Randomization will be by site (senior housing center). Intervention
      group subjects will participate in the Exercise-Nutrition Program (ENP). Control group
      subjects will participate in the Successful Aging Program (SAP), which will provide them with
      useful skills and an adequate attention control, but will not affect the primary outcome of
      this study.

      Subjects, groups and centers:

      In each study group the number of subjects to complete the study protocol will be 40 (see
      also 9.3 statistical section). Assuming a conservative dropout rate of 10% after the 3 month
      intervention and 15% at the end of the 6 month study, a sample of 53 subjects per group, or
      106 total, will be required to be enrolled in the study. 16-20- senior housing centers will
      be recruited and each will run one class with an average size of at least 5 subjects (maximum
      25 subjects).

      Sites will be assigned to one of 2 groups:

      Group 1: Exercise-Nutrition Program (ENP) Group 2: Successful Aging Program (SAP)

      Duration of subject participation:

      Subjects will undergo the proposed intervention for 6 months. The target population for this
      study will be elderly people (65 yrs+) living in senior housing centers.
    
  