
    
      When detected early and managed with appropriate surgical treatment, such as radical
      prostatectomy, Prostate cancer prognosis is excellent, but recovery may be associated with
      significant transient impact on quality of life. This impact most often manifests in urinary
      domains, specifically, development of stress urinary incontinence. Several simple, low-cost
      but high-yield interventions may dramatically improve patient's postoperative quality of
      life. However, such interventions may be out of reach for patients from Health Enterprise
      Zones (HEZ) with limited funds. To make resources readily available for this patient
      population, the inclusion criteria will be prostatectomy patients of any age who reside
      within the designated North Broad street HEZ.

      Stress urinary incontinence after prostatectomy is a source of major distress. Incontinence
      tends to improve over time with most patients regaining their urinary function. Symptomatic
      support with disposable absorbent pads/diapers for several months helps men effectively
      manage this side effect. While for most men the cost of the diapers is manageable, for men in
      HEZ this represents a significant financial burden on the patient and on caregivers. As a
      result, these patients often choose to remain home bound until they recover urinary control,
      preventing them from early return to employment and resulting in social isolation. The
      Healthcare Disparity SEED Grant will provide up to a 6-month supply of disposable absorbent
      pads/diapers to those patients meeting our inclusion criteria. Michigan Incontinence Symptom
      Index (M-ISI) questionnaires will be distributed to patients pre-operatively and during
      interval post-operative office visits to assess patient satisfaction with voiding function.

      In addition to distributing M-ISI questionnaires, we will also distribute the Extended
      Prostate Cancer Index Composite for Clinical Practice (EPIC-CP) to evaluate overall quality
      of life. This is a validated questionnaire capable of accurately assessing multiple domains
      of quality of life after prostate cancer treatment. Results of M-ISI and EPIC-CP scores will
      be compiled and analyzed to determine if intervention has resulted in measurable improvement
      between the treatment and control groups.
    
  