
    
      This is a prospective PK/PD study that will include patients who are currently legally
      consuming one of the four medical marijuana formulations (Dream, Soothe, Shine and Ease) from
      Ilera Healthcare as part of their standard therapy for one of the state approved serious
      medical conditions.

      Part 1 of the study consists of intake data of select subjects.

        -  The patients will be identified at a dispensary that offers Ilera products.

        -  Patients be given a flyer about the study by either study staff or dispensary staff.

        -  Eligible patients will be asked to contact the study team if they are interested in the
           study.

        -  If the patient is interested, a face-to-face (in person at the dispensary or in the
           patients home or other agreed upon location) consent/assent will be obtained.

        -  Also, since it is possible that Investigators will enroll subjects across the region,
           Investigators anticipate the need to seek consent over the phone for many patients. This
           will be done via Skype, Go to Meeting, Facetime or similar platforms so that the
           investigators can have a face to face interaction with the potential subjects.
           Investigators will obtain written consent in all cases. Investigators will have them
           sign and fax or email/scan the signed consent form back to the study team.

        -  Once consent is obtained demographic information will be collected as well as a medical
           and medication history and several questions related specifically to the medical
           marijuana product and its perceived effectiveness.

        -  The data will be recorded in the REDCAP database. Part 2 of the study consists of
           pharmacokinetic evaluation of select subjects.

        -  Parents/ care providers/ patients when appropriate will undergo education regarding PK
           sample acquisition

        -  PK blood samples will be obtained and sent to the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia
           (CHOP) for determination of cannibidiol/ Tetrahydrocannabinol/ cannabinol (CBD/THC/CBN)
           concentrations

        -  PK and PD analysis will occur
    
  