
    
      With the advent of a new intraocular lens (IOL) materials, technologies and advanced optics,
      higher spectacle independence after surgery is now possible.

      Multifocal IOLs work by splitting light into different foci, which is known to generate
      photic effects. Trifocal optics, which have been available on the European market since 2010,
      offer spectacle independence in most cases. Typically, visual acuity is maintained throughout
      the whole range of vision from distance to near vision, and general patient satisfaction has
      proven that trifocal IOLs are well tolerated by patients.

      Patients having irregular corneal astigmatism, large pupils and weak zonules were considered
      unsuitable candidates for multifocal IOLs, while patients who aim for spectacle independence
      and with low pre-operative regular astigmatism were considered to be good candidates.

      The Fine Vision IOL (PhysIOL®; Liège, Belgium) is a diffractive trifocal IOL that provides an
      intermediate focus at 1.75 D and a near focus at 3.5 D (both at the IOL plane). This
      corresponds to a nominal intermediate add of approximately +1,15 D and near add of about 2,25
      D at the corneal plane, depending on the geometry of the patient's eye. This intermediate
      focal point is expected to improve patient satisfaction relative to bifocal IOLs, since
      bifocal IOLs have a greater drop off in visual acuity (VA) in the intermediate range. There
      is a concern that the addition of a third focal point may increase halos, However, a
      relatively small percentage of energy is dedicated to intermediate vision when compared to
      distance and near vision. The trifocal diffractive structure asymmetrically directs incident
      light to distant (50%) intermediate (20%) and near (30%) focal points, independent of pupil
      diameter (up to 4,5 mm).

      The FineVision is an aspheric trifocal IOL composed of 25% hydrophilic acrylic material with
      a blue light and ultraviolet light blocker. It has a total diameter of 10,75 mm and an optic
      body diameter of 6,15 mm.

      The Tecnis Symfony is an extended range of vision IOL based on diffractive achromatic
      technology. The IOL has an achromatic diffractive pattern that elongates the focus and
      compensates for the chromatic aberration of the cornea. According to the manufacturer, halos
      are not expected with this IOL, because it provides an elongated focal area rather than one
      or various focal points. The IOL has a biconvex wavefront-designed anterior aspheric surface
      and a posterior achromatic diffractive surface. The total diameter of the IOL is 13.0 mm, and
      the optic zone diameter is 6.0 mm. It is an ultraviolet-filtering hydrophobic acrylic
      material with a refractive index of 1,47 at 35° C.

      This is a prospective randomised open-label study with the aim to compare the visual
      performance of the trifocal FineVision® IOL versus the extended range of vision Symphony® IOL
      after phaco-emulsification cataract surgery.

      All patients will undergo and complete preoperative ophthalmologic examinations including
      refractive status, uncorrected and corrected near and distance visual acuities, biometry and
      keratometry.

      Postoperative, all patients will receive topical antibiotic treatment for 1 week and topical
      steroid tapered treatment for 4 weeks as well as NSAID topical treatment for 4 weeks. All
      patients will be followed up after 2 days, 1 week and 3 months.
    
  