
    
      Background:

        -  Cancer patients are at increased risk from COVID-19 infection fatality due to underlying
           malignancy, treatment-related immunosuppression, or increased number of comorbidities.

        -  In solid tumor patients, treatment with immune checkpoint inhibitor has been considered
           a potential predictor for severe disease. Similarly, patients with hematologic
           malignancies (acute leukemia, lymphoma, stem cell transplant) are the most
           immunosuppressed among all cancer patients and are known to have an increased risk for
           complications associated other respiratory viral infections.

        -  ModernaTX, Inc. is using its mRNA-based technology to develop a novel lipid nanoparticle
           (LNP)-encapsulated messenger RNA (mRNA)-based vaccine against SARS-CoV-2 (mRNA-1273).

        -  Preliminary clinical data from 1273 phase I study indicates that all 45 patients tested
           at doses 25, 100 and 200 mcg demonstrated antibodies after one dose and that 8
           volunteers had neutralizing antibody.

        -  Recently reported data shows that mRNA-1273 induces both potent neutralizing antibody
           and CD8 T cell responses and protects against SARS-CoV-2 infection in lungs and noses of
           mice without evidence of immunopathology.

      Objectives:

      Primary:

        -  To evaluate the safety and reactogenicity of the mRNA-1273 vaccine administered in 2
           doses, 28 days apart, in participants who have a hematological malignancy and are
           immunosuppressed due to their disease and/or treatment, or receiving a PD-1/PDL-1
           inhibitor for treatment of a solid tumor

        -  To assess the immunogenicity of COVID-19 vaccine, mRNA-1273, administered in 2 doses 28
           days apart, as assessed by the titer or level of specific binding antibody (bAb), in
           participants who have a hematological malignancy and are immunosuppressed due to their
           disease and/or treatment, or receiving a PD-1/PDL-1 inhibitor for treatment of a solid
           tumor

      Secondary:

      -To evaluate the immunogenicity of the mRNA-1273 vaccine administered in 2 doses 28 days
      apart, as assessed by the titer or level of neutralizing antibody (nAb)

      Exploratory:

        -  To assess immune responses against the SARS-CoV-2 nucleocapsid and spike proteins

        -  To evaluate salivary measurement of IgG

      Eligibility:

        -  Participants must have histologically or cytologically confirmed solid tumor; or
           confirmed diagnosis of acute leukemia (myeloid (AML) or lymphoid (ALL); multiple
           myeloma; or lymphoma, or post allogeneic stem cell transplantation (for any indication)

        -  Age >18 years

        -  ECOG performance status <2

        -  Participants must have adequate organ and bone marrow function

        -  Participants with known history of SARS-CoV-2 infection or within 14 days of known
           exposure to someone with known SARS CoV2 infection COVD-19 are excluded

        -  Participants who have had prior administration of an investigational coronavirus (e.g.
           SARS-CoV-2, SARS-CoV, MERS-CoV) vaccine are excluded

        -  Participants with known hypotension, uncontrolled chronic pulmonary or cardiovascular
           disease are excluded

        -  Participants with a history of anaphylaxis, urticaria, or other significant adverse
           reaction after receipt of vaccine are excluded

      Design

        -  This is an open-label, multicenter, phase II, clinical trial.

        -  Up to 120 subjects will be enrolled.

        -  For this trial, on the solid tumor cohort, we plan to enroll 60 participants with solid
           tumor malignancies who have initiated PD1/PDL1 inhibitor therapy as part of standard of
           care and are deemed to have a stable regimen without the need for any immunosuppressive
           therapy or corticosteroids (beyond physiologic dosing, if needed).

        -  For this trial, on the hematologic malignancy cohort, we plan to enroll 60 participants
           with leukemia, lymphoma, multiple myeloma and patients post-allogeneic stem cell
           transplant. Participants will be enrolled based on their perceived risk of
           immunosuppression.

        -  Subjects will receive an IM injection (0.5 mL) of mRNA-1273 on Days 1 and 29 in the
           deltoid muscle and will be followed through 12 months post second vaccination (Day 394).

        -  The duration of the entire study is anticipated to be 16 months (from start of screening
           to last subject last visit).
    
  