
    
      Background on Child Maltreatment in Tanzania

      Child maltreatment and other childhood adversities often occur in many low- and middle-income
      countries at rates that are higher than in high-income countries - rates that often exceed
      50%. In Tanzania, a national survey examining violence against children (VAC) found that
      almost 73.5% of females and 71.7% of males between the ages of 13 and 24 had experienced
      physical violence by prior to the age of 18. Furthermore, 23.6% of females and 27.5% of males
      had experienced emotional violence by an adult during childhood, and 27.9% of females and
      13.4% of males had experienced some form of sexual violence before the age of 18 years. In
      addition, the survey identified an overlap among physical, emotional, and sexual violence
      against children. Approximately 80% of respondents who experienced sexual violence also
      experienced physical violence as a child, and nearly all children who experienced physical
      violence also experienced emotional violence. The VAC study also found that parents and other
      adult relatives are the most commonly reported perpetrators of physical and emotional
      violence against children, with corporal punishment considered a social norm.

      Recent advances in neuroscience, genomics, developmental psychology, epidemiology, and
      economics have shed light on the long-term and far-reaching consequences of childhood
      adversities, many of which, like child maltreatment, are directly related to poor parenting.
      These consequences include serious physical and mental health problems later in life, as well
      as difficulties in school, jobs, and relationships. Child maltreatment can have substantial
      intergenerational effects in which some parents who experienced maltreatment during childhood
      are more vulnerable to the risk of maltreating their own children. Child maltreatment is also
      a risk factor for later intimate partner violence, increased risk of HIV-infection, and
      transactional sex amongst AIDS-affected youth. Furthermore, not only is child maltreatment a
      serious public health and human rights issue, but it comes at an economic cost due to
      expenses relating to the treatment of victims' health problems, criminal justice and welfare
      costs, and lower economic productivity.

      The risks factors of child maltreatment can be best understood using an ecological framework.
      A recent review of 23 quantitative studies in Africa by Meinck et al identified a number of
      child, family, and social risk factors for child maltreatment. Child factors associated with
      increased likelihood of physical abuse included younger children, boys, children with
      disability or chronic illness, child behaviour problems, and school non-attendance and poor
      performance. Family-level factors include caregiver chronic illness, HIV/AIDS, caregiver
      mental health problems, caregiver disability, domestic violence, substance abuse, poor family
      functioning, and inconsistent parenting. Finally, household poverty and low socioeconomic
      status was found to be a major factor for increased risk of child abuse, as well as
      indirectly through increased family stress and reduced parental involvement.

      Parenting Programmes to Prevent Child Maltreatment

      Parenting programmes have shown particular promise in preventing child maltreatment and other
      childhood adversities and averting many of the life-long negative consequences for children
      and society. A recent meta-analysis reported that parenting programs successfully reduced
      substantiated and self-reported child maltreatment reports and reduced the potential for
      child maltreatment, both in high and middle-income countries. Often group-based, these
      programmes typically aim to strengthen caregiver-child relationships through play and praise,
      and to help parents to manage children's behaviour through effective, age-appropriate,
      positive discipline strategies. However, almost all the evidence for their effectiveness
      comes from high-income countries and they often cost many thousands of dollars per family
      served. They are thus prohibitively expensive for most governments and NGOs in low- and
      middle-income countries. Furthermore, their license-holders have been reluctant to implement
      them in such settings due to what they perceive as lack of the requisite infrastructure and
      trained personnel. In sum, there are currently no parenting programmes that are both
      evidence-based and affordable for low- and middle-income countries (LMIC), where the need is
      the greatest.

      Economic Strengthening Programmes

      Household poverty has also been identified as a risk factor for parental psychological
      distress and depression as well as physical and emotional child abuse. Consequently, in
      addition to improving parenting behaviour, in order to reduce the risk of child maltreatment,
      it may be necessary to address issues of poverty through economic strengthening programmes.
      These programmes include micro-financing, conditional and unconditional cash transfers, and
      agricultural interventions that provide skills training, credit loans, access to markets.
      However, there is still little empirical evidence on the benefits of an integrated approach
      of economic strengthening and parenting interventions. It may be sufficient to provide parent
      management training alone as a key mechanism of change in improving parent-child
      relationships and reducing the risk of child maltreatment. For instance, a recent
      meta-analysis by Leijten et al found that parenting programs were equally effective for
      socioeconomically disadvantaged families in comparison to non-disadvantaged families. On the
      other hand, some evidence suggests that families require additional support that addresses
      other social risk factors including poverty and material hardship. Furthermore, economic
      strengthening programs may in fact harm children if not combined with adequate child
      protection. Other research in East Africa indicates linkages between economic strengthening
      programs and child wellbeing, as well as the importance of integrating such interventions
      with psychosocial support. Nevertheless, more research is needed to understand the role of
      economic strengthening programs and parent management training in reducing on the risk of
      child maltreatment, as well as the utility of using a combined approach.

      Study Aims and Design

      This study aims to contribute to the literature on the prevention and reduction of child
      maltreatment in northern Tanzania. It will evaluate ICS's community-based intervention model
      that combines Agribusiness and Skilful Parenting training using a pilot cluster randomized
      controlled trial design (cRCT) in order to test intervention feasibility, acceptability, and
      preliminary efficacy. It will enable us to conduct both a process and rigorous outcome
      evaluation using a mixed-methods approach with qualitative focus groups and in-depth
      interviews combined with quantitative implementation data and self-report questionnaires.

      This pilot cRCT will randomly allocate 8 villages (16 farmer groups, 2 farmer groups per
      village, 240 families, 20 families per farmer group) into the following four allocation
      groups (2 villages per allocation group):

        1. Agribusiness only

        2. Skilful Parenting only

        3. Agribusiness plus Skilful Parenting

        4. One-year wait-list control

      For villages allocated to Agribusiness only, Skilful Parenting only, and/or the wait-list
      control group, participating farmer groups and families will have the opportunity to
      participate in the other intervention components after the final follow-up data assessment
      (1-year after baseline) provided that analysis of the results do not indicate any harmful
      effects.

      This study will examine preliminary intervention effects comparing intervention arms with the
      wait-list control group as well as among active arms (Proschan, 1999). Although our focus
      will be on the effect of economic strengthening combined with parenting programs on reducing
      the risk of child maltreatment and improve child wellbeing, the investigators will also be
      examining the potential benefits of Skilful Parenting or Agribusiness programs delivered
      separately in comparison to controls.

      This study will qualitatively and quantitatively examine intervention effects on parent-child
      interaction and child behaviour across the developmental spectrum. This includes (1) parents'
      report on interactions with a selected child between the ages of 3 to 17, (2) child report on
      parent-child interaction, child mental health, and child behaviour for families with children
      aged 10 to 16, and (3) early childhood development assessments in families with children aged
      0 to 3. The investigators will also examine the feasibility (acceptability, implementation,
      and participation) of the Agribusiness and Skilful Parenting interventions.

      Quantitative data collection will occur at 3 stages: baseline, immediate post-test, and
      1-year follow-up from baseline. The investigators will use descriptive and psychometric
      scales to measure family socioeconomic status, parent-child interaction (including child
      maltreatment or harsh parenting), parent mental health, child depression and behaviour, early
      child development and stimulation, and child biometric data. Quantitative data collection
      will include parent report assessments for families with children aged 3 to 17, child report
      assessments for families with children aged 10 to 16, and early childhood development
      assessments for families with children aged 0 to 3. As a result, each participating family
      will have a maximum of 3 assessments per data collection stage.

      Qualitative data will be collected from multiple sources using focus groups and in-depth
      interviews to strengthen the reliability of results: participating parents and co-parents,
      children, and facilitators. Focus groups (n=4) with participating families in the
      intervention arms will occur in local community centers at immediate post-test. In-depth
      interviews will take place at participants' homes with a targeted selection of participating
      parents, co-parents, and children (aged 10-16) at immediate post-test. In addition, focus
      groups will be conducted with program facilitators (n=8) at immediate post-test. Additional
      data will be collected from participants who drop out of the programme or have low attendance
      rates to examine barriers to participation.

      Quantitative process data will be collected using trained staff responsible for monitoring
      programme facilitators. Weekly facilitator fidelity checklists will be administered after
      each session of Skillful Parenting. Research staff will also collect data on participant
      enrolment, participation, and engagement using attendance registers and client satisfaction
      surveys administered the end of program completion. This will allow us to quantitatively
      examine predictors of programme enrolment, participation, and dropout as well as potential
      risk factors for withdrawal from the intervention.
    
  