
    
      Specific Aim 1. To determine the prevalence of COPD in patients admitted to the hospital with
      an acute myocardial infarction (AMI) and to characterize the phenotypic expression and
      severity of their underlying lung disease.

      Patients admitted to the hospital and who undergo cardiac catheterization for an AMI will be
      identified through the electronic medical record (EMR). Those with a diagnosis of COPD in the
      EMR will be offered participation in the study. Baseline characterization will include
      demographics, smoking history, prior history of exacerbations in the year before admission,
      supplemental oxygen use, respiratory and cardiac medication use, comorbidities including
      history of coronary artery disease, heart failure and ejection fraction, and pulmonary
      function data as available in the EMR. Results of this Aim will provide data about the
      prevalence and clinical characteristics of COPD in the hospitalized population with AMI in
      our network. The Aim will also provide an estimate of the number of annual admissions for
      patients with COPD and AMI.

      Specific Aim 2. To determine the association between beta-blocker use at discharge and
      cardiopulmonary outcomes in patients with COPD and AMI.

      Patients with AMI and EMR-documented COPD will be followed, prospectively from the time of
      discharge using review of the electronic medical record and as local guidance permits, phone
      calls at 3 and 6 months. The investigators will determine the associations between
      beta-blocker use at discharge and the risk for all-cause mortality, recurrent ischemic
      events, and hospitalization for COPD exacerbation adjusting for baseline characteristics and
      COPD severity.

      Because of the current COVID-19 pandemic and the possibility of limited access to
      hospitalized patients, the study consists of three options for enrollment. Option 1 or 2 is
      preferable if local guidance permits.

      Option 1: A total of 3 visits including 1 in person visit in the hospital and 2 follow up
      phone calls with EMR review at 3 and 6 months after discharge. Sites may consider
      alternatives to in person consent and data collection including by telephone or video
      conference.

      Option 2: EMR review at the time of hospital admission followed by post-discharge telephone
      consent and 2 follow up phone calls with EMR review at 3 and 6 months.

      Option 3: EMR review at the time of hospital admission and follow-up review of the EMR at 3
      and 6 months after discharge.
    
  