
    
      CNS involvement in AML is a rare event, poorly detailed in literature. Few data are available
      in pediatric cases, and less frequent in adult cases. Predisposing factors for AML adult
      patients with CNS involvement include young age, higher level of lactate dehydrogenase and
      white blood cells (WBC) counts at diagnosis, FAB M4 and M5 morphology, chromosome 16
      inversion and chromosome 11 abnormality. No consensus exists regarding the treatment of AML
      patients with CNS involvement. Protocols used for AML treatment are largely based on high
      doses of cytarabine, which penetrate the blood brain barrier. On the contrary of acute
      lymphoid leukemia (ALL), prophylaxis with intrathecal chemotherapy is not routinely used in
      AML. Roudoski et al. showed that, when lumbar puncture (LP) was performed in 1,370 patients,
      only if clinically indicated, CNS disease was detected in 45 (3.3%) patients. Another 42
      patients underwent routine LP as part of an investigational protocol, and in 8 (19%) CNS
      disease was detected (P<0.0001). Risk factors included high LDH, African-American ethnicity,
      and young age. Patients receiving high-dose cytarabine and those that did not had similar
      rates of CNS involvement. Disease free survival (DFS) and overall survival were shorter in
      patients with CNS involvement. Treatment in case of CNS involvement is not well established;
      the potential acute and long-term complications associated with cranial irradiation often
      limit its use. Prognosis remains poor also with high doses of cytarabine and/or therapeutic
      intrathecal chemotherapy. Castagnola et al. reported showed the outcome of 9 patients woth
      CNS+ AML: NSL was treated as follows: 4 patients received combined systemic HD Ara-C, cranial
      radiation therapy and intrathecal (IT) methotrexate (MTX); a second group of 4 patients was
      treated with HD Ara-C, IT MTX without cranial irradiation; HD Ara-C alone was administered in
      one patient. All patients of the first group and 2 patients of the second who achieved a
      complete remission (CR) had a median survival of 10 months after CNS involvement, while for
      the non-remitters it was 2 months. The unique durable response was observed after allogeneic
      bone marrow transplantation. Sanders et al. reported that craniospinal irradiation with or
      without intrathecal chemotherapy appears to be effective at eliminating leukemia in the
      craniospinal axis. However, the eradication of disease in the CNS was not found to be
      effective at preventing disease recurrence in the bone marrow, and despite improved control
      of disease in the CNS, adult patients with a CNS recurrence still had a poor prognosis.
      Furthermore, the rapidly fatal course of disease prevented an assessment of the durability of
      CNS response to irradiation. Aoki et al reported that allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell
      transplantation (HSCT) might improve outcomes for CNS+AML and Bar et al, showed that presence
      of CNS pre-HCT had no independent influence on post transplant outcome, which was primarily
      influenced by status of systemic disease at time of HCT. Due to the rarity of the disease we
      want to collect the data about CNS involvement, either at diagnosis or along the course of
      the disease, in AML patients already registered in previous GIMEMA Studies, trying to
      identify incidence, prognosis, prognostic factors and the best adequate treatment.
    
  