
    
      Objective:

      This study questions whether the written and interview variants of the DB reveal different
      results in the same patients with breast cancer.

      Participants:

      Participants were female breast cancer patients who received their diagnosis about three
      years before the study. Thirty patients received follow-up care in Ziekenhuis Oost-Limburg
      (ZOL). An additional twenty-nine patients were included in the KLIMOP-study and recruited in
      three Belgian hospitals (ZOL, University Hospital Leuven, Jessa Ziekenhuis). Patients were
      included through either clinical practice or the KLIMOP-study. All participating patients had
      to be able to read and understand Dutch and signed informed consent. In total, 59 patients
      took part in the study.

      Data collection:

      Two weeks after the face-to-face interview, patients with breast cancer will be provided with
      a written version of the DB questionnaire together with a prepaid envelop in order to
      evaluate the differences in written and oral versions of the DB.

      Data management:

      Data collection and data entries will be done by the PI and an assisting data manager. All
      patient data will be coded and anonymized. All other authors will have full access to the
      coded data (including statistical reports and tables) in the study and will be able to take
      responsibility for the integrity of the data and the accuracy of the data analysis.

      Statistical analysis A chi-square test, accuracy and kappa statistic were performed to
      compare the dichotomized results of the DB between the interviews and questionnaires.
      Furthermore, paired t-tests were applied to compare the mean scores coming from interview and
      questionnaire for the CCS and for the DT.

      Ethics:

      This study is part of the ongoing KLIMOP-study and current clinical practice of ZOL. The
      study was added in the KLIMOP-study through an amendment to the Medical Ethics Committee
      S52097 / ML6279 (University Hospital Leuven) and a new study protocol was submitted to and
      approved by the Medical Ethics Committee of ZOL 16/050U.
    
  