
    
      1. Safety Assessment

           There is no harmful effect from the intervention.

        2. Statistics

           (A) Sample Size Estimation With reference from previous study (Aanand et al. 2011), the
           sample size is calculated by assuming change the reduction of HbA1c is 0.59%
           (intervention group 8.05% (SD 1.40) versus control group 8.64% (SD 1.39). In order to
           have 80% power and 5% false positive error, a sample size of 88 is needed for each arm
           using the public domain sample size calculator (https://www2.ccrb.cuhk.edu.hk/stat/).
           After consideration of 10% attrition rate, 97 participants will be recruited in each
           arm.

           (B) Data Analysis All statistical analyses will be performed using SPSS Windows 22.0
           program. P-value less than 0.05 will be considered statistically significant. All
           treatment evaluations will be performed on the principle of intention-to-treat analysis
           of the difference in outcomes between groups at 6 months after baseline. Missing values
           will be imputed using last value carrying forward method. Repeated analysis will be done
           for per-protocol analysis. Demographics and baseline characteristics will be summarized
           using descriptive statistics. Continuous variable will be summarized as numbers of
           observed values, mean and standard deviation. Categorical variables will be described as
           frequency and percentage. Information collected on all outcomes will be first summarized
           using descriptive statistics at baseline and at 6 months as appropriate. Linear
           regression model will be used to test the effect of intervention on the outcomes between
           2 groups.

        3. Direct Access to Source Data and Documents

           Apart from the outpatient number and Initials, no subject sensitive identifier will be
           contained in the completed questionnaires. All completed questionnaires will be kept in
           knocked administrative room in research site with limited access by investigators. All
           patient records in CMS will be accessed by investigators only by their own CMS login.

        4. Quality Control and Quality Assurance

           Expert panel including family medicine specialist, diabetes nurse consultant, diabetes
           nurse working in primary health care setting, dietitian, physiotherapist and podiatry
           will review the education contents. Nurses who have received structural education on
           chronic disease management as organized by Institute of Advanced Nursing Studies,
           Hospital Authority will be assigned to provide intervention to participants. All the
           interventionist and co-investigator will be trained for 4 hours by principal
           investigator for the objectives, contents and process of program before implementation.
           Meeting will be held during the process of data collection to exchange ideas and
           knowledge between the interventionist.

           Principal investigator will monitor in all study phase. The interaction between
           interventionists and participants will be guided by protocol and guideline.
           Co-investigator in individual clinic will monitor participants' recruitment and data
           collection. Principal investigator will randomly check and sit in to monitor the
           consistency.

        5. Ethics and Data Handling

      Ethics of this study will be complied with the Declaration of Helsinki. Investigators will
      explain the study in detail and subjects will sign an informed consent form with written
      information sheet. Investigators will clarify all the queries with subjects. The enrolment
      will be entirely voluntary and it will not affect their care received in the study site. All
      the personal identifiers will be removed during data processing. The relevant documents will
      be kept in a locked cabinet in the study site and will be retained for 3 years after the
      study end.
    
  