
    
      Healthcare associated infections (HAI) are a concern in all parts of the world. Patients who
      are immune-compromised by chemotherapy, HIV/AIDS, or organ transplant are especially
      susceptible to infection. In addition to the opportunistic infections that these patients are
      at risk of acquiring, the emergence of methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus and
      vancomycin resistant Enterococcus species pose a risk to healthy individuals as well. Hand
      hygiene is one of the most important infection prevention practices for everyone in a
      hospital. In resource-poor countries, infection prevention and control programs are often
      neglected due to a lack of funding and organizational priorities. The Division of Infectious
      Diseases - International Outreach (ID-IO) has partnered with several hospitals in Latin
      America to mentor healthcare providers and provide key supplies so that they deliver the best
      care and prevent infection in units where the patients have the greatest risk of acquiring
      and dying from infections. Because of its importance, ID-IO has focused on hand hygiene as a
      building block for safe care at these hospitals; therefore, each year, at these hospitals, a
      hospital-wide education and promotion effort on hand hygiene is completed. The topics covered
      are general hospital hygiene, access to hand hygiene stations, and ensuring that adequate
      supplies for hand hygiene are available. Observation of hand hygiene practices before,
      during, and after bedside clinical activities shows there is a temporary improvement in
      compliance with current hand hygiene guidelines; however, the rates of compliance decline
      again as HAIs increase. In this study, the investigators propose to use already available
      hand hygiene practice surveillance and healthcare associated infection documentation and
      obtain the healthcare professionals' opinions and experiences that affect the practice of
      hand hygiene. Because motivation and barriers to practice hand hygiene derive from more than
      just education and adequate supplies, the investigators would like to understand the reasons
      why the healthcare providers do and do not practice hand hygiene when indicated. The methods
      to be used in this study are focus group meetings and structured interviews with staff of
      Unidad Nacional de Oncologia Pediatrica in Guatemala City, Guatemala.
    
  