
    
      The prevalence of overweight and obesity among individuals 20-39 years of age is 60.9%.
      Unfortunately, physical inactivity and poor dietary practices among this age cohort appear to
      be two major contributory factors for the preceding statistic. Among the youngest individuals
      within this age cohort are college students. Research suggests college students possess risk
      factors for overweight and obesity as many of these individuals are now independent and, for
      some, making physical activity- and nutrition-related decisions autonomously for the first
      time. Studies on obesity- and weight-related behaviors in this population suggest
      approximately 25% to 30% of college students are overweight or obese. Desai et al. also
      suggested rates of complete physical inactivity among college students is between 37% and
      46%. Unfortunately, dietary practices among college students are not ideal either.

      Poor nutritional behaviors also contribute to risk factors among this population. In a study
      among college freshman and sophomores, Racette, Deusinger, Strube, Highstein, and Deusinger
      found that 70% of the 764 college students assessed consumed less than the U.S. Department of
      Agriculture (USDA) recommendations of two servings of fruit and three servings of vegetables
      daily. Strikingly, approximately half of the students surveyed also reported high-fat fast or
      fried food consumption ≥ 3 times in the past week. Notably, a subsample of these students was
      assessed again a year later with 70% of these students gaining, on average, four kilograms.
      Indeed, other studies have demonstrated the impact poor dietary practices (e.g., consumption
      of "junk foods", sugar-sweetened beverages, or fast foods high in fat and low in nutrient
      density) and obesogenic environments (e.g., continuously eating at buffet-style student
      dining halls) can have on weight gain from freshman year of college onward. As such, not only
      is it clear that theoretically-backed physical activity interventions are needed among
      college students, there is also a distinct need to include a dietary component within these
      interventions. Technology integration within these physical activity and nutritional
      interventions among college students might present a viable approach.

      While few empirical data is available regarding health wearable use among young adults, it is
      likely that this technology-savvy age cohort represents a large proportion of the one in six
      consumers currently owning a health wearable. Further, with the number of health wearables
      sold in 2018 projected to be 110 million, it is likely that this age cohort will contribute
      substantially to this figure. Moreover, research indicates the popularity of social media
      among young adults. Indeed, among individuals 18-29 years of age, approximately 90% use at
      least one social media site. Currently, Facebook represents the most widely used social media
      site with 1.71 billion active users and individuals 18 to 34 years of age representing the
      majority of Facebook users.

      Therefore, the combined use of health wearable technology, these devices' associated
      smartphone applications, and a theoretically-driven health intervention delivered via social
      media, may prove appealing and effective as a health promotion strategy among college
      students. Specifically, use of the Polar M400 may increase college students' ability to
      self-regulate physical activity behaviors as self-regulation is posited as an important
      factor in promoting behavior change. Further, the Polar M400's associated smartphone
      application-based and Internet-based portal allows individuals to not only track physical
      activity-related metrics, but view predicted energy expenditure as well, which may allow
      individuals to self-regulate food intake in relation to daily energy expenditure. In
      combination with the Polar M400's capabilities, a twice-weekly Facebook-delivered Social
      Cognitive Theory-based health intervention may be able to increase college students'
      self-efficacy, outcome expectancy, enjoyment, and social support while decreasing barriers
      for participation in greater physical activity and nutritious eating behaviors. Relatedly, it
      is vital to also examine the preceding intervention's ability to promote changes in college
      students' intrinsic motivation for these health behaviors-an investigation which can be
      completed via application of the Self-Determination Theory.
    
  