
    
      Study Drugs:

      Lenalidomide is a drug that changes the immune system and it may also interfere with the
      development of tiny blood vessels that help support tumor growth. Taking lenalidomide could
      prevent the growth of cancer cells.

      Paclitaxel is designed to disrupt the growth of cancer cells, which may cause cancer cells to
      die.

      Phases I and II:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be assigned to a study
      group based on when you joined the study. Up to 10 groups of 3 participants will be enrolled
      in the Phase I portion of the study, and 1 group of up to 42 participants will be enrolled in
      Phase II.

      If you are enrolled in the Phase I portion, the doses of lenalidomide you receive will depend
      on when you joined this study. The dose of paclitaxel will be the same for all patients. Up
      to 5 dose levels of lenalidomide will be tested in the Phase I portion. The first group of
      Phase I participants will receive the lower doses of lenalidomide. Each new group enrolled
      will receive the higher doses, if no intolerable side effects were seen. Groups will continue
      being enrolled (up to 10) until the highest tolerable dose of lenalidomide (in combination
      with paclitaxel) is found.

      If you are enrolled in the Phase II portion, you will receive lenalidomide at the highest
      dose that was tolerated in the Phase I portion in combination with paclitaxel.

      Study Drug Administration:

      Once you are assigned a dose, you will take lenalidomide capsules by mouth once a day for 21
      days in a row, followed by 7 days of rest (Days 22-28). This will be called the "lead-in"
      period."

      You will the begin taking lenalidomide and paclitaxel on 28 day study cycles. You will take
      lenalidomide by mouth every day on Days 1-21 of each cycle. Paclitaxel will be given by vein
      over 1 hour on Days 1, 8, and 15 of each cycle. On Days 22-28 of each cycle, you will take no
      study drugs. The Day 1 dose of Lenalidomide in each combination cycle may occur within +/- 5
      days of the Day 1 paclitaxel dose.

      You should swallow lenalidomide capsules whole with water at the same time each day. Do not
      break, chew, or open the capsules.

      If you miss a dose of lenalidomide, take it as soon as you remember on the same day.

      If you miss taking your dose for the entire day, take your regular dose the next scheduled
      day (do NOT take double your regular dose to make up for the missed dose).

      If you take more than the prescribed dose of lenalidomide you should seek emergency medical
      care, if needed, and contact study staff right away.

      Females of childbearing potential that might be caring for you should not touch the
      lenalidomide capsules or bottles unless they are wearing gloves.

      In order to participate in this study you must also register into and follow the requirements
      of the RevAssist® program of Celgene Corporation. This program provides education and
      counseling on the risks of fetal exposure, blood clots, and reduced blood counts. You will be
      required to receive counseling every 28 days during treatment with lenalidomide, follow the
      birth control requirements of the program that are appropriate for you, and take telephone
      surveys about your compliance with the program.

      Study Visits:

      On Day 1 of each cycle (before you receive paclitaxel), the following tests and procedures
      will be performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your weight.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  You will be asked about any drugs or treatments you may be receiving.

        -  Blood (about 2-3 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests and tests of your prostatic
           specific antigen (PSA) and testosterone levels.

        -  You will be asked about any side effects you may have experienced since your last visit.

      On Days 8 and 15 of each cycle (before you receive paclitaxel), the following tests and
      procedures will be performed:

        -  Your weight will be measured.

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

      On Day 1 of Cycle 3 and every 2 cycles thereafter, you will have the following tests and
      procedures performed:

        -  You will have a chest x-ray and a CT scan of your abdomen and pelvis to check the status
           of the disease.

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn to test your testosterone level and your liver
           function.

        -  You will have a bone scan to check the status of the disease.

        -  You will have an ECG.

      If you are being treated with paclitaxel at your local oncologist's office, you are only
      required to return to M. D. Anderson on Days 1 and 15 of Cycle 1 and on Day 1 of each cycle
      after that. All other study visits may be done at your local oncologist's office.

      Length of Study:

      You will continue on this study as long as you are benefiting. You will be removed from the
      study if you experience intolerable side effects, if the disease gets worse, or if the study
      doctor thinks it is in your best interest.

      End-of-Study Visit:

      Once you are off study, the following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 3-4 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests and tests of your PSA and
           testosterone levels.

        -  You will be asked about any side effects you may have experienced since your last visit.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

      This is an investigational study. Lenalidomide is approved by the Food and Drug
      Administration (FDA) and commercially available for the treatment of specific types of
      myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) and in combination with dexamethasone for patients with
      multiple myeloma (MM) who have received at least 1 prior therapy. Paclitaxel is FDA-approved
      and commercially available for the treatment of bladder cancer, lung cancer, breast cancer,
      and pancreatic cancer. The use of these drugs in combination is investigational.

      Up to 72 participants will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  