
    
      Multiple System Atrophy (MSA) and Progressive Supranuclear Palsy (PSP) often present as
      akinetic-rigid syndromes and in the early stages are difficult to differentiate in the
      clinic. Current Consensus Diagnostic Criteria based on retrospective studies have high
      specificity but low sensitivity. The NNIPPS study is an EU-funded multinational (France, UK,
      Germany) multi-centre academic-led project with four main aims. The first aim is to test the
      hypothesis that riluzole, which may have generic neuroprotective properties, reduces the risk
      of death and improves function and quality of life (QL) in patients with MSA and PSP-
      'parkinson's plus syndromes'. The second aim is to identify prognostic factors for survival
      and functional deterioration, and to develop and validate functional rating scales
      prospectively. The third aim is to investigate MRI, cognitive, pathological and genetic
      aspects of these disorders in relation to disease progression and pathogenesis. The fourth
      aim is to understand the impact of these diseases on the QL of patients and carers and to
      identify the health costs of treatment.

      The study is designed as a randomised, stratified, controlled trial of the efficacy and
      safety of riluzole (up to 200mg daily) versus placebo in MSA and PSP. The primary outcome
      measure is survival at 36 months. Power calculations suggested that we would need to recruit
      ~400 patients into each stratum (MSA, PSP) in order to detect a reduction in the relative
      risk (RR) of death at 36 months with 80% power and two-sided a=0.05. Using modified consensus
      criteria (to provide greater sensitivity) we recruited 766 patients (363 PSP, 404 MSA) over 2
      years (1999-2001). The first patients recruited are about to enter the open-label study. The
      final analysis of the primary efficacy measure is planned for December 2005. Secondary
      outcome measures include safety, rate of change in UPDRS and other rating scales including a
      parkinson's plus symtoms rating scale (PPSS), changes in cognitive function assessed using
      the Mattis Dementia Rating Scale, the Frontal Assessment Battery, The Bushke Selective
      Reminding Test, The Neuropsychiatric Inventory, and other tests of memory and executive
      function. QL and Health economic data is collected using the SF36 and a Client Service
      Receipt Inventory (CSRI). Assessments are made at 6 monthly intervals. Standardised MRI has
      been acquired in ~70% of cases at entry and will be repeated at 36 months where possible. DNA
      has been collected from ~75% of cases. 100 brains have been donated and are being analysed
      using a standardised protocol.
    
  