
    
      Study Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as
      in the flip of a coin) to 1 of 2 study groups (also known as an Arm):

        -  If you are in Arm A, you will receive standard chemotherapy in combination with
           erlotinib.

        -  If you are in Arm B, you will receive standard chemotherapy in combination with a
           placebo.

      If you are 1 of the first 30 patients to be enrolled on the study, you will have an equal
      chance of being assigned to either group. If you are one of the next 20 patients to be
      enrolled on the study, you will have a higher chance of being assigned to the group that
      appears to be performing better. Up to 50 more participants will then be assigned to a study
      group based on the results seen in the first 50 participants.

      Neither you nor the study doctor will know if you are receiving erlotinib or placebo.
      However, if needed for your safety, the study doctor will be able to find out what you are
      receiving.

      Study Drug Administration:

      You will receive docetaxel and either cisplatin or carboplatin by vein on Day 1 of up to 3
      study cycles, over about 1-2 hours. The study doctor will tell you whether you are receiving
      cisplatin or carboplatin. Each study cycle will be 3 weeks.

      You will also take tablets of either erlotinib or placebo every day until (and including) the
      day before your scheduled surgery. You should take the tablets with about 1 cup (8 ounces) of
      water. You should take the tablet on an empty stomach, at least 1 hour before or 2 hours
      after a meal. You should take the tablet at around the same time each day, preferably in the
      morning. Your eating habits around the time you take the tablet should stay the same while
      you are on study. lf you vomit, and you can actually see the tablet, you may take another
      tablet. If not, you should not take another tablet until your next scheduled dose.

      You will continue to take erlotinib or placebo daily until the day prior to surgery
      (including the day prior to surgery).

      You will be given standard drugs to help decrease the risk of side effects. You may ask the
      study staff for information about how the drugs are given and their risks.

      Study Visits:

      On Day 1 of each Cycle, you will receive the study drugs, as described above.

      Within 7 days before Cycles 2 and 3:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  You will be asked about your current smoking status and tobacco use.

        -  Blood (about 2-3 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

      At least 14 days after the last dose of chemotherapy:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  You will be asked about your current smoking status and tobacco use.

        -  Blood (about 2-3 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  You will have an MRI or CT scan of the head and neck. If the study doctor thinks it is
           needed, additional imaging scans may be performed.

        -  You will complete a questionnaire about how you feel about different aspects of your
           daily life. It should take you about 15 minutes to complete the questionnaire.

        -  Blood (about 1-2 teaspoons) will be drawn for biomarker and pharmacokinetic (PK)
           testing. PK testing measures the amount of study drug in the body at different time
           points.

      At any point while you are on study, if you can become pregnant and your doctor thinks it is
      needed, you will have a blood (about 1 teaspoon) or urine pregnancy test.

      Surgery:

      After you stop taking the study drug/placebo, you will have the surgery you were already
      scheduled to receive. You will sign a separate consent form that describes the surgery and
      its risks. As part of this study, tumor tissue will be collected during the surgery and
      checked for the status of the disease as well as any spread of the disease.

      Length of Study:

      You may receive the standard chemotherapy combination for up to 3 cycles. You may take the
      study drug/placebo up until the day before surgery. If you have side effects from the
      chemotherapy, it is possible that you may stop taking the chemotherapy combination and
      continue to receive the study drug/placebo up until surgery. You will no longer be able to
      take the study drug if the disease gets worse, if intolerable side effects occur, or if you
      are unable to follow study directions.

      Your active participation on the study will be over after the end-of-treatment visit.

      End of Treatment Visit:

      About 8 weeks after surgery, the following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 1-2 teaspoons) will be drawn for biomarker and PK testing.

        -  You will complete the questionnaire about your daily life.

        -  If you can become pregnant and your doctor thinks it is needed, you will have a blood
           (about 1 teaspoon) or urine pregnancy test.

      Long Term Follow Up:

      After the end of treatment visit, you will be called at least 1 time each year to check on
      how you are doing. You (or your family members or designees) may be contacted by telephone,
      in writing, by e-mail, or during clinic visits. It is important to keep your contact
      information up to date with the study staff. This information may also be collected by
      checking your medical record.
    
  