
    
      This project is designed as a three-stage mixed methods study to test the efficacy of a
      career guidance intervention called Opening Doors to improve the employability and employment
      trajectory of individuals with psychiatric disabilities.

      Stage 1 involved a pilot-test of the Opening Doors (OD) career guidance intervention to
      conduct a feasibility test. In Stage 2 the investigators are conducting a randomized control
      trial (RCT) to test the efficacy of the intervention. Stage 3, which is a qualitative and
      process sub-study to understand the value of the OD intervention from the perspective of
      participants, is being conducted simultaneously with Stage 2 The Opening Doors Intervention:
      The Opening Doors intervention is a new career guidance intervention for individuals with
      psychiatric disabilities that uses traditional career guidance resources, progressive
      employment principles and mainstream Internet-based resources, delivered in the context of
      providing tailored supports for participants' with mental illness. Opening Doors is designed
      as an approximately 12- week group and individual career guidance intervention. The
      curriculum is delivered by trained career counselors in small groups over about 20 sessions
      of 90 minutes each with the addition of up to 8 weekly 1 hour individual sessions. Opening
      Doors also has optional on-going drop-in hours available for participants of the program
      (current and past) to improve their job application potential on an on-going basis. Opening
      Doors includes considerable peer involvement i.e. the consultation and inclusion of
      individuals with lived experience of psychiatric disabilities in the development and delivery
      of the intervention.

      Method: The Opening Doors intervention has been pilot-tested using a simple pretest-posttest
      design in order to assess feasibility of the intervention and research procedures. The
      investigators are currently using a randomized clinical trial design (RCT) to test the
      effectiveness of the Opening Doors intervention. Up to 108 participants are expected to
      participate in the intervention. Baseline assessments are completed and random assignment to
      experimental or control conditions are performed, stratifying for gender and minority status
      using a computer generated randomization plan. Assessments are conducted at baseline, 3, 6, 9
      and 12 months post-baseline for both experimental and control groups. Control participants
      are placed on a waitlist and offered participation at a later date i.e. 12 months after the
      baseline assessment. The investigators use qualitative methods for a sub-study and process
      evaluation. Twelve participants (2 per wave) who have completed at least 12 sessions of the
      OD will be invited to participate in one-hour qualitative interviews to obtain their
      perspectives on the intervention. Each participant participates in a one hour single-session
      audio-taped interview by research staff. Data from the qualitative interviews is collected
      using an interview guide and participants are probed for perceived benefits of the
      intervention and hypothesized helpful mechanisms of OD. The investigators also query the
      staff about their perceptions of the barriers and facilitators to delivering OD. Additional
      process information described above in "process data" is collected on all study participants.

      Data Analysis: Depending on the level of measurement, analysis of variance, t-tests, or
      chi-square tests will be conducted to determine baseline equivalency between Experimental and
      Control groups. All hypotheses will be tested using mixed modeling analyses, adjusting for
      baseline values and examining effects for time, group, and the group-by-time interactions.
      Differences between the experimental and control groups are expected to provide information
      on the effectiveness of the intervention on the hypothesized variables. Qualitative
      interviews will be transcribed for analysis using a grounded theory approach. Transcribed
      interviews will be analyzed by two researchers.
    
  