
    
      PROCRIT (Epoetin alfa) is a brand of recombinant human erythropoietin (rHuEPO).
      Erythropoietin is a hormone produced in the kidney. Its function is to stimulate the
      production of red blood cells in the bone marrow. Many patients with Chronic Kidney Disease
      (CKD) do not produce enough erythropoietin and thus develop anemia (a reduction in red blood
      cell levels). This can cause them to feel tired.

      PROCRIT (Epoetin alfa) is approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
      for the treatment of anemia (low red blood cell count) in patients with CKD (not on
      dialysis). The approved dosing frequency for PROCRIT (Epoetin alfa) in patients with CKD is
      one injection three times per week. Although PROCRIT (Epoetin alfa) is approved by the FDA
      for the treatment of certain types of anemia at different dosing schedules, the dosing
      schedules that will be used in this study are investigational in CKD. An investigational use
      is one that is currently not approved by the FDA.

      This is an open-label, randomized (patients are assigned different treatments based on
      chance), multi-center, controlled study of patients with anemia of Chronic Kidney Disease
      (CKD), not on dialysis, who reside in long-term care facilities. Approximately 156 patients
      with CKD, not on dialysis, who have not received an erythropoietin receptor agonist (a drug
      that stimulates red blood cell production) for eight weeks immediately prior to screening
      (Week -1) and who have a hemoglobin (Hb, a measure of the number of red blood cells), less
      than 11 g/dL at screening will be eligible to participate. Patients will be evaluated for
      eligibility during a one-week screening phase. Eligible patients will be randomized in a 3:1
      ratio to a PROCRIT (Epoetin alfa) group or to the control group for a period of 26 weeks.
      Randomization is done through a computer that randomly assigns the subject by chance (like
      rolling dice) to one of two groups (No one can choose the group to which they will be
      assigned.). They will have a 3 to 1 chance of being assigned to Group 1 versus Group 2, which
      means that out of every 4 patients entering the study 3 will receive PROCRIT (Epoetin alfa)
      and 1 will not.

      Group 1 -will receive PROCRIT (Epoetin alfa) 20,000 Units (U) every 2 weeks until the
      hemoglobin reaches 11.0 g/dL or higher and remains at this level for two measurements in a
      row. At Week 6 or thereafter, the 20,000 Unit dose may be adjusted upward or downward as
      required to obtain the two consecutive hemoglobin measurements. Once the two consecutive
      measurements have been achieved, PROCRIT (Epoetin alfa) will be given every 4 weeks (Q4W) at
      double the previous dose to obtain a target hemoglobin of up to 12.0 g/dL. There will be no
      conversion to Q4W before Week 6 or after Week 18. If the hemoglobin drops, patients may go
      back to receiving PROCRIT (Epoetin alfa) every 2-weeks. If the hemoglobin rises above 12.0
      g/dL, patients will not receive another dose of PROCRIT (Epoetin alfa) until the Hg level is
      below 12.0 g/dL. If the hemoglobin rises rapidly, patients will not receive another dose of
      PROCRIT (Epoetin alfa) until the rise is 1 g/dL or less in a 2-week period. The maximum
      amount of PROCRIT (Epoetin alfa) that this group can receive is 60,000 Units over a 4-week
      period. All doses of PROCRIT (Epoetin alfa) are injected under the skin (subcutaneous).

      Group 2 - will not receive any PROCRIT (Epoetin alfa). This group will continue to receive
      the care that they are now receiving from their physician and the physician will review all
      lab results.

      Since a lack of iron could interfere with the ability of patients to make red blood cells,
      patients in both groups will have iron levels checked at the screening visit and during the
      study. Based on the results of iron tests, the study doctor may prescribe an oral (by mouth)
      or intravenous (injection) iron supplement during the study. If the need for iron
      supplementation is determined, patients will receive iron supplementation no matter which
      group they are in.

      Every two weeks a study visit will be performed. At each visit, blood pressure and heart rate
      will be checked, and blood will be drawn for all patients and sent to the central laboratory
      for complete blood count (CBC). The Hb by CBC will be used for efficacy analysis ( to measure
      the effectiveness of the study drug in increasing the hemoglobin level). Hb testing by
      HemoCue will be performed every two weeks on-site for PROCRIT (Epoetin alfa) group patients,
      for the purpose of real-time dosing decisions. (HemoCue is the brand name of a portable
      hemoglobin test that uses a drop of blood to obtain immediate hemoglobin measurements).
      PROCRIT (Epoetin alfa) will be administered at a dose based on the HemoCue Hb measurement.
      Full hematology panel, serum chemistry, and iron status will be assessed at intervals
      throughout the study by a central laboratory. The number of units of packed red blood cells
      (PRBC) transfused, pre-transfusion Hb level, and the reasons for transfusion will be
      collected. Hemoglobin response will also be measured. A patient exhibiting a hemoglobin
      response will have two consecutive Hb measurements at least 1 g/dL greater than baseline any
      time during the study or have two consecutive Hb measurements >= 11.0 g/dL at any time during
      the study. Falls, activities of daily living (ADLs), and mobility will be assessed during the
      study. Clinical laboratory results, blood pressure and heart rate, and the incidence and
      severity of adverse events will be monitored during the study.

      The study hypothesis is that the mean Hb change from baseline to the end of study will be
      significantly higher in the PROCRIT (Epoetin alfa) group over the control group. Group 1
      patients will receive a maximum of 13 doses of PROCRIT (Epoetin alfa) by subcutaneous
      injection (under the skin) for up to 26 weeks. Dosage is based on the hemoglobin measurement
      done at each visit. Doses will be started at an every 2-week interval and may be increased to
      every four weeks. The maximum dose that can be given is 60,000 Units of PROCRIT (Epoetin
      alfa) over a 4-week period. Any PROCRIT (Epoetin alfa) dose over 40,000 Units will be
      administered in two separate injections.
    
  