
    
      Primary PCI, with or without stenting, has been shown to result in superior long-term outcome
      when compared to thrombolytic therapy in patients with acute myocardial infarction (MI).

      Recently, several studies showed that both sirolimus- and paclitaxel-eluting stents are more
      effective in reducing restenosis and the frequency of repeat interventions than bare metal
      stents, which rapidly resulted in an unrestricted use of drug-eluting stents, also in
      patients with ST segment elevation MI (STEMI). , , , Shortly after the introduction of the
      sirolimus-eluting stent in April 2002 the first studies appeared, hypothesizing that the
      therapeutic range of sirolimus-eluting stents could be extended to patients presenting with
      MI. When compared to bare metal stents, sirolimus-eluting stents were associated with less
      restenosis and target vessel revascularization (TVR) up until one year of follow-up. , At
      present, it is unclear whether this also holds for paclitaxel-eluting stents.4,

      Everolimus is a sirolimus analogue, an effective anti-proliferative agent that inhibits
      growth factor-stimulated cell proliferation by causing cell cycle arrest in the late G1 stage
      in the cell cycle.

      The objective of this study is to assess the safety and performance of the Everolimus Eluting
      Coronary Stent System versus a modified cobalt chromium balloon expandable stent in the
      setting of primary percutaneous coronary intervention for treatment of patients presenting
      with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction.

      This study is a prospective, randomized controlled, single blind, two-arm, multi center
      clinical evaluation. A total of 1500 patients will be enrolled in the study.

      The primary endpoint is the combined endpoint of Composite endpoint of all-cause death, any
      myocardial infarction and any revascularization at 1 year (patient oriented endpoint
      suggested by the ARC definitions).

      The following secondary endpoints will be examined:

        -  All cause and cardiac mortality at 1 year and yearly up to 5 years.

        -  Recurrent myocardial infarction at 1 year and yearly up to 5 years.

        -  Target lesion revascularization at 1 year and yearly up to 5 years.

        -  Target vessel revascularization at 1 year and yearly up to 5 years.

        -  Stent thrombosis (according to the new definitions proposed by the Academic Research
           Consortium) at 1 year and yearly up to 5 years.

        -  Clinical device success

        -  Clinical procedure success.

        -  Major and minor bleeding at 1 year and yearly up to 5 years.
    
  