
    
      Integrative medicine (IM) provides a comprehensive approach to care in which healing and
      wellness of the whole person are the foremost goals. IM is not simply complementary and
      alternative medicine (CAM), but it stresses patient-centered, healing-oriented care that
      emphasizes the patient-caregiver relationship.

      Little is known about the health outcomes of patients who present to an IM center and undergo
      a variety of treatment modalities to treat a specific condition. Adequately capturing and
      describing IM patient outcomes is a challenge for many reasons. First, given the whole person
      focus of IM, multiple domains of outcomes must be considered including physical,
      psychological, social, and spiritual. Second, since the patient-centric notion of
      individualized care is seminal to IM, IM outcomes must allow for patient-reported outcomes.
      Finally, the complexity of whole system care creates a natural barrier when measuring IM
      efficacy. Whole systems of care theoretically rely on synergistic and inseparable components
      and conceptualize the patient-practitioner interaction as a key component of care.

      The Bravewell Integrative Medicine Research Network (BraveNet) is a practice-based research
      network of nine leading integrative medicine centers around the U.S. collaborating in
      clinical outcomes research to increase the knowledge and evidence-base of IM. These centers
      may differ in terms of patient population, medical conditions seen, IM services offered, and
      treatment outcomes, but all are committed to the provision of integrative care.

      Preliminary results from an ongoing cross-sectional survey of nine of the BraveNet Outpatient
      Clinics indicate that pain was the leading reason for patient visits. As a precursor to a
      large multi-site clinical trial, this study aims to determine the feasibility of collecting
      outcomes data on integrative treatment for pain. These preliminary data will also provide an
      estimation of effect size for powering the multi-site clinical trial.
    
  