
    
      At Sahlgrenska University Hospital patients with hip fracture are treated from admission to
      discharge in a CGC. To our knowledge no study has been performed within a CGC unit to compare
      rehabilitation programmes during the acute phase after hip fracture with focus on improving
      patients' perceived participation and the effect on patients' function.

      The primary aim was therefore to evaluate a modified programme of coordinated inpatient
      rehabilitation during the acute phase after hip fracture surgery with focus was on patients'
      perceived participation. Secondary aims were to investigate effect on activities of daily
      living, functional balance and confidence and physical performance. A further aim was to
      investigate level of recovery at 1 month follow-up including risk for future falls.

      Method Study design A prospective, controlled, intervention study. Evaluation of in-patient
      rehabilitation with follow-up at 1 month post-discharge.

      Setting and Participants This study was performed in a CGC unit, at Sahlgrenska University
      Hospital in Gothenburg, Sweden comprising three wards, with a total of 78 beds. During
      September 2013 and May 2014, a convenience sample of 126 patients with hip fracture was
      recruited. Patients were admitted to one of the three wards depending on available beds. One
      ward was allocated as the intervention ward and the other two as controls.

      Comprehensive Geriatric Care (CGC) All three geriatric wards follow a structured, systematic
      interdisciplinary geriatric care pathway for hip fracture patients, commencing at admission
      pre-operatively through to discharge. This follows a fast track approach including;
      assessment and management of the patient's somatic and mental health, physical function, ADL
      ability, social situation, early mobilisation/rehabilitation and early discharge planning.
      While orthopaedic surgeons are responsible for surgical fixation of the patients' fracture
      and routine examination of X-rays after the patient has been weight-bearing, patients are
      admitted to and cared for throughout their hospital stay by the interdisciplinary team on the
      geriatric ward.

      Control:Usual Care Treatment The control group received standard rehabilitation from
      occupational therapists (OT) and physiotherapists (PT) (Monday to Friday), planned
      individually and gradually progressed for each patient. Mobilisation with weight-bearing of
      operated hip was initiated within 24 hours after surgery, seven days a week. Patients were
      provided with a booklet with information about the fracture, operation method, exercise
      regime and assistive walking and ADL aid available. Information was collected using
      TLS-BasicADL [26] regarding the patient's previous levels of physical function and ability to
      perform activities of daily living (ADL) and assessment of present ability performed as the
      patient was able. Patients received treatment by a PT on a daily basis (Monday to Friday)
      including mobilisation and progression of their exercise program, the number of times varied
      depending on patients' needs and staff resources. Interdisciplinary team meetings were held
      twice weekly to discuss progress and future planning. For those patients returning to own
      home, an OT prior to discharge, instructed them in the use of ADL aids, and assessed the need
      for aids in the home environment. All patients received both written and verbal information
      regarding prevention of falls prior to discharge.

      Intervention

      Psychological component:

      Enhanced OT and PT collaboration: In addition to standard rehabilitation, focus was placed on
      promoting patient participation through closer collaboration between the OT and PT together
      with the patient. Patients were encouraged to take a more active part in and personal
      responsibility for their training and setting of rehabilitation goals. This involved, the OT
      and PT meeting the patient together within 24 hours postoperatively, they explained their
      roles in the inpatient rehabilitation process as facilitators to guide the patients in their
      recovery process while at the same time it was important that the patient felt involved and
      part of the team.

      Goal setting using TLS-BasicADL: TLS-BasicADL protocol was used as in standard practice,
      however, an additional column for setting goals was added for the purpose of this study.
      Patients were encouraged, using the TLS-BasicADL protocol, to consider activities that were
      important to them to be able to perform at discharge. They were invited to answer the
      following question; "Which activities are important for you to achieve during your inpatient
      care?" The individual goals were followed up and adapted throughout the hospital stay using
      the TLS-BasicADL protocol.

      Supporting patient self-efficacy: To strengthen patient's self-efficacy by challenging their
      fear of falling and encouraging patients' to progress their exercise. This was done under
      supervision of OT and PT with the aim that patients would gain confidence to take increased
      responsibility.

      Physical component:

      Training kit with instructions: To increase activity and encourage patients to take more
      responsibility for their training out with OT and PT treatment sessions, participants were
      provided with a training kit consisting of a sliding sheet and leg band to facilitate
      transfers in/out of the bed, a reaching aid, and stocking aid for training of ADL. Written
      and photographic instructions were included in the kit. All patients were given self-training
      exercises to perform daily to suit their level of dependence, adapted and intensified as the
      patient progressed.

      Enhanced exercise with protocol: More intensive training of transfers, walking, balance and
      P-ADL was offered at least 3 times/day by OT and PT (Monday-Friday) from day 2 after surgery
      compared to control group. OT and PT filled in a training protocol showing when and how often
      patients received treatment. In addition the patients were encouraged to fill in an exercise
      diary.

      Collaboration meetings: Over and above the twice weekly interdisciplinary meetings, the OT
      and PT met on a daily basis to plan daily training schedules to avoid collision. An
      additional meeting was held once a week, to further discuss routines concerning collaboration
      and treatment plans for individual patients. Patients were continually given feedback
      concerning their progress using TLS-BasicADL protocol.

      Patients were asked daily about adverse reactions to treatment such as increased pain or
      fatigue, should this occur, events were documented in the patient records and treatment
      adapted as required.

      Staffing levels and assessors The OT and PT staffing levels were similar on all three wards,
      with approximately 0.12 OT and PT per patient. Staff working on the two control wards were
      informed that the study was in progress, but no information was given regarding the content
      of the intervention, nor did they treat patients included in the intervention. The two OTs
      and three PTs who assessed the patients at discharge and one month were not blinded to the
      intervention but had no treatment association with the study patients.

      Outcome Measures Demographic characteristics Pre-fracture baseline data were collected using
      a specifically designed study questionnaire covering social and living conditions, use of
      walking aids, frequency of outdoor walks with or without company, and level of social home
      service/informal help. Data concerning the fracture and other medical conditions were
      collected from medical records. At discharge, length of hospital stay and discharge
      destination were reported.
    
  