
    
      A prospective multicenter cohort study on all types of revision knee arthroplasty procedures
      performed due to infection.

      Most previous studies investigating outcomes after revisions of infected knee artrplasties
      are single-center studies and retrospective. The study group has previously investigated
      outcome of the surgical treatment of infected knee arthroplasties in Denmark based on
      nationwide data from Danish registries. These studies revealed that the risk of treatment
      failure causing re-revision or mortality was 30-40% in Denmark.

      Based on these findings, an ongoing randomized controlled trial "one-stage versus two-stage
      revisions of the infected knee arthroplasty" (ClinicalTrials.gov ID: NCT03435679) has been
      initiated by the study group in Febuary 2018. It has been possible to include 20% of the
      patients with surgically demanding periprosthetic knee infections from the including centres
      in this randomized trial due to in- and exclusions criteria. Hence, the investigators wish to
      include the remaining patients with periprosthetic knee joint infection in a prospective
      cohort study in order to obtain high quality prospective data on function, quality of life
      and complications after all types of surgical procedures performed due to periprosthetic knee
      joint infection. Based on these data it will be possible to evaluate the surgical treatment
      overall and it will be possible to evaluate whether the patients included in the randomized
      trial are representative.

      Study aim:

      To present patient reported outcome and postoperative complications after all types of
      surgical procedures performed due to periprosthetic knee infection. Furthermore, to analyze
      the role of potential risk factors (patient comorbidity, microbiological diagnosis, surgical
      intervention, antibiotic treatment, duration of symptoms) on outcome of the patients.
    
  