
    
      Objectives:

      --To determine the efficacy of levetiracetam (LVT) for reducing the symptoms of subjects with
      oromandibular dystonia (OMD) or cranial dystonia (CD) as assessed by dystonia rating scales
      and to report all adverse events in this study.

      Sample Size and Population:

      --We plan to recruit 10 subjects with either primary OMD or CD from the Movement Disorders
      and Botulinum Toxin (BoNT) Clinics of HMCS.

      Design:

      --This is a randomized, double-blind placebo controlled cross-over study. All subjects will
      receive a baseline evaluation and have their dystonia assessed by the eyes, mouth, speech and
      swallowing subscores of the Burke-Fahn-Marsden (BFM) dystonia scale, and the eyes and upper
      and lower face, jaw, and tongue subscores of the Global Dystonia Severity (GDS) rating scale.
      They will then be randomized into two groups. Either LVT or placebo with a titration schedule
      up to a total daily dose of 4000 mg will be prescribed for six weeks. After week 6, all
      subjects will undergo tapering and a wash-out period (one week for tapering off and one week
      for the washout). The two groups will then be switched to the opposite intervention (LVT or
      placebo), following the same titration and tapering pattern. We will evaluate both groups at
      weeks 3, 6, 11 and 14 using the same scales. This study requires six outpatient visits to the
      NIH CC; the total duration of this study will be 15 weeks.

      Outcome measurement:

      Primary outcome: The percent change of sum of the eyes, mouth, speech and swallowing
      subscores of BFM dystonia scale at weeks 6 and 14 comparing to the baseline.

      Secondary outcome: The percent change of the sum of the eyes, mouth, speech and swallowing
      subscores of BFM dystonia scale at weeks 3 and 11 and sum of eyes and upper face, lower face
      and jaw and tongue subscores of the GDS rating scale at weeks 3, 6, 11 and 14 comparing to
      baseline and all adverse events.
    
  