
    
      Combination antiretroviral therapy (ART) has significantly improved the immune function of
      HIV infected individuals and has transformed a fatal disease into a chronic infection for
      those with access to ART. Despite suppressing HIV-1 replication, ART is not curative and
      nearly all HIV infected individuals experience viral rebound within weeks or months of
      discontinuing ART. This rebound is because HIV is able to hide in long-lived and
      proliferating CD4+ T cells, a specific type of cell, found in the immune system. The ability
      to hide is referred to as HIV latency.

      One strategy towards eliminating the reservoir of latently infected cells is characterized by
      the use of latency reversing agents (LRA) to reverse HIV-1 latency. This exposes
      virus-expressing cells to the immune system and ART virus-mediated cell lysis or
      immune-mediated killing. Emerging data suggests that HIV-1 is enriched in cells expressing
      certain proteins known as immune checkpoints (IC). Immune checkpoint proteins play an
      important role in the regulation of the immune system. By blocking the immune checkpoint with
      drugs, this approach would allow the immune system to recognize HIV infected cells as foreign
      and thereby attack and kill the cell. Currently, there are licensed antibodies to the
      specific IC known as PD-1 (Programmed cell death protein 1) and CTLA4 (Cytotoxic T-Lymphocyte
      Associated Protein 4). These antibodies are in clinical use for the treatment of a range of
      malignancies.

      Most of what is known about HIV-1 latency, reservoir composition, activation of HIV-1 by LRAs
      and viral enrichment in cells expressing IC in individuals on suppressive ART, is based on
      studies of peripheral blood T cells rather than lymphoid tissue. However, only 10% of the
      body's total CD4+T cell population is circulating at any one time. The rest of the CD4+ T
      cell population resides in the lymph nodes. In addition, cells that express IC are usually
      located in lymph nodes.

      Using CD4+ T-cells from blood and lymph node tissue collected from HIV-infected individuals
      on ART, this study will examine if HIV is located in cell populations that express ICs and if
      blocking IC pathways can boost immune recognition of HIV infected cells.
    
  