
    
      Subjects will have costs for being in this research study. The costs are for the charges for
      the dental surgeon who performs the dental implant surgery. Subjects will have a choice of
      either a College of Dentistry faculty or resident to perform the surgery. The residents are
      dentists who are receiving specialized training in either Oral Surgery or Periodontics.

      If a subject chooses a College of Dentistry Faculty Dentist, the costs are as follows:

      For two implants = $4,650.00 For three implants = $6,600.00

      If you choose a College of Dentistry Resident Dentist, the costs are as follows:

      For two implants = $3,860.00 For three implants = $5,435.00

      The dental implant, abutment and false tooth will be provided to each subject at no cost by
      Astra Tech AB.

      If a subject has dental insurance the cost of the surgeon may be covered by your insurance.
      Potential subjects should check with their insurance carrier regarding coverage prior to
      agreeing to participate in the research study. Any insurance co-payments that are required
      will be a cost to the subject.

      Methods and Materials This will be an open, prospective case-series clinical documentation
      study to document the clinical efficacy of the 4.0mm diameter x 6 mm in length implant (Astra
      Tech Dental Implant, Fixture OsseospeedTM ) in the treatment of subjects missing teeth in the
      posterior maxilla (referred to as a Kennedy class I or class II situation). A minimum of two
      but preferably three implants shall be considered for each surgical site. A total of 20
      subjects fulfilling all inclusion criteria and none of the exclusions criteria will be
      enrolled. Bilateral posterior maxilla treatment can be provided (2-3 implants pre-side) but
      each side must follow the inclusion/exclusion criteria.

      The study will be a five-year follow up study with 15 clinic visits. Interim analyses will be
      performed at 6 months and at 1 and 3 years after loading of the temporary prosthesis.

      The study comprises the following three periods:

      Pre-surgical evaluation and planning (0 weeks to implant surgery) Surgical and prosthetic
      treatment (Surgery to 52 weeks/12 months) Follow-up (12 months to 60 months)

      The screening procedure will include a clinical and radiographic assessment. Pre-existing
      radiographs (e.g. panoramic and intraoral periapical images) can be used but must not be
      older than 6 months. A minimum of 5 mm height (alveolar ridge to sinus floor) is required.
      Diagnostic steps will involve the fabrication of a surgical guide or surgical denture to
      indicate the optimal position of the implants for placement in the posterior upper jaw based
      on the available bone. Preliminary diagnostic impressions will made (Penta, 3M ESPE) and
      poured in dental stone (Whip Mix Corp., Louisville, KY). Implant subjects may have a
      pre-operative Cone Bean CT imaging study made at the College of Dentistry's Department of
      Oral Maxillofacial Radiology at the discretion of the Principal Investigator following
      diagnostic work-up. Subjects shall be either patients of record of the College of Dentistry
      or shall be enrolled if new to the College. Patient records will be electronic along with a
      paper version. Paper-based Case Report Forms (CRF) containing subject's medical information
      will be kept in one central file in a locked cabinet in the Dental Clinical Research Center.
      This data will be kept in a secured file accessible only by the PI and the Clinical
      Coordinator.

      Surgical and prosthetic treatment (Surgery to 52 weeks/12 months) Surgical Intervention: All
      surgical procedures will be performed as outpatient procedures at the College of Dentistry in
      the Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery or in the Department of Periodontics.
      Implant placement will follow a one-stage procedure and will be performed under local
      anesthesia. Prophylactic antibiotic treatment will be given. One hour prior to surgery
      patients will receive the first dose of a 7 - 10 day prophylactic antibiotic treatment
      regimen based on Amoxicillin (500mg TID for 7 days) or if allergic to Amoxicillin,
      Clindamycin (300 mg QID for 7 days). Details of the treatment will be recorded in the
      clinical case report form (CRF).

      Other medication, considered necessary for the patient's welfare, may be given at the
      discretion of the investigator(s). The administration of all such medication will be recorded
      in the patient's notes as per normal practice. In addition, medication that may have a
      negative effect on bone tissue as well as medication to treat any Adverse Event that is
      considered to be probably or possibly treatment-related must also be recorded in the
      appropriate sections of the Case Report Form (CRF).

      Intravenous conscious sedation is allowed. Conscious out-patient sedation will be "titrated
      to effect" for the following medications. The dosages will be varied depending upon the
      subject's age, weight and medical status. Versed (1 to 10 mg.) or Valium (1 to 20 mg.),
      titrated over the duration of the procedure Fentanyl (0.025 to 0.1 mg) or Demerol (25 to 100
      mg), titrated over the duration of the procedure. Phenergan (5 to 25 mg) may be added to
      either of the narcotics to potentate their effect and extend working time. At the discretion
      of the surgeon, oral sedation can be used as an alternative (e.g., Valium 5-20mg).

      Following achievement of sedation, infiltration of local dental anesthetic is performed [2%
      Lidocaine HCL with 1:100,000 epinephrine or 4% Atricaine with Epi 1:100,000] immediately
      prior to surgery. Alternatively, a longer acting local anesthetic [0.5% bupivicaine +
      1:200,000 epinephrine] may be used.

      In general, all subjects will be treatment planned for a minimum of two implants spaced 7 mm
      apart (center-to-center) in anatomic regions which will provide sufficient alveolar width for
      a minimum of 1 mm of bone in all dimensions (minimum of 6 mm ridge width). The objective is
      to place two to three implants in the upper posterior jaw. Implants will be positioned
      typically in the anterior residual ridge (below the nasal floor of the maxillary sinus where
      there is 5 mm or greater than cortical and trabecular bone) and occasionally in the distal
      wall of the maxillary sinus. Extensive autogenous bone grafting and/or sinus lift grafting
      will not be performed in this trial. In cases of bilateral edentulism a minimum of two
      implants will be placed in both locations.

      Besides optimal bone support, providing primary stability, the direction/inclination of the
      implants in the mesiodistal and buccolingual dimensions shall be governed by the requirements
      for a satisfactory final prosthetic function and esthetics.

      Lack of Primary Stability: If an implant does not achieve primary stability, a two stage
      delayed loading period of 3 months will be performed for all implants placed in this subject.

      Use of an osteotome: Localized internal sinus floor elevation with simultaneous implant
      placement using osteotome technique is not allowed in this protocol.

      Cases of sinus perforation will be subjected to standard care of treatment per the
      investigators discretion and treatment details subsequently recorded in the Case Report From.
      The surgeon should aim for full bone coverage of the implant threads. Where threads are
      exposed, augmentation with autogenous bone alone or in combination with Bio-Gide Bilayer
      Membrane can be used.

      Immediately after implant placement (IP) and abutment connection intraoral radiographs of the
      fixtures will be made and primary stability assessed clinically and by Resonance Frequency
      Analysis using the OsstellTM device.

      The Osstell device is an FDA approved hand held resonance frequency transducer that measures
      the relative bone stiffness around dental implants. The device consists of a transducer that
      is connected to the implant or implant abutment and the transducer then applies a small
      harmonic steady state swept waveform and a second transducer then detects the stiffness of
      the implant and surrounding bone. The basis of the transducer is an off set cantilever beam
      (principal of a tuning fork) and the first flexural resonance is then measured. The value of
      the response is then computed and presented on a scale of 1-100 Implant Stability Quotient
      (ISQ) value.

      Implants will be subjected to a 6-week healing period left in a transmucosal position with
      the peri-implant mucosa sutured and closely adapted to the abutments. Subjects will not wear
      a pre-existing removable partial denture over the implant sites during the initial 6 week
      healing period.

      Assessments of implant stability will be evaluated at 6 weeks following placement (Temporary
      Restoration stage or "TR"), TR +4, 8,12, 26 and 52 weeks respectively.

      In cases where primary implant stability cannot be achieved the patient will be treated with
      a conventional two-stage approach (i.e. submerged healing in combination with an extended
      healing period of 3 months before uncovering and loading of the implants). Such patient will
      not be excluded from the study but followed for the full course of the study. During the
      healing period, patients will be recalled at 2, 4 and 6 weeks following placement. To avoid
      overloading of the implants, the patient will not be allowed to wear a removable prosthesis
      over the implants during this period.

      TREATMENT OF FAILING IMPLANTS If an implant is lost (fails), as defined below, the site shall
      be treated in the manner best suited to the well being of the subject. Following implant
      removal and treatment of the site, the implant may be replaced with another implant or the
      site may be allowed to heal for future placement of another implant or the site may be
      allowed to heal without implant replacement. No replacement implants shall be entered into
      this study. Any implant that is showing excessive bone loss (grater than 5mm), such as
      radiolucency or infection, shall be treated in the manner best suited to the well-being of
      the patient, including treatment to save the implant. Treatment may include surgical
      intervention to resolve infection and/or sequestra and may include administration of topical
      or systemic antibiotics. Such events and treatments shall be recorded on the Adverse Event
      form. Implants that are successfully treated shall not be considered treatment failures in
      this study.

      Follow-up (12 months to 60 months) The patient will return for follow-up visits at TR +24,
      36, 48 and 60 months. At all follow-up visits evaluation of soft tissue status and treatment
      related complications will be performed together with intraoral radiographs of the implants.

      Radiographic assessments/measurements Intraoral periapical radiographs of the implants will
      be taken immediately after implant placement, at impression for temporary restoration, at
      visit 7, visit 8 and visit 9 (12, 26 respectively 52 weeks after implant placement) and at
      follow-up visits after 24, 36, 48 and 60 months.

      The following variables will be recorded:

        -  periimplant radiolucency will be recorded as presence or absence of radiolucency.

        -  marginal bone level will be recorded as the vertical distance from the reference point
           to the marginal bone level. The distance will be measured to the nearest 1/10 mm.

      PRIMARY OUTCOMES MEASURES The primary outcome measure in this case series evaluation shall be
      implant loss (removal).

      SECONDARY OUTCOME MEASURE Mobility: A free-standing implant is immobile when tested with
      instrument pressure. Mobility shall not be quantified. Instead, mobility detectable under the
      application of pressure by two opposing instruments to an implant shall be considered an
      indication of failure.

      Stability: Implant resonance frequency analysis as measured on the "Implant Stability
      Quotient" (or ISQ) on a scale of 1-100 will be recorded.

      Radiolucency: A standard conventional dental radiograph does not show evidence of continuous
      peri-implant radiolucency.

      Pain, Infection: A successfully integrated implant is characterized by an absence of
      persistent or irreversible signs and symptoms such as pain and infection.

      Bone height: Vertical bone loss of less than 0.2mm annually following the first year of
      loading.

      Patient Adaptation: Patients are satisfied with the esthetics, phonetics and the function of
      the implant supported crown.
    
  