
    
      Twenty-one million Americans live with osteoarthritis (OA), a progressive joint disease that
      causes stiffness, pain, reduced range of motion, distress, and decrements in physical,
      social, and role functioning. Medical treatments for OA pain are limited and present risks,
      especially for older populations. However, cognitive behavioral pain coping skills
      interventions have proven effective for decreasing OA pain, disability, and distress.
      Unfortunately, existing programs reach a limited number of patients because they require
      patients to travel to receive in-person training. There is a need for interventions that
      address the needs of a larger proportion of the rapidly growing population of people whose
      functioning and quality of life are severely diminished by OA. Delivering proven pain
      management interventions via the Internet is a promising way to address this need, especially
      in light of increasing use of the Internet by older Americans. To be most effective, an
      Internet-based intervention would need to mimic key features of in-person interventions. The
      proposed intervention will do that by translating a proven in-person pain coping skills
      protocol into an interactive Internet-based application that uses multimedia and expert
      systems technology to mimic in-person interventions. It will provide individualized feedback,
      interactive problem solving, and animated demonstrations, and it will incorporate learning
      techniques from Bandura's Social Cognitive Theory, including modeling, mastery experiences,
      and social reinforcement. The project includes two phases, corresponding to two specific
      aims. In Phase I the investigators will translate the in-person intervention for delivery on
      the Internet. This phase will including gathering feedback from patient and expert therapist
      focus groups, which will help refine the program. In Phase II the investigators will conduct
      a small-scale randomized controlled trial that will enable us to examine and refine features
      designed to increase motivation and adherence over the course of the 8-week Internet-based
      intervention. The trial will also enable the investigators to demonstrate its feasibility,
      tolerability, safety, and promise. The investigators hypothesize that the trial will
      demonstrate the effectiveness of the Internet for delivery of this OA pain coping skills
      intervention. Taken together, these activities will prepare the program for testing in a
      full-scale randomized controlled trial in the next stage of this research. The promise of
      this project is enhanced by the multi-disciplinary research team, which has expertise in the
      conduct of cognitive behavioral interventions that teach OA patients to use coping skills to
      manage their pain, developing and implementing individualized computerized feedback reports
      using expert systems technology, and development of engaging, user-friendly, interactive
      computer-based programs for learning and assessment. Relevance: This Internet-based OA pain
      coping skills intervention targets a significant individual and public health problem and
      expands access to an empirically-supported pain self-management program so that it can reach
      a greater proportion of the large and growing population of people suffering from OA pain and
      related disability.
    
  