
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the percentage of patients achieving minimal residual disease (MRD)
      negativity by multiparameter flow cytometry (MPF) after autologous stem cell transplant (SCT)
      (at day 100) using pre-SCT daratumumab consolidation.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine percentage of patients achieving MRD negativity by MPF after 1 year of
      daratumumab+lenalidomide-based maintenance therapy.

      II. To determine progression-free survival (PFS) for peri-SCT treatment with daratumumab.

      III. To determine percentage of MRD negativity by MPF after pre-SCT consolidation with
      daratumumab.

      IV. To determine safety profile of peri-SCT daratumumab with lenalidomide. V. To determine
      the overall response rate (ORR) of patients receiving peri-SCT daratumumab for MM.

      VI. To determine the overall survival (OS) for patients receiving peri-SCT daratumumab for
      MM.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To correlate peripheral blood and bone marrow-based MRD testing using next generation
      sequencing (NGS). II. To correlate the MRD assessment by MPF with that by NGS at all the time
      points pre-specified for blood and bone marrow assessments.

      III. To profile the immune repertoire of MM patients while receiving maintenance treatment
      with daratumumab+lenalidomide.

      IV. Correlate antibody-dependent cellular phagocytosis (ADCP) and antibody-dependent
      cell-mediated cytotoxicity (ADCC) with activity of daratumumab.

      V. To determine daratumumab-induced immune reconstitution of the host through eradication of
      immunosuppressive cellular elements.

      VI. To assess pharmacokinetics (PK) of every 3-month dosing of daratumumab.

      OUTLINE:

      CONSOLIDATION I: Participants receive daratumumab intravenously (IV) on days 1, 8, 15, and
      22. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 2 courses in the absence of disease progression
      or unacceptable toxicity.

      CONSOLIDATION II: Beginning 8 weeks after completion of daratumumab course 2, participants
      undergo autologous stem cell transplant (ASCT).

      MAINTENANCE: Within 14 days after completion of day 100 visit post-SCT, participants receive
      daratumumab IV on day 1 and lenalidomide orally (PO) daily on days 1-21. Treatment repeats
      every 28 days for up to 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Participants who are still maintaining response continue to receive daratumumab IV
      every 3 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up at 30 days and every 3-6
      months for up to 3 years.
    
  