
    
      The number of Alzheimer's Disease (AD) caregivers providing informal care for family members
      is rising dramatically, and supportive programs are vitally needed. Caregivers of AD patients
      have relatively high levels of stress and depression and limited physical activity and social
      engagement. Technology-driven programs can offer engaging, sustainable, and scalable
      opportunities to give caregivers critically-needed supports for health and well- being. This
      pilot study uses cognitive behavioral methods to develop an innovative social exergame to
      increase physical and social activity among AD caregivers. Leveraging wearable activity
      monitors, physical activity data collected throughout the day and in varied settings will
      serve as input to the game experience.

      Caregivers will assess the suitability of an exergame prototype with an array of features
      including (1) instructional exercise modules, (2) activity data visualizations, (3) digital
      rewards for physical activity that can be used to create virtual gardens, and (4)
      opportunities to connect virtually with other caregivers to share and comment on their
      creative products.

      The aim of this study is to evaluate enjoyment of the exergame and its feasibility to
      increase moderate and vigorous physical activity, virtual social contact, and exercise
      self-efficacy. A group of approximately 20 caregivers will test the exergame for six weeks on
      an Android smartphone. The findings will be used to develop larger-scale intervention studies
      to test the efficacy of the exergame in the future. Tailoring an exergame for caregivers of
      AD has the potential to increase physical activity and to improve overall health and
      well-being in this vulnerable population, which in turn can benefit the Alzheimer's patients
      for whom they provide care.

      All participants will be given a fitness tracker to keep after the study, a value of over
      $100! Participants will receive $5 Amazon Gift card each week upon completion of each weekly
      questionnaire. Participants can receive up to a $30 of Amazon Gift card upon completion of
      weekly questionnaire.
    
  