
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the effect of reduced radiation volume using image-guided radiotherapy
           (IGRT) on lymphedema ≥ grade 2, subcutaneous fibrosis, and joint stiffness at 2 years in
           patients with primary soft tissue sarcoma of the extremity.

      Secondary

        -  To estimate the rates of other grade 3-5 adverse events as measured by Common Toxicity
           Criteria for Adverse Effects (CTCAE) v3.0.

        -  To determine the pattern of first failure, including local failure (in-field, marginal,
           and outside-field failure), regional failure, distant failure, and death without disease
           progression.

        -  To estimate the rates of local failure, local-regional failure, distant failure, distant
           disease-free survival, disease-free survival, overall survival, and second primary
           tumor.

        -  To estimate the rate of wound complications.

        -  To correlate the degree of late radiation morbidity (defined as any lymphedema,
           subcutaneous fibrosis, or joint stiffness) at 2 years with scores on the clinical
           measure, Musculoskeletal Tumor Rating Scale (MSTS).

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

        -  Neoadjuvant radiotherapy: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 treatment groups (group 1
           closed to accrual as of 01/08/10).

             -  Group 1 (closed to accrual as of 01/08/10): Patients undergo 3-D conformal
                radiotherapy (3D-CRT) or intensity-modulated therapy (IMRT) once daily, 5 days a
                week, for 4½-5 weeks. Patients also receive up to 6 courses of neoadjuvant,
                adjuvant, concurrent, or interdigitated chemotherapy.

             -  Group 2: Patients undergo 3D-CRT or IMRT once daily, 5 days a week, for 5 weeks.

        -  Surgery: At 4-8 weeks after completion of neoadjuvant radiotherapy, patients undergo
           surgical resection of the tumor. Patients with positive tumor margins (residual tumor)
           undergo intraoperative radiotherapy boost or proceed to adjuvant radiotherapy within 2
           weeks after surgery.

        -  Adjuvant radiotherapy: Patients undergo either external-beam radiotherapy (EBRT) once
           daily for 8 fractions or brachytherapy.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at least every 3 months for 2
      years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then annually thereafter.
    
  