
    
      Pharmacological and exercise interventions aimed to treat osteoporosis are typically examined
      separately. A common pharmacological treatment for osteoporosis involves antiresorptive
      medications, which has been previously shown to blunt the bone response to exercise. Many
      studies have shown that moderate-high intensity progressive resistance training (PRT) and
      impact exercise is required to stimulate bone. There are only two RCT studies that examined
      the effect of progressive resistance training or impact exercise on bone response in
      participants taking antiresorptive medications. One study showed that the combination of
      antiresorptive medications and resistance training did not increase bone mineral density
      (BMD) to a greater extent than medications alone in postmenopausal women. Another study
      demonstrated no additive effect of antiresorptive medications and progressive impact exercise
      on reducing bone turn over markers (BTMs) in postmenopausal women. However, there are
      currently no available studies that examine the effect of both progressive resistance
      training along with impact exercise on the bone response in women taking antiresorptive
      medications. Most exercise studies exclude people taking medications that affect bone, or are
      heterogeneous with respect to antiresorptive medication use. Further, there is little data on
      the safety of moderate-high intensity PRT and impact exercise in individuals at moderate or
      high risk for fracture.

      The bone response to medications and exercise can be measured via the assessment of bone
      biomarkers present in the blood. For instance, sclerostin is a protein secreted by osteocytes
      and it can influence the bone remodeling process by inhibiting bone formation. Human genetic
      disorders deficient in sclerostin, such as sclerosteosis and Van Buchem's disease, have been
      associated with significant increases in bone mass. Therefore, decreasing sclerostin levels
      may be a potential treatment for people with low bone mass conditions. A case-control study
      demonstrated that postmenopausal women who adequately responded to bisphosphonates (e.g., did
      not experience a fracture while on treatment) had significantly lower serum sclerostin
      concentrations than those who experienced a fracture while taking bisphosphonates. There is
      also a link between sclerostin and exercise as a previous cross-sectional study reported an
      association between low serum sclerostin levels and increased physical activity duration. In
      addition, PRT and high impact exercise interventions have been shown to decrease sclerostin
      levels in healthy pre-menopausal women and thus may eventually increase bone mass or prevent
      bone loss. Therefore, changes in serum sclerostin levels can be used to provide insight
      regarding the bone response to antiresorptive medications as well as exercise.

      Investigators plan to conduct a single-blinded parallel-group randomized controlled trial
      (RCT) with 1:1 allocation ratio to determine whether participants with low bone mass are able
      to adhere and safely perform PRT and impact exercises at an intensity that is hypothesized to
      stimulate bone. Specifically, the primary aim will be to determine the effects of
      moderate-high PRT and impact training on sclerostin in women on antiresorptive medication.
      The secondary aims are: a) to explore the effects of moderate-high PRT and impact training on
      BTMs [serum N-terminal procollagen of type I collagen (P1NP), C-terminal cross-linked of type
      I collagen (CTX), parathyroid hormone (PTH), Vitamin D and serum calcium], physical function
      and quality of life and body composition; b) to determine the feasibility of the intervention
      by assessing adherence, participant satisfaction with the intervention, and the acceptability
      of the attention control group; and c) to determine if there are any adverse events,
      including falls, fractures, or other adverse health outcomes attributable to the exercise
      intervention.

      Investigators hypothesize that a moderate-to high PRT and impact exercise program will
      decrease sclerostin levels to a greater extent than the posture and balance exercise program.
      Further, it is hypothesized that PRT and impact exercise will result in more favourable
      improvements in other bone biomarkers, physical function, mobility, quality of life and body
      composition than the control group. Investigators hypothesize a low drop-out rate since both
      groups will be receiving the same level of attention throughout the study. Further, no
      adverse events attributable to exercise are expected. Kinesiologists who are Certified
      Exercise Physiologists will provide coaching on proper form, and will use appropriate
      progression of exercise intensity and volume.

      Sample Size Estimation:

      The sample size estimation was determined using data from a cross-sectional study that
      reported an association between low physical activity duration and high serum sclerostin
      levels. Women who engaged in less than 30 minutes of exercise per week had statistically
      significantly higher serum sclerostin levels than women who engaged in 60-120 minutes of
      physical activity per week (27.84 +/- 4.98 pmol/L vs. 21.64 +/- 6.21 pmol/L; p<0.0001,
      respectively). The study described used a manual ELISA® kit to assess sclerostin which is
      consistent with the current study protocol. Based on the study findings, to detect a
      difference in serum sclerostin of 6.2 pmol/L with a standard deviation of 1.23 pmol/L
      investigators will need 38 participants using an alpha level of 0.05 and a power of 90%.
      Investigators assumed a 20% attrition rate for the current study therefore the estimated
      sample size was increased to 46 participants.

      Analyses:

      The study protocol was prepared according to the Standard Protocol Items: Recommendations for
      Interventional Trial (SPIRIT) guidelines. Reporting will be consistent with Consolidated
      Standards of Reporting Trials (CONSORT) non-pharmacological trials extension. The proposed
      study protocol is summarized. Participant characteristics and outcomes that are considered
      continuous variables will be reported as mean +/- standard deviation or median and
      interquartile range. Categorical data will be reported as number (%). Analyses of the
      feasibility and safety of the exercise intervention will be descriptive. A participant flow
      diagram will be used to demonstrate the number of participants who were randomly assigned to
      each group, who completed the exercise training program and who were analyzed for each
      outcome. For each group, losses or exclusions after randomization will be recorded along with
      reasons. Intention-to-treat analysis will be performed and thus all participants will be
      included in the analysis and analysed according to the group to which they were randomized.
      Differences in outcome measures will be assessed using analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) while
      adjusting for baseline demographic and clinical characteristics (e.g., age, smoking status,
      physical activity level, dietary intake). Investigators will also perform sensitivity
      analysis to determine if participants with ≥80% adherence criteria to the exercise
      intervention experience greater benefits. At the end of the study, investigators will assess
      whether allocation concealment was maintained among the blinded research staff and whether
      participants were aware of the study hypothesis. Statistical significance will be set at p <
      or equal to 0.05. All data analysis will be conducted using the IBM Corporation Statistical
      Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS) version 24.
    
  