
    
      -Study setting: Study is to be conducted in the Conservative Dentistry Department - Cairo
      University.

        -  Interventions:

             1. Preoperative clinical assessment:

                (O.S) will diagnose and select patients according to inclusion and exclusion
                criteria. He will record all base line data with understanding of patients' chief
                complains and aesthetic needs after treatment. Moreover, he will provide guidance
                for patients to prepare for the study.

                  1. (A.H) and (G.Z) will take standard preoperative digital photographs before
                     intervention by modifying mobile camera with smile lite (made in Switzerland)
                     and smile capture 2016 contain 10 adaptors to allow connection between smile
                     lite and the smartphone then photos will be saved in a computer.

                  2. (A.H) and (G.Z) will take color shade using both Vita shade guide and
                     Vita-Easy shade compact.

                  3. .(A.H) and (G.Z) will ask patient for his satisfaction will be taken by visual
                     analogue scale (0-100mm), 0 score refer to not satisfied at all, while 100
                     score refer to totally satisfied.

                  4. (G.Z) and (A.H) will carry out all these tests at baseline, immediately after,
                     6 and 12 months in post-operative follow-up visits.

             2. Pre-operative planning (O.S) will be responsible for randomization according to
                patient selection for the sealed envelope containing which half will receive the
                control and the other will receive the intervention (Split mouth technique).
                Control group will be performed using polychromatic composite layering technique
                .Intervention group will be performed using dual shade composite layering
                technique.

             3. Intraoperative procedure: (G.Z) will do the following procedures:

        -  Silicone matrix will be fabricated either directly in the patient mouth using lingual
           surface of the remaining tooth structure and the existing restorations as a guide ,or
           fabricated on a study cast after optimizing the shape and function of the teeth with a
           wax up.

        -  Teeth preparation: after complete removal of caries a 1.5mm 75° functional- esthetic
           enamel bevel will prepared using 8888 diamond bur ( Brasseler, Savannah, GA, USA) on the
           facial surface, the lingual bevel will be 45° functional bevel, then a coarse disc
           (sof-lex,3M ESPE) will be used to extend the facial bevel where needed interproximally
           and toward the gingival third of the facial surface.

        -  Cleaning the teeth surface with fluoride-free paste(Depurdent, Dr Wild AG) and water.

        -  Teflon tape will placed on the adjacent teeth to prevent there being etched.

      Application of each material is done according to the manufacture instructions:

        -  Application of 32% phosphoric acid (Uni-Etch,Bisco,Schaumburg, IL,USA) to enamel and
           dentine for 15 seconds.

        -  The acid etchant will then rinsed for 30 seconds, excess water will be eliminated and
           dental adhesive ( Adper Single Bond 2, 3M ESPE))will be applied.

        -  The silicon matrix will be seated followed by application of the lingual layer of
           composite( Filtek Supreme Ultra Universal Restorative[3M ESPE]) to form the lingual
           shell and after light curing the first increment the silicone matrix and Teflon tape
           will be removed.

      Dual-shade layering (Intervention):

      Only two composite resin material shades will be used (opaque dentine composite and enamel
      shade composite).

      Polychromatic layering (Control):

      Using and mixing different composite shades, opalescents and intensives.

        -  Finishing and polishing: will be performed using all grates of sof-lex discs (sof-lex,3M
           ESPE) , fine and Extra fine diamond burs (Brasseler), finishing strips, medium and fine
           rubber polishing points( Jiffy Polishers, Ultradent).

           d) Postoperative procedure:

        -  Patient satisfaction: using Visual analogue scale (0-100mm), 0 score refer to not
           satisfied at all, while 100 score refer to totally satisfied.

        -  Digital photographs using digital camera

        -  Color shade using Vita Easy shade:

        -  Clinical evaluation using FDI criteria:

      (A.H) and (G.Z) will record all result outcomes on the following duration: immediately after,
      6 and 12 months in post-operative follow-up visits.
    
  