
    
      Background: Both DSE and DCMR are implemented in the daily diagnostic work-up of patients
      with ischemic heart disease. Although DCMR was previously shown to aid the diagnostic
      classification of patients with suspected CAD with higher sensitivity and accuracy compared
      to that provided by DSE, the value of the 2 techniques for the risk stratification of
      patients with CAD has not been investigated so far.

      Methods: Patients with suspected or known CAD underwent either DSE or DCMR for clinical
      reasons using the same standardised high-dose dobutamine/atropine protocol. Patient matching
      was performed for age, gender and coronary risk factors. Wall motion was assessed at rest and
      during maximum stress, and outcome data including cardiac death and non-fatal myocardial
      infarction (defined as hard cardiac events) and 'late' revascularization performed >90 days
      after the MR-scans were prospectively collected at least 6 months after DSE or DCMR.

      Follow-up Data: Personnel unaware of the stress testing results contacts each subject or an
      immediate family member and the date of this contact was used for calculating the follow-up
      time duration. Outcome data is collected from a standardized questionnaire and determined
      from patient interviews at the outpatient clinic or by telephone interviews. Reported
      clinical events are confirmed by review of the corresponding medical records in our
      electronic Hospital Information System (HIS), contact with the general practitioner,
      referring cardiologist or the treating hospital. Cardiac death and nonfatal myocardial
      infarction are registered as major cardiac events. Cardiac death is defined as death from any
      cardiac cause (lethal arrhythmia, myocardial infarction, or congestive heart failure) or
      sudden unexpected death occurring without another explanation. Myocardial infarction is
      defined by angina of >30 minutes duration and either ST segment elevation of ≥2mm in 2
      consecutive ECG leads or a rise in troponin T of ≥0.03µg/l.

      Other events include clinically indicated coronary arterial revascularization by percutaneous
      coronary angioplasty (PCI) or coronary artery bypass graft (CABG).

      In case of 2 simultaneous cardiac events, the worst event was selected (cardiac
      death>non-fatal myocardial infarction>revascularization).
    
  