
    
      Investigators' long-term goal is to increase the accuracy of doctors' decisions to launch or
      forgo child abuse evaluations in their young, acutely head-injured patients. To this end,
      PediBIRN investigators have derived and validated a 4-variable clinical decision rule (CDR)
      that detects abusive head trauma (AHT) with 96% sensitivity in PICU settings. Applied at PICU
      admission, the CDR categorizes young, acutely head-injured patients as higher risk vs. lower
      risk, and recommends thorough abuse evaluations for all higher risk patients.

      The "CDR Implementation Trial" across eight PICUs will assess the CDR's actual impact on AHT
      screening accuracy. The stratified cluster randomized trial design will facilitate direct
      comparison of child abuse evaluations at four, randomly selected, control sites to four
      matched intervention sites, where investigators will deploy active, multifaceted,
      implementation strategies designed to promote CDR acceptability and application. These
      strategies will include physician training with onsite visits, monthly "booster training
      emails," access to an "AHT probability calculator," audit and site-specific feedback, and
      local "information sharing sessions" designed to address local barriers to CDR acceptance and
      application.

      PediBIRN investigators will conduct the CDR Implementation Trial with three Specific Aims.
      Aim 1 is to assess the CDR's actual impact on AHT screening accuracy. Investigators
      hypothesize that deployment of CDR implementation strategies at the four intervention sites
      will be associated with higher percentages of higher risk patients evaluated thoroughly for
      abuse, and lower percentages of lower risk patients evaluated (even partially) for abuse. Aim
      2 is to identify factors that impact CDR application in PICU settings. Investigators
      hypothesize that PICUs with higher patient volumes, providers with child abuse expertise, and
      providers with more intense exposure to CDR implementation strategies will be predictive of
      higher percentages of higher risk patients thoroughly evaluated for abuse, whereas patients
      of minority race or ethnicity will be predictive of higher percentages of lower risk patients
      evaluated for abuse. Investigators' third Exploratory Aim is to measure the sustained impacts
      of CDR implementation strategies. Investigators hypothesize that CDR utilization at
      intervention sites will be sustained twelve months after CDR implementation strategies have
      been discontinued.

      Based on strong Preliminary Studies, investigators predict that CDR adoption as an AHT
      screening tool will increase AHT detection; reduce overall abuse evaluations and their
      associated risks; reduce unwarranted variation in current AHT screening practices; minimize
      the adverse impacts of doctors' inherent biases, uncertainty, and practice disparities;
      reduce AHT-associated acute health care costs in PICU settings; and save the lives of
      children who will be reinjured and killed if their AHT is missed or unrecognized.
    
  