
    
      The overall aim of this program of research is to develop a collaborative psychotherapy for
      major depressive disorder (MDD) specifically for primary care patients with MDD and comorbid
      chronic low back pain (CLBP). The newly developed intervention will integrate and build on
      behavior therapy for MDD and behavior therapy for chronic pain towards a key target of
      reducing behavioral avoidance. This 4-month collaborative psychotherapy, entitled Program for
      Emotional and Physical Pain (PEPP), will include 1 joint meeting with the behavioral health
      specialist (BHS), primary care provider (PCP), and patient, 10 psychotherapy sessions, and
      continued collaboration between the BHS and the PCP to assure a shared treatment plan.

      The purpose of the proposed project is to establish the feasibility and acceptability of a
      research design for an eventual large-scale randomized clinical trial which would test the
      efficacy of PEPP in comparison to a control condition (depression care management)..

      To achieve the investigators specific aims, the investigators will conduct a pilot randomized
      clinical trial (n = 30), with two treatment arms; PEPP (which includes procedures used in
      care management) or care management. The specific aims are:

        1. To develop and refine PEPP so that it meets standards of feasibility and acceptability
           for primary care physicians (PCPs), behavioral health specialists (BHSs), and
           participants;

             1. To develop, field-test, and finalize a PEPP manual;

             2. To develop a reliable measure of BHS adherence to the manual;

             3. To develop, field-test, and finalize BHS training and supervision procedures;

        2. To field-test and finalize procedures for depression care management;

        3. To establish that the investigators can adequately provide depression care management
           and that it is acceptable in this population;

        4. To develop and refine recruitment methods for an RCT and document an adequate rate of
           recruitment;

        5. To refine research procedures, e.g., consent process, randomization process, and
           assessment procedures, and establish their feasibility and acceptability to
           participants.

      Ultimately, the investigators expect that this treatment development work will prepare us to
      apply for an R01 to conduct a large-scale, adequately powered RCT with the same research
      design as the pilot RCT proposed in this application. Depression will be the primary outcome
      variable assessed in the large-scale RCT; pain will be a secondary outcome variable. In the
      end, the investigators believe this line of work will lead to the incorporation into primary
      care of theoretically-driven and effective mental health treatment for patients with MDD and
      comorbid CLBP. To the best of the investigators knowledge, this would be the first
      empirically-tested psychotherapy protocol that specifically integrates treatment of major
      depression with CLBP.
    
  