
    
      ABSTRACT

      Background: Recent studies show that music therapy helps improve the symptomatic
      manifestations of Parkinson's Disease. Few studies have looked at music therapy as a
      treatment for the psychiatric, cognitive and motor symptoms of patients with Huntington's
      disease (HD).

      Objective: To examine the feasibility and tolerability of a treatment program of music
      therapy for patients with Huntington's disease. Also, to determine if music therapy improves
      the mood and motor features of HD while improving quality of life.

      Methods: Subjects with HD were recruited to participate in a six-week study that included one
      individual, half-hour music therapy session and one hour-long group session per week. The
      music therapy protocols were adapted from the Colorado State University's Neurological Music
      Therapy program and were targeted to HD symptoms including balance and posture, fine motor
      skills, memory and attention, vocalizations, and mood. In particular the protocols included
      Rhythmic Auditory Stimulation (RAS), Pattern Sensory Enhancement (PSE), and Therapeutic
      Instrumental Music Playing (TIMP). Primary outcome of tolerability was to be assessed by the
      subjects' adherence to the therapeutic protocol, attendance, and the results of an exit
      survey inquiring about their feelings toward the use of music therapy in HD. A secondary
      outcome of the study was the change in the Unified Huntington's Disease Rating Scale (UHDRS)
      score between baseline and study completion.

      Results: Five subjects were recruited for study participation (one female and four males).
      Music therapy was found to be a tolerable and feasible treatment for patients with HD (100%
      adherence and 98% attendance). Exit surveys demonstrated strongly positive feelings towards
      the music therapy treatment program in four of the five subjects (one survey was completed
      with contradictory answers by the subject). While there was improvement in UHDRS scores for
      finger tapping, pronation/supination and the Luria, these changes did not achieve statistical
      significance with the small sample size in this study.

      Conclusions: Music therapy was well tolerated among subjects with HD in this small study.
      Future studies are now being planned to look at the efficacy of this intervention in a larger
      population of HD subjects.
    
  