
    
      Acute cardiac and vascular events, including sudden cardiac death, myocardial infarction, and
      stroke manifest a clear surge in the early morning hours around the time of waking, so that
      their peak onset is between 6 AM and 11AM. The mechanisms for this morning increase in acute
      cardiovascular events are not fully understood. Factors such as arousal from sleep, increased
      sympathetic drive, increased vasoconstrictor sensitivity and impaired endothelial function
      have been implicated.

      We recently described the occurrence of early morning endothelial dysfunction, with blunted
      flow-mediated arterial dilatation in the early hours after waking. Our preliminary data
      suggest that this early morning endothelial dysfunction is likely due to an increased plasma
      levels of L-arginine endogenous inhibitor, ADMA and reducted plasma L-arginine levels, with
      consequent reduced availability of NO in the morning. The early morning fall in NOx levels
      can be potentiated by fasting and attenuated by a low-nitrate, protein rich breakfast.
      Because the production of NO depends in part on the availability of L-arginine, methods to
      maintain an adequate level of plasma L-arginine in the early morning are needed. We propose
      to assess the efficacy of high doses of L-arginine in preventing early morning endothelial
      dysfunction.

      The primary aim is to examine the effects of high doses of L-arginine on morning changes in
      nitric oxide and endothelial function. Our hypotheses are:

      1. That L-arginine administered orally prior to sleep will prevent the early morning decline
      in plasma levels of L-arginine and nitric oxide; 2. That L-arginine administered prior to
      sleep will attenuate or prevent the early morning decline in endothelial function; and 3.
      That the effects of L-arginine, taken prior to sleep, on plasma levels of L-arginine and
      nitric oxide and on endothelial function will be more marked with 15 grams of L-arginine
      versus 5 grams of L-arginine or placebo, indicative of a dose response effect.

      Our secondary aim is to identify the short-term tolerability and safety of two different
      doses of L-arginine. Our hypothesis is that subjects taking high doses of L-arginine (15
      grams) will not have significant symptoms or adverse changes in vital signs.
    
  