
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the overall response rate (complete remission, complete remission
           undetermined, and partial remission) in HIV-negative or HIV-positive patients with newly
           diagnosed Burkitt's or Burkitt-like lymphoma treated with doxorubicin hydrochloride
           liposome and rituximab as part of the Magrath regimen.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the complete remission rate in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine progression-free and overall survival at 2 years in patients treated with this
           regimen.

        -  Determine the safety of adding rituximab to the standard Magrath regimen in these
           patients.

        -  Determine the safety of using doxorubicin hydrochloride liposome in place of doxorubicin
           hydrochloride in these patients.

        -  Determine correlative levels of rituximab and doxorubicin hydrochloride liposome in
           cerebrospinal fluid and peripheral blood.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to risk category (low
      risk vs high risk). Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 treatment regimens according to stratum.

        -  Regimen A (low-risk disease with no CNS involvement): Patients receive R-CODOX-M
           chemotherapy comprising rituximab IV over 2-4 hours on days 0 and 8; doxorubicin
           hydrochloride liposome IV over 30 minutes on day 1; vincristine IV on days 1 and 8;
           cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on days 1-5; and high-dose methotrexate (MTX) IV over 24
           hours on day 10. Patients also receive leucovorin calcium IV beginning 36 hours after
           the start of MTX infusion and continuing every 6 hours until blood levels of MTX are
           safe. Patients also receive filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SC) once daily on days
           4-8 in courses 1 and 3 and on days 6 and 7 in course 2. Beginning on day 12, daily G-CSF
           dosing resumes until blood counts recover. Patients receive CNS prophylaxis comprising
           cytarabine intrathecally (IT) on day 1 and MTX IT on day 3. Treatment repeats every 28
           days for 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Regimen B (high-risk disease with or without CNS involvement): Patients receive
           R-CODOX-M chemotherapy with leucovorin calcium and G-CSF support as in regimen A for
           courses 1 and 3 and R-IVAC chemotherapy with leucovorin calcium and G-CSF support (as
           below) for courses 2 and 4. R-IVAC chemotherapy comprises high-dose ifosfamide IV over 3
           hours and etoposide IV over 1 hour on days 1-5; cytarabine IV over 3 hours twice daily
           on days 2 and 3; and rituximab IV over 2-4 hours on day 0 and on day 6 or 7. Patients
           also receive leucovorin calcium orally every 6 hours on day 6 and G-CSF SC once daily
           beginning on day 6 or 7 and continuing until blood counts recover. Patients without CNS
           involvement receive CNS prophylaxis comprising cytarabine IT on days 1 and 3 and MTX IT
           on day 15 in courses 1 and 3 and MTX IT alone on day 5 in courses 2 and 4. Patients with
           proven CNS involvement at diagnosis receive cytarabine IT on days 1, 3, and 5 in course
           1, on days 7 and 9 in course 2, and on days 1 and 3 in course 3. These patients also
           receive MTX IT on days 15 and 17 in course 1, on day 5 in courses 2 and 4, and on day 15
           in course 3. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 4 courses in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      The first 10 patients enrolled on the study undergo cerebrospinal fluid and blood collection
      during courses 1 and 3 for correlative biological marker and pharmacological studies.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 30 days and then periodically
      for up to 3 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 25 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  