
    
      During Covid pandemic the Canniesburn Plastic Surgery Unit has stopped face to face clinics.
      The investigators therefore aim to assess current telemedicine options from a clinician
      viewpoint.

      Why is the 3D telemedicine study important during Covid 19?

        1. Augment not replace current telemedicine capabilities. 3D telemedicine system would be
           transformative - much of Plastic Surgery work is 3 dimensional e.g. burns contractures,
           cleft lip. A 3D system may therefore give clinicians a more 'realistic' and accurate
           representation of patient interaction.

        2. Reduce viral load in clinic. This will reduce face to face contact. High viral load
           transmission (eg in the confines of an all day clinic) may be associated with higher
           risk of healthcare worker mortality.

        3. Facilitate remote therapies and improve patient outcomes. Current 2D telemedicine (e.g.
           Attend Anywhere) is limited in the ability to remotely guide patient therapies - the
           therapist cannot guide the camera or look at specific areas of interest. With 3D
           telemedicine the therapist can 'walk around' the patient as if the patient were
           co-present, and look at areas of interest with ease.

        4. Measurements of angles/other clinical measurements. For example, after a burns
           contracture or hand trauma a clinician may want to measure the angles at the wrist joint
           to see if there is any improvement. This cannot be done accurately with 2D telemedicine.
           3D telemedicine may facilitate the measurement of angles and assess outcomes but this is
           unknown.

      Method Randomised Controlled Trial. Single blinded (participants blinded - unaware of type of
      telemedicine, clinicians unblinded - aware of type of telemedicine)

      Study setting and Participants:

      The study will review clinician's assessments of telemedicine and clinical assessment of
      patients using telemedicine. These will consist of the plastic surgery patients selected from
      general plastic surgery clinic including patients with breast reconstruction, sarcoma, limb
      reconstruction, head & neck reconstruction, flap reconstruction, hand trauma and cleft lip,
      and will be known to the research team. The assessment is of the telemedicine system by the
      clinician only. There will be two sites, the 'remote' site where the patient attends, and the
      'central' site where the clinician reviews the patient. Remote site will be at West Glasgow
      Ambulatory Care Hospital (Covid free site) and the central location will be Glasgow Royal
      Infirmary.

      Outcomes The investigators aim to answer the question "How does 3D telemedicine compare to 2D
      telemedicine?"

      Primary outcomes:

      Mental Effort Rating Scale, University Hospital of North Norway (UNN) scales, Telehealth
      Usability Questionnaire (TUQ)

      Secondary outcomes:

      Subjective feedback with transcribing, coding and thematic analysis. Measurements (where
      applicable e.g. angles of contracture in hand) Outcome scoring scales (where applicable e.g.
      validated Unilateral Cleft Score Surgical Outcomes Evaluation Scale - UCLSOE).

      Study Methods:

      Sample Size The pilot/feasibility study will generate data for sample size calculation. No
      data exist for sample size calculations of 3D versus 2D telemedicine.

      Randomisation Block randomisation. Patient randomised to 2D or 3D telemedicine first.

      Patient assessment with Telemedicine The patient is examined with the randomly allocated type
      of telemedicine and the duration of consultation recorded. The telemedicine room is the same
      for both 2D and 3D telemedicine, and uses the same equipment. After the consultation the
      patient does not require further participation

      Clinician Feedback The clinician fills in a questionnaire assessment of the type of
      telemedicine used.

      Clinician records measurements where applicable Clinician records outcome scoring scales
      where applicable

      Primary outcomes UNN questionnaire Mental Effort Rating Scale

      Secondary outcomes Telehealth Usability Questionnaire Subjective interview Patient
      measurements (where applicable) Patient outcome scales (where applicable)
    
  