
    
      The investigators are planning to conduct a pilot descriptive study involving Foothill
      Medical Centre (FMC), Calgary. Research ethics approval will be obtained. The trial will also
      be registered at clinicaltrials.gov

      The sessions will take place at the labor and delivery floor (L&D) simulation lab at FMC. The
      proposed time for study completion is 18 months. No follow up is required for this study. The
      data will be collected by one of the investigators (Dr. Fatemah Qasem). In addition, the
      participants performance will be video recorded for further data collection and revision by
      the investigator team.

      On the day of the simulation session, the participants will be pre-briefed to the simulation
      room, mannequin, and the equipment but will be naïve to the simulation scenario. The
      simulation scenario will involve amniotic fluid embolism (AFE) in a term pregnant parturient
      with singleton pregnancy. The patient will have a working epidural catheter in situ for labor
      analgesia and an 18G IV line. The parturient will develop cardiopulmonary collapse due to AFE
      requiring ACLS.

      The scenario will be scripted by investigator team members. The same scenario will be used at
      both centers (FMC and RGH). The script will include the initial clinical vignette; vital
      signs; patient weight; laboratory values; planned changes in clinical status, including what
      and when decompensations should occur (eg, 4 minutes into scenario, the patient will progress
      to pulseless VT); and planned responses to actions by participants. Time 0 will be referred
      to the onset of the decompensation. For maintaining realism, little interaction will occur
      between participants and evaluators. If no one remembers to call the code team, then the
      emergency is managed with only L&D staff. Although the primary focus of this study is to
      assess the quality of resuscitation delivered by first responders before the code team's
      arrival, the exercise will also allow to assess the resuscitation skills of obstetric care
      unit team. The scenario will end at skin incision for delivery of the fetus. Thirty minutes
      will be used for debriefing time as part of the hospital staff education. Data collected
      during the debriefing, and discussion points will used for quality improvement purposes and
      will not be used as part of the study results.
    
  