
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the progression-free survival at 12 and 24 weeks for bevacizumab alone or in
      combination with TRC105 (anti-endoglin monoclonal antibody TRC105).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Toxicity and Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) response rate for the
      combination compared to single agent bevacizumab.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate tumor tissue expression of endoglin (CD105), transforming growth factor, beta
      receptor II (TGFBR2), activin A receptor type II-like 1 (ACVRL1) and transforming growth
      factor, beta receptor 1 (TGFBR1) kinase from pre- and post-treatment tissue samples in order
      to determine whether CD105 and stem cell activation occurs after exposure to anti-vascular
      endothelial growth factor (VEGF) therapy as predicted by laboratory models, and whether
      exposure to anti-endoglin monoclonal antibody TRC105 affects these changes.

      II. To compare the soluble CD105 levels at baseline and after treatment between the group
      receiving bevacizumab alone and the group receiving bevacizumab in combination with
      anti-endoglin monoclonal antibody TRC105.

      III. To compare TGFBR2 levels at baseline and after treatment between the group receiving
      bevacizumab alone and the group receiving bevacizumab in combination with anti-endoglin
      monoclonal antibody TRC105.

      IV. To evaluate whether circulating tumor cells (CTCs) can be detected in this patient
      population using parylene membrane filter technology, and whether changes in CTC counts and
      CD105 expression on CTCs during therapy correspond to imaging and clinical response.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive bevacizumab intravenously (IV) over 30-90 minutes on days 1 and 15.

      ARM II: Patients receive bevacizumab as in Arm I and anti-endoglin monoclonal antibody TRC105
      IV over 1-4 hours on days 1, 8, 15, and 22.

      In both arms, treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 12 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up for 4 weeks.
    
  