
    
      Health care and social service providers from disaster-affected communities are at heightened
      risk for emotional distress symptoms immediately after the event and over the longer-term
      recovery period. They provide care to others both physically and emotionally, while at the
      same time are often in the process of recovery and rebuilding their own lives. Health care
      providers, particularly those who work in safety net health centers, often serve high-need
      communities where incomes are lower, health issues are elevated, and health care is scarce.

      Given the high risk for emotional distress symptoms for healthcare workers after a disaster,
      it is critical to offer services to help ease the stress during the hurricane recovery. This
      evaluation will examine the impact of Americares mental health and psychosocial (MHPS)
      programming on care providers in the short- and longterm recovery. The purpose of this
      evaluation is to understand the impact of mental health and psychosocial support (MHPS)
      programming that AmeriCares (a non-profit disaster response organization) is currently
      providing to healthcare and social service providers in Southeast Texas and Puerto Rico. The
      MHPS services are designed to provide skills to reduce stress, improve coping and reduce
      symptoms of burnout (compassion fatigue).

      The study included naturalistic groups that will receive services from Americares based on
      the agencies needs.

      They will include:

        1. A waitlisted control group who will receive services within 3-months after the study
           begins

        2. A group who will receive one specific workshop, known as RCHC (Resilience and Coping for
           the Healthcare Community)

        3. A group who will receive RCHC plus additional services (RCHC+)

      The 3-hour RCHC intervention draws from existing literature and theory on effective
      psychosocial interventions and integrates the following components:

        -  An open interactive learning environment

        -  A safe environment for open communication

        -  Education and strategies to support highly stressed and/or traumatized patients.

        -  Psycho-education about stress and coping

        -  Planning for coping strategies

        -  Identification and referral to mental health resources The additional services will
           include wellness groups and psychoeducational training. The wellness groups include a
           variety of topics, designed to promote healthy living and empowerment. Each one-hour
           group will be facilitated by Americares staff and tailored to particular needs of the
           group. Topics may include but not limited to: Grief and loss, Stress management,
           Workplace wellness, Navigating support systems. The psychoeducational trainings provide
           healthcare workers with educational resources to support their patients in the aftermath
           of Harvey and recognize and respond to stress reactions. Training topics include:
           Psychological First Aid for Adults, Psychological First Aid for Children, The Brain, the
           Body and Trauma, Coping with Difficult Workplace Situations.
    
  