
    
      This study is being conducted to determine whether a novel training approach (variable load
      exercise) is an effective countermeasure to attenuate for rapid declines in muscle power,
      function, contractile capacity and fiber type distribution that typically originate from
      aging and muscle disuse.

      The present study is planned over a 24-month investigation period, including ethics
      application write-up, equipment calibration, participant recruitment, general health
      examination, familiarization trails, pilot study, data collection in the main portion of the
      study, data analysis and paper write-up for peer-review journal.Collaboration with Institute
      for Kinesiology Research of Koper (a municipality in Slovenia), University of Split,
      University of Udine and Padua is planned. In addition, recruitment of students of Applied
      Kinesiology at University of Primorska, to collaborate on data collection so they could use
      data acquired to write their final papers or master thesis is also planned.

      After obtaining ethical approval, seniors will be recruited from the Primorska region in
      Slovenia, via presentations in Daily Activity Centers, social medial and local newspaper.
      Exclusion and inclusion criteria will be applied as outlined in the next paragraph and those
      applicants remaining will be randomized into different groups. Data collection will be
      carried out on eight separate occasions, including familiarization, pilot testing, main
      portion of the study and follow up data collection, in a randomized counter balance crossover
      fashion. Following familiarization and pilot study all participants will be randomly assigned
      to either (I) RT or (II) variable load exercise (VLE) before a crossover of experimental
      protocols is executed, after a minimum washout period (2x times the duration of experimental
      protocol) and a follow-up measurement will take place two weeks after experimental protocols
      are completed. Each participant will be allocated into RT or VLE with pre/post measurements
      preceding each condition, for eight consecutive weeks following a structured linear
      periodization model, previously used in healthy older adults (Colon et al., 2017). In total
      of 2 weeks of familiarization period (to ensure reliability of assessment and avoid learning
      effects), 4 weeks of pilot study (comparing old and young participants) 16 weeks of different
      training protocols (RT and VLE, plus 4 weeks of washout period) accompanied with follow-up
      measurements two weeks after completing training protocols, since training effects are in
      general dose-dependent and their effects are reversible. Lastly, testing procedures will be
      conducted at the same facility, by the same researchers using the same equipment at the
      similar time of the day across the investigation.

      The selection of participants will consist of both male and female adults established on a
      purely voluntary basis. We will follow a strict inclusion and exclusion criteria (in brief):

        1. Inclusion criteria: (Signed informed consent and doctor's permission; Age >50 years)

        2. Exclusion criteria: (Any cardiovascular disease or ECG examination abnormalities (at
           rest and under load); hypertension (resting BP > 140/90 mm Hg); previous history of
           musculoskeletal and neurological disorder/injury; previous history of neurological
           disorders; supplement or drug consumption that may interfere with training outcomes;
           alcohol consumption and smoking; BMI >30 kg/m2).

      The risks and benefits will be outlined to each participant before inclusion into the study.
      Risks include potential transient discomfort from the venipuncture blood sampling and muscle
      soreness originating from experimental training protocols. The participants will get valuable
      information on how their muscles adapt following systematic training protocols.

      Experimental Protocol (Total experimental time: ~120 min for all trails, pre/post data
      collection):

        1. Arrival to laboratory, anthropometric characteristics assessment; resting BP measurement

        2. Rest, supine 30 min; complete blood sampling to measure inflammation response;

        3. Perform non-invasive muscle composition assessment with Tensiomyography (TMG) of lower
           limbs;

        4. Perform high density surface electromyography (HD EMG) of vastus lateralis and medialis
           muscles;

        5. Perform muscle architecture assessment by ultrasound imaging;

        6. Perform muscle voluntary contractions using dynamometry .

        7. Energy cost of locomotion assessment

      In order to increase the accuracy of the results of the study, all individuals will
      participate in a two session familiarization period before the study began. The subjects were
      asked to withdraw from intense physical activity two days prior to baseline assessment. All
      assessments will be performed in a closed and ventilated facility, with a temperature range
      of 18-22 C during the morning, and by the same researchers.

      Intervention: To determine the optimal load during a single training session of multiple
      joint squat exercise by using the flywheel (FW) device
      (http://nhance.se/products/nhance-squat-ultimate/). A large number of papers were published
      in this area demonstrating that this sort of eccentric muscle overload is beneficial in terms
      of muscle power gains, balance improvements, contractile capacity, early architecture changes
      etc., in aging population. The key advantage of this sort of exercise (compared to classical
      RT) is that this device is equipped with three different wheels, providing different inertia
      (load), corresponding to 0.025, 0.05, 0.1 kg m2. Even more, this device offers an actual
      power output feedback (in Watts) in real-time. Thus, this allows us to benchmark a certain
      threshold where actual changes in both neuromuscular and cardiovascular system(s) occur (in
      case of continuous BP monitoring, of course) occur.

      The originality of the expected results - A large number of recently published papers were
      looking at different modalities of RT with constant loads, different periodization models and
      their effects on muscle recovery in this specific population. However, their findings clearly
      showed that regardless of RT training or different training periodization strategies type II
      muscle fibers kept declining with muscle disuse and aging. Thus, one could speculate that
      sudden mechanical overload approach (or variable iso-inertial load) will be a viable tool to
      tackle muscle power and function loss via additional type II muscle fibers recruitment
      patterns. In addition, the present study aims to determine whether some specific blood
      markers (like agrin) could detect neuromuscular junction alterations following these
      experimental protocols.
    
  