
    
      Study design:

      This is a retrospective observational "real life" single-centre study.

      Materials and methods:

      Medical records of all IBD patients who continued maintenance treatment with infliximab being
      in clinical remission after one year of scheduled therapy (standard induction and maintenance
      dose) will be considered eligible for this study.

      Demographic, clinical, laboratory and endoscopic data and adverse events will be reported in
      a database. In particular, data available for each patient will concern:

        -  age,

        -  sex,

        -  smoker status,

        -  Montreal classification,

        -  disease duration,

        -  activity of disease,

        -  previous surgery,

        -  concomitant arthritis,

        -  concomitant corticosteroids,

        -  previous or concomitant immunosuppressives,

        -  eventual infliximab dose escalation,

        -  total number of infliximab infusions,

        -  reason of eventual infliximab discontinuation,

        -  time on infliximab therapy,

        -  total follow-up since the first infliximab infusion,

        -  IBD related surgeries,

        -  endoscopic data within the first year and beyond up to infliximab discontinuation time,

        -  laboratory data (C-reactive protein and hemoglobin levels),

        -  adverse events.

      Clinical remission will be evaluated using the Harvey-Bradshaw Index (HBI) in Crohn's
      patients (HBI ≤ 4) and the partial Mayo score in UC patients (<2 with rectal bleeding
      subscore = 0).

      Sustained clinical remission will be defined as a HBI ≤ 4 or partial Mayo score < 2 (with
      rectal bleeding = 0) after 54 weeks from baseline.

      At the baseline of the study all patients should have already received one year of infliximab
      scheduled treatment and should be in clinical remission (as defined above).

      Primary endpoint will be evaluated at week 54 from baseline (after 2 overall years of
      treatment) and then every year during the follow-up.

      Secondary endpoints will be evaluated considering all available data at the end of follow-up.

      Number of patients:

      232 IBD (131 CD, 101 UC)

      Procedures:

      All IBD patients treated for at least one year with infliximab because of active luminal
      Crohn's disease and active ulcerative colitis will be included in this study.

      Infliximab administration has been done according to SPC. Due to retrospective and
      observational pattern of the study, clinical management of patients depended on practice in
      our IBD unit. In particular, patients were clinically evaluated by visits at every infusion
      of infliximab. Also laboratory tests were periodically repeated (every two months).

      No therapeutic changes were made in consideration of the present study. The indications to
      start infliximab treatment corresponded to those reported in international guidelines.

      This study will be conducted in accordance with the ethical principles that have their origin
      in the Declaration of Helsinki and will be consistent with International Conference on
      Harmonization Good Clinical Practice (ICH GCP), Good Epidemiological Practices(GEP) and
      applicable regulatory requirements taking into account that this is an observational,
      non-interventional trial.

      Statistical analysis:

      Data will be described using medians with interquartile range (IQR) for continuous data and
      percentages for discrete data.

      Kaplan-Maier survival curves will be performed to reveal the variables that may influence
      primary and secondary endpoints.

      To compare hazard rates in populations defined by one variate at a time, Cox proportional
      hazard analysis will, then, be performed with the aim to identify predictors of maintenance
      of remission while on IFX treatment and after IFX discontinuation, and predictors of loss of
      response during scheduled maintenance therapy with IFX.

      Principal variables used for the statistical evaluation will include: sex, age at diagnosis,
      disease duration, smoking status, previous surgery, disease location, disease extension,
      concomitant arthritis, endoscopic activity (mucosal healing), CRP and hemoglobin levels,
      previous immunomodulators, concomitant immunomodulators, need for dose escalation.
    
  