
    
      Endometriosis affects 15-20% of women in their reproductive life. Endometriosis is a chronic
      disabling inflammatory disease, characterized by implantation and growth of endometrial
      tissue (glandular epithelium and stroma) outside the uterine cavity.

      Retrograde menstruation was found in 80%-90% of women. In most women these endometrial cells
      undergo apoptosis. In patients suffering from endometriosis this cells induce an inflammatory
      response. Pelvic endometriosis is associated with intrinsic anomalies of the refluxed
      endometrium, increased secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines, neoangiogenesis, and impaired
      function of cell-mediated natural immunity.

      Endometriosis has also been considered to be an autoimmune disease, owing to the presence of
      auto antibodies, the association with other autoimmune diseases and recurrent immune-mediated
      abortion.

      Evidence suggests that Foxp3-expressing CD4+CD25+ regulatory T cells play a crucial role in
      the suppression of inflammatory disease. However, their role in the suppression of
      endometriosis has not yet been addressed.

      We aim to study this aberrant regulation of endometrial cell apoptosis by investigating the
      peripheral blood immune system of patients suffering from endometriosis.

      Hypothesis:

      We hypothesized that immune peripheral mononuclear cells of patients suffering from pelvic
      endometriosis react differently to eutopic endometrial cells than matched control women
      group. This difference could be study on a molecular, antigenic and/or apoptotic cycle gene
      expression. We also hypothesized that a deficiency of regulatory T cells is associated with
      the progression of endometriosis.

      Study design:

      This is an open labeled prospective in vitro study for two years.

      Patients:

      50 Patients suffering from endometriosis undergoing laparoscopy will be compared to 50
      patients undergoing laparoscopy for other reasons.

      Methods:

      1. Blood withdrawal and pipelle endometrial cells harvesting 2. Isolation of peripheral blood
      mononuclear cells (PBMC) 3. Generation of T cell lines (from patients) 4. Measurement of
      cytokines 5. Determination of T- cell subsets by flow cytometry 5. PMNC and T cell lines will
      be frozen in liquid nitrogen and stored at-70C for future studies.

      6. Endometrial tissue will be served ad antigenic source to generated T cell lines and the
      remnants will be stored at-70C for future studies.
    
  