
    
      Intraductal carcinoma of the breast accounts for 20% of newly diagnosed breast cancer. In
      addition to necessary surgical treatment, 5-year endocrine therapy is also essential for
      patients with hormone receptor positive ductal carcinoma of the breast. Commonly used drugs
      include selective estrogen receptor modulators (Tamoxifen, Toremifene) and aromatase
      inhibitors (Exemestane, Anastrozole, Letrozole). Although these drugs can effectively reduce
      the recurrence and metastasis of ductal carcinoma of the breast, the adverse reactions of the
      above drugs significantly reduce the quality of life and treatment compliance of the
      patients. Therefore, the choice of endocrine therapy for intraductal carcinoma of the breast
      has been widely discussed. Is it possible for de-escalation of endocrine treatment intensity
      to reduce adverse reactions and improve patient compliance? Recently, a phase 3 clinical
      trial found that compared with placebo group, the adverse reactions of Tamoxifen group
      treated with 5 mg/d (conventional dose 20 mg/d) Tamoxifen for 3 years had less adverse
      reactions and achieved significant efficacy. This study revealed the reliable efficacy and
      safety of Tamoxifen, a low-dose drug for treatment of hormone receptor positive intraductal
      carcinoma of the breast. However, little is reported on the reasonable duration of Aromatase
      inhibitors for endocrine therapy in patients with intraductal carcinoma of the breast.

      This study will investigate the relationship between the endocrine therapy and the survival
      of patients with hormone receptor positive intraductal carcinoma of the breast, and the
      optimal duration of medication. This study will also analyze the risk factors of recurrence
      and metastasis of hormone receptor positive intraductal carcinoma of the breast and establish
      a prognosis model to further clarify the specific reasons for recurrence and metastasis,
      adverse reactions, and drug withdrawal in patients with hormone receptor positive intraductal
      carcinoma of the breast after endocrine therapy.
    
  