
    
      OBJECTIVE

      Electroencephalography is generally considered the gold standard for defining sleep, but, in
      fact, sleep is a behavior and is defined by widely accepted behavioral characteristics like
      auditory arousal threshold. Electroencephalography merely became a surrogate for the
      behavioral definition when, in the first electroencephalographic sleep studies, researchers
      discovered a strong correlation between electroencephalographic slow waves and auditory
      arousal thresholds. With the advent of functional magnetic resonance imaging, one would
      expect the first sleep studies that used this new measure would have been designed to
      correlate it with auditory arousal threshold. However, these studies have never been
      conducted. This protocol will fill this gap in the literature. We hypothesize that
      undiscovered patterns of brain activity or functional connectivity exist during sleep and
      that an approach that defines sleep behaviorally will expose these patterns.

      STUDY POPULATION

      The subject group in this study will be young, healthy individuals with excellent sleep
      health. Choosing this subject group will maximize the probability that subjects will sleep
      during all-night functional magnetic resonance imaging. Our target number of completers was
      12 for the pilot study and is 43 for the main study.

      DESIGN

      After a one-week home-monitoring period that includes a regular in-to-bed and out-of bed
      time, subjects will undergo two all-night functional magnetic resonance imaging sleep studies
      separated by a one-week washout period with continued home

      monitoring.. The first night will serve as an adaptation night, which is known to reduce the
      sleep alterations that accompany sleeping in a laboratory environment. We will measure sleep
      depth behaviorally by arousing subjects with auditory stimuli that progressively increase in
      intensity. This procedure will be performed approximately eight times per night. The timing
      of the arousals will be distributed randomly across the night.

      DATA GENERATED

      The data generated will be auditory arousal thresholds and the preceding brain activity and
      functional connectivity derived from functional magnetic resonance imaging.
    
  