
    
      Specific Aim 1: To characterize the function of basic neural systems involved in emotion
      perception and regulation in TRD.

        -  Experiment 1.1: Neural responses to emotional faces in TRD (neutral, low and high
           intensity sad facial expressions).

           o Hypothesis 1.1: Patients with TRD, relative to HC participants, will evidence
           increased activation in the amygdala/parahippocampal gyrus to sad compared to neutral
           faces.

        -  Experiment 1.2: Neural responses during negative emotion regulation in TRD (cognitive
           reappraisal).

             -  Hypothesis 1.2: Patients with TRD, relative to HC participants, will show enhanced
                activation of the amygdala during the generation of negative affect and will be
                impaired in their ability to recruit PFC/ACC regions during attempts to
                down-regulate negative affect.

      Specific Aim 2: To characterize changes in emotion-processing neural networks associated with
      ketamine and rapid antidepressant response.

        -  Experiment 2.1: Neural changes in response to emotional faces associated with ketamine
           and rapid antidepressant response.

           o Hypothesis 2.1a: Ketamine, compared to midazolam, will be associated with reduced
           activation in the amygdala to sad compared to neutral faces. 2.1b: Antidepressant
           response, compared to non-response, will be specifically associated with changes in
           PFC/ACC function.

        -  Experiment 2.2: Neural changes during negative emotion regulation (cognitive
           reappraisal) associated with ketamine and rapid antidepressant response.

             -  Hypothesis 2.2a: Ketamine, compared to midazolam, will be associated with reduced
                activation in the amygdala during negative emotion generation and enhanced PFC/ACC
                function during down-regulation of negative affect. 2.2b: Antidepressant response,
                compared to non-response, will be specifically associated with enhancement of
                PFC/ACC function.

      Specific Aim 3 (Exploratory): To investigate functional and effective connectivity between
      emotion perception/generation neural systems and cognitive emotional regulation systems.
      Hypothesis 3: TRD compared to HC will be characterized by abnormal connectivity between
      PFC/ACC and amygdala, which will normalize with rapid antidepressant response.

      The setting of research will be MSSM. All research participants will be recruited and
      screened through the Mood and Anxiety Disorders Program (MAP) (Director: Dan V. Iosifescu,
      M.D.) at MSSM. MAP is one of the major clinical research programs of the Department of
      Psychiatry, with research funding from NIH, the Department of Defense, NARSAD, and industry.
    
  