
    
      According to the World Health Organization, CHD is now the leading cause of death worldwide.
      In 2001, CHD caused 7.2 million deaths and estimates for 2020 indicate that annual CHD deaths
      will increase to 11.1 million. These statistics suggest that improved options are needed to
      treat hypercholesterolemia and dyslipidemia.

      The balance among cholesterol synthesis, dietary intake, and degradation is normally adequate
      to maintain healthy cholesterol plasma levels. However, in patients with
      hypercholesterolemia, elevated low-density lipoprotein cholesterol leads to atherosclerotic
      deposition of cholesterol in the arterial walls. Consequently, in this population it has been
      established that lowering low-density lipoprotein cholesterol plasma concentrations
      effectively reduces cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. The National Cholesterol
      Education Program Adult Treatment Panel III has therefore identified control of low-density
      lipoprotein cholesterol as essential in the prevention and management of CHD. Additional
      lipid risk factors designated by National Cholesterol Education Program Adult Treatment Panel
      III include elevated triglycerides, elevated non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol
      (atherogenic lipoproteins), and low levels of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol.
      Lipoproteins rich in triglycerides, such as very-low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, appear
      to contribute to atherosclerosis, whereas the apparent protective effect of high-density
      lipoprotein cholesterol, which is likely related to high-density lipoprotein
      cholesterol-facilitated transport of cholesterol away from atherosclerotic deposits, may be
      limited at low high-density lipoprotein cholesterol concentrations.

      Initial dietary and lifestyle measures taken to control dyslipidemia are often inadequate,
      and most patients require pharmacologic intervention. Currently, 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl
      coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins) are the first-line monotherapies most often
      prescribed to reduce low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, after diet and therapeutic
      lifestyle change. However, with statin monotherapy, many patients fail to reach National
      Cholesterol Education Program Adult Treatment Panel III recommended levels of low-density
      lipoprotein cholesterol reduction. As a result, the statin dosage must be increased or an
      additional treatment added to achieve treatment goals. Increasing the statin dosage may
      result in decreased tolerability and potential safety concerns, contributing to the high
      discontinuation rates of statins and their prescription at low and often ineffective doses.
      Further, although the effectiveness of increasing the dose varies among the statins, in
      general, doubling of the dose above the minimum effective dose has been found to decrease
      serum low-density lipoprotein cholesterol by only an additional 6 percent.

      TGRD is developing an orally active squalene synthase inhibitor, TAK-475 (lapaquistat
      acetate) for the treatment of dyslipidemia. Lapaquistat acetate inhibits the biosynthesis of
      cholesterol by inhibiting the enzyme squalene synthase, which catalyzes the conversion of
      farnesyl diphosphate to squalene-a precursor in the final steps of cholesterol production.

      This study will assess the effects of co-administration of lapaquistat acetate with
      atorvastatin, the most commonly prescribed statin in the United States, on LDL-C and
      associated lipid variables in subjects with hypercholesterolemia. Study Participation is
      anticipated to be up to 24 weeks.
    
  