
    
      SLE is a chronic, multisystem, inflammatory autoimmune disease in which the body's immune
      cells wrongly attack its own tissues. It is defined by the presence of circulating
      antinuclear antibodies that are directed against nucleosomal DNA-histone complexes, native
      double-stranded DNA (dsDNA), small nuclear ribonucleoproteins (Sm and RNP), single-stranded
      DNA, and phospholipids moieties on platelets and other tissues, indicating a failure of the
      regulatory systems involved in maintenance of immunologic tolerance to self-antigens. Despite
      use of currently available therapies, patients experience relapses of their lupus. Over time,
      patients develop significant morbidity from the disease as well as from medications,
      including glucocorticoids, used for treatment. The main purpose of this study is to compare
      two ways of treating SLE: 1) high-dose immunosuppressive therapy (HDIT) followed by HSCT and
      2) currently available immunosuppressive/immunomodulatory therapies.

        1. One group of study participants will undergo autologous hematopoietic stem cell
           transplantation. With this treatment, they will first undergo mobilization, a process
           that removes hematopoietic stem cells from their blood. Then they will receive high
           doses of chemotherapy to suppress their abnormal immune systems, followed by the
           reintroduction of the purified stem cells to re-establish their immune systems.

           Medications are used to mobilize (i.e., encourage) blood cell precursors to multiply and
           move from the bone marrow to the bloodstream. These precursors (or autologous stem
           cells) can be harvested (collected) from the bloodstream during a process called
           apheresis and then transplanted (infused) back into the patient's body after
           chemotherapy has been given. HDIT can suppress the immune system, reducing the
           effectiveness or perhaps eliminating most of the immune cells that cause the progression
           of SLE. Autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) following HDIT hastens
           the return of the body's ability to produce blood cells. HDIT with HSCT has been
           identified as a potential treatment alternative to standard chemotherapy treatments.

           One group of study participants will undergo autologous hematopoietic stem cell
           transplantation. With this treatment, they will first undergo mobilization, a process
           that removes hematopoietic stem cells from their blood. Then they will receive high
           doses of chemotherapy to suppress their abnormal immune systems, followed by the
           reintroduction of the purified stem cells to re-establish their immune systems.

           Medications are used to mobilize (i.e., encourage) blood cell precursors to multiply and
           move from the bone marrow to the bloodstream. These precursors (or autologous stem
           cells) can be harvested (collected) from the bloodstream during a process called
           apheresis and then transplanted (infused) back into the patient's body after
           chemotherapy has been given. HDIT can suppress the immune system, reducing the
           effectiveness or perhaps eliminating most of the immune cells that cause the progression
           of SLE. Autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) following HDIT hastens
           the return of the body's ability to produce blood cells. HDIT with HSCT has been
           identified as a potential treatment alternative to standard chemotherapy treatments.

           Participants assigned to the first treatment group will undergo mobilization with CTX
           and granulocyte colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) beginning 2 weeks after randomization.
           In preparation for the transplant process. a central venous line (plastic tube) will be
           inserted into the neck or chest vein; this tube will be used to administer stem cells
           and medications and for drawing blood. IV CTX, followed by G-CSF, will be given injected
           under the skin beginning 3 days after CTX. G-CSF will be given for about 4 to 7 days, to
           boost the body's production of blood precursor cells. These precursor cells will be
           collected through the central venous line through apheresis. In this process, whole
           blood is collected through a needle in an arm vein and directed to a cell-separating
           machine, where the white cells are separated and saved. The rest of the blood is
           returned to the patient through the same needle. Several apheresis procedures will be
           required to collect enough cells for the autologous transplant.

           Within 3 weeks of the apheresis stem cell collection, the first group's participants
           will be admitted to the hospital and will undergo a five-day conditioning regimen
           consisting of IV CTX and rabbit anti-thymocyte globulin (rATG). This regimen will
           suppress the malfunctioning immune system and prepare the patient's body to receive the
           precursor cells previously collected during apheresis. The stem cells will be infused
           after the five-day conditioning regimen. The return of the precursor cells is called
           autologous stem cell transplantation. During the hospitalization a specialized team of
           transplant physicians and nurses will closely monitor the participants until their bone
           marrow recovers and the participants are well enough to be discharged. The hospital stay
           will be approximately 21 days after the autologous stem cell transplant. Upon discharge,
           the patient will return home and will follow-up at the treatment center at Weeks 1 and 3
           post-transplantation for close monitoring by the transplant team. Participants will also
           be followed by the study rheumatologist monthly at the treatment center for 30 months.

        2. The other group of study participants will receive immunosuppressive/immunomodulatory
           therapy as prescribed by the study rheumatologist, based on the organ systems affected
           and prior treatment history. Therapy may include one or a combination of the following
           treatments: corticosteroids, azathioprine, methotrexate, cyclosporine, MMF,
           plasmapheresis, IVIG, rituximab, and leflunomide. As new drugs become available and a
           part of the usual medications for the treatment of SLE, they may be approved for use in
           this study. Treatment may be changed as frequently as necessary within the first year of
           the study to control the manifestations of SLE in each patient. Treatment for the second
           group will begin 1 week after randomization; patients will be seen monthly at the
           treatment center for 30 months.

      Corticosteroid dosage tapering will be monitored closely; the schedule for tapering will be
      the same in both groups. To reduce the possibility of disease flare. a slow tapering of 10%
      per month will occur for the first six months. Tapering will continue in a prescribed manner
      to achieve a dose equivalent of 10 mg/day of prednisone or less by one year post-treatment.

      All participants will have monthly follow-up visits for 30 months after treatment has been
      initiated. Study visits will include a physical exam, clinical assessments, rheumatology
      evaluations, and blood and urine collections. Participants will be asked to complete
      questionnaires assessing their lupus disease. Neuropsychiatric assessments, echocardiogram,
      CT scan of brain, renal biopsy, pulmonary function test, dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry
      scan (DEXA scan), magnetic resonance imagery scan, electromyograph scan (EMG), bone marrow
      biopsy and aspiration and lumbar puncture may occur at selected visits, based on each
      individual's manifestations of lupus and clinical indication. Participants will also receive
      certain vaccinations at selected visits. Participants will be contacted by phone each and
      every week throughout the study. There will be an extension period for those patients that
      have completed their treatment and follow-up visits during the study's 5-year duration.
      Participants will be contacted via telephone, e-mail, or visit every 3 months to assess their
      use of concomitant medications and immunosuppressive/immunomodulatory therapy and
      corticosteroids.

      Five treatment centers across the United States, all leaders in the fields of transplantation
      and rheumatology, are participating in this research study.
    
  