
    
      TTTS, which complicates 10-15% of MCDA twin pregnancies, is characterized by a net imbalance
      of volume between twins, mediated through abnormal placental blood vessel anastomoses that
      connect the two placental circulations. Clinically, the "donor" twin develops features of
      anemia and hypovolemia, while the "recipient" twin shows signs of hypervolemia and
      hypertensive fluid overload. If untreated, the syndrome has a perinatal mortality rate as
      high as 80-100%. Although modern intrauterine therapies have improved the rates of fetal
      death, significant risks of morbidity and mortality remain even after treatment.

      Twin-twin transfusion syndrome is most commonly classified according to a staging system
      developed by Quintero et al in 1999, which is based on discrete, categorical ultrasound
      findings (amniotic fluid volume, presence/absence of a fetal bladder, umbilical artery
      Doppler studies, fetal hydrops, and death). The system includes 5 stages ranging from mild
      disease with isolated discordant amniotic fluid volumes, to severe disease with demise of one
      or both twins. Although this system has some prognostic value, it also has significant
      limitations due to the highly complex physiologic conditions that are involved in the
      disease. For example, some criteria in the staging system are not consistently representative
      of fetal physiology. Additionally, the stages do not correlate well with overall perinatal
      survival or with outcomes following intrauterine therapies.

      Recent work has demonstrated that the complex pathophysiology of twin-twin transfusion
      syndrome involves a discordant activation of the renin angiotensin system (RAS). RAS is
      normally important in fluid and salt regulation in both the adult and the fetus, and TTTS in
      marked hypovolemia and hypervolemia in monozygous fetuses within the same maternal
      environment. The renal RAS in the donor is up-regulated, presumably as a consequence of
      hypovolemia. The recipient is also exposed to high levels or RAS components, either due to
      the transfusion of these components from the donor via anastomoses, or via discordant
      placental RAS activation, resulting in a hypertensive, hypervolemic state.

      Multiple studies have identified a correlation between Doppler assessment of the fetal renal
      artery and the development of oligohydramnios, a hypovolemic state, in singleton pregnancies.
      However, the use of renal artery Doppler studies has not yet been fully evaluated in twin
      gestations. In particular, it has not been evaluated in MCDA twin gestations complicated by
      TTTS, the pathophysiology of which involves significant alterations in fetal volume and fluid
      status.

      This project is intended to serve as a single-center study to determine if there is indeed a
      difference in renal artery Doppler parameters in sets of MCDA twins with TTTS compared to
      sets of MCDA twins without TTTS. The identification of a significant difference would
      potentially provide support for further investigation into this measurement as a screening
      tool or prognostic indicator when applied to MCDA twin pregnancies.

      Secondary goals of this study include: comparing donor to recipient renal artery Doppler
      findings among pregnancies with TTTS, evaluating serial renal artery Doppler findings over
      time per pregnancy, and evaluating pre- and post-therapy renal artery Doppler findings in
      those pregnancies undergoing therapy for TTTS.
    
  