
    
      Food allergy affects 6-8 percent of children in the United States. In young children,
      reactions to egg can range from hives to severe life threatening allergic reactions called
      anaphylaxis. Current treatment for food allergy is complete avoidance of the food and to
      carry antihistamines and self-injectable epinephrine if an accidental reaction occurs.
      However, accidental exposure to allergens in processed foods may be difficult to avoid.
      Currently, several therapeutic strategies are being investigated to prevent and treat food
      allergies. Since immunotherapy injections for food allergy are associated with a high rate of
      allergic reactions, alternate approaches to treatment are needed. Oral (by mouth)
      immunotherapy (OIT) is one approach that has been tried in some studies in the treatment of
      food allergies. The purpose of this study is to compare baked foods with egg versus (vs.) egg
      OIT. The intent of the study is to investigate if participants will be able to consume egg
      after taking baked foods with egg or egg OIT for a period of time and then stopping for a
      certain period. This is referred to as tolerance or sustained unresponsiveness. This study
      will evaluate the effectiveness of the egg OIT vs. baked egg by having each participant
      ingest egg white solid or baked foods with egg. This will be done over 2 years.

      This study will last 2 years. All eligible subjects will receive a baked egg oral food
      challenge (OFC). Those who pass the baked egg OFC will then have a 2 gm egg OFC. Those who
      react to the egg OFC will be randomized to Baked Egg or Egg OIT. Individuals who do not pass
      the initial baked egg OFC will be assigned to Egg OIT. Those who pass the egg OFC will not be
      eligible for the study and will be followed per site standard of care. All eligible and
      enrolled subjects will have a 1-year and a 2-year OFC.

      At selected visits, blood and urine collection, physical examination, prick skin tests, and
      atopic dermatitis and asthma evaluations will occur.
    
  