
    
      Study will include 86 dialysis patients. Investigators will first test the strength of lower
      limbs with sit-to-stand test, handgrip strength, flexibility, balance, submaximal aerobic
      capacity, physical characteristics and clinical parameters. After that randomization of
      patients in two groups will be made - one experimental and one active control group. Patients
      who will refuse to exercise will be invited to a non-randomized inactive control group
      (without exercise).

      The experimental group will attend 3 times weekly a guided functional exercise before the
      dialysis procedure for 20 minutes and perform a cycling session during dialysis in the first
      phase of the study, which will last for 8 weeks. During this time experimental group will
      receive exercise counselling; instructions how to practice at home will be given by examples
      and training during functional exercise predialysis sessions.

      In the second phase of the study for additional eight weeks participants will be instructed
      to exercise at home using the skills mastered during the first study phase on non-dialysis
      days, and continue with the program of intradialysis cycling. Investigators will give them
      advice, monitor and motivate them.

      The active control group will perform intradialytic exercise (intradialysis cycling equal to
      cycling program of experimental group) during dialysis procedure for four months.

      The primary end-point of the study is a change in the 10-repetition sit-to-stand test time as
      a measure of strength of lower extremities.

      Exercise program will be run by a kinesiologist. Main hypothesis is that the guided
      functional exercise under the surveillance of a kinesiologist added to intradialysis cycling
      program statistically significantly improves patient's physical performance as compared to
      the program of intradialysis cycling alone.
    
  