
    
      Primary Objectives:

        -  To estimate the progression free survival distribution of WNT-medulloblastoma patients
           treated on Stratum W1 with reduced-dose craniospinal irradiation and reduced-dose
           cyclophosphamide.

        -  To estimate progression-free survival distribution of Non-WNT Non-SHH medulloblastoma
           patients treated on Stratum N1 with reduced dose cyclophosphamide.

        -  To estimate the progression free survival distribution of skeletally mature SHH
           medulloblastoma patients assigned to Stratum S1 and treated with oral maintenance
           therapy using a targeted SHH pathway inhibitor (vismodegib) after the adjuvant
           chemotherapy regimen is complete and to compare the outcome to molecularly and
           clinically matched historical controls from SJMB03 as well as outcome from other
           published cohorts.

        -  To evaluate the effect of an aerobic training intervention, delivered during the
           radiation therapy period and at home, prior to the start of chemotherapy, on
           cardiopulmonary fitness.

        -  To assess the impact of a computer-based working memory intervention (administered
           prophylactically at the end of chemotherapy), relative to standard of care, on a
           performance-based measure of working memory.

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  To estimate overall survival distribution of WNT-medulloblastoma patients treated on
           Stratum W1 with reduced-dose craniospinal irradiation and reduced-dose cyclophosphamide
           and compare progression free and overall survival distributions to molecularly and
           clinically matched historical controls from St. Jude SJMB03 study.

        -  To estimate the progression free (in S1 skeletally immature and S2 both sub-strata) and
           overall survival distributions of SHH medulloblastoma patients enrolled on Strata S1 and
           S2 some of whom will be treated with oral maintenance therapy using a targeted SHH
           pathway inhibitor (vismodegib) after adjuvant chemotherapy regimen is complete and
           compare these outcomes to molecularly and clinically matched historical controls from
           SJMB03 as well as outcome from other published cohorts.

        -  To estimate the progression free and overall survival distributions of Non-WNT Non-SHH
           medulloblastoma patients treated on Strata N2 and N3 with 3 cycles of pemetrexed and
           gemcitabine in addition to 4 cycles of conventional adjuvant chemotherapy and compare
           the progression-free and overall survival distributions to molecularly and clinically
           matched historical controls from St. Jude SJMB03 study separately for each stratum.

        -  To estimate the overall survival distribution of Non-WNT Non-SHH medulloblastoma
           patients treated on Stratum N1 with reduced dose cyclophosphamide and compare
           progression free and overall survival distributions to molecularly and clinically
           matched historical controls from St. Jude SJMB03 study.

        -  To evaluate the feasibility and toxicity of adding pemetrexed and gemcitabine to
           adjuvant chemotherapy regimen of intermediate and high risk Non-WNT Non-SHH
           medulloblastoma patients (Strata N2 and N3).

        -  To evaluate the feasibility and toxicity of oral maintenance therapy with the targeted
           SHH inhibitor (vismodegib) after conventional adjuvant chemotherapy regimen is complete.

        -  To estimate the cumulative incidence of local disease failure at 2 and 5 years based on
           treatment regimen, strata, and clinical and treatment factors.

        -  To evaluate the effects of an aerobic training intervention, delivered during the
           radiation therapy period and at home, prior to the start of chemotherapy, on physical
           performance, fatigue, health related quality of life, memory, attention and executive
           function at the end of the intervention, at the end of adjuvant chemotherapy, and one,
           two and five years off adjuvant chemotherapy, among children treated for
           medulloblastoma.

        -  To evaluate the impact of an aerobic training intervention on sleep quality and quantity
           in children with medulloblastoma.

        -  To evaluate the relation between baseline cognitive performance and the variables of
           sleep quality and quantity, and fatigue in children with medulloblastoma.

        -  To estimate change in neurocognitive performance using a comprehensive assessment
           battery (e.g., measures of intellectual function, academic abilities, attention, memory,
           processing speed and executive functions) and investigate the relationship of change to
           relevant demographic factors (e.g., gender, age at treatment, time since treatment and
           socioeconomic status) and clinical factors (e.g., treatment intensity/risk group,
           posterior fossa syndrome).

        -  To assess the impact of a computer-based working memory intervention, relative to
           standard of care, on additional performance- and rater-based measures of attention,
           processing speed and executive functions.

        -  To compare the impact of a computer-based working memory intervention in conjunction
           with an aerobic training intervention, relative to either intervention in isolation, on
           measures of attention, processing speed and executive functions.

        -  To evaluate the maintenance of improvements on measures of attention, working memory,
           processing speed and executive functions six months following participation in the
           computer-based working memory intervention program.

      Outline: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to molecular subgroup
      assignment (WNT, SHH, or Non-WNT Non- SHH) and then by clinical risk stratification (extent
      of resection, M stage, histologic subtype, and cytogenetic features). All patients will be
      treated with risk-adapted radiation therapy and adjuvant chemotherapy. Patients assigned to
      Stratum W1 will receive reduced dose radiation therapy. Patients assigned to Stratum W2, S1,
      N1, or N2 will receive standard dose radiation therapy. Patients assigned to Stratum W3, S2,
      or N3 will receive high dose radiation therapy. Radiation therapy will be followed by 4
      cycles of adjuvant conventional chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide, cisplatin and vincristine
      for all patients. Patients assigned to Stratum N2 or N3 (Non-WNT Non-SHH with high risk
      factors) will receive 3 additional cycles of pemetrexed and gemcitabine chemotherapy
      intermixed into the conventional adjuvant chemotherapy cycles. Patients with SHH subtype
      (Stratum S1 or S2) who are skeletally mature will receive 12 months additional maintenance
      therapy with vismodegib.

      Patients may consent to provide tumor tissue, blood, and CSF samples for biological studies.
      Tumor tissues are analyzed for the activation of the WNT signaling pathway, activation of the
      SHH signaling pathway, validation of novel patterns of gene expression via
      immunohistochemical (IHC) analysis; validation of genetic abnormalities via interphase
      fluorescence in situ hybridization (iFISH); construction of gene expression profiles via
      microarray analysis; construction of DNA methylation profiling via microarrays; single
      nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) analysis for DNA copy number aberrations; potential oncogenes
      and tumor suppressor genes via DNA sequence analysis; expression of a number of cell signal
      proteins implicated in the biology of medulloblastoma via western blot; expression of
      additional proteins encoded by genes associated through SNP and gene expression array
      analysis with clinical disease behavior. Blood samples are analyzed from patients whose
      tumors contain gene mutations via sequence analysis of constitutional DNA. CSF and blood
      samples are analyzed for identification of potential tumor markers. Parents may consent to
      have blood samples analyzed for inheritable gene mutations associated with medulloblastoma.

      Patients may also consent to exploratory research that include additional functional MRI
      imaging to investigate damage to neural connections from therapy; additional psychological
      testing to identify neurocognitive effects of therapy; additional heart and lung testing to
      identify treatment effects; additional endocrine studies to identify treatment effect on
      growth and development.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 6 months for 5 years.
    
  