
    
      Selection of patients:

      Ninty-five patients shall be selected from the regular pool of patients visiting Misr
      International University Dental Clinic Complex. After application of inclusion and exclusion
      criteria, preoperative and percussion pain shall be recorded on a 10-cm VAS by the patients.
      Percussion will be performed by tapping on the occlusal surfaces of the teeth with the back
      of a mirror handle. It will be assessed prior to the root canal treatment by the operator who
      shall be performing the root canal treatment. Diagnosis of the tooth as symptomatic apical
      periodontitis will be done according to the book Cohen's Pathways of the Pulp. Clinical
      symptoms are going to be defined as follows:

        1. Severe preoperative pain (VAS >6)

        2. Severe percussion pain (VAS > 6) Patients with all inclusion criteria will be offered to
           participate in the study.

      Grouping of samples:

      Each selected patient will get a unique serial code that is previously distributed among the
      5 groups randomly. Nineteen patients in each as follows; Group 1: Control (no intervention),
      Group 2: Placebo (mock laser therapy), Group 3: LLLT, Group 4: ICCT and Group 5: Combination
      of both LLLT and ICCT. New patients will be incorporated in the study in place of lost
      patients.

      Method:

      After the patient signs the attached consent form, profound anesthesia and rubber dam
      application shall be ensured. Standard chemo-mechanical preparation parameters (Master Apical
      File: size #25 to #40 k-files depending on anatomical features of the roots) shall be
      followed. Obturation will be performed using lateral compaction technique. In Group 4 and
      Group 5, cold saline with temperature ranging from 2-4 °C, will be used as a final rinse
      using a conventional syringe. LLLT using diode laser (EPIC™ BIOLASE) with wavelength 940nm
      will be applied towards the tissues surrounding the roots of treated molars in Group 3 and 5
      after completing obturation and sealing the access cavity. In Group 2, the diode laser tip
      shall be placed at approximately 10 mm from the tissue around the apices of the treated
      roots; however, it won't be activated.

      Data collection:

      All patients will be instructed to complete a survey at home. Pain is going to be evaluated
      based upon a questionnaire filled by the patient after 6 hrs, 12 hrs, on 2nd day and 5th day
      after root canal treatment. Any of the patients taking analgesics after the treatment, shall
      be advised to note this in the questionnaire. The information collected from the
      questionnaires covers the occurrence and the intensity of PEP. The intensity of pain will be
      evaluated on a numeric rating scale (VAS) of 0 for "no pain" to 10 for "unbearable pain".
      Patients will return the filled questionnaire on the 5th day after treatment and they shall
      be assured via telephone contact.

      Blinding:

      Outcome assessors and statistician will be blinded. Both the participants and principal
      investigators can't be blinded owing to the use of two obviously different methods, LLLT and
      ICCT or no intervention.
    
  