
    
      Fatigue is the most common symptom in palliative care patients who have advanced cancer,
      ranging from 59% to 77% depends on the assessment method (1). There is limited local data on
      the prevalence of fatigue in cancer patients. A cross-sectional study by Dr KY Lam in 2009
      (unpublished data) found 53% of 55 patients receiving palliative care suffered from severe
      fatigue. A cross-sectional symptom screening of all the patients in the palliative care ward
      in Shatin Hospital showed 22 out of 55 (40%) patients reported fatigue (unpublished data).

      The fatigue experienced by cancer patients is multi-dimensional. The feeling may be a
      physical sensation (weakness, tiredness, exhaustion, unable to perform tasks), an affective
      sensation (low mood, lack of motivation), or a cognitive sensation (lack of concentration,
      difficulty thinking clearly). This phenomenon is also subject to cultural interpretation
      therefore there is a need to understand each subject's perception and experience of fatigue
      within his or her own cultural context (2, 3).

      Fatigue is also one of the most under-reported hence under-treated symptoms. Patients may
      perceive it as a condition to be endured, whereas healthcare workers find it very challenging
      to assess and treat due to its subjective nature and multidimensional causes. The impairment
      in self-care capabilities and daily functioning lead to negative effects on desire to
      continue treatment thus affecting the functional recovery even in patients with a more stable
      disease status (3-5). The quality of life (QOL) of patients, which is our focus in palliative
      care service, is heavily reduced (6).

      However, evidence-based practice to tackle this distressing problem is still inadequate, and
      that a one-size fit all approach is unrealistic (7). Various pharmacological options have
      been examined, but due to limited evidence, no specific drug could be recommended for the
      treatment of fatigue in palliative care patients in the latest Cochrane review in 2015 (8).

      Latest development in management of fatigue includes non-pharmacological approach. Effect
      size in reducing fatigue in various treatments were summarised in a report by Bower (9).
      Exercise was more effective than control in reducing fatigue with a mean effect size of
      -0.27. Psychosocial intervention trials that included fatigue as a primary or secondary
      outcome have shown reductions in fatigue relative to control, with effective sizes ranging
      from -0.10 to -0.31. Psychostimulant trials, most of which were conducted among patients with
      advanced disease and used methylphenidate, suggested that psychostimulants were more
      effective than placebo in improving fatigue with an effect size of -0.28. Of note, two
      studies with larger sample size showed no benefit for methylphenidate vs. placebo for
      improving fatigue (10, 11). The application of non-pharmacological approach in our local
      patients was even more limited. A pilot study of 26 patients receiving palliative care in
      Shatin Hospital showed a mean change score of 0.5 (1.862) of improvement in Brief Fatigue
      Inventory (BFI) Q3 after two weeks of in-patient multidisciplinary care (unpublished data).
      The estimated effect size of the pilot study was 0.268 (mean change/SD = 0.5/1.863). Overall,
      these data suggest that non-pharmacological treatments (e.g. exercise, psychoeducation,
      support program, cognitive-behavioural therapy) have a mild to moderate effect on improving
      symptom of fatigue.

      Over these few decades, Bright Light Treatment (BLT) has also evolved as a favourable
      treatment for cancer-related fatigue. BLT is the prescription of artificial bright light over
      a designated period of time. It was initially developed for the treatment of seasonal
      affective disorder, and found to be as effective as antidepressants for treatment of
      depressive symptoms during winter (12). The National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN)
      guidelines on cancer-related fatigue (13) and a recent review on all treatment options of
      cancer-related fatigue (14) suggested that BLT is a safe and accessible option.

      There are several mechanisms on how light therapy works. Firstly, it works through improving
      alertness. Healthy subjects who had increasing bright light exposure as compared to dim light
      would have a rapid effect of decrease in sleepiness and improvement in their performance
      (15). Secondly, BLT works through improving mood. Efficacy of BLT have been demonstrated in
      seasonal affective disorder (12), non-seasonal depression (16) and bipolar depression (17).
      Thirdly, BLT works through regulation of circadian rhythm. Circadian disruptions were
      demonstrated in 55 community-dwelling cancer patients receiving palliative care (18).
      Although the cause and effect between exacerbated fatigue and decreased light exposure could
      not be confirmed, increased fatigue was significantly correlated with decreased light
      exposure among patients with breast cancer (19). Exposure to bright light in the morning
      leads to an advance of endogenous circadian rhythms that results in a realignment of these
      rhythms with the individual's sleep-wake cycle. Therefore, possibly by providing a corrective
      phase advance with morning BLT, rhythm dysregulation could be corrected resulting in a
      reduction of fatigue symptom.

      Two trials investigated the impact of light therapy on fatigue and QOL in the same group of
      39 women with breast cancer undergoing active chemotherapy (20, 21). Results suggest that
      morning bright light treatment helped prevent the typical worsening of fatigue and quality of
      life during chemotherapy treatment. Although the light treatment did not improve overall
      fatigue in this sample, the lack of deterioration in total fatigue during a period where
      symptoms typically worsen was encouraging. Another study sought to determine the effect of
      bright light treatment on cancer-related fatigue among 36 post-treatment survivors (22). At
      the end of the treatment period, patients who had received bright white light therapy were no
      longer clinically fatigued, whereas 55% of the patients in the active control condition
      continued to report clinical fatigue. The effects of the bright white light treatment were
      maintained 3-weeks post-intervention.

      A more recent study again focused on cancer survivors (23, 24). The total fatigue score using
      the Multidimensional Fatigue Symptom Inventory-Short Form showed an effect size of 1.20 in
      the bright-white-light intervention group and an effect size of 0.93 in the supposing placebo
      arm dim-red-light group. These were large within group effect size. This study employed BLT
      as an adjunctive therapy and the participants were not excluded for using their usual
      medications (including psychotropic medications). A randomised controlled trial in 2007
      reported that selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) do not appear to have beneficial
      effects on cancer-related fatigue, supporting the distinction between fatigue and depression
      in cancer patients and suggesting that fatigue is not solely a symptom of depression (25).

      Bruera and team tried to introduce BLT to patients with advanced cancer and insomnia in
      out-patient settings (26). One shortcoming of their study was partly due to a high attrition
      rate especially in the control arm where dim red light was used as placebo. They suggested
      future studies to incorporate alternative trial designs to improve the adherence.

      There is however no data on bright light therapy used in in-patient palliative care settings.
      Conducting research on patients receiving palliative care has been particularly challenging
      (27, 28). Barriers include the difficulty in participation due to limitations of serious
      illness, complex symptoms and clinical instability, resulting in high attrition and missing
      data. The MOREcare Statement (29) suggested researchers to use measures which are as short
      and simple as possible.

      Despite these limitations, the present evidence suggests that BLT, a safe and easily
      delivered treatment, may be a clinically feasible and effective intervention to reduce
      symptom of fatigue in cancer palliative care patients during hospital stay. This study aims
      to test the feasibility of administering bright light therapy in cancer palliative care
      patients for the treatment of fatigue.
    
  