
    
      Postoperative cognitive dysfunction (POCD) is thought to affect a significant proportion of
      patients after major surgery (up to 10% at 3 months). This is potentially a major public
      health issue because patients with POCD have prolonged hospital admission, loss of
      independence and mortality. Undoubtedly, if POCD is as prevalent and devastating as has been
      previously reported, the decision to undergo elective surgery should be influenced by the
      risk of developing POCD. Given the scope of the issue, the deficiencies in the literature
      surrounding POCD are concerning. There are many methodological issues with previous studies
      and the diagnosis of POCD in the perioperative period.

      It is imperative that the true natures of postoperative cognitive changes are elucidated so
      that preoperative risk stratification can be appropriately determined. This will lead to care
      pathways and interventions that can modify any possible downward changes thereby reducing the
      negative impact on patients and the health care system.

      Main Study Hypothesis: The incidence of postoperative cognitive changes in the joint
      arthroplasty population is influenced by:

        1. Occurrence of major acute postoperative complications (e.g., cardiac event, pulmonary
           embolus, renal failure, pneumonia, prosthetic joint infection)

        2. Pre-existing mild cognitive impairment (MCI)

        3. Post-operative delirium

        4. Pre-existing comorbid conditions with inflammatory states such as auto-immune disorders,
           coronary artery disease, obstructive sleep apnea, and auto-immune disorders

      Study Objectives:

      In patients undergoing primary total hip or knee arthroplasty the goals of this project are
      to:

        1. Establish cognitive trajectories after major lower extremity joint arthroplasty and the
           incidence of both post-operative delirium and POCD

        2. Test Main Study Hypothesis (see above)
    
  