
    
      In phase 1B part, patients will receive Varlitinib plus Gemcitabine and Cisplatin, and follow
      a modified 3+3+3 study dose escalation scheme starting from Varlitinib 200 mg BID. The
      primary objective of the phase 1B part is to determine the MTD of Varlitinib when given in
      combination with Gemcitabine and Cisplatin, and to characterise the safety profile of the
      study treatment regimen.

      Based on the determined MTD and clinical information obtained from phase 1B part of the
      study, the DSMB will review the safety data and other clinical data, together with the
      sponsor, determine the MTD as well as the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D). The sponsor will
      make a decision when to proceed with the phase 2A part of the study.

      The phase 2A part of the study is designed as a single arm expansion, enrolling a further 20
      patients at the RP2D. The purpose of the phase 2A expansion study is to confirm the safety
      and tolerability of the RP2D in a larger number of patients, and to provide preliminary
      estimates of the clinical activity of Varlitinib in combination with Gemcitabine and
      Cisplatin, prior to embarking on the larger, randomised phase 2B part of the trial.

      The phase 2B part will be a two-arm, double-blinded, placebo controlled study. Patients will
      be randomised into 2 arms to receive Varlitinib plus Gemcitabine and Cisplatin, or placebo
      plus Gemcitabine and Cisplatin. The primary endpoint of the phase 2B part is progression-free
      survival (PFS). The randomisation will be stratified by primary tumour location (gall bladder
      or non-gall bladder).

      Patient screening activities including informed consent and study eligibility verification
      will be performed within 21 days prior to first dose of the study medication. Radiological
      imaging to assess the disease status will be performed at baseline and every 6 weeks from
      Cycle 1 Day 1. Blood samples will be taken during the screening phase, treatment period until
      end of treatment. Patients will be required to complete safety follow-up within 28 days after
      the last administration of study medication.
    
  