
    
      Aim and objectives:

      Predictors of treatment response may help to improve treatment approaches in late-onset major
      depression patients. The study will identify features of patients with major depression that
      may predict good and poor treatment response. It will use demographic, clinical,
      neuropsychological and brain MRI data to investigate the potential value of these as
      predictors of response to standard treatment over 12 weeks. For example, impairment of
      executive functioning on cognitive testing may predict patients whose depression does not
      respond to 12 weeks of treatment. MRI may reveal specific characteristics that predict good
      response to treatment.

      Methodology Subject inclusion and exclusion criteria Inclusion: Patients with major
      depressive disorder, diagnosed for the first time after the age of 60 years, with a Mini
      Mental State Examination score >24/30.

      Exclusion: Participants with a history of other major psychiatric illness or intellectual
      disability will be excluded. Those who have unstable medical conditions, including a history
      of neurological disease (stroke, epilepsy, recent delirium, neurodegenerative disease or
      dementia) will also be excluded.

      Recruitment:

      Patients with late-onset major depressive disorder will be identified by members of care
      teams of the Mental Health of Older Adults Services of the South London and Maudsley NHS
      Foundation Trust. A poster and information leaflet about the study will be also provided to
      the services to facilitate recruitment. The researcher will also use the trust Consent for
      Contact (c4c)' mechanism to assist the recruitment process. Potential participants who
      contact the researcher or give their permission to be contacted will be sent a written brief
      information sheet and invited to respond via an expression of interest letter and a stamped
      and addressed envelope. If they are interested, a consent for screening and medical record
      review will be sought. And following screening for the absence of significant cognitive
      impairment with the Mini-Mental State Examination by the researcher if this has not already
      been performed, they will be provided with a full information sheet and be invited to consent
      to participate in the study at their home or the IOPPN depending on participants' preference.

      Screening assessment

      The initial screening assessment will be done at potential participants' residences. A brief
      history of psychiatric and medical conditions will be taken. Participants will be interviewed
      with the following assessments:

        -  Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) is a 30 point assessment for general cognitive
           function, with exemption if they have been completed in clinical work within 1 month of
           the assessment.

        -  MRI safety questionnaire

      If potential participants are eligible for inclusion into the study and remain interested,
      written information will be left with them and an appointment will be made for further
      discussion and gaining informed consent. If they are not eligible for the study on the basis
      of screening, or decide not to proceed at this stage, all data collected will be destroyed.

      Consent visit and baseline assessment:

      Subjects will have been encouraged to read all information sheets carefully and will have the
      opportunity to ask further questions at this stage. Their capacity to consent will be
      assessed by the researcher and they will then be asked to provide verbal and written consent
      to be involved in the study.

      The following baseline assessment and neuropsychological tests will be performed at
      participants' homes or the IOPPN depending on participants' preference and last about one and
      a half hour:

        1. Demographic data including sex, age, marital and living status, number of education
           years completed, and occupation.

        2. Clinical data including current prescribed medical treatment, current depressive episode
           onset and treatment type, dosage and duration received.

        3. Cumulative Illness Rating Scale for Geriatrics (CIR-G) is a scoring questionnaire for
           assessing underlying medical disease.

        4. Hospital Anxiety Depression Scale (HADS), a self-rating scale and Hamilton Depression
           Rating Scale (HAM-D 21 items), an interview-based rating scale are used for depressive
           severity assessment.

        5. WHODAS 2.0 is a questionnaire assessing general functioning and disability.

        6. Neuropsychological tests

             -  Trail making test - a pen and paper based test for processing speed.

             -  Digit span and Spatial Span tests - tests for working memory.

             -  Verbal fluency, category fluency and design fluency - tests for fluency that ask
                participants to generate words or pictures in the rules given.

             -  Colour-Word Interference test - a paper-based reading test for inhibition.

      A letter will be sent to participants' GPs to inform them of their participation. The GP may
      be asked to confirm or provide information in case of the participant has questionable
      medical history that might contraindicate an MRI procedure.

      MRI scan procedure:

      Participants will undergo an MRI scan at the CNS based at the IOPPN within 4 weeks of
      baseline assessment. A taxi will be provided for participants to travel to the IOPPN. At the
      CNS, participants will be encouraged to ask any questions and the MRI safety questionnaire
      will be repeated to ensure there are no contraindications. Noise protection will be provided
      to the participants and a mock scan will be offered to familiarize them with the real MRI
      scanner if they would like this. Participants will then undergo a structural and functional
      MRI scan, the latter includes asking them to close their eyes for a period of time. The MRI
      scan will last about 1 hour. After the MRI scan, transport by taxi will be provided to return
      participants to their home.

      Final assessment At Week 11, the researcher will contact the participants and make an
      appointment for the final assessment at Week 12 at their home or the IOPPN depending on
      participants' preference. The final assessment will last about one hour. Participants will
      undergo the same assessment as in baseline assessment and the Mini-Mental State Examination.

      Note that throughout and following the study, participants will receive standard care,
      following the Trust Care Pathway.
    
  