
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the toxicity and maximum tolerated dose of acetylcysteine when given in
           combination with blood-brain barrier disruption treatment with mannitol, combination
           chemotherapy comprising cyclophosphamide, etoposide phosphate, and carboplatin, and
           delayed high-dose sodium thiosulfate in pediatric patients with malignant brain tumors.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the blood/bone marrow toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine tumor response in patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of acetylcysteine.

      Patients receive acetylcysteine IV over 30-60 minutes followed, at least 15 minutes later, by
      x-ray-guided femoral artery catheterization under general anesthesia on days 1 and 2. After
      placement of the catheter, patients receive cyclophosphamide IV over 10 minutes, etoposide
      phosphate IV over 10 minutes, mannitol intra-arterially (IA) over 30 seconds, and carboplatin
      IA over 10 minutes also on days 1 and 2. Patients then receive high-dose sodium thiosulfate
      IV over 15 minutes 4 hours after completion of carboplatin. Some patients may receive a
      second dose of sodium thiosulfate 8 hours after completion of carboplatin. Beginning 48 hours
      after the last dose of chemotherapy on day 2, patients receive filgrastim (G-CSF)
      subcutaneously once daily for 7-10 days or until blood counts recover. Treatment repeats
      every 4 weeks for up to 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of acetylcysteine until the maximum
      tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2
      of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. An additional 3 patients are treated at the
      MTD.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 30 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  