
    
      Purpose The purpose of the study is to review if the subdermal injection of antibiotics
      intraoperatively reduces the bacterial load in the subcutaneous tissue during the course of
      an open shoulder operation.

      Null Hypothesis There will be no change in the colony count of P.acnes following
      administration of subdermal antibiotics.

      Justification. P. Acnes is the most common cause of shoulder infection. The incidence of
      post-operative shoulder joint infection varies from 4-18%. The P.acnes organism is a Gram
      positive, largely anaerobic but aerotolerant commensal of the deep skin follicles and
      standard skin preparation may inadequately penetrate the pilosebaceous follicles. It has also
      been shown in a study by Levy et al that 41.8% of patients had a positive biopsy or aspirate
      result for P.acnes prior to implantation of components. This study will determine whether
      intraoperative subdermal antibiotic administration reduces the bacterial load and in turn
      reduce the incidence of shoulder joint infection. Cefazolin has been chosen because
      cephalosporins and penicillins have the lowest minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) against
      P.acnes. There is a lower incidence of allergy to cephalosporins than penicillins. This study
      has the potential to change clinical practice world wide.

      Objectives The specific outcome is to compare the bacterial cell count on either side of a
      surgical wound and determine if subcutaneous antibiotics on a single side reduces
      subcutaneous cell counts over various time courses throughout the operation.

      Research Method. Targeted recruitment is 20 patients in this pilot study. This figure has
      been arrived at after determining the power of the study, significance levels and the
      anticipated drop in P.acnes count colonisation after the use of local antibiotics. It is also
      a number that can be achieved rapidly, enabling us to assess whether there is an observed
      difference between the groups and thereby gauge the feasibility of a larger trial.

      The patients will receive the standard of care pre-operative antibiotics 30 minutes prior to
      incision and surgical intervention. The skin will also be prepped using a chlorhexidine
      alcohol based solution as is standard at the investigator's institution. The investigators
      will divide the normal surgical incision into three even sections on either side of the
      incision, thus forming six segments. One side of the wound will be injected with three
      aliquots of 3 mLs using a concentration 100mg/mL of cefazolin. This equates to 900mg of
      subcutaneous cefazolin antibiotic. There are no specific efficacy criteria for agents in this
      setting that have been standardised and approved by an official oversight agency. We have
      selected this quantity based upon safe and wide-spread use of this concentration in a
      systemic manner as well as being mindful of the readily available concentrations. There is no
      known study describing any harm on introduction of antibiotics into the soft tissue, e.g.
      vancomycin used topically in prosthetic joints as a prophylaxis against infection, and the
      widespread use of intra-muscular (IM) penicillin products. Subcutaneous cefazolin has been
      demonstrated as safe in a porcine model while delivering higher cutaneous concentrations than
      with comparative systemic administration. Subcutaneous ceftriaxone is approved for use in
      France and is of increasing use for geriatric populations as well as by infectious disease
      practitioners. There is published evidence of safe administration of cefazolin in tumescent
      anesthesia antibiotic delivery mixed with lidocaine, epinephrine, and sodium bicarbonate.

      Standardized samples from all six sections will be sampled using a disposable 6mm Mitex
      biopsy punch before inoculation and this process will be repeated at the 60 minute mark. The
      samples will be sent to the microbiology lab where colony count will be obtained and long
      term cultures i.e. 3 weeks will be performed.

      It is routine in surgery to inject subcutaneous substances and not infrequently biopsies are
      taken. The only potential side effect is allergy to cephalosporins, which would have been
      determined preoperatively and is part of the exclusion criteria. There will be no expected
      increased incidence of infection or bleeding.

      Collection, Handling and Storage Specimens will be labeled with appropriate patient
      identifiers and clearly labeled as to the site of collection, and sent to the laboratory
      immediately for processing as soon as possible. Tissue biopsies will be sent either in
      anaerobic transport media or in a sterile container with a piece of sterile gauze moistened
      with non-bacteriostatic saline, or if piece is large enough, just a few drops of
      non-bacteriostatic in the container to prevent the tissue from desiccation.

      Tissue Processing All specimen manipulations will be carried out in the Biological Safety
      Cabinet and processed as soon as possible. Tissues will be inoculated to media to maximize
      the recovery of Propionibacterium acnes which will include a 5% sheep's blood agar and
      chocolate agar plates and thioglycollate (THIO) broth incubated under 5% carbon dioxide (CO2)
      at 35 Celsius. Brucella and Columbia Naladixic acid (CNA) agars will be incubated in an
      anaerobic conditions at 35 Celsius.

      With sterile forceps, the tissue will be transferred to a sterile Petri plate. Using a
      disposable sterile scalpel the tissue will be chopped into enough small pieces to inoculate
      all the media required. Several pieces of tissue will be added to THIO broth. The remaining
      media will be inoculated if order of least selective to the most selective: the blood agar
      plate, chocolate agar plate, Brucella and CNA agar.

      Lastly "touch preps" for the gram smears will be performed by gently touching a fresh piece
      of tissue onto the microscope slides. This piece of tissue will be discarded as it now is
      potentially contaminated.

      Tissue Investigation

      All media will be incubated for 5 days and read daily. The broth will be held for 21 days and
      examined at 7, 14 and 21 days after the initial 5 day reads. There is no need to follow the
      patients up for 2 years as we are only looking to determine change in intra operative colony
      counts which can be determined within 21 days and may be linked to a reduction in infection.

      All bacterial growth will be investigated per usual laboratory procedures for identification
      and antimicrobial susceptibility testing.

      Results will be reported to the study investigators in a timely fashion

      Statistical Analysis. Samples will be compared with either side of the wound over the
      respective time periods. Count averages will be obtained and analysised using a paired
      t-test.
    
  