
    
      Allergic rhinitis, or nasal allergy, is a common condition throughout the world which affects
      both adult and children alike. It is a group of symptoms characterized by red, itchy eyes, a
      blocked, itching, runny nose, rhinorrhea, and sneezing. Other reported symptoms include
      throat clearing, headaches, facial pain, ear pain, itchy throat and palate, snoring, and
      sleep disturbances. Nasal allergy commonly occurs when an individual's immune system reacts
      to allergens such as grass, weed, or tree pollens, house dust, mites, mold, and animal dander
      [1, 2].

      Allergic rhinitis is considered to have a substantial effect on the quality of life of a
      person. Due to the significant effects it demonstrated when left untreated, the disease has
      gone from being labelled simply as a nuisance to being a serious illness that has to be
      accounted and medicated. More importantly, such illness was proven to cause asthma and
      sinusitis [3].

      One of the popular nutritional supplements used in treating allergies such as allergic
      rhinitis, allergic sinusitis, inhalant allergens, and environmental allergens is
      Methylsulfonylmethane [4].

      Methylsulfonylmethane (MSM), also known as dimethyl sulfone and methyl sulfone, is an organic
      compound containing sulfur that occurs naturally in a variety of fruits, vegetables, grains,
      and animals, including humans [5]. It is also used in treating arthritis pain,
      musculoskeletal pain, parasitic infections, rosacea, stretch marks, and alopecia among others
      [4].

      The use of MSM was found to be effective in reducing symptoms of seasonal allergic rhinitis
      (SAR). It improves the frequency of upper respiratory signs and symptoms such as runny nose,
      nasal obstruction, and paroxysmal sneezing after a week of oral intake. Furthermore, few side
      effects were observed, but were not deemed to be of great significance. Thus, MSM was
      evaluated as a safe medication for SAR [6].

      Likewise, MSM administration in rats displayed no adverse events or mortality. No
      pathological lesions or changes in organ weights were observed [4, 7]. It is proved that MSM
      is well tolerated in rats and can be a dietary supplement for allergies [4]. In addition,
      pregnant rats orally administered with MSM showed no adverse effects as well [8]. MSM can be
      rapidly absorbed, well distributed, and completely disposed from the body 120 hours after
      initial administration [9].

      This randomized, double-blind, adaptive design study aims to prove that the
      Methylsulfonylmethane study product improves nasal breathing and "stuffy nose" symptoms after
      exposure to environmental allergens. Endpoints include percent change in Peak Nasal
      Inspiratory Flow, VAS Nasal Symptom Score, number of sneezes and number of used tissues in
      response to allergen exposure.
    
  