
    
      In the oral cavity, the soft tissue of the alveolar ridge can be classified as keratinized
      mucosa (KM) or alveolar mucosa (AM). Typically KM forms a cuff around an implant, while AM is
      farther away and covers the alveolar ridge, as well the lips, the inside of the cheeks, the
      floor of the mouth under the tongue. KM is pink in color and has a keratinized epithelium. AM
      is red and has a non-keratinized epithelium. Due to anatomical or surgical reasons KM on the
      buccal site might be missing. Therefore implants without KM have AM directly around their
      collar. The two groups in the research will be defined according to the presence or absence
      of KM. Group 1 will be implants with KM and Group 2 implants without KM. In Group 2 AM will
      be directly present around the implant.

      Although specific situations recommend a minimal width of 2 mm of keratinized tissue around
      teeth to prevent gingival inflammation, the influence of keratinized tissue on peri-implant
      clinical and patient-reported outcomes still needs to be investigated. Many authors have
      stated that that the presence of peri-implant keratinized mucosa is a prerequisite for the
      maintenance of soft tissue health and have advocated for soft tissue augmentation procedures
      around implants. Nevertheless, since other authors failed to demonstrate a significant
      association between clinical inflammatory parameters and the quality of peri-implant mucosa,
      soft tissue augmentation procedures are not recommended, unless the patient reports pain and
      discomfort while brushing around an implant without KM or unless there are esthetic concerns.
      Those recommendations are however not evidence-based. To the best of our knowledge no
      prospective studies have been conducted to evaluate systematically discomfort during brushing
      at implant sites and patient soft tissue esthetic assessment, with special emphasis on the
      quality of peri-implant soft tissue.

      Dental implants can be placed according to a one-stage or a two-stage protocol. For two-stage
      implant surgery, as is required for this study, there are the following steps (stages).

        1. Implant placement surgery occurs. At this time, the implant is placed in the bone. A
           cover screw is placed on top of the implant and then covered with mucosa (gums).

        2. After a period of a few months to allow for healing, the mucosa (gums) on top of the
           implant is opened making a small incision. The cover screw is removed. Then, an
           additional implant piece called a healing abutment is placed that penetrates through the
           gums. This healing abutment allows for soft tissues to heal around the implant abutment
           before an impression is made for the manufacture of the implant crown.

      Additional steps are then required for placement of the implant crown (artificial tooth). For
      this study, the baseline visit will be at the time of step 2. The implant will already have
      been placed previously and the patient will be returning to the clinic for their scheduled
      second stage surgery.

      Discomfort while brushing at an implant site is a parameter that clinical trials should
      include. In a recent study it was reported that 6 patients out of 16 reported discomfort
      while brushing implants without KM, while no patients reported discomfort while brushing in
      the group of implants with KM. Higher plaque accumulation was also found around implants
      without KM. In this study, however, there were some limitations, such as a lack of
      standardization in terms of OH instructions and absence of adequate description of the
      outcome discomfort. Finally an esthetic evaluation of the implant-supported restoration was
      not reported. Since patient esthetic evaluation on the appearance of the soft tissue is less
      optimal than the overall esthetic evaluation and esthetic concerns might justify soft tissue
      augmentation procedures around implants, further prospective studies should be focused on
      patient soft tissue esthetic assessment.

      A survey was conducted to assess the validity and the reliability of a visual analogue scale
      (VAS) for discomfort during brushing at implant site and VAS for esthetic satisfaction of the
      soft tissue around implants (IRB #10863 Testing the validity and reliability of a survey to
      record discomfort during brushing around dental implants and patient-assessed soft tissue
      esthetic satisfaction at implant-supported restorations). The face and content validity of
      the scales was assessed by showing them to 5 lay people and 5 postgraduate residents in the
      Department of Periodontology at Tufts University School of Dental Medicine. The five lay
      people were asked whether the questions on both surveys were phrased appropriately, and
      whether the scales were clear. All subjects answered positively. The 5 postgraduate residents
      reported that VAS was the appropriate method to measure the variable "discomfort while
      brushing around implants" and to measure patient-assessed soft tissue esthetic satisfaction.
      However, for both the 10 cm VAS scales, the majority of subjects (lay people and residents)
      pointed out that there was a lack of directionality. Therefore it was decided to add numbers
      to the scales. For discomfort during brushing the scale had on the left side displayed as 0
      the absence of discomfort and on the right as 10 the maximum discomfort. For esthetic
      satisfaction, the left side of the scale represented no satisfaction as 0, while 10 at the
      right end of the scale represented extreme satisfaction.

      Fifteen (15) patients in the Department of Periodontology at Tufts University School of
      Dental Medicine were recruited to assess the reliability of the VAS scales for discomfort
      during brushing and for soft tissue esthetic satisfaction at implant sites. The following
      question was asked: "If the left side of the scale is the absence of discomfort and the right
      side of the scale is extreme discomfort, how much discomfort do you have while brushing
      around your implant?". The question for the second VAS was: "If the left side of the scale is
      no satisfaction and the right side of the scale is extreme satisfaction, how satisfied are
      you with the appearance of the gums around your implant?". The patient marked a line with a
      fine point marker or pen at the level of one of the numbers below the scales. The reliability
      of the instruments was tested using the test-retest method, administrating the survey
      instruments to the same subjects at a time difference of 30 minutes. Fourteen and 12 subjects
      had the same results on both the first and second survey for discomfort during brushing and
      soft tissue esthetic satisfaction. Therefore the 2 scales were considered a reliable method
      to record the outcome of interests.

      The main objective of this study is to define, for the first time, whether the presence of KM
      around dental implants is required from both patients' and clinicians' perspectives, a
      concept with important clinical implications that has been the source of controversy in the
      field. The need to include patient-reported outcomes (PROs) in implant dentistry has been
      emphasized in many recently published reviews. Because patients ultimately seek professional
      care to improve their own quality of life, optimal care is achieved not only if some specific
      clinical standards are met, but also if patient expectations are satisfied and their quality
      of life is improved. Indeed, in an evidence-based approach, it is important to address these
      aspects of treatment as well. The impact of this study will be high, since its successful
      execution will provide a rationale for using soft tissue augmentation procedures in implant
      therapy, based on PROs and other clinical assessed outcomes.
    
  