
    
      The health and economic consequences of Type 2 diabetes mellitus are largely attributable to
      its complications, which can be prevented or delayed by good disease control, achieved
      through medical care and self-management. Diabetes Self- Management Education (DSME) programs
      are effective and cost-effective, and part of standard care in high-income countries, but are
      unavailable in Thai healthcare system, despite universal coverage of medical aspects of
      diabetes care. Negative perceptions of educational programs, sustained by a lack of
      high-quality local data, and concerns about burden on existing staff time and costs are
      thought to be responsible.

      Given the focus on community-based education for chronic diseases in recent primary
      healthcare reforms, it is timely to scale-up DSME in Thailand, if an affordable model of
      delivery for a locally-tailored intervention can be found. The aim is to work in close
      collaboration with the Thai Ministry of Public Health to develop, pilot and evaluate a
      peer-based DSME program and delivery model. A final list of policy recommendations for
      optimal integration into the Thai healthcare system will be produced.

      The aim is to identify a scalable model for delivery of DSME across Thailand.

      Specific project objectives are:

        1. To design a prototype of the DSME intervention

        2. To refine the intervention prototype and trial design

        3. To evaluate the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of the intervention under two
           alternative modes of delivery (nurse-led and peer-led)

        4. To identify the 'best buy' model for scale-up of DSME delivery in the Thai health
           system.

      The primary hypothesis is that either model of DSME delivery will be effective and
      cost-effective, but the peer-led model will be a more scalable option for the Thai health
      system.

      The two key research gaps in scientific literature that will be addressed are:

        1. Clinical and cost-effectiveness of DSME programs in low- and middle-income countries,
           specifically Thailand

        2. Role of peer programs in supporting complex behaviour change generally, and its
           implementation in low- and middle-income settings specifically.

      The main expected outcomes are:

        1. Development of a fully worked-up rapidly scalable model for DSME delivery in Thailand;

        2. Capacity building of emerging Thai researchers and practitioners (nurses, village health
           volunteers) in the science and delivery of complex behavioural interventions, which
           could be expanded to other chronic conditions;

        3. Long-term collaborative research links between UK and Thai researchers.
    
  