
    
      Critically ill patients with acute lung injury and acute respiratory distress syndrome
      (ALI/ARDS) who receive mechanical ventilation can suffer from severe sleep disruption despite
      continuous sedative infusions. Sleep disruption, in turn, may activate the sympathetic
      nervous system and cause elevation of circulating inflammatory cytokines, which, in turn, may
      play a causative role in delirium and post-traumatic stress disorder through consolidation of
      unpleasant memories during awakenings from sleep. Currently, there is very little
      understanding of the inter-relationship between critical illness, sleep, and
      neuropsychological well-being, due to the lack of intervention-based trials that improve
      sleep during critical illness. The central purpose of this proposal is to study the
      short-term effects of sedation with sympatholysis (central α2 adrenergic agent) on sleep and
      inflammation in critically ill patients with ALI/ARDS. Sedation with sympatholysis will be
      achieved by a novel sleep-promoting agent with central α2 adrenergic properties. This FDA
      approved novel sedative agent, dexmedetomidine, has been shown to decrease delirium (an
      independent predictor of mortality) and decrease duration of mechanical ventilation and ICU
      stay in critically ill patients receiving mechanical ventilation (Riker et al, JAMA
      2009;301:542-44 and Pandharipande et al, JAMA 2007;298:2644-53). We will undertake sleep
      studies and measure circulating inflammatory cytokines that modulate sleep in patients with
      ALI/ARDS randomized to receive two different sedation strategies: central α2 adrenergic
      sedative-analgesic (dexmedetomidine) versus a conventional sedation strategy (midazolam and
      fentanyl) in a randomized, double blind, cross-over study. Specific Aim 1: To assess the
      short-term effect of an α2 adrenergic agent on sleep quality in critically ill patients with
      ALI/ARDS. Specific Aim 2: To assess the short-term effect of an α2 adrenergic agent on
      sleep-modulating inflammatory cytokines in critically ill patients with ALI/ARDS. Specific
      aim 3: To determine the effect of α2 adrenergic agent on the in-vitro production of
      sleep-modulating inflammatory cytokines by peripheral blood mononuclear cells of patients
      with ALI/ARDS. Collectively, our study will identify whether sleep disruption in such
      patients can be minimized. In the long-term, this program of research will identify sedation
      practices that are least associated with adverse short- and long-term consequences of
      critical illness, and thereby ultimately help improve quality of life of patients surviving
      critical illness
    
  