
    
      "Sickle cell disease is an inherited blood disorder characterized by defective hemoglobin (a
      protein in red blood cells that carries oxygen to the tissues of the body).

      Sickle cell disease involves the red blood cells, or hemoglobin, and their ability to carry
      oxygen. Normal hemoglobin cells are smooth, round, and flexible, like the letter "O," so they
      can move through the vessels in our bodies easily. Sickle cell hemoglobin cells are stiff and
      sticky and form into the shape of a sickle, or the letter "C," when they lose their oxygen.
      These sickle cells tend to cluster together and cannot easily move through the blood vessels.
      The cluster causes a blockage in small arteries or capillaries and stops the movement of
      healthy, normal oxygen-carrying blood. This blockage is what causes the painful and damaging
      complications of sickle cell disease".

      "Acute vaso-occlusive crisis (VOC) is a hallmark of sickle cell disease (SCD). Multiple
      complex pathophysiological processes can result in pain during a VOC. Despite significant
      improvements in the understanding and management of SCD, little progress has been made in the
      management of pain in SCD, although new treatments are being explored".

      The Painful Episodes:

      "The day-to-day management of sickle cell disease often equates with the management of acute
      and chronic pain. Patients manage many painful events at home so that hospital visits
      underestimate the frequency of pain

      Acute painful episodes are the most commonly encountered vaso-occlusive events in patients of
      all ages. Presumed to be caused by sickle vaso-occlusion, pain often starts in young children
      as the hand-foot syndrome or dactylitis, a painful swelling of hands and feet due to
      inflammation of the metacarpal and metatarsal periosteum. Painful episodes, which last from
      hours to many days, usually occur with little warning and a clear precipitating event is not
      often found.
    
  