
    
      Clostridium difficile (C.Diff) infection is the leading cause of hospital acquired infection
      and infectious diarrhea in hospitalized patients. Eradication treatment for this infection is
      the challenging task for clinicians due to treatment resistance developed from new
      hypervirulent strains. The recurrence rate of this infection is around 20% and there is high
      likelihood (60-70%) of another episode after index recurrence. Given constant challenges new
      treatment options are under study.

      The purpose of this study is to examine if the addition of bismuth subsalicylate (BSS) (the
      active ingredient in Pepto-Bismol) 524 mg ((2) 262 mg tablets) given four times per day for
      14 days to standard of care treatment of C.Diff will decrease the length of stay and decrease
      the time to resolution of C.Diff symptoms compared to patients who received standard of care
      treatment for C.Diff alone.

      Bismuth subsalicylate has been used for long time in infectious diarrhea and is over the
      counter drug with few side effects. Studies in hamsters have shown bismuth subsalicylate to
      be effective in treating C.Diff. Investigators believe given cheaper cost and less side
      effect profile this drug is worth looking for treatment of C.Diff infection which has a huge
      burden on health care.

      This is an open label, randomized, controlled trial. Hospitalized patients aged 18 years or
      older with positive stool test for C.Diff toxin will be randomized to one of two treatment
      groups:

      Group 1 will receive standard of care treatment for C.Diff alone Group 2 will receive BSS 524
      mg four times daily for 14 days along with standard of care treatment Oral antibiotic therapy
      will be limited to oral vancomycin 125 mg every 6 hours daily which is the standard dose for
      the treatment of clostridium difficile.

      Length of stay and time to resolution of symptoms will be measured and compared between the
      two treatment groups as primary outcomes. Resolution of symptoms is defined has having < 3
      diarrheal episodes in 24 hours. The study will also record episodes of recurrence, defined as
      the reappearance of symptoms within 8 weeks of the completion of antibiotic treatment and the
      resolution of initial symptoms. Recurrence rates will be compared between the two treatment
      groups as a secondary outcome.

      Both Groups 1 & 2 will have 2 week and 8 week follow up phone calls. Group 1 participants
      will be called 2 weeks after consent/enrollment in the study to verify antibiotic therapy is
      completed, verify when/if CDiff symptoms resolved, collect data about any adverse events.
      Group 2 participants will be called 2 weeks after the initiation of study drug (which should
      be < 24 hours after consent). The visit window will start on the day the participant is
      scheduled to complete study drug. The purpose of the call will be to verify that both
      antibiotics and study drug have been completed, verify when/if CDiff symptoms resolved, and
      collect data about any adverse events.

      Both Groups 1 and 2 participants will be called 8 weeks after the expected (or known)
      completion date of antibiotic therapy prescribed for the treatment of CDiff to see if CDiff
      symptoms have recurred and if there have been any adverse events..
    
  