
    
      Continuous glucose monitoring checks blood glucose continuously. This allows the patient and
      provider to see what the glucose does between finger stick measurements. The FreeStyle Libre,
      is a sensor patch that can continuously measure glucose for up to two weeks.

      Objectives To see if new continuous glucose technology can 1) Improve glucose management in
      the hospital compared to finger sticks 4-5 times per day. 2) Help with glucose control during
      transition of care from hospital to home and follow-up in the office The main hypothesis of
      this study is if the additional glucose information improves diabetes care for patients in
      the hospital and after the transition to home.

      Background The FreeStyle Libre Pro was recently approved by the FDA. It is a patch applied to
      the skin with glucose containing sensing technology that will record the subcutaneous blood
      continuously for up to 2 weeks. It has the potential to reduce the number of painful glucose
      checks done by pricking the finger. It is currently approved for use in the office.

      Study Method A pilot using the FreeStyle Libre to assess its potential benefits in patients
      with diabetes starting when they are inpatients and continuing during the transition of care
      to the outpatient setting to see if diabetes care can be improved after discharge. To our
      knowledge, there are currently no studies on using CGM to help the transition of care.

      Protocol Outline

        1. Apply the FreeStyle Libre Pro to patients in the on 4-5 glucose checks per day by finger
           stick with insulin ordered at least 4 times per day with patient consent.

        2. Download the FreeStyle Libre each day and evaluate if the continuous data changes the
           treatment in the hospital.

        3. The patient will continue to wear the patch on discharge to home.

        4. At an after hospital office visit, the patient's data will again be downloaded and
           compared to finger stick glucoses done at home. Another evaluation well be done to see
           if this additional information changes therapy.

        5. Additionally, an overall evaluation will be done comparing the glucoses on the FreeStyle
           Libre Pro with finger stick glucoses to evaluate if the accuracy is adequate for
           clinical decision making.

      Population Studied Estimated number of subjects: 15 Age (inclusive) Ages 18 and above Sex
      (estimate M:F ratio) No sexual preference The population is patients in the hospital
      requiring 4-5 finger stick glucoses a day and orders on insulin. Patient should also be able
      to follow-up in the Diabetes Clinic to download and review the information and have no
      contraindication to the patch such as an adhesive allergy.

      Recruitment Patient consulted for diabetes management in the hospital who are on 4-5 finger
      stick glucoses per day and insulin will be approached.

      Risks and Benefits Benefits are chance to try new method of checking blood glucose. There are
      potential benefits if additional information improves their care. Downloads will be reviewed
      and shared with patients whenever possible. Risks are pain on application of the patch and
      possible allergies to the adhesive. (2) others: Potential benefit is improvement in diabetes
      care during hospitalization and transition of care. See no downside for others.

      Alternative Treatments Standard care will be provided to all patients. They are under no
      obligation to try the patch. The patient may discontinue the patch and drop out of the study
      at any time. If the patient elects to enroll in the study, information from the patch
      download may be used to modify the treatment. If and how often this happens is one of the
      study outcomes.
    
  