
    
      The Asian American population is the fast-growing racial group during 2000 and 2010. Smoking
      prevalence among that Vietnamese (43%), Chinese (32%), and Korean (27%) men who spoke limited
      English are disproportionately higher than that of men of all races combined (17%). Thus,
      some Asian groups, including Chinese, Korean and Vietnamese, have an unequal burden of
      tobacco-related diseases. Asian Health Services (AHS) is a federally-qualified health center
      in Alameda County, California, providing services in English and 12 different Asian
      languages. The vast majority of the patients are Chinese, Vietnamese, and Korean with low
      income. Because of high smoking rates and associated health impacts on patients and their
      families, promoting smoking cessation is a health priority for AHS. The Vietnamese Community
      Health Promotion Project (VCHPP) at UCSF has conducted numerous intervention studies to
      promote smoking cessation among Asian Americans. Given the shared research interest, AHS and
      VCHPP have partnered to address smoking in Asian Americans. The partners received a TRDRP
      pilot Community-Academic Research Award grant to develop an interactive "Mobile Doctor" (iMD)
      intervention in Korean and Vietnamese languages that delivers video education tailored to
      patient's responses on a computer tablet during the clinic visit to enhance patient-provider
      discussion of tobacco use. The primary goal of the proposed study is to evaluate the iMD
      intervention with an expansion to the Chinese language in its efficacy to promote
      patient-provider discussion and quitting smoking in Chinese, Korean, and Vietnamese male
      smokers. The study will enroll 150 AHS Chinese-, Korean- or Vietnamese-speaking patients who
      smoke daily and have a scheduled clinic visit. Participants will then be assigned (by chance)
      into either receiving 1) iMD on tobacco or 2) video education on nutrition and physical
      activity recommendations. Participants will be assessed at: before the scheduled intervention
      visit, immediately after or within one week of the intervention visit, and 6 months following
      the intervention visit. Additional data will be obtained from EHR. The investigators
      anticipate that, when compared to participants receiving usual care alone, those who receive
      the iMD will be more likely to receive physician advice on their tobacco use both at their
      intervention visit and at one visit following the intervention visit within 6 months as
      documented in EHR; and at 6 months follow-up, those receiving the iMD will be more likely to
      report having been able to quit smoking for at least one day during the study period, and to
      have reported having quit smoking for at least 7 days with their abstinence status verified
      using a saliva sample. The long-term goal is to understand effective ways to enhance
      patient-provider communication in tobacco use and to leverage each clinic encounter in
      promoting smoking cessation among patients in community health settings.
    
  