
    
      Ankylosing spondylitis is a chronic, progressive disease with an unknown etiology which
      characterize with inflammation that leads to bone fusion in spinal joints. Besides the
      systemic manifestations, chronic pain acquired kyphosis, diminished exercise capacity may
      cause pulmonary dysfunction, muscle imbalance, reduced quality of life, sleep disruptions and
      depression. There are strong evidence and advice on exercise should start with diagnosis.
      Although stretching exercises are the most common exercises in this group the literature on
      the effectiveness of stretching exercises is scarce. The aim of the study is to investigate
      the effectiveness stretching exercises in ankylosing spondylitis.

      The study was carried on patients with ankylosing spondylitis followed by Division of
      Rheumatology and Immunology, Department of Internal Medicine, Dokuz Eylül University School
      of Medicine. 57 patients were assessed and randomized into two group control and
      intervention. Control group informed on the importance of exercise and given a home exercise
      brochure. The intervention group was also randomized into an aquatic and land stretching
      group and received stretching exercises two days a week for eight weeks. Two patients from
      the control group and nine patients (three from aquatic, six from land) from the intervention
      group were excluded.

      At the end of eight weeks, except FEV1, FVC, VC all results of the intervention group
      improved whereas an quality of health was the only result improved in the control group. When
      aquatic and land stretching groups the results were improved similarly. The improvements of
      BASFI and MIP of the aquatic group are superior to the land group.

      Home exercises are playing an important role in the management of ankylosing spondylitis.
      Addition of stretching exercises to home exercises enhances the effectiveness of the
      treatment. Aquatic stretching exercises have some benefits than land stretching exercises.
    
  