
    
      In the clinic, physicians are reluctant to use thrombolysis, Defibrase and anticoagulation
      therapy because of the severity of symptoms, poor prognosis, risk of hemorrhage and high
      fatality rate that occur with acute massive cerebral infarction. Nimodipine, as a selective
      Ca2+ antagonist, is highly liposoluble, effectively crosses the blood-brain barrier,
      selectively acts on intracranial blood vessels, and is an accepted neuroprotective agent that
      can be applied in the clinic. The aim of the present study is to perform a double-blind,
      randomized and controlled trial of the clinical efficacy and safety of nimodipine
      administered as an intravenous drip in the early stages of acute massive cerebral infarction.

      Patients will receive nimodipine within 3 days of infarction onset. We will closely monitor
      the following: (1) Blood pressure and heart rate of the patient before treatment, since
      nimodipine is contraindicated in patients with hypotension and low heart rate. Where blood
      pressure is ≥ 100/80 mmHg and heart rate ≥ 60 BPM, nimodipine will be administered. (2) Speed
      of infusion. This should not be too fast; we suggest 1-2 drops per minute initially,
      increasing gradually until the drop in systolic pressure exceeds 10 mmHg. The average drip
      speed should be 6-8 drops/minute, and the fastest drip speed 10 drops/minute. (3) During the
      infusion, physicians should monitor adverse reactions such as headache, dizziness, flushing
      or sweating. If any occur, the infusion speed must be reduced. If the patients remain
      uncomfortable, nimodipine should be withdrawn. (4) Liver and kidney function should be
      monitored throughout nimodipine administration.

      Although nimodipine is relatively safe, there is still a risk of some adverse effects, such
      as cardiovascular system reactions (blood pressure decreases, bradycardia, angina, and
      atrioventricular block), headache, dizziness, edema, and liver and kidney dysfunction. It is
      necessary to determine the optimal therapeutic time window and dose of nimodipine in
      multi-center, large-scale clinical trials.
    
  