
    
      Protocol Design:

      This is a specimen, imaging and data collection protocol designed with the purpose of
      understanding the immune responses to vaccines and infections in adult subjects through
      collection of tissue specimens and medical history data, and radiographic imaging. The
      information gained will enhance the knowledge of immune correlates of protection and will
      help in laboratory work related to the development and validation of immunological assays.
      This protocol will allow Vaccine Research Center (VRC) investigators and collaborators to
      evaluate tissue level immune responses in subjects who are recipients of Food and Drug
      Administration (FDA)-licensed vaccines, recipients of VRC clinical trials vaccines, control
      subjects, and naturally infected subjects as examples of naturally acquired immunity. Immune
      responses will be evaluated using collection of blood, body fluids, mucosal and tissue
      samples; conducting radiographic imaging; and performing clinical evaluations for research
      rather than therapeutic goals. The underlying hypothesis for this protocol is that detailed
      studies of immune responses in blood and a diversity of tissue types, including a variety of
      mucosal surfaces, will further the understanding of immune responses following vaccination or
      recovery from an infectious disease and will advance development of vaccines against
      existing, new, and re-emerging pathogens.

      Subjects:

      Volunteers 18 years of age and older who agree to collection, use, and storage of specimens
      and images for research purposes will be enrolled. Participants must not be pregnant or
      breast-feeding for certain study sample collection procedures. A maximum of 500 subjects will
      be enrolled in the protocol.

      Study Plan:

      Subjects will receive information about study procedures and, if willing to participate, will
      sign the study informed consent. FDA-licensed vaccines may be administered to some study
      subjects as part of study participation. As per NIH Clinical Center (CC) policy, where
      appropriate, subjects will provide additional informed consent for study procedures.

      Duration:

      Individual subjects may donate samples as often as permitted by the protocol and NIH CC
      guidelines. The CC guidance on the volume of blood drawn and other inpatient/outpatient
      procedures will be followed. The protocol will undergo continuing review by the Institutional
      Review Board (IRB) annually.
    
  