
    
      Femoral shaft fractures typically occur alongside other complex, high-energy injuries in the
      poly-traumatized patient. Femur fractures can cause extensive bleeding and surrounding muscle
      injury, and have a high global burden; occurring at a rate between 14 and 42.5 /100,000
      person years, with approximately 1 in 10 road traffic accidents worldwide resulting in a
      femoral shaft fracture requiring surgery. Additionally, there is significant disparity in the
      burden of diaphyseal femur fractures, with 91% occurring in lower middle-class income
      countries, and the majority affecting younger males.

      To help mitigate the effects of ongoing pain, blood-loss, worsening inflammation from
      unstable fracture ends, femoral shaft fractures require urgent management using either an
      early total-care or damage-control orthopaedics approach. Associated injuries, markers of
      resuscitation, and overall patient stability guide operative decision making and the timing
      of surgical intervention. Definitive internal fixation using reamed, locked intramedullary
      nailing (IMN) has become the standard of care in an adequately resuscitated patient, as it
      provides fracture stability while facilitating nursing care and patient mobilization.
      Multiple femoral IMN techniques exist; however, most femoral shaft fractures can be treated
      with an antegrade nail using either supine (fracture table) or lateral (free-leg drape)
      positioning.

      Femoral Malrotation is a Common and Significant Complication

      Despite the adoption of femoral IMN, patient-reported function following femur fracture
      fixation varies widely. Incorrect positioning of the fracture fragments by more than 15°
      relative to the native limb rotation (femoral malrotation) is associated with poor functional
      recovery, low health-related quality of life, gait abnormalities, difficulty with stairs, and
      delayed return to pre-injury activity. Significant femoral malrotation (>15°) occurs in up to
      55% of patients following femoral shaft fracture IMN, as measured by post-operative computer
      tomography (CT) scans. Numerous intraoperative assessments have been used to judge rotation,
      including cortical diameter, lesser trochanter profile and others; though none are easily
      reproducible or reliable. The preferred technique by surgeons is the lesser trochanter
      profile, but this method requires a true anteroposterior view of the pelvis, which can be
      challenging to obtain with the fracture table in place.

      A Lack of Consensus On Operative Table and Patient Positioning While the orthopaedic surgery
      community agrees that femoral shaft fractures should be treated with IMN, there is a lack of
      agreement on whether the patient should be placed in the supine position on fracture table
      (SFT) or in the lateral position on a standard radiolucent operating table (LRT). Our
      research team recently conducted a survey of the Canadian Orthopaedic Association membership
      and found a clear divide on patient positioning, with 56% of respondents using supine
      position on fracture table and 44% using a form of lateral positioning.

      A recent comprehensive review identified only three studies on this specific topic. The best
      existing evidence of the previous literature comes from a prospective randomized trial led by
      Stephen et al. The authors described that supine positioning without use of fracture table
      yielded better post-operative rotation than patients treated with a fracture table. However,
      this study did not assess the utility of lateral positioning, which is more commonly used in
      isolated femoral shaft fractures. Moreover, the study was unable to associate malrotation
      with patient important outcomes or gait abnormalities. This clearly leaves much uncertainty
      surrounding optimal patient positioning during the definitive treatment of these critical
      injuries.

      Proponents of positioning femoral shaft fracture patients using SFT argue that the fracture
      table provides a constant traction force to stabilize the fractured limb and allows for
      better intraoperative imaging. This arguably allows surgeons to reduce operative time and
      minimize the need for surgical assistants. However, possible downsides of this technique
      include the need for more invasive surgical adjuncts if there is ongoing difficulty with
      fracture reduction. Furthermore, constant and prolonged traction poses known risks to
      neurovascular structures associated with the central post, and may overpower feedback from
      the natural resting tone of the surrounding thigh musculature, possibly leading to a higher
      incidence of fixation in a malrotated position. Additionally, fracture tables are expensive
      and require additional setup in the operating room prior to the procedure.

      Orthopedic surgeons who prefer the LRT believe it offers improved access to the start point
      for IMN as well as to the rest of the femur for manipulation, resulting in a better reduction
      of the fractured limb. With the entire limb free of traction, the thigh sits in a relatively
      adducted position at rest and the soft tissues tend to fall away from the operative field.
      The fracture fragments can be readily accessed and freely manipulated, with muscles returning
      to their resting tension as alignment is restored. It is believed that this leads to leads to
      improved limb alignment and less malrotation. Furthermore, there may be benefits to the
      overall patient, many of whom have other severe injuries that may also be impacted by
      intraoperative positioning. A recent cohort study, which was adjusted for associated
      injuries, found that patients treated using the LRT had shorter ICU stays and reduced number
      of days on a ventilator, indicating that there may be a protective effect from a respiratory
      standpoint. Additionally, the standard operating room table is readily available, less
      expense, and does not require additional setup prior to the procedure. However, there are
      concerns that lateral positioning may lead to longer operative times as additional
      positioning aids and reduction maneuvers may be required. Specifically, patients receiving
      delayed fixation may pose a challenge due to increased muscle shortening and tone that may be
      difficult to overcome with manual traction alone.

      Limited previous studies align with biomechanical principles, and suggest that lateral
      positioning holds potential to reduce the incidence of femoral malrotation and avoid
      complications associated with the use of a fracture table; leading to improved patient
      function. Addressing malrotation by using the LRT may represent a simple and reproducible
      intervention that may improve quality of life for the patient.

      NEED FOR A TRIAL Currently, the choice between the two techniques is dependent on surgeon
      preference, with very limited evidence to guide decision making. A large definitive trial is
      needed to answer this question and allow orthopaedic surgeons to make an evidence-based
      decision on how to treat patients with femoral shaft fractures, while reducing the incidence
      of malrotation and improving patient outcomes. Prior to embarking on a large definitive
      cluster randomized crossover trial (CRXO), a pilot study is needed to demonstrate
      feasibility. A pilot study would assess areas of uncertainty that may impact feasibility to
      perform the definitive trial, including achieving adequate recruitment, adherence to
      protocol, and minimal contamination.
    
  