
    
      There are currently 14 Networks of UK dedicated Specialist Difficult Asthma Services
      submitting data to the UK Registry: Belfast City Hospital; Royal Brompton & Harefield,
      London; Birmingham Regional Severe Asthma Service; South Thames & Kent Severe Asthma Service;
      East Midlands Severe Asthma Network; North West Midlands Severe Asthma Service; Yorkshire
      Asthma MDT; East of England Severe Asthma Network; Wessex Severe Asthma Network; South West
      Asthma Network; North West Asthma Network, Newcastle Severe Asthma Network and Greater
      Glasgow & Clyde.

      The Registry was set up to standardise clinical services in the UK and facilitate research
      into patients with difficult asthma. Patients that attend difficult asthma services across
      the UK are approached to give consent for inclusion. The Registry is hosted online by
      Dendrite Clinical Systems and admits password protected anonymised data, after fully informed
      written consent is obtained from patients (see Patient Information and Consent sheets). The
      individual centre data can be downloaded locally by registered users for audit purposes. The
      Registry records patient demographics including gender, age at diagnosis, race, occupation,
      smoking status, BMI. Disease characteristics such as asthma medication, unscheduled
      healthcare visits, exacerbations, hospital and ICU admissions, blood and sputum
      investigations, allergen testing, pulmonary function are also recorded in the registry.

      Subjects have been entered into the Registry in a non-selected manner and there are currently
      over 4800 subjects in the Registry with detailed demographic, disease characteristics and
      health outcome data. Of these subjects, the majority after detailed assessment fulfil the
      American Thoracic Society definition of refractory asthma, whilst others after detailed
      assessment are identified as having non-refractory asthma.

      The Registry has also been expanded to collect data on bronchial thermoplasty in line with
      NICE Guidance on bronchial thermoplasty for severe asthma
      (http://www.nice.org.uk/guidance/ipg419).

      the Registry with detailed demographic, disease characteristics and health outcome data.

      As part of NHS England Central Commissioning for Specialist Severe Asthma Services, all
      specialist centres in the UK will be required to input data into the Registry to enable
      benchmarking between centres.
    
  