
    
      Since the end of the nineties, pedagogical transformations question traditional pedagogical
      system which supports a passive learning from master to student, trying to overcome classical
      " teaching paradigm" to " learning paradigm ". Despite several critics, the notion of "
      professional competence " emerges as one of the essential purpose of learning. Competence
      might be defined as " complex ability that professional built, starting from a specialized
      knowledge base, developed and controlled by a collegial peer who constitute the profession ",
      implying " a reflexive practice inside and after action " which creates or increases new
      competence in return.

      However in french context, this paradigmatic revolution didn't really happened yet, including
      in psychiatry. Moreover, there are no engineering didactic work on specific skills required
      by a physician (psychiatrist or not) should have in care of a patient with psychiatric
      disorders. For instance, skills required when a surgeon has to deliver a "clear, loyal and
      adjusted" information to a patient with a schizophrenia ; and try to get his or her agreement
      so as to operate a intestinal blockage? As a matter of facts, no integrated competence
      referential will be able to be a reference in this work.

      In a report which is nowadays a reference for the faculties of medicine all over the world,
      the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada (CRMCC) define a framework of
      essential skills that each physician have to control: medical expertise, erudition ;
      communicational and relational abilities; collaboration ; professionalism ; management;
      health promotion. In the French context, skills that each medical student have to provide fo
      the psychiatric speciality are defined by 33 questions of national classifying exam (ECN).
      The " Psychiatry and Addictology Referential " points to medical students the reference
      knowledge to provide to respond to these questions during the challenge of ECN. But this
      referential doesn't explain skills, abilities and attitudes required with a patient with
      psychiatric disorders.

      The places of providing essential skills defined by CRMCC applied in French psychiatry (as
      relational and communicational skills for instance) are thus often situated in others spaces.
      Realization of well supervised clerkship in psychiatry constitutes for example one of the
      privilege way of skills acquisition. Nonetheless in French context, all the undergraduate
      students can benefit from psychiatry during their clerkship; especially because of the
      rarefaction of well supervised internship (decreasing demography of psychiatrist), associated
      with increase number of medical student over the past few years. Moreover, realization of an
      only internship can not include all the diversity of main family situation that should be
      known by each physician; mainly because of dichotomy of internship between adult and child
      and adolescent psychiatry, specific populations specific who go to different service
      according to there trouble (emergencies, closed unit, expert diagnosis centers…). Providing
      pedagogical tools allowing acquisition of basic skills, abilities and attitudes
      (complementary to knowledge and know-repeat) to care patient with psychiatric disorders seems
      thus interesting, for improving medical training.

      Besides, assessment modalities determine for students work methodology and time involved in
      each learning, following Hawthorne effect. Assessments support learning assessed, involving
      long term memory, following " testing effect " ; and hierarchize planning of ulterior
      learning activities. Trials of ECN in this current shape will probably value acquisition of
      declarative knowledge for students who would like to succeed in the competition; to the
      detriment of know-how and life skills. These skills to care patients who suffer from
      psychiatric disorders won't be neither provided during a specialty residency, unless it might
      be especially oriented to psychiatry. Thus, it seems important to wider summative assessment
      modalities in psychiatry during undergraduate medical studies, so as to value acquisition of
      the wall skills required for a physician in care of a patient with psychiatric disorders.
      Which implies precise explanation of skills, abilities and attitudes needed, to balance
      success of ECN with their acquisition. In that context, simulation can offer a good response
      to this double aim : formative et summative. However, if some theorical approach are
      references to understand learning process in simulation, very few learning tool are validated
      in simulation, and none, to our knowledge, did a modelisation on learning process in
      psychiatric simulation for medical students.

      Objectives:

      This study aims to explore learning process in a simulation training using simulated patients
      in psychiatry for 5th year medical students.

      This study is one of the 3 studies included in a PhD on learning process during simulation
      training in psychiatry.

      The results of this 3 studies will aim at building a formative and summative assessment tool
      of competences specific to this pedagogic context

      Methodology:

      A convenient sample of 72 voluntary medical students, allocated among 6 groups of around 12
      students, will be recruited at Paris Descartes, Paris Diderot and Brest Universities between
      september of 2018 and june of 2019. Each participant will be offered to complete 6 hours of
      psychiatric simulation training, dealing with mood disorders, anxious disorders, eating
      disorders, borderline disorders, substance abuse and schizophrenia.

      Study design is a mixted method study, following grounded theory including:

        -  Quantitative features:

             -  Pre/post test concept map

             -  Self-reported questionnaires : " Learning Effectiveness Inventory Scale "

             -  Sociodemographical data and others questions

        -  Qualitative : Grounded Theory

             -  Semi-structured interview of learners

             -  Portfolio completed during clinical clerkship, after simulation on each pathology
                studied

             -  Pre/post test concept map (for clinical reasonning features)

             -  Video-record of simulation

             -  Audio-record of briefing and debriefing
    
  