
    
      Tacrolimus (FK) remains the cornerstone of maintenance immunosuppressants after renal
      transplantation. However, it is characterised by narrow therapeutic index and large
      inter-individual variability in its pharmacokinetics, particularly in the dose required to
      reach target trough blood concentrations. Among several factors investigated for their
      possible influence on tacrolimus pharmacokinetics, polymorphisms in genes coding for
      biotransformation enzymes (cytochrome P450 (CYP) isoenzymes 3A4 and 3A5) have received much
      attention. Exposure to FK correlates with the cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4 and CYP3A5 which are
      polymorphically expressed. This is in part explained by the presence of single-nucleotide
      polymorphisms (SNPs) in the CYP3A5 and CYP3A4 genes.

      To date, renal transplant (RTx) recipients receive standard weight-based dosing of FK and
      therapeutic drug monitoring is employed for subsequent dose adjustment to ensure target FK
      concentration is attained. However, the current weight-based dosing strategies to guide the
      initial FK dosing have been poorly predictive of the actual FK dose required to attain
      therapeutic FK level. With the increased possibility of sub-therapeutic FK level during the
      early phase post renal transplantation, it puts them at a higher risk of developing acute
      rejection.

      There has been increasing evidence to suggest the implementation of pre-transplantation
      genotyping to guide the initial FK dose to achieve target FK concentrations as quickly as
      possible. On the contrary, there are a few studies that report contradictory results of
      genotype-guided FK dosing as being useful in attainment of target therapeutic levels.

      Given the differences in CYP3A5 genotype prevalence among races and the controversy in
      clinical benefits of such a pro-active dosage strategy, the impact of CYP3A5 genotype-guided
      dosing on clinical outcome remains to be answered, especially in the local multi-ethnic
      population. This pro-active approach may also sound promising for the local multi-ethnic
      population where majority of the renal transplant population are CYP3A5 expressers who may
      require a higher initial dose of FK based on genotyping profile.
    
  