
    
      Background The skin is a large organ that participates in many protective and homeostatic
      processes. The functions of the skin can be roughly divided into systemic and local ; both
      are interrelated but relationships are poorly understood and studying them requires a
      multiscale approach. Particularly, for the local responses that are mediated by activation of
      proteolytic and signaling pathways such as coagulation and inflammation, the relevant scale
      corresponds to the micrometer and nanometer dimensions of cells and macromolecules,
      respectively. There is very little information on the physicochemical characteristics of the
      skin at these scales.

      Objective The investigators propose to analyze fresh human skin samples using several
      up-to-date technologies to obtain parameters on the mechanical, biochemical and structural
      distribution of the main components of the capillary-tissue unit.

      Hypothesis/Rationale Our working hypothesis is that both structural components of the dermis,
      such as glycosaminoglycans, and key mediators of homeostatic pathways, such as the
      procoagulant tissue factor are not evenly distributed along parallel planes. The
      investigators further hypothesize that the distribution patterns determine functional and
      mechanical differences along dermal layers.

      Methods Using a dermatome, human skin will be dissected along planes parallel to the
      epidermis into several layers each approximately .0012mm thick. The layers will be analyzed
      with respect to composition of diffusible proteins and glycosaminoglycans; subjected to high
      resolution MRI and AFM scanning; and evaluated for swelling rate and equilibrium swelling
      pressure.

      Significance This study will provide new information on material characteristics and
      functional structure of the human skin at resolutions relevant to the macromolecular and
      cellular processes that mediate local responses to injury and maintain local homeostatic
      mechanisms. The data will be further processed to obtain realistic parameters that are needed
      to develop predictive models of the skin capillary tissue unit. These models will bring new
      and deeper understanding on skin physiology and pathology and will aid in the discovery and
      testing of new preventive and therapeutic approaches targeting dysfunctions of the local
      homeostatic balance in the skin. Potentially, by exploiting the versatility of mathematical
      simulations in the skin model, the findings will also be applicable to other tissue organs.
    
  