
    
      In a pragmatic randomized controlled trial, this project will test whether a comprehensive
      and patient-centered deprescribing intervention can improve quality of life among older
      people with limited life expectancy. This registration concerns the initial pilot study. All
      patients included in the pilot study will receive the intervention (that is, the pilot study
      will not include randomization).

      The intervention will comprise a series of consultations between the patient and general
      practitioner (GP) (at least three) to continuously adjust the patient's medication according
      to the patient's goals, needs, and preferences, thereby ensuring alignment with the patient's
      priorities. Thus, the purpose of this intervention is to initiate and facilitate a continued
      deprescribing process. The process can be summarized in seven steps: During an initial
      consultation (1: Consultation 0), the GP assesses patient eligibility. If the patient would
      like to participate, a project nurse subsequently visits the patient at home (2: Home visit)
      for retrieval of informed consent as well as baseline measurements. During the next
      consultation (3: Consultation 1), the patient and GP discuss how the patient feels about
      his/her medical treatment, and the GP provides the patient with written material for the
      patient to prepare prior to the next consultation. The patients prepares (4: Preparation) by
      considering and verbalizing his/her goals of care and treatment preferences. Simultaneously,
      a clinical pharmacist examines the patient's medication list and provides suggestions to the
      GP on which drugs can be continued and deprescribed, respectively. During the next
      consultation (5: Consultation 2), the patient and GP discuss the patient's preferences and
      initiate deprescribing initiatives aligned with the patient's priorities. During a new
      consultation (6: Consultation 3), the patient and GP follow up on the changes initiated and
      initiate new deprescribing initiatives if such can be identified. If needed, subsequent
      consultations (7: Consultation X) are planned until the patient and GP consider the patient's
      medical treatment optimal.
    
  