
    
      Complex dressing reason for referral represent one of the most frequent case in home
      hospitalization (HAD) referrals, accounting for 28.4% of HAD days in 2018 at national level.
      They can occur for different pathologies. They involve daily or several times a week care to
      repair dressings, monitor wound progress and healing.

      Complex dressings care can lead to symptoms for the patient such as pain and/or anxiety.
      Those symptoms can be related. In fact, anxiety could influence the patient's feelings and
      assessment of pain.

      MUSIC CARE© allows the implementation of standardized musical interventions. This technique
      can be compared to sophrology and hypnosis, but verbal suggestions are replaced by musical
      suggestions. This application is considered effective in reducing acute and chronic pain,
      reducing anxiety, reducing drug use in different clinical settings, and developing good
      patient satisfaction by international literature.

      The hypothesis of this study is that the use of MUSIC CARE© during complex dressing home care
      could reduce patients' pain and anxiety, reduce patients' requests for drug treatments,
      reduce the time required for care, and develop a positive level of satisfaction among
      patients and caregivers.

      Participants will be recruited during their hospitalization at the HAD of Fondation Oeuvre de
      la Croix Saint-Simon (Ile de France). A randomization list will be created upfront to
      determine the order of passage under the experimental conditions. After verification of the
      inclusion criteria and study proposal, patients who agree to participate will sign a free and
      informed consent form and will be assigned a coded identification number. They will respond
      to two measurement times, one before and one after the care. Caregivers will also complete
      questionnaires In order to obtain statistically exploitable results, 250 patients will be
      included.
    
  