
    
      Improving the diagnosis of neurocognitive disorders is a major public health challenge. This
      diagnosis occurs too late in the majority of cases, or is even sometimes non-existent for
      some despite the presence of clinical signs and symptoms. However, the etiological diagnosis
      of a TNC is crucial for the patient and his family to understand the most appropriate
      decisions for the future, to plan the organization of his life as long as he is able to do
      so, to access the clinical research, to promote dialogue between patients and their
      caregivers. On the contrary, a late diagnosis may be responsible for the fact that the
      patient and his / her family are less able to benefit from certain psychosocial
      interventions, services and treatments.

      But the diagnostic announcement is retained. One of the negative and dreaded effects of such
      an announcement is the negative psychological impact. Some studies show that the diagnostic
      announcement would worsen the level of anxiety or depressed mood and the risk of social
      isolation. On the other hand, other studies show that symptoms such as anxiety, psychic
      distress and depression remain stable, or even decrease slightly after the announcement of
      the diagnosis, in patients and their relatives. However, the literature is questionable
      because the majority of the studies are retrospective, mono-centric, and the patient numbers
      are low. While the first reactions of patients may be negative after the announcement, some
      report resignation experiences, or form of relief, because they have finally found a clinical
      explanation for the symptoms encountered. While doubt or diagnostic uncertainty, as well as
      the feeling of not knowing the truth, seem to have a more damaging psychological impact on
      the patient and those around him, increasing anxiety and confusion.

      The primary objective is to study if the level of anxiety 2 months after the announcement of
      the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease or a related disease is not superior to the level of
      anxiety before the announcement with patient / caregiver.

      This present study aim to explore the feasibility with 14 patients.
    
  