
    
      Despite consistently positive attitudes toward organ donation, increasing the number of
      registered organ donors in the US continues to challenge the professional and research
      communities. Improving rates of donor designation among ethnic minorities is of particular
      importance given the need to match donated organs to recipients on blood type and human
      leukocyte antigens - the best matches are found when the donor and recipient are of the same
      ethnic background. In Hispanic communities, lay health educators (i.e., Promotoras) are
      trained to promote behaviors that empower and enable constituents to prevent disease, and
      increase control over and improve their health. In partnership with leadership of four
      Promotoras organizations in geographically diverse areas of the U.S. (PA, IL, TX)
      representing the largest subgroups of the Hispanic population, this pilot study proposes to
      leverage the preexisting network of lay health educators to advocate for organ donation and
      promote donor registration (first person consent) among female Hispanics over the age of 50.
      Specifically, this study will collect the formative data needed to design an educational and
      behavioral communication eLearning module for Promotoras and test the impact of the training
      on Promotoras' knowledge of organ donation, confidence discussing and promoting donor
      registration, and efficacy increasing rates of donor registration among mature and older
      Hispanic women. Focus group interviews with Hispanic women and Promotoras will identify the
      information needs and concerns about organ donation registration of these two groups;
      interviews with lay educators will also gauge interactivity preferences as well as content
      and design issues for the resulting web-based training (Aim 1). These data will be used to
      develop an eLearning module to educate Promotoras about organ donation and train them to
      discuss donation and promote donor registration (Aim 2). A brief quantitative survey will
      assess the impact of the module on knowledge of organ donation and confidence (communication
      self-efficacy) discussing donation and promoting donor designation. We will evaluate
      Promotoras' efficacy promoting organ donation by assessing the number of Hispanic women age
      50 and over who register as posthumous organ donors as a proportion of all women attending
      small group sessions led by trained Promotoras (Aim 3). If effective, the eLearning module
      could easily be disseminated nationally to train Promotoras to discuss and promote organ
      donation. Ultimately, this 'train-the-trainer' study has the potential to increase rates of
      donor registration among Hispanic communities in the U.S. and help to reduce disparities in
      access to transplantation for this population.
    
  