
    
      The proposed project is a prospective, randomized, controlled, single-blind study comparing
      the motor improvements resulting from Constraint-Induced Movement Therapy (CIMT) and
      Lakeshore Enriched Fitness Training (LEFT) for traumatic brain injury (TBI) in veterans and
      civilians. Over the course of two years, there will be a total of 80 subjects randomly
      assigned to 4 conditions. Treatment, testing, and follow-up testing will be carried out in
      the first 3 grant years and the 1-year follow-up will be completed in the fourth year.
      Clinical testing will be conducted at pre-treatment, post-treatment, and 1-year follow-up.
      Longitudinal neuroimaging studies to determine the treatment change in white matter, grey
      matter, and functional brain connectivity will be carried out across the above-noted time
      points by different diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) analysis variants, voxel-based morphometry
      (VBM) analysis of structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans, analysis of resting
      state functional MRI (fMRI), and analysis of fMRI during hand movement.

      The 80 study participants will be randomly assigned in equal numbers to 1 of 4 arms: CIMT
      with Standard Transfer Package (sTP), CIMT with Enhanced Transfer Package (eTP), LEFT with
      sTP or LEFT with eTP. Forty volunteers will be tested on average per year. The patients will
      be classified into mild/moderate (Grade 2) and moderate motor deficits (Grades 3); a
      classification made at the impairment level based on standard active range of motion (AROM)
      criteria (further elaborated in "Eligibility Criteria").

      The primary clinical outcome will be pre- to post-treatment change in a measure of use of the
      more-affected arm in daily life known as the Motor Activity Log. It is described in the
      outcomes section. As noted above, the response of the brain to the interventions will be
      examined using structural grey matter MRI analysis, DTI, and fMRI during resting state and
      during arm movement.

      Each participant will have the option of being accompanied by a caregiver (travel and living
      expenses paid for by the project). The caregiver will be asked to complete the MAL
      independently of the participant. The same questionnaire administered to the patient will be
      administered to the caregiver. In addition, the caregiver will be shown how to help the
      patient carry out the home practice exercises so that they can do this during treatment and
      afterwards (if they remain in close contact with the participant).
    
  