
    
      Implant treatment in posterior maxilla is commonly faced with great challenges due to the
      limited residual bone height and poor bone quality. Efforts have been made to allow
      successful implant treatment in atrophic posterior maxillae.Osteotome sinus floor elevation
      (OSFE) has been proven to be a predictable surgical procedure to vertically increase the bone
      volume in atrophic maxilla.On the other hand, short implants (intra-bony length of 8mm or
      less) are being increasingly used in extremely resorbed maxilla to avoid additional surgical
      trauma and expense.However, still limited randomized controlled trials have compared the
      clinical success of short implants and standard implants combined with OSFE.

      This study is designed as a prospective randomized controlled clinical study. We plan to
      enroll 180 patients in need of dental implant treatment in posterior maxilla. All patients
      will sign the informed consent form before treatment. The study is approval by the Ethics
      Committee of Shanghai Ninth People Hospital, China. The clinical component of the study will
      be initiated in May 2015 at the Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Implantology, Shanghai
      Ninth People Hospital, Shanghai Jiao-Tong University, China.

      A block randomization sequence will be used to assign eligible patients to three groups:
      Group 1: short implants (6mm) alone; Group 2: standard implants (10mm) combined with OSFE.
      The assignment will be concealed from the clinical operators until the beginning of implant
      surgery. The outcome examiners and patients will be kept blinded to the assignment.

      The required sample size is calculated based on the primary outcome parameter, implant
      survival rate. A recent study (Rossi et al. 2016) compared survival rate of short implants
      and standard implants (Survival rate: 86.7% VS 96.7%). If α=0.05, and 1-β =0.8, a sample size
      of n=116 per group is required. Assuming a drop-out rate of 10%, 125 patients per group will
      be required. The total required sample size will thus be n=250.
    
  