
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of nivolumab when given in combination with
      dasatinib in patients with relapsed/refractory Philadelphia chromosome positive (Ph+) acute
      lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the toxicities and safety profile of nivolumab and dasatinib in patients with
      relapsed/refractory Ph+ ALL.

      II. To determine the rate of complete hematologic remission (CR) after three cycles of
      nivolumab and dasatinib.

      III. To determine the rate of molecular remission after three cycles of nivolumab and
      dasatinib.

      IV. To study the pharmacokinetics of nivolumab and dasatinib. V. To evaluate programmed cell
      death 1 (PD1) expression levels and saturation in the peripheral blood and bone marrow.

      VI. To measure peripheral T-cell levels and activation in response to treatment.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the 30 day mortality rate, overall survival (OS), progression free survival
      (PFS), and duration of remission (DOR) one year after treatment with nivolumab when given in
      combination with dasatinib in patients with relapsed/refractory Ph+ ALL.

      II. To compare the OS between patients who receive a hematopoietic stem cell transplant and
      those who receive no further therapy following remission.

      III. To evaluate for resistance mutations at the time of disease progression.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive dasatinib orally (PO) once daily (QD ) on days 1-28 and nivolumab
      intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on days 8 and 22 of course 1 and on days 1 and 15 of
      subsequent courses. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression,
      unacceptable toxicity, or withdrawal from the study for other reasons.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then monthly for
      up to 1 year.
    
  