
    
      Hysteroscopic examination is currently the most informative investigation for patients with
      abnormal uterine bleeding. Outpatient hysteroscopy involves the use of miniaturized
      endoscopic equipment to directly visualise the endometrial cavity, without the need of formal
      theatre facilities, general or regional anaesthesia.

      Outpatient hysteroscopy is increasingly being used as a cost-effective alternative to
      in-patient hysteroscopy under general anaesthesia. Like other outpatient gynaecological
      procedures, however, it has the potential to cause pain severe enough for the procedure to be
      abandoned.

      Opioid analgesics are widely used for the control of moderate to severe pain. Tramadol
      hydrochloride, a synthetic opioid is an orally active, clinically effective centrally acting
      analgesic having a lower incidence of respiratory depression, cardiac depression, side
      effects on smooth muscle and abuse potential as compared to typical opioid agents.

      Diclofenac is a non steroidal anti inflammatory drug which inhibits the cyclooxygenase
      enzyme.

      The study will be conducted in the outpatient hysteroscopy clinic in Cairo university
      hospitals. All postmenopausal patients attending the outpatient hysteroscopy clinic will be
      invited to participate in the study. The invitation will include a clear full explanation of
      the study and patients will provide written consents.

      Tramadol, diclofenac and placebo will be enclosed in sealed envelopes which will be numbered
      using computer generated random table. Neither the patient nor the physician will be aware of
      the drug used. 210 women will be categorized into 3 groups: Group I will receive Tramadol
      50mg (Tramal ®, Memphis,) orally 1 hour before the procedure, group II will receive
      diclofenac 50mg (voltaren®, Novartis) 1 hour before the procedure, and group III will receive
      placebo acting as the control group.

      Full history will be taken followed by general and local examination. The procedure will be
      done in the lithotomy position. Hysteroscopy will be done using a 5mm outer diameter
      continuous flow hysteroscope with a French working channel and a 30 degrees direction of view
      provided by Techno GmbH and CO. The hysteroscope will be introduced using the vaginoscopy
      technique, in which no speculum will be used. The cervix will be detected and the external os
      will be identified using the hysteroscope. The hysteroscope will be introduced in the uterine
      cavity. Saline will be used as the distension medium and the pressure will be set at 100mm
      Hg.
    
  