
    
      A vein from the leg is widely is widely harvested during coronary artery bypass grafting
      (CABG) surgery for bypass of diseased coronary arteries. This vein is called the long
      saphenous vein.

      Currently, the long saphenous vein (LSV) is harvested blind by surgical practitioners with no
      imaging prior to surgery to decide on whether this vein is suitable for use in heart bypass
      surgery. This can result in fruitless incisions and result in additional unnecessary surgical
      wounds in the leg(s) to identify a suitable section of vein that can be used in the bypass
      operation. In these cases, excessive surgical trauma to the leg can increase the risk of a
      wound infection.

      There is some evidence that ultrasound imaging of the LSV improves leg wound outcomes in
      patients having CABG surgery. Some studies have reported reductions in vein wound infection
      rates, vein harvest time, length of hospitalisation and length of wounds.

      The purpose of this study will be to investigate the potential benefit of ultrasound imaging
      as a randomised control trial. One group will have ultrasound imaging of the long saphenous
      vein prior to heart bypass surgery. A second group will not undergo ultrasound imaging which
      is current practice at the Bristol Heart Institute.

      Ultrasound imaging of the long saphenous vein will allow planning and selection of the most
      optimal segment of vein. This targeted approach will allow guidance of surgical incisions
      away from unsuitable segments and thus potentially improving leg wound outcomes.

      The primary endpoint for this study will be to assess leg wound infection between the two
      randomised groups. Other endpoints that will be assessed are patient satisfaction, wound
      length, time taken to remove the vein, blood loss from the leg wound during surgery and the
      number of wounds in your leg.
    
  