
    
      The type of AML being studied in this clinical trial is known as FMS-like tyrosine kinase 3
      (FLT3)-internal tandem duplication (ITD) positive AML. This type of AML has an alteration (or
      mutation) in genes, which may associated with high risk of relapse after conventional
      chemotherapy and hence an extremely poor clinical outcome.

      Second generation FLT3 inhibitors including quizartinib are effective in inducing remission.
      However, their effects are only transient. There is an unmet clinic need to enhance their
      effectiveness, hence clinical application.

      This is a Phase II single-arm open-labeled study. A total of 40 eligible patients with
      consent will be recruited, including 20 patients with newly diagnosed and 20 with R/R
      FLT3-ITD AML. For newly diagnosed patients, diagnostic bone marrow (BM) and/or peripheral
      blood (PB) will be evaluated by next generation sequencing (NGS) based on myeloid panel that
      comprises 54 myeloid genes as well as their in vitro response to QUIZOM based on an in-house
      platform that was established in our laboratory. FLT3-ITD allelic burden will also be
      evaluated. For R/R patients, FLT3-ITD status and allelic burden will be confirmed before
      QUIZOM treatment. Both groups of patients will receive quizartinib 30 mg daily continuously
      and OM 1.5 mg/m2 daily for 7 days every 28 days until progression or allogeneic hematopoietic
      stem cell transplantation (HSCT). BM examination will be performed on day 21 to document
      morphological response and FLT3-ITD allelic burden. At leukemia progression, BM and/or PB
      samples will be collected and their in vitro response to QUIZOM examined. The tyrosine kinase
      domain (TKD) of FLT3 will also be sequenced and FLT3-ITD allelic burden will be evaluated.

      Eligible patients will receive QUIZOM comprising quizartinib and OM. The starting dose of
      quizartinib will be 30 mg/day unless the patients are taking a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor in
      which case the dose will be 20 mg /day. Quizartinib should be taken continuously throughout
      the treatment period unless there is no evidence of response at first assessment on day 21 or
      progressive disease at any time during the treatment.

      OM will be given at 1.5 mg/m2/day (maximum dose 3 mg) for 7 days (concurrently with
      quizartinib) in 28-day cycle. QUIZOM will be continued until leukemia progression or
      allogeneic HSCT. Thereafter, patients will be followed up and information about disease
      status and survival will be collected.
    
  