
    
      The objectives of this study are to (1) Develop and optimize acquisition methods for
      MRI-based biomarkers that are indicative of brain tumor pathophysiology. These methods
      include, but are not limited to, DWI, CEST, and Dynamic Susceptibility Contrast (DSC) and
      Dynamic Contrast Enhanced (DCE) MRI; and (2) Validate DSC-MRI accuracy by comparison to an
      intravascular reference standard. Developmental studies: During the development of new
      imaging-based biomarkers, it is critical to optimize acquisition parameters, systematically
      characterize performance and contrast in the pathology of interest, validate with
      histopathology and establish test-retest repeatability. Thus, the first goal of this study is
      to develop advanced Diffusion Weighted Imaging (DWI), CEST and DSC/DCE-MRI methods for
      application to brain tumors. Objective 1 is a single-center study of up to 60 subjects being
      done to explore and optimize imaging signatures indicative of altered functional tumor
      states. These advanced imaging methods will allow the investigators to probe
      neuropathological tumor correlates, including cellular characteristics, molecular and
      metabolic changes, and vascular characteristics. Compared to existing conventional anatomic
      imaging, the researchers hypothesize that these experimental methods will be better able to
      characterize brain tumors and will have the potential to serve as new biomarkers of
      diagnostic and therapeutic importance. The researchers approach brings together biophysical
      and physiological information obtained from MRI and correlates this with clinical diagnoses
      and outcomes. Validation of DSC-MRI: Despite DSC-MRI's potential impact on clinical care, its
      broad scale integration has been slow, in large part from a lack of consensus about
      methodology and how to prevent potential CBV inaccuracies. Although DSC-MRI relies on the
      assumption that gadolinium-based contrast agents remain within the vascular lumen, this
      condition is often violated in vivo. If not corrected for, contrast agent leakage effects
      lead to CBV inaccuracy, misdiagnosis, and potentially mistreatment. While there exist
      numerous leakage correction strategies that have been shown to clearly improve DSC-MRI's
      clinical utility (e.g., predicting therapeutic response), a key limitation has prevented the
      standardization and wide-spread adoption of DSC-MRI methodology: To date, no study has
      validated the accuracy of leakage corrected CBV measures in patients. So while leakage
      corrected CBV values may be used, for example, to differentiate tumor recurrence from
      post-treatment effects, it is unknown whether this clinical benefit is a consequence of the
      complex combination of pulse sequence parameters, kinetics, dosing scheme, relaxivities, and
      leakage correction strategy or if the computed CBV actually reflects the underlying vascular
      density. This distinction is critical because it has implications for DSC-MRI
      standardization, establishing CBV thresholds for clinic use, multi-site comparisons and
      clinical trials. The investigators believe this limitation represents the most critical and
      clinically relevant challenge in the field of brain tumor DSC-MRI that urgently needs to be
      addressed. Objective 2 is a single-center study of up to 160 subjects being done to validate
      the accuracy of DSC-MRI measures of CBV. To validate the DSC-MRI measures derived from small
      molecular weight gadolinium-based (Gd) contrast agents, the investigators will compare rCBV
      maps to those derived from the intravascular contrast agent, Ferumoxytol. Ferumoxytol has
      been evaluated in humans as a potential DSC-MRI contrast agent but not for the purposes of
      validating leakage correction techniques. Since ferumoxytol-based DSC-MRI is not influenced
      by leakage effects, it enables the assessment of the most reliable perfusion metrics that can
      be expected from DSC-MRI and, as such, is the most reliable reference standard by which to
      evaluate CBV accuracy. Note that while ferumoxytol is undergoing clinical trials as a
      potential DSC-MRI contrast agent, it is unlikely to replace Gd-based contrast agents because
      it cannot provide the signal enhancement expected on conventional post-contrast T1-weighted
      images and is therefore unsuitable for use with standard response criteria.
    
  