
    
      The prevalence of thiamine or vitamin B1 deficiency has been documented in 21-98% of patients
      with heart failure. Thiamine has multiple effects on the cardiovascular system. It has
      important hemodynamic effects on the circulatory system as well as direct positive
      pharmacologic effects on the heart. Thiamine deficiency has been shown to cause cardiac
      hypertrophy, depressed cardiac contractility, and dysrhythmias. Thiamine is of particular
      interest in the management of heart failure for several reasons. Heart failure is a disease
      of the elderly whose micronutrient status is in need of attention. Heart failure patients
      tend to have inadequate nutrient intake, which has been associated with thiamine deficiency.
      Use of loop diuretic is associated with the loss of water-soluble vitamins, including
      thiamine. Several studies have examined the role of thiamine supplementation in patients with
      heart failure. Clinical trials in patients with congestive heart failure have shown that
      thiamine supplementation increases the systolic, diastolic, and central venous pressures,
      with a decline in heart rate and increase in left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF).
      Thiamine acts as a vasodilator and reduces the afterload on the heart, thus improving cardiac
      function. Thiamine has also been reported to increase diuresis and natriuresis in patients
      with heart failure receiving diuretics.

      Thyrotoxicosis considerably increases the demand for thiamine. In vivo study in a rat model
      demonstrated that thyroid hormones have a direct influence on mitochondria which is the main
      source of energy. Thiamine in its various forms functions as an important coenzyme for
      macronutrient oxidation and the production of adenosine triphosphate. Thiamine pyrophosphate
      works in several oxidative decarboxylation reactions and is a catalyst in the reactions of
      Krebs cycle. Therefore, thiamine seems to decrease in the case of an increased tissue
      metabolism. In the previous case reports, they described the possible association between
      thyrotoxicosis and thiamine deficiency in patients manifested as Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome.

      Despite lack of the evidence of benefit of thiamine therapy in patients with severe
      thyrotoxicosis or thyroid storm, some experts recommended thiamine in conjunction with other
      supportive treatment. We aimed to investigate the effect of thiamine on cardiac function in
      patients with severe thyrotoxicosis in a prospective, randomized, open, blinded end-point
      study using echocardiographic as well as clinical endpoints.
    
  