
    
      Major surgical procedures may require transfusion of several units of blood. Blood
      transfusions from other people may be associated with transfusion reactions that cause fever
      or infections such as hepatitis or AIDS that are carried (and donated) in blood. However,
      self-donations of blood may cause anemia in a patient who will be undergoing surgery a few
      weeks later. Previous research with epoetin alfa suggests that epoetin alfa increases the
      rate of red blood cell production and decreases anemia. This randomized, double-blind,
      placebo-controlled, multicenter study is designed to determine whether epoetin alfa in
      patients with low hematocrit (red blood cell percentage <39 percent) will stimulate the bone
      marrow to produce red blood cells and therefore increase a patient's ability to self-donate
      blood prior to major surgery for joint diseases. Patients will be randomly assigned to
      receive either 600 units of epoetin alfa per kilogram of body weight or matching placebo,
      injected into a vein on the first study day, and every 3 to 4 days thereafter for 21 days.
      Effectiveness will be determined by the number of units of self-donated blood collected, the
      number of units of donor blood used at the time of surgery, and the red blood cell
      percentages just before surgery. Safety evaluations including the incidence of adverse
      events, physical examinations, and clinical laboratory tests will be performed throughout the
      study. The study hypothesis is that patients treated with epoetin alfa will be able to donate
      more units of blood during the 3 weeks prior to surgery, will need fewer donor-donated units
      of blood, and will have a higher level of red blood cells than patients who receive placebo.
      600 units of epoetin alfa per kilogram of body weight, or an equivalent volume of placebo,
      injected into a vein every 3 to 4 days for 21 days (6 doses) during the period before
      surgery.
    
  