
    
      Social prescribing is an umbrella term to describe ways of linking people to sources of
      community-based, non-medical support. There is no fixed definition of social prescribing.

      In Wales, social prescribing has many models which require the NHS and third sector
      organisations to work closely together. These involve referral to a link worker/community
      connector/social prescriber from primary care or another referral route, such as social work
      or housing. These roles all practice social prescribing, which includes a 'what matters'
      conversation, co-productive goal setting, motivational interviewing and coaching, followed by
      referral to third sector and community groups/professionals for support and activity to meet
      the person's individual goals.

      Social prescribing is being widely implemented and has support from Welsh Government.
      However, there is limited research evidence to judge its effectiveness, who benefits (if at
      all) and its value for money. Public Health Wales identified gaps in the published evidence
      for social prescribing, particularly in the evaluation of social prescribing projects in
      primary care in Wales. It is therefore important to employ more rigorous and high-quality
      methods to evaluating social prescribing interventions in the community.

      As part of a Welsh Government Third Sector grant for delivering a social prescribing pilot
      with a focus on mental health, British Red Cross are undertaking a research project in two
      localities in Wales, Caerphilly and Pembrokeshire, to create and test a model of social
      prescribing. As part of this initiative, a link worker will work with the individual over a
      12-week period to discuss their needs, goals and future steps. A link worker helps the
      individual to explore extra services that may support them in improving their health, sense
      of wellness and independence by providing practical and emotional support.

      This study will conduct an evaluation alongside the implementation and delivery of the
      British Red Cross social prescribing intervention, using a randomised waitlist evaluation
      method. Participants will either receive the social prescribing intervention within 5 days of
      giving consent, or 20 working days after consent and baseline data collection. This will
      allow the researchers to draw comparisons between the immediate intervention group and the
      waitlist controls, who continue to receive usual care. This will also provide a more robust
      evidence base for social prescribing interventions. The study will use measures of quality of
      life and wellbeing.
    
  