
    
      Weight loss and body contouring are large, constantly-growing fields of cosmetic surgery.
      However, while the demand for body shaping procedures is constantly on the rise, so is the
      demand for such procedures to be performed more quickly, simply and most importantly, less
      invasively; hence the growing popularity of non- to minimally-invasive cosmetic surgery
      procedures. In 2005, more than 7.5 million minimally-invasive cosmetic procedures were
      performed, a 35% increase from 2000.

      In recent years, Erchonia Corporation, a manufacturer of low level lasers, has developed a
      dual-diode laser that emits 532 nm and 635nm collimated line-generated beams to emulsify fat.
      In August, 2010, the Erchonia® ML Scanner (MLS) 635nm was cleared by FDA for use as a
      non-invasive dermatological aesthetic treatment for the reduction of circumference of hips,
      waist, and thighs. It was determined that the biochemical effect of the Erchonia® MLS
      stimulates the mitochondria of the adipocyte cells which in turn increases the production of
      ATP. The newly synthesized ATP triggers the up-regulation of cyclic adenosine monophosphate
      (cAMP). cAMP has been shown to stimulate cytoplasmic lipase, triggering the conversion of
      triglycerides into fatty acids and glycerol that can easily pass through the cell membrane.
      The transitory pore is evidence that the laser is allowing for the movement of fatty acids,
      glycerol, and triglycerides to pass across the membrane and into extra-cellular space.
      Through vasodilation of nearby blood vessels and arteries, oxidization of the triglycerides
      and fatty acids occurs within the extra-cellular space.

      This pilot study will apply the Erchonia® MLS employing 532 nm green diodes in lieu of 635 nm
      red diodes to compare the results to those attained using the 635 nm diodes. The Sponsor
      believes the use of 532 nm diodes may prove as effective as 635 nm diodes combined with a
      reduction in total procedure administration time from 40 to 30 minutes. It is the goal of
      this study to evaluate this hypothesis.
    
  