
    
      The epidemiology and transmission dynamics of influenza in hospitals are only poorly
      understood, particularly with respect to subjects without symptoms of influenza infection
      (e.g. without fever, cough, sore throat, nasal congestion, weakness, headache, loss of
      appetite, or myalgia). Knowledge about whether asymptomatic subjects are able to transmit
      influenza is of major importance. If they do transmit influenza, vaccination of patients and
      healthcare workers (HCW) before start of the influenza season, the permanent use of masks by
      HCW during influenza season, and quarantine for previously exposed inpatients may be the only
      available measures to reduce the number of influenza transmission events from asymptomatic
      subjects in acute care hospitals.

      The investigators' key aim is therefore to define whether exposure to asymptomatic subjects
      with influenza infection constitutes a risk for influenza transmission in an acute care
      hospital setting through active, prospective surveillance.

      The investigators' secondary aims are to describe the prevalence of community-acquired
      symptomatic and asymptomatic influenza upon hospital admission and the incidence of
      asymptomatic and symptomatic nosocomial influenza among inpatients; to assess transmission
      dynamics of symptomatic influenza infection in acute care; and to study the incidence of
      asymptomatic and symptomatic influenza, absenteeism (i.e. being absent from work due to
      influenza), presenteeism (i.e. being present at work despite influenza infection) associated
      with influenza, and compliance with infection control recommendations to prevent spread of
      influenza in acute care HCW.

      The investigators plan to enroll 1,260 inpatients and 180 HCW from medical wards at the
      University Hospital Zurich in a prospective study over two consecutive influenza seasons in
      order to detect at least one transmission event from an asymptomatic individual shedding
      influenza virus. Flocked mid-turbinate nasal swabs will be collected daily from consenting
      inpatients starting from day of admission until two days after discharge and from HCW over
      the influenza (winter) season and analyzed for influenza A and B using polymerase chain
      reaction. Simultaneously, signs and symptoms of influenza infection (including cough, sore
      throat, fever >37.8°C, nasal congestion, weakness, headache, loss of appetite or myalgia) as
      well as contact patterns between inpatients and HCW will be recorded. Reconstruction of
      influenza transmission chains will be based on phylogenetic analyses derived from
      next-generation sequence data and epidemiological contact tracing.
    
  