
    
      A randomized, double-blind, placebo-control controlled trial will be conducted. In a previous
      session volunteers will be interviewed to determine if they meet the inclusion criteria. Will
      be done two weeks of flushing out other types of supplementation and strenuous physical
      exercise, along with familiarization with the strength training program and performance tests
      to be carried out during the rehearsal. Subsequently, it will be a week without exercising to
      start with the experimental designs. From the start of the trial, participants should avoid
      physical exercise. strenuous outside the training protocol and if usual, they will only be
      able to perform one resistance training session per week. Participants should avoid ingesting
      of foods that contain high amounts of antioxidant compounds: more than two juices of fruits,
      more than four cups of coffee or tea. Juices with high antioxidant content should be avoided.
      Alcoholic beverages should also be avoided.

        -  Group 1 (G1): Antioxidant vitamins (VitC (1000 mg) + VitE (235 mg)) + exercise

        -  Group 2 (G2): Placebo + exercise A supplementation period of 12 weeks will be carried
           out. In each period, supplementation with antioxidant vitamins: VitC (1000 mg) + VitE
           (235 mg) or with placebo.

      All participants will ingest the supplementation between 1-3 hours before training, the days
      of rest in the mornings.

      All participants will perform a 12-week strength training protocol. The training session
      performed in the sharp design will be the first training session in chronic design. Being the
      baseline (E0) and post-exercise (E1) assessment performed in G1, G2 and G3 also the first
      evaluation corresponding to the chronic design.

      In the middle of the supplementation period (week 6) and at the end, two new evaluations
      (week 12). Baseline evaluations will be performed prior to an exercise session of week 6 (E2)
      and at the last exercise session (E3) of the following parameters: performance physique, body
      composition, micronutrient analysis, muscle ultrasound. I also know conduct post-exercise
      physical performance assessments Figure 2.

      The strength training protocol will be carried out 4 days a week at the facilities sports of
      the European University. The sessions will be planned by a professional from the Sciences of
      Physical Activity and Sports. Sessions will be tracked through a diary.
    
  