
    
      This is a randomized controlled clinical study evaluating the efficacy of four treatment
      modalities for ridge preservation after extraction of a tooth in preparation for dental
      implant placement. After tooth extraction the alveolar crest remodels during healing with
      reductions in vertical and horizontal dimensions. The resulting reduced dimensions after
      healing of the alveolar crest may be inadequate to successfully place a dental implant to
      replace the missing tooth. In an attempt to minimize the reductions in dimensions and provide
      mature healthy bone to support the dental implant, different ridge preservation techniques
      (treatment of the extraction socket) have been utilized.

      Forty subject from the UCSF Dental School who will be having a tooth extracted and replaced
      with a dental implant will be randomly assigned into the four ridge preservation treatment
      groups. After three months of healing bone samples from the ridge preservation site will be
      collected during the implant placement when bone is removed during the osteotomy preparation
      for the implant. Samples will be evaluated for the extent and quality of bone healing via
      histomorphometric and micro-CT analysis. Clinical measures of alveolar ridge dimensions will
      be taken before and after tooth extraction to determine extent of dimensional stability under
      the different treatment groups.

      The four treatments modalities for ridge preservation include autologous platelet rich fibrin
      (PRF), PRF+freeze dried bone allograft (FDBA), FDBA, collagen barrier membrane. Subjects will
      be enrolled in the study from the time the socket treated to the time of implant placement (3
      months). The results of this study will help to elucidate the extent and quality of bone
      healing using four different methods for ridge preservation in preparation for implant
      placement. Further, this study will advance our knowledge of PRF, an autologous sourced blood
      product used in dentoalveolar surgeries with proven in-vitro qualities but still requiring
      more extensive clinical testing to demonstrate its full clinical utility.
    
  