
    
      Background Information: Early epicardial coronary reperfusion is a prerequisite for the
      effective salvage of ischemic myocardium and reduces morbidity and mortality in patients with
      ST elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI). The recent ESC guidelines currently recommend
      percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) of only the infarct related artery (IRA) in the
      setting of acute ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI). Subsequent management of
      residual disease is initially conservative with a low threshold for non-invasive
      investigation for residual ischemia. There is a recent meta-analysis of 34279 patients with
      1819 cardiovascular deaths registered during follow-up showing that PCI of the culprit lesion
      only is associated with reduced mortality as compared to full revascularization at the time
      of STEMI in multivessel disease. Also in non ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction
      (NSTEMI), the strategy of multivessel PCI for suitable significant stenoses-rather than PCI
      limited to the culprit lesion-has not been evaluated in an appropriate, randomized fashion
      according to the European Society of Cardiology guidelines on myocardial revascularization.
      In NSTEMI there is growing evidence to suggest a benefit of an invasive strategy within 2 h
      in patients with a very high risk profile according to the ESC NSTEMI guidelines.
      Accordingly, also patients with a very high risk NSTEMI requiring urgent revascularization
      may be included in the current study.

      Recent small scale randomised controlled trials (RCT) have however produced results which
      suggest that in cases where there is anatomically significant non-culprit multi-vessel
      disease full revascularization of these non-infarct related arteries during the index
      procedure or at least during the same hospitalization is superior to initial conservative
      treatment. Since these studies were so small and also go against earlier observational
      studies and current guidelines it is therefore difficult to draw any conclusions on how to
      treat this patient group in the optimal way to reduce mortality.

      By way of paradox, in recent years it has been shown that fractional flow reserve (FFR) used
      to determine ischemia-inducing lesions is superior to angiography guided PCI in both stable
      angina and in NSTEMI. Whether performing full revascularization of physiologically
      significant non-culprit lesions for patients with STEMI improves outcome compared to an
      initial conservative approach is not known. The primary PCI in multivessel disease
      study(PRIMULTI) was a small study (650 patients) that investigated this question with a
      combined primary endpoint of all cause death, myocardial infarction or revascularization at
      one year. In PRIMULTI conservative treatment was safe; there was no difference at all
      regarding death and myocardial infarction, only revascularization. One critique of these
      studies is that they are including revascularization in the primary endpoint and it is
      expected that you will increase revascularization if you leave significant stenoses
      untreated. The key question is if complete revascularization prevents death or MI.

      Therefore, the aim of this study is to investigate whether in patients with STEMI/rescue
      PCI/risk evaluation following successful thrombolysis/very high risk NSTEMI FFR-guided PCI of
      non-culprit lesions during the index hospital admission will improve cardiovascular outcomes
      compared to an initially conservative approach of non-culprit lesions. The study aim is
      powered statistically for the combined primary endpoint of total mortality and myocardial
      infarction (MI) at a minimum follow-up of 1 year (all events when the last patient has been
      for 1 year).

      Assessments and Procedures:

      All patients will undergo primary PCI according to clinical routine for patients with
      STEMI/Rescue PCI/Risk evaluation following successful thrombolysis/very high risk NSTEMI. If
      index procedure PCI is performed then oral informed consent of the study will be obtained and
      the patient will be randomized following PCI of the culprit lesion.

      A simple randomization procedure based on a computer module will be performed via SCAAR
      registry (Sweden). Other participating countries without possibility to randomize patients
      through registries can do this through a web page. It is strongly recommended that
      randomization is done directly following primary PCI of the culprit lesion. However, it is
      possible to randomize the patient within 6 h from puncture time of the index procedure.

      The patients will receive written information about the study and sign a consent form in the
      ward after the PCI procedure is performed.

      Follow-up of both treatment arms: If patients at follow-up are found to have angina pectoris
      that could not be medically managed, it is recommended that an imaging-based non-invasive
      stress test is performed before deciding on a new elective coronary angiography according to
      current guidelines. If patients in both groups are found to have signs of significant
      ischemia on a stress-test or still have significant angina and sent for elective coronary
      angiography, then FFR is allowed according to current ESC guidelines of stable coronary
      artery disease and is at the discretion of the patient responsible physician. However, it is
      recommended that a non-invasive stress test is performed as first option if a patient comes
      back with angina.

      Patients who are eligible but not randomized into the study will be followed in the
      registries for the same endpoints.

      Data will be collected for all patients on hospitalization for myocardial infarction from the
      The Swedish Web-system for Enhancement and Development of Evidence- based care in Heart
      disease Evaluated According to Recommended Therapies (SWEDEHEART) registry (Sweden) or
      corresponding registries in other countries.

      Data will also be collected from the the Swedish Coronary Angiography and Angioplasty
      Registry (SCAAR) in Sweden or corresponding registries in other countries.

      Data on coronary-artery bypass surgery after the index procedure will be determined by the
      diagnose registry or CABG registry in Sweden. For deceased patients data on cause of death
      will be collected from the Swedish Death Cause Registry. Corresponding registries in other
      countries will also be used where possible.

      Other participating countries must decide their possibility to capture registry data from
      corresponding registries according to the data model for the study. If not possible data must
      be collected manually through an UCR EDC system that mirrors the interface in registries used
      in Sweden.

      Treatment assignment:

      Randomization (1:1) will be performed by means of an online randomization module within the
      SCAAR registry using permuted block randomization stratified by site. In other participating
      countries randomization will be performed in corresponding registries or through a web page.

      Intention-to-treat analysis will be performed as primary analysis.

      A research nurse at each site will contact each patient and perform a medical record review
      at 30 days and one year to confirm if the patient has experienced anything of the following:

      MI, unplanned rehospitalization due to anything of the following: revascularization, major
      bleeding requiring transfusion or surgery, stroke or heart failure. Furthermore, the Seattle
      Angina Questionnaire-7 will be used to evaluate effects on angina pectoris.

      A majority of patients aged <75 years in the study will have a clinical follow-up visit at
      one year to a Cardiology nurse. This is according to clinical routine for patients in Sweden
      with and age <75 years. At this visit quality of life parameters (EQ-5D) will be entered into
      the the Swedish quality registry for secondary prevention according to clinical routine.

      The data safety monitoring board (DSMB) will have the possibility to stop enrolment due to
      perceived increased risk to patients in the FFR-group only.

      No follow-up of adverse events is planned.

      All MIs and unplanned revascularization (PCI/CABG) will be adjudicated by the Clinical Events
      Adjudication (CEA) group at Uppsala Clinical Research Centre (UCR). The CEA charter defines
      the specific criteria and definitions of the endpoints. The adjudication decision will be
      entered in a CEA database, handled by UCR. All details of the event definitions and the
      adjudication process are described in detail in the CEA charter.

      Data management:

      Data defined as study data will be recorded in an electronic data capture system (EDC) at
      UCR. Access to data sets with information on allocated treatment, or data summaries presented
      by treatment, will be restricted and documented to decrease the risk of bias due to
      non-blinded decisions during the study.

      Data will be evaluated for compliance with the protocol and accuracy in relation to source
      documents which means that regular data checks for completeness of the variables in the EDC
      system will be done and follow-up of informed consent. The study will be conducted in
      accordance with procedures identified in the protocol. Regular monitoring will be performed.
      Following written standard operating procedures, the monitors will verify that the clinical
      trial is conducted and data are generated, documented and reported in compliance with the
      protocol and the applicable regulatory requirements.

      Statistical analyses:

      Analyses will primarily be performed on the intention-to-treat (ITT) set, defined as all
      intentionally randomized patients, by randomized treatment. All statistical tests will be
      performed on the 5% significance level using two-sided tests.

      All endpoints will be presented as Kaplan-Meier plots and frequency tables at 30 days and 1
      year, by randomized treatment, and analysed using Cox proportional hazards regression with
      randomized treatment, country, and gender as factors, and age as a continuous covariate, and
      treatment contrasts presented as hazard ratios with 95% confidence interval and associated
      p-values. The primary analysis will be based on events of all follow-up time of each patient
      at time of data base lock.

      The sample size calculation is based on the patients with 2- or 3-vessel disease in the TASTE
      trial. This group constitutes 3138 patients, of which 208 died and 312 had a composite event
      of death or rehospitalization with myocardial infarction within 1 year.

      4052 patients (2026 per arm) would give 80% power to detect a relative risk reduction of 25%
      at one year in the composite of all-cause death and myocardial infarction, for FFR-guided
      non-culprit PCI against conservative treatment.

      Before starting the study all centres will have a web-based start meeting with presentation
      of the study, study procedures and documentation (Investigator Study File with Essential
      Documents). The sponsor is responsible for performing remote monitoring, no on-site
      monitoring is planned. Data from the randomization module (registry data) will be evaluated
      for protocol compliance and logs for signed informed consents will be sent to Sponsor for
      follow-up. The monitoring activities will be described in detail in the monitoring plan.

      The Investigator or designee (PCI operators) will record data from the source into the SCAAR
      registry or through an EDC system in countries outside the SCAAR platform. Data fields should
      not be left blank. Also, discharging doctors will record data in the Swedish Register of
      Information and Knowledge about Swedish Heart Intensive Care Admissions and in corresponding
      registries in other participating countries. Data will be entered in Heart Surgery Registries
      for patients with CABG (in Sweden and in other countries where possible).

      The statistician will analyse the original registry data regarding components of the primary
      endpoint and report to the DSMB.
    
  