
    
      Objective

      Primary lateral sclerosis (PLS) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) are motor neuron
      disorders with different phenotypes that progress at very different rates. ALS is a rapidly
      progressive disease with a median survival less than 5 years. Patients with PLS have a slowly
      progressive course with a normal lifespan. One hypothesis is that oxidative stress affects
      the way in which different motor neuron disorders progress. To test this hypothesis,
      exposures to putative triggers of oxidative stress and biomarkers that may reflect oxidative
      stress will be assessed in patients with motor neuron disorders. A multicenter effort (the
      COSMOS study) has been initiated to accumulate sufficient numbers of ALS patients to address
      this hypothesis. As an add-on study, PLS patients will also be assessed in the multicenter
      effort. The objective of this protocol is to enroll PLS patients in this multicenter effort.
      The goal is to assess environmental factors and markers of oxidative stress in patients with
      established PLS.

      Study Population

      15 adult patients with PLS who have symptoms of pure upper motor neuron dysfunction for at
      least 5 but not more than 15 years.

      Design

      Patients will undergo a standard battery of clinical, physiological, and cognitive screening
      tests at enrollment, with scheduled follow-up evaluation visits every 12 months for 36
      months. Blood and urine samples will be sent to collaborators at Columbia University for
      analysis of markers of oxidative injury and genetic risk factors. Patients will complete a
      self-administered nutritional survey and will be interviewed by phone by Columbia University
      investigators using questionnaires to assess environmental, occupational, lifestyle and
      psychosocial factors thought to be triggers of oxidative stress.

      Outcome Measures

      The Columbia University collaborators will combine data from several centers in a regression
      model correlating the slope of decline of the ALS-FRS score with an index of oxidative
      stress.
    
  