
    
      Background: Burn injury requiring mechanical ventilation affects a high proportion of the
      25,000 patients admitted to US Burn Centers every year. Patients with a burn injury and acute
      respiratory failure (ARF) experience deconditioning, muscle weakness, joint contractures,
      dyspnea, depression, and reduced health-related quality of life. Delivery of rehabilitative
      therapy (physical therapy) within the Burn Intensive Care Unit (BICU) for burn patients
      requiring mechanical ventilation is not uniform in its content, timing, or the acceptance of
      its safety. Our published data indicate that Standardized Rehabilitation Therapy, initiated
      in the ICU, is feasible and safe for Medical ICU patients. Data have shown reductions in
      hospital stay, and improvements in functional outcomes. Mechanistically, it is understood
      that patients with burns and concomitant ARF exhibit acute alterations of metabolism, with
      the resultant loss of muscle strength. This study will demonstrate that Standardized
      Rehabilitation Therapy for burn patients with ARF reduces hospital stay through immediate
      improvement in functional capacity and functional performance. Our team comprises Burn
      Surgeons, Intensivists with expertise in Critical Care Trial design, Exercise Physiologists
      and Outpatient Functional Outcome Assessment Experts. The design was conceived through the
      US-Critical Illness and Injury Trials Group which allowed these investigators to bring varied
      expertise to the problems faced by critically ill Burn patients.

      Objective/Hypotheses: 1) Standardized Rehabilitation Therapy (SRT) will shorten hospital stay
      in burn patients with ARF. 2) SRT will prevent loss in muscle size and loss of architecture
      during critical illness of severe burns. 3) SRT will improve objective functional measures
      and quality of life at 3, 6, 12, 24, and 36 months post-enrollment. Specific Aims: Aim 1: To
      determine whether standardized rehabilitation therapy for BICU patients requiring mechanical
      ventilation will decrease hospital length of stay. Aim 2: To determine by serial ultrasound
      and strength assessments whether standardized rehabilitation therapy decreases loss of biceps
      and quadriceps size, architecture and strength during critical illness of the severe burn
      patient. Aim 3: To determine whether standardized rehabilitation therapy will improve
      functional capacity and performance, and quality of life.

      Study Design: The investigators will conduct a two arm trial with stratified randomization in
      150 burn patients with concomitant ARF to compare SRT, initiated while on mechanical
      ventilation in the ICU and administered throughout the hospitalization, vs. Usual Care
      (control). Standardized Rehabilitation Therapy will consist of: passive range of motion,
      physical therapy, and progressive resistance exercise (strength training). Our unique
      approach will provide an experienced Mobility Team (7days/week) consisting of a critical care
      nurse, physical therapist, and nursing assistant to administer this protocol at 3 University
      Hospital sites. The proposed study is a natural extension of our prior work, is
      multidisciplinary, is supported by extensive preliminary studies, and is innovative in its
      application of strength training techniques and in-hospital strength assessments.

      Relevance: Burn patients with ARF suffer for months after hospital discharge with weakness
      and decreased quality of life. This study will provide the information to prioritize and
      budget for the rehabilitation needs of burn patients with ARF by demonstrating that
      Standardized Rehabilitation Therapy, initiated in the ICU, reduces hospital length of stay
      with immediate and sustained improvement in function and quality of life for burn patients
      with ARF. Given that military burn patients and civilian burn patients utilize similar
      resources and experience similar outcomes, the results of this study will be immediately
      transferable to the military burn patient with concomitant ARF resulting in improved
      outcomes.
    
  