
    
      All subjects were fasted in keeping with our institutional NPO guidelines and had IV access
      established in the upper extremity in the pre-anesthesia area. No pre-induction sedative
      drugs were administered. Routine ASA monitors were applied and in cooperative children, a
      bispectral index (BIS) monitor pad (Aspect Medical Systems, Inc., Shattuck, MA) was applied
      over the forehead. Each child was given a water-filled syringe to hold tightly in the hand
      contralateral to the IV site. Lidocaine 1 mg/kg IV (maximum of 60 mg) was administered to
      decrease pain with propofol injection. A predetermined sequential dose of propofol (Diprivan,
      APP Pharmaceuticals, LLC, Schaumburg, IL) was administered IV rapidly over 10 seconds,
      followed by a normal saline flush.

      Biased Coin Design An independent observer blinded to the propofol dose tested for lash
      reflex at 20 seconds, and also recorded the vital signs; level of sedation, using the
      University of Michigan sedation scale (UMSS)10; and the BIS values at 20, 60, and 120 seconds
      after propofol administration, along with the time the patient dropped the handheld syringe.
      The study was terminated after 120 seconds and additional propofol administered if needed.

      Both nonobese and obese patients were studied in parallel using the biased coin design (BCD),
      in which a certain number of dose levels (k levels) are chosen with a fixed constant
      interval. In the absence of dose-ranging data in obese children, we chose a low starting dose
      of 1.0 mg/kg for the first patient in both groups to avoid missing a desired response in this
      patient population. If the desired effect (loss of lash reflex at 20 seconds) was not
      observed, the next patient in the assigned group received the next higher dose of propofol in
      predetermined increments (0.25 mg/kg) from the previous dose. If the desired effect was
      observed, the next patient in the same assigned group was randomized with a 0.95 probability
      to receive the same dose or a 0.05 probability to receive the next lower dose (also in 0.25
      mg/kg decrements).
    
  