
    
      Cardiac complications, such as, myocardial infarction, heart failure, and life-threatening
      dysrhythmias, are the leading cause of perioperative death among patients undergoing major
      vascular surgery.

      The pathogenesis of perioperative ischaemic events is most certainly multifactorial and
      includes persistent activation of several neurohormonal pathways, such as the natriuretic
      peptide system.

      Previous clinical investigations have demonstrated the utility of β-adrenergic blockade in
      reducing perioperative ischaemic events, ultimately translating into a decrease in cardiac
      morbidity and mortality especially in patients who had or were at high risk for coronary
      artery disease. Therefore, the administration of β-blockers to all patients at high risk for
      coronary events who are scheduled to undergo major noncardiac surgery is strongly supported
      by consensus recommendations and clinical guidelines. Despite the evidence of benefit,
      β-blockers remain underutilized in clinical practice because of concerns of potential adverse
      effects such as a reduced inotropic state, which might result in myocardial depression, acute
      congestive heart failure, and hypotension [13]. Therefore, additional treatment with a
      positive inotropic agent might be needed.

      Phosphodiesterase inhibitors (PDEIs) offer a favourable pharmacological profile in this
      setting and retain their haemodynamic effects in the face of full β-blockade. Preliminary
      data suggest that the combination of PDEI and β-blocker therapy may be better tolerated and
      allows for expression of the known effects of β-blocker therapy and improved myocardial
      functioning without the adverse effects of either therapy alone.

      We therefore hypothesize that the combination of PDEI and β-blocker therapy would decrease
      perioperative plasma concentrations of brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) in patients requiring
      major vascular surgery documented to have a high prevalence of coronary artery disease and
      limited coronary reserve. BNP is chosen because of its pivotal role as a sensitive correlate
      of myocardial dysfunction and its prognostic value for predicting the short- and long-term
      risk of cardiac death across the entire spectrum of acute coronary syndromes.
    
  