
    
      Rational for the study:

      The goal of this study is to determine if the strategy employed for the Test group can solve
      two major problems in ART, one the still low implantation rate in women of advanced maternal
      age, and two the frequent occurrence of multiple pregnancies resulting from solving the first
      problem by replacing too many embryos.

      Preimplantation Genetic Diagnosis (PGD) has been proposed as a potential means to achieve
      these goals, but so far, the results with day 3 biopsy and FISH analysis of 5-12 chromosomes
      has produced contradictory results, the difference between studies being explained by
      technical differences (Munne et al. 2010). Three technical developments have recently
      occurred that can change dramatically the efficacy of PGD. One, blastocyst laser assisted
      biopsy, which seems less detrimental than cleavage stage biopsy; Two, vitrification of
      embryos which allows those blastocysts to be frozen with little or no loss of viability, and
      three, chromosome comprehensive screening techniques, such as array CGH (Gutierrez-Mateo et
      al. 2011) which allow for the detection of all chromosome abnormalities.

      Preliminary data from our center indicates that the technique to be used, an improvement on
      our prior technique CGH, will result in a very significant improvement in implantation rates
      and a reduction in miscarriage rates, thus justifying the use of single embryo transfer in
      this set up.

      Supportive Preliminary Research:

      In a recent study, the investigators observed a 1.6 fold increase (p < 0.001) in implantation
      rate when aCGH was applied to blastocyst embryos (Schoolcraft et al. 2010). The test group
      used CGH, an older and less sensitive iteration of the technique to be used in the proposed
      study - array CGH. Array CGH has a 6 megabase resolution and screens for 30% of all DNA bases
      (compared to 0.1% of SNP arrays). With array CGH the false positive and false negative rate
      is 0% when biopsying blastocysts, and 3% when biopsying day 3 embryos (Gutierrez Mateo et al,
      2011). Based on our preliminary data, patients with 5 or more day 3 embryos and less than 43
      years of age are the most likely to benefit from PGD, since they produce enough embryos and
      enough normal embryos so a selection technique, like PGD could chose them and improve their
      reproductive odds.

      Also our PGD preliminary data shows a < 10% of embryo demise after implantation for a
      population 38 of age (expected would be about 28%).

      Study Hypothesis The investigators foresee a significant increase in implantation rates in
      the Test group compared to the Control group. The investigators calculated that 60 patients
      in each arm would be needed to achieve a significant increase in implantation rates (p <
      0.05) with a power of 80%, based on a comparative study in which the investigators observed a
      1.6 fold increase in implantation rate (Schoolcraft et al. 2010).

      Study population, interventions:

      see below.
    
  