
    
      The study is a single centre randomized controlled and blinded study (observer blind). It
      will be conducted at the CNRFP Vaccinology unit located in Balonghin. Children in the
      catchments area within the 1-2 years age group, whose parents consent will be screened to
      randomise 45 eligible participants. Two MSP 3 dose levels will be evaluated; 15µg and 30µg.
      The study will start with immunizing older children with the lowest dose observing safety
      parameters closely, then proceed to to the higher dose with a two week of observation apart.

      Clinical, biological and immune response data gathered after vaccination with 15µg and 30µg
      MSP 3 LSP will be compared to:

        -  The children's baseline data before vaccinations, and

        -  The post vaccination data of children in the control group.

      Randomization will ensure that the comparison groups are similar in relevant characteristics
      at baseline. The concealment of allocation before enrolment will further enforce the
      randomisation. Individuals who will make the assessment of the study end points will be
      completely blinded of the vaccine administered. This will ensure that there is no observer
      bias. Further, reporting or information bias will be minimised, because the recipients will
      also not be aware of which vaccine they have been administered. This is possible because the
      selected control vaccine has not been in routine use in this area, and has only now been
      recommended by the Ministry of Health. Cross over immunisation at the end of the trial will
      involve only those children who will received the study vaccine; they will be administered
      the control vaccine in the interest of public health benefits for them.

      The schedule of vaccination at 0, 1 and 2 months has been adopted because it is suitable for
      the target group. The idea is to eventually deploy the vaccine through the expanded programme
      on immunisation should the vaccine become registered for public use. For the EPI age group,
      it is not only an efficient delivery mechanism, but they are also the most vulnerable group
      to malaria.

      In brief, the groups will be allocated as follows:

        -  Group 1: 23 participants (15 receiving MSP-3 vaccine 15 µg and 8 receiving Hepatitis B
           vaccine).

        -  Group 2: 22 participants (15 receiving MSP-3 vaccine 30 µg and 7 receiving Hepatitis B
           vaccine)

      Immunization schedule will be 0, 1, and 2 months for all cohorts and provisionally as
      following for each group:

      Study days 0, 28 and 56 for group 1; and Study days 14, 42, 70 for group 2 Vaccinations of
      groups 1 and 2 will be staggered: immunization in group 2 will start 2 weeks after group 1.
      This interval may be extended if deemed necessary due to SAEs or other safety
      concerns.Randomization will be done for each group at the times of first vaccinations.Route
      of inoculation will be by subcutaneous injection into right or left deltoid (alternately).

      Each child will be observed for at least 60 minutes after vaccination to evaluate and treat
      any acute adverse events (AEs). Study duration will be approximately 13 months per
      participant. There will be a seven (7) day follow-up period for solicited adverse events (day
      of vaccination plus 6 subsequent days); and twenty eight (28) day follow-up period for
      unsolicited adverse events (Vaccination day plus 27 subsequent days). The follow-up for
      serious adverse events (SAE's) will be for 12 months following the first dose of study
      vaccine (9 months after dose 3).

      At the end of the follow-up period for unsolicited AEs (i.e., one month after the third
      dose), participants will be followed by field workers at home at monthly intervals to record
      SAEs. For data collection, conventional paper Case Report Forms (in triplicate copies) will
      be used.

      An interim analysis is foreseen after day 84 of follow up. At this stage decision will be
      considered whether to proceed to a phase 2b study or not, and with which dosage of MSP 3,
      based on the safety and immunogenicity profile.
    
  