
    
      WHY ARE YOU BEING ASKED TO TAKE PART?

      You are being asked to participate in this research project because you are a female between
      the ages of 18-50 and you think you might have a current BV infection; your menstrual cycle
      is regular and your last two periods were 21-35 days apart; you are willing comply with the
      procedures done at 3 study visits; and you are willing to take metronidazole for 7 days.

      This study includes only people who voluntarily choose to take part. Please take your time to
      make your decision and feel free to ask any questions you might have.

      WHAT ARE SOME IMPORTANT DETAILS ABOUT THIS STUDY?

      Up to approximately 80 women are expected to take part in the study at this local site. There
      are no other study sites participating in the study. You will have three scheduled visits to
      the clinic. Your participation in the study will last for approximately 2 months.

      WHEN SHOULD YOU NOT TAKE PART?

      You should not take part in this study if you:

        -  Drink alcohol on a daily basis and are unwilling to abstain from alcohol while taking
           metronidazole.

        -  Have a known allergy to metronidazole.

        -  Have chronic immune suppression (including, but not limited to, chronic steroid use,
           chronic anti-fungal use, Diabetes Mellitus, organ transplant).

        -  Had an abnormal documented Pap smear in the past 12 months.

        -  Had your last Depo medroxyprogesterone acetate (DMPA) injection less than 3 months ago
           and you have not had 2 normal menses since then.

        -  Used any hormonal contraceptive method within the past 2 months.

        -  Used oral or vaginal antibiotics or anti-fungals in the last 14 days.

        -  Had surgery or biopsy of the vulva, vagina, or cervix within 30 days.

        -  Had a hysterectomy.

        -  Were pregnant within the past 3 months.

        -  Are currently breastfeeding.

        -  Are HIV-1 positive, or your current sexual partner(s) is.

        -  Use daily anti-viral suppression medications for Herpes Simplex Virus (HSV).

        -  Believe you currently have a sexually transmitted infection.

        -  Used a douche or other vaginal products or put anything in your vagina in the past 48
           hours; have a current presence of vulvar, anal and or vaginal genital warts.

        -  Have had vaginal intercourse with a male partner within the last 48 hours.

        -  Current tobacco use.

        -  Are currently participating in another research study.
    
  