
    
      Introduction The prevalence of type 2 diabetes mellitus is increasing worldwide with a
      disproportionate increase in developing countries [1]. The burden is tremendous in developing
      countries, where the greatest increases are expected over time. For example, the prevalence
      of diabetes in adults in the North American and the Caribbean region is expected to increase
      by 37% in 2035. However, the increase in Africa and South and Central America over the same
      time period is expected to be 109% and 60% respectively[1].

      This crisis is further compounded by the demand on financial resources placed by the high
      cost of care. Estimated costs of diabetes care reached $239.2 billion United Sates Dollars
      (USD) in 2013 in The North American and Caribbean region[2]. Abdulkadri et al estimated the
      economic cost of both diabetes and hypertension in four Caribbean countries (Barbados,
      Jamaica, Trinidad and Tobago and The Bahamas) in 2001 to be 753 million USD per year[3].

      The management of type 2 diabetes has evolved from an algorithmic approach[4], towards
      individualized care[5, 6], but affordability limits treatment options in many developing
      countries. The evolution was driven by the increased availability of drugs used in diabetes
      treatment. However, drug availability has not equally penetrated the developed and developing
      world due to cost. Insulin in its cheapest forms (animal or human administered by a syringe)
      therefore remains critical in the management of diabetes in the developing world given its
      lower cost and greater efficacy. For example, Dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitors cost
      approximately twice that of a month's supply of syringe delivered, intermediate human
      insulin, at a dose of 40 units daily. However, the potential reduction of HbA1C is 0.5-0.8%
      with DPP-4 inhibitors but as much as 3.5% with insulin titration[7]. Even in the developed
      world, the global financial crisis may result in similar shifts in lower income groups.

      It is therefore critical for healthcare professionals to know how to safely initiate insulin.
      For insulin to be safely used, particularly by the needle and syringe method, healthcare
      professionals must adequately educate patients in a number of areas. These areas include side
      effects, drawing up and administration of insulin, and the recognition and treatment of
      hypoglycaemia. Given the complexity of the task all areas may not be recalled by health care
      professionals during a patient encounter.

      The task of insulin initiation can be simplified through the use of a checklist. Ely and
      colleagues believe that checklists are an alternative to reliance on memory and reduce
      diagnostic errors[8]. Depending solely on recall is likely to open the gateway for omissions,
      particularly given that there is poor representation of structured teaching on insulin
      initiation during undergraduate medical training. An insulin initiation checklist can also
      simultaneously provide education for the healthcare professionals using insulin.

      Using human patient simulation we will evaluate the potential safety benefit of using a
      checklist for insulin initiation by the syringe method. Human patient simulation allows the
      assessment of clinical knowledge and skills without exposing individuals to risk.

      Research hypothesis (alternate) The use of a checklist during insulin initiation via needle
      and syringe, can improve patient education on safe and effective insulin use.

      Methods Trial design

      We will conduct a randomized controlled study. Participants will complete the simulation on
      insulin initiation twice. Participants will be randomly assigned to the following groups and
      each simulation will be separated by a 5 to 10-minute period as outlined below:

      Group 1 (intervention group) - Participants will complete the simulation without the
      checklist. They will then be introduced to the checklist and allowed up to ten minutes to
      review it. They will subsequently repeat the simulation while using the checklist.

      Group 2 (control group) - Participants will complete the simulation initially without the
      checklist, as in group 1. They will then be allowed up to ten minutes to reflect on the
      exercise. They will subsequently repeat the simulation exercise, but again without the
      availability of the checklist.

      The study design will attempt to ensure any improvements identified in association with the
      checklist can be attributed to its use and not to a learning effect or previous skills.

      Performance during each simulation will be assessed with the aid of a check sheet.
      Educational tasks will be listed on this sheet under the headings of 'Side Effects',
      'Hypoglycemia', 'Drawing up insulin', 'Administration of insulin' and 'Other'. Tick boxes
      will be used to check off whether tasks are performed adequately, inadequately or not at all.
      Each task will have brief notes on what constitute adequate performance.

      The Checklist The checklist was developed by a taskforce. The group consisted of 11
      individuals; a layperson, a pharmacist, two dietitians, two diabetes educators, a podiatrist,
      a diabetes specialist nurse, a pediatrician and two diabetologists. The process was lead by
      the pharmacist, diabetes specialist nurse and one of the diabetologists. The first version
      was created by the three healthcare professionals leading the process, however the final
      version was achieved through four iterative cycles of feedback and re-design.

      The aim was to develop a simple A4 size, two sided, document that could be easily copied.
      Eleven checklist items were agreed upon which covered twenty-one key educational points for
      safe and effective insulin initiation. These educational points fell under four themes -
      insulin side effects, recognition and treatment of hypoglycemia, drawing up insulin with a
      syringe, and administration of insulin.

      Images illustrating the process of using a syringe to draw up insulin from a vial as well as
      injection sites (for children, adults and pregnant women) were included at the back. There
      was also space provided for documentation of the client's name and registration number,
      insulin type and when it should be taken, medications to be stopped, and the date and
      signature of the facilitator.

      Setting and simulation The interns will be asked to complete the simulation in the Clinical
      Skills Building of The University of the West Indies. Established practitioners will have the
      simulation carried out at their offices. During the simulation an actor/actress will require
      education on the use and administration of insulin via a needle and syringe. The participant
      will be given the equipment (insulin syringes and needles, injection pad and insulin) and
      instructions for the exercise, which will include the clinical scenario.

      Analysis Chi-squared analyses will establish whether the intervention and control groups are
      equivalent with respect to demographic variables (age, gender, etc). The paired t-test will
      determine differences between pair measurements of performance within groups, and the student
      t-test between groups. If the necessary assumptions do not apply, the Wilcoxon ranked sum
      test and Wilcoxon signed- rank test will be used respectively. Associations between
      demographic variables and outcome variables will be determined using Pearson's correlation
      coefficients.
    
  