
    
      OBJECTIVE: Determine whether home asthma telemonitoring using store-and-forward technology
      improves outcomes when compared to in-person, office-based visits.

      METHODS: 120 patients 6-17 yrs with persistent asthma were randomized into two groups: office
      or virtual. Both groups followed the same ambulatory clinical pathway for 12 months. Office
      patients received traditional in-person education and case management. Virtual patients
      received computers, Internet connection, and in-home Web-based case management and received
      education via the study web site. They also recorded and forwarded a video of peak flow and
      inhaler use to their case manager two times a week for 6 weeks then once a week thereafter
      and submitted daily asthma diaries electronically via the web site. Virtual patients were
      seen in-person only 3 times. Regimen adherence was assessed by monitoring therapeutic
      (controller medication use, video medication use) and diagnostic (asthma symptom diary and
      peak flow submitted electronically) outcomes. Disease control outcome measures included
      quality of life, utilization of services, and symptom control.

      RESULTS: 120 volunteers (45 females) were enrolled. The groups were clinically comparable:
      office 22 females, 38 males 9.0 + 3.0 yrs (mean + SD) virtual 23 females, 37 males, 10.2 +
      3.1 yrs. Virtual patients had higher metered-dose inhaler/valved holding chamber score than
      the office group at 52 weeks (94% vs 89%, p < 0.05), a higher adherence to daily asthma
      symptom diary submission (35.4% vs 20.8 %, p < 0.01), less participant time (636 vs 713
      patient months, p < 0.05), and were older (10.2 + 3.1 years virtual, 9.0 + 3.0 office, p <
      0.05). Caregivers in both groups perceived an increase in quality of life (p<0.05) and an
      increase in asthma knowledge scores from baseline (p < 0.01). There were no other outcome
      differences in therapeutic or disease control or outcome measures.

      CONCLUSION: Virtual patients achieved excellent asthma therapeutic and disease control
      outcomes. When compared to idealized office-based care they were more adherent to diary
      submission and had better inhaler scores at 52 weeks than office-based patients.
      Store-and-forward telemedicine technology and case management provides an additional tool to
      assist in the management of children with persistent asthma.
    
  