
    
      Background and rationale:

      The Pleura is a double-layered membrane surrounding the lungs. It is anatomically divided
      into Visceral Pleura, which is attached to the outer part of the lungs, and to the Parietal
      Pleura, which is attached to the inner side of the rib cage. Pathological processes involving
      the Pleura are incorporated under the name "Pleural diseases" which include, among others,
      pneumothorax, pleural effusion, and various tumors. This disease group is relatively
      widespread, and as evidence that the incidence reported in the literature is over 300 to
      100,000 people in one year.

      Diagnosis and evaluation of pleural disease involve the use of various neuroimaging devices
      such as chest radiographs, ultrasound, CT, and MRI. Most often, chest radiographs are widely
      accepted as the first means of identifying pleural diseases, with ultrasound, CT, and MRI
      supplementing or constituting a diagnostic confirmation if necessary.

      Over the past few years, a significant perceptual change has been made in the use of chest
      ultrasound to diagnose pleural diseases as part of emergent and none emergent situations.
      Ultrasound has been shown to be an excellent imaging device for the assessment of pleural
      diseases. It is used as an auxiliary in a variety of clinical situations, such as
      pneumothorax detection in emergency situations, characterization of pleural fluid as simple
      or complex, the distinction between pleura thickening and pleural fluid loculations, and
      more. In addition to the diagnostic aspect, the ultrasound serves as a means of performing
      invasive operations in the chest. The use of ultrasound imaging for the chest is increasing,
      resulting in a significant increase in the quality of the diagnosis and a decrease in the
      incidence of various complications.

      The ultrasound test uses sound waves to characterize various organ structure and function in
      health and disease. The test does not involve the use of ionizing radiation, so its use is
      safer than other techniques such as chest x-rays or CT examinations. The acquired and viewed
      images in the ultrasound device are real-time, so that changes can be detected and evaluated,
      which in many cases affects the final diagnosis. The test is non-invasive and does not
      require the use of contrast material containing substances that may cause an allergic
      reaction or impairment of kidney function. In addition, the instrumentation is more readily
      available for use at bedside examinations, and most tests do not require special preparations
      except for up to 6 hours of fasting in some cases.

      On the other side, ultrasound testing has its drawbacks as well. The method is highly
      dependent on the operator's skill, so a great deal of experience is required to produce
      sufficient quality information and to make an accurate diagnosis. The ultrasound does not
      penetrate well through bones, and the quality of the test is impaired by the presence of air
      between the transducer and the organ or area being examined. In addition, the quality of the
      test is highly dependent on the subject's cooperation during the test, such as posture
      changes and deep breathing.

      The standard technique for creating a standard 2D ultrasound image is now called Delay and
      Sum (DAS). Signals are transmitted and received from a series of elements, and by appropriate
      spacing of each signal, the signal readout can be focused in the required direction and
      distance. Due to the need for many sensors, a significant amount of data is required to
      produce the desired 2D picture. This fact leads to a need of using stronger processors,
      resulting in higher energy consumption, larger and more expensive operating systems.
      Therefore, Lowering the number of required samples while effectively processing the signals
      allows creating a high-quality 2D image, while narrowing down the burden of unnecessary data.

      The SAMPL Laboratory at the Weizmann Institute demonstrated this data processing method with
      ultrasound tests on stationary organs such as the liver and kidneys where the number of
      elements needed for signal processing could be reduced for the purpose of creating an
      ultrasound image with a smaller volume of information, while not compromising on picture
      quality.

      Objectives of the medical experiment:

      The purpose of this study is to improve the diagnosis and characterization of pleural
      diseases by ultrasound, using a new algorithm developed in the SAMPL laboratory at the
      Weizmann Institute. The goal is to enable a fast and reliable diagnostic tool comparable to
      the ultrasound imaging used today while minimizing the sampling rate and volume of
      information.

      Technical details:

      B-Mode, M-Mode, and Doppler operation of an Ultrasonic system can provide spatial-, temporal-
      and motion-related aspects of Pleural composition and dynamics. The standard technique used
      by commercial medical ultrasound systems for B-mode imaging is delay and sum (DAS)
      beamforming. However, DAS often yields images of limited resolution and contrast, which are
      governed by the center frequency and the aperture size of the ultrasound transducer. A large
      number of elements leads to improved resolution, but simultaneously increases data size and
      system cost due to receiver electronics required per element. The reduction of receiving
      channels while producing high-quality images is thus of great importance. Methods and
      algorithms developed at SAMPL, such as the Convolutional Beamforming Algorithm (COBA), can be
      used to achieve significant improvement of lateral resolution and contrast. COBA can also be
      implemented efficiently using the fast Fourier transform. Based on this concept, sparse
      beamformers were developed, resulting in the same beam pattern as DAS and COBA while using
      far fewer array elements. Optimization of the number of elements shows an approximate
      square-root reduction in required elements, compared to DAS. The performance of the proposed
      methods was tested and validated using simulated data, phantom scans and in vivo cardiac
      data. The technique may be applied to Pleural disease detection, allowing for both improved
      image quality and reduction of the number of elements used to produce an image, and therefore
      ultimately facilitate cheap, portable, and wireless ultrasound imaging. In addition, the
      methods developed at SAMPL yield imaging that is fully dedicated to the assessment of pleural
      pathologies, enabling straightforward interpretation even by untrained clinicians. Jointly,
      wireless, cheap, and portable lung imaging, along with straightforward interpretation opens
      up a wealth of opportunities, spanning from fast diagnosis of pneumothorax in ambulatory
      (trauma) settings as well as in rural clinics and developing countries.

      Equipment:

      The Verasonics Vantage ultrasound system is an ultrasound system suitable for human research
      use. This system allows for raw sound wave data to be retrieved when performing ultrasound
      scanning.

      Data security:

      Volunteers will be scanned at Haemek Medical Center (As detailed in the "Intervention"
      section), and the data will be processed at the SAMPL laboratory at the Weizmann Institute.
      All information transmitted to the laboratory at the Weizmann Institute will be encoded
      beforehand, i.e. removing identifying information such as name, identification number,
      address, and assignment of a serial number by the medical center, so that the patient
      information is will be unavailable to SAMPL laboratory.

      Transferring the images from the imaging tests will be done after encoding the tested
      information in an Excel file. Only the primary investigator will be exposed to pre-coding
      information, which will be stored on a dedicated computer by the primary investigator,
      password protected. The encoded information will be transmitted continuously to the Weizmann
      Institute, in order to ensure reliable data acquisition and the possibility of real-time
      feedback to the principal investigator in favor of higher quality data enabling data
      analysis.
    
  