
    
      This double-blind controlled randomized study will test the efficacy of Fecal Microbiota
      Transfer (FMT) on gut Multiple Drug Resistant Organism (MDRO) colonization.

      Participants:

      The study targets hospitalized patients (>18 years old) that need to stay in isolation
      because of colonization by Carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriales (CRE), non-E. coli
      Enterobacteriales that produce extended spectrum beta-lactamase (ESBL) or Multi Drug
      Resistant (MDR) Pseudomonas and MDR Acinetobacter species. Participants will be randomized in
      two groups (allogenic and autologous FMT). Additionally a third group of participants will be
      monitored without intervention.

      Treatment:

      Participants in the allogenic FMT- group will receive treatment using healthy donor
      microbiota preferably through naso-duodenal/-jejunal administration (Cortrak). Donor material
      will be supplied by the Ghent Stool Bank. The colonization status will be monitored on a
      regular basis (at least once per week) by culturing fecal swabs. Additionally fecal samples
      will be taken on fixed time points for microbial composition analysis (16S ribosomal
      ribonucleic acid metagenomics).

      Controls:

      Participants in the autologous FMT-group will will receive an FMT with their own microbiota
      to account for the effects of the intervention itself. Participants in the "no intervention"
      group will not receive an FMT. Both control groups will be monitored and sampled identically
      to the allogenic FMT-group.

      Outcome:

      The primary outcome (MDRO-decolonization rate in treatment versus control) will be evaluated
      1 month after FMT. Secondarily, safety and tolerability of the treatment will be assessed.
      The patients will be monitored up to 1 year after treatment to evaluate microbiome
      composition and to define parameters in the microbiome that are associated with clinical
      outcome.
    
  