
    
      Because of these possible advantages of SBRT over conventional radiation, the investigators
      began a small pilot study to test this new treatment technique in the setting of resectable
      soft tissue sarcomas. The pilot study was planned for a total of 12 patients which was felt
      to be a good number to gauge if further expansion of this technology would be successful. As
      of 2/6/2015 13 participants have enrolled (two enrolled patients declined treatment on
      protocol and thus a total of 11 patients have been treated on protocol). As of this time, the
      investigators have not had seen Grade 3 or higher toxicity and no instance of local failure.
      There have been several distant failures which would not be related to local therapy like
      SBRT and if anything, SBRT should reduce instance of distant failure by shortening time to
      chemotherapy.

      The following represents the initial experience for SBRT for STS (from manuscript submitted
      for publication). Note that on the below abstract 8 participants were treated on the pilot
      study while 5 participants were treated prior to pilot study opening (the one instance of
      local failure is from patient treated pre-protocol).

      In terms of patient numbers the goal is to have 33 patients in cohorts one and two. Using
      historical controls of late toxicity rates of 40% and late toxicity rates in the initial
      population of 20% with an alpha of 0.1 (which is reasonable for phase II studies, an alpha of
      0.05 is typical for phase III studies) there would be 80% power to detect a difference with
      33 patients.

      The expectation for this phase II study includes the following

        1. Late toxicity 30% or less

        2. Local control rates 90% or better

      These numbers are based on historical controls and previous research. Local control rates for
      historical series have been 90% or better and this also held true in the initial phase II
      study. For late toxicity rates, historical controls are 35-43% (The NCI study that used
      similar wound complication definitions to us and was a well powered study had a wound
      complication rate of 43%). The investigators feel that for this study to be promising enough
      for large phase III non-inferiority studies that the current phase II study should have late
      toxicity rates of 30% or better and local control rates of 90% or better.
    
  