
    
      Transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) is an established treatment for severe aortic
      stenosis in patients non-eligible for surgical aortic valve replacement. Prosthetic valve
      thrombosis is defined as a thrombus that is attached to any part of the prosthesis, and is
      not caused by infection. This may result in valve dysfunction and/or thromboembolisation.
      Most patients with prosthetic valve thrombosis are asymptomatic, whereas some patients
      present with stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA). Obstructive prosthetic valve
      thrombosis may lead to overt congestive heart failure.

      Currently, there is no strict guideline recommendation regarding therapeutic anticoagulation
      after TAVI. Per institutional protocol dual antiplatelet therapy is used during the first 6
      months after THV implantation and single antiplatelet therapy is used after after 6 months.

      Diagnosing transcatheter heart valve (THV) thrombosis is of clinical importance even in
      asymptomatic patients, because it may lead to thromboembolism and can cause THV dysfunction.
      Therefore, early diagnosis and treatment may prevent future TIA or stroke and THV
      dysfunction. Current standard clinical practice and guidelines are inconsistent regarding the
      antithrombotic treatment of patients who underwent TAVI procedure. Accordingly, determining
      the true incidence and potential causative factors of THV thrombosis is of great importance
      and would facilitate further investigations and large clinical trials in order to develop
      optimal antithrombotic treatment of patients following TAVI procedure.

      The RETORIC study is a prospective cohort study with a primary aim to assess the incidence
      and independent predictors of reduced leaflet motion and valve thrombosis after TAVI
      procedure using multimodality imaging strategy comprising cardiac CT, transesophageal
      echocardiography (TEE) and transthoracic echocardiography (TTE). As a secondary aim we will
      assess the incidence of stroke and TIA in those with reduced leaflet motion and thrombosis
      when compared with those with normal leaflet function. In addition we will randomise patients
      with reduced leaflet motion to unchanged standard therapy versus single antiplatelet plus
      oral anticoagulation therapy. The primary outcome of this nested randomized trial will be the
      presence of novel ischemic lesions in brain demonstrated by MRI.

      Findings of the RETORIC study may alter current post-TAVI diagnostic work up and treatment
      algorithm regarding anticoagulant and antiplatelet therapies.

      In total 200 patients who underwent or are undergoing TAVI procedure will be included into
      the RETORIC study. The institutional standard of care post-TAVI antithrombotic medication
      consists of six months dual antiplatelet treatment with clopidogrel and aspirin followed by
      lifelong aspirin therapy.

      Currently, the TAVI procedure number at our institution is approximately 80 patients/year.
      Therefore, to reach our enrolment goal of 200 patients, subjects will be enrolled from two
      cohorts.

      Cohort A: Patients who underwent TAVI procedure in the past will be selected from the
      Semmelweis TAVI Registry. For this cohort a median TAVI-to-CT time will be calculated.

      Cohort B: Patients undergoing TAVI procedure will be enrolled consecutively. In this group
      the imaging will be performed 3 months after the prosthesis implantation in every patient.

      Four-dimensional cardiac CT, TTE and brain MRI data will be obtained in all patients. In case
      the cardiac CT identifies reduced leaflet motion or THV thrombosis TEE exam will be performed
      even in asymptomatic patients and patients will enter the randomized control trial. Patients
      will be randomized into two groups:

      Group 1, standard therapy plus oral anticoagulant therapy; Group 2, standard therapy. After 4
      months patients will undergo four-dimensional cardiac CT, TTE and brain MRI.

      The primary outcome of the randomized trial will be the presence of reduced leaflet
      motion/valve thrombosis, secondary outcome will be the presence of ischemic lesions on brain
      MRI images.
    
  