
    
      Research Motivation and Research Issues:

      The National Institutes of Health proposed six important strategies for pain management:
      studying the characteristics and needs of pain populations, prevention and care, identifying
      barriers and exclusions for pain care, providing individual pain care, professional education
      and training, and public awareness and communication. 80-100% of surgical patients
      experienced acute pain after surgery, and about 61-92% of postoperative patients experienced
      moderate or severe pain, and less than half of patients undergoing surgery showed that
      postoperative pain were alleviated. In the emergency treatment of musculoskeletal trauma
      patients, 40.9% of patients received medication. After pain treatment, only 12.5% of patients
      felt pain relief, and 23% of patients still felt moderate to severe pain when they left the
      emergency department. When pain is not properly relieved, it will have a negative impact on
      the patient, including quality of life and recovery of physical function, risk of
      complications, and even ineffective communication between doctors and patients. Proper pain
      assessment and care by caregivers can affect the effectiveness of pain relief in patients.
      Complementary therapy, in combination with conventional medicine, is one of the effective
      ways to relieve pain by reducing drug and medical costs and increasing the patient's
      self-care and autonomy. Complementary therapies can be divided into three broad categories:
      the first is natural products that are ingested through inhalation, external use or oral
      intake, including herbs, vitamins, minerals and probiotics. The second category is physical
      and mental interventional therapy, including art therapy, cognitive therapy, prayer,
      chanting, meditation, and energy complementary therapy, such as magnetic energy therapy. The
      third category is other categories such as local traditional therapy, Ayurvedic medicine,
      traditional Chinese medicine, homeopathy and natural remedies.

      Magnetic therapy is a form of energy complementary therapy, which is the use of magnetic
      energy to produce energy for the relief or healing of diseases, usually divided into static
      magnetic therapy and dynamic electromagnetic therapy. In the implementation of magnetic
      therapy, there is no invasive treatment of pain and discomfort, no damage, so it is easy to
      be accepted by the public. The U.S. and Canada spend more than $500 million on static
      magnetic therapy to relieve pain, and global consumer spending exceeds $5 billion. The
      magnetic field has the effect of two distinct magnetic poles. The positive magnetic pole
      effect has the functions of oxidation, activation, excitation and pressure increase, and the
      negative magnetic pole effect has the functions of reduction, alkalization, relaxation,
      sedation and pressure resistance. Most of the research literature didn't show magnetic poles.

      Therefore, this study focuses on the effect of magnetic complementary therapy on pain relief,
      in order to explore the magnetic therapy method and effect of pain relief.

      Research design:

      In this study, we adopted a double-blind randomized research design to investigate the
      effectiveness of magnetic complementary therapy in relieving pain in hospitalized patients.
      The outcomes of experimental group and the control group were repeatedly measured. Both
      groups received routine care and pain relief treatment, but the interventions were different:
      the participants of experimental group was adhered with magnets, and the control group with
      placebo.

      Participants are randomly assigned to the experimental group and the control group, and the
      magnets or placebos are placed into the zipper bag and marked with serial numbers 1 to 100.
      When the cases are conducted in the study, the researchers take out the serial number zipper
      bag and paste it to the serial number. After the data collection, the researchers will
      identify the experimental and the control group according to the random table and the study
      case number.

      The intervention materials are pre-packaged. Because the intervention materials (magnet and
      placebo) look exactly the same, none of the study subjects, the researchers who perform the
      sticking intervention material, and the physiological indicators monitoring were aware of the
      study case as an experimental group or a control group.

      Interventions are implemented by the personnel including 1. Material assemblers: After a list
      of random numbers will be calculated by the randomizer, four pieces of magnets or placebos
      are arranged in each bag according to the random number table. 2. Magnet/placebo adhesion and
      evaluator: intervention adhesion and assessment of physiological indicators and rhythm
      variation measurements.

      Research steps:

        1. Screening for eligible cases.

        2. Random assignment to the experimental group and the control group.

        3. Pretest data collection: Pretest data collection is performed the day before surgery.

        4. Day of surgery: According to the medical records, the researchers fill in the disease
           characteristics, including the name of the operation, the surgical site, the indwelling
           of the tube, and the total length of the wound. According to the case number, the magnet
           or the placebo, is pasted to the corresponding position of the healthy side limb.

        5. On the first and second days after surgery, posttest data collection will be performed,
           including pain sensations: concise pain scale and anxiety scale; physiological
           indicators assessment and heart rhythm variation assessment.

        6. On the 3rd day after surgery, the intervention material will be removed and posttest
           data will be collected. The researchers use the random table and the case number to
           identify the experimental and the control group.

      Data analysis methods:

      The collected quantitative data are encoded and analyzed by SPSS 24.0 statistical software
      package. According to the research variable attributes, the distributions of the independent
      variables and the dependent variables are verified by descriptive statistics, including the
      frequency distribution, percentage, average, and standard deviation. Inferential statistical
      analysis are applied with Chi-square test, Pearson's correlation, t-test, ANOVA, and
      Generalized Estimating Equations (GEE). The P value of significance level was set less than
      0.05.
    
  