
    
      The baseline variables of the patient would be obtained at the outpatient Gastrointestinal
      Medical clinic. A thorough general clinical interview that encompasses medical and
      psychological history, discussion of the nature and severity of the current smymptoms, and
      review of past treatments and conclusions of any medical evaluation and tests. This is to
      make sure that the patients have been comprehensivelly evaluated medically and to rule out
      other causes of abdominal bloating before reaching a firm diagnosis of functional abdominal
      bloating as suggested in ROME IV Criteria. Questionnaires will be given out and patients were
      asked to fill it up on the spot. Electical activity and abdominal circumference would be
      measured at an enclosed space with appropriate privacy and accompanied by a chaperone.

      Imagery Therapy

      The intervention group will undergo imagery therapy while the control group will undergo the
      progressive muscle relaxation therapy which acts as a the control for this study.
      Participants from both groups will receive identical instructions and thorough explanations
      with visual aids regarding their respective interventions. Both groups will undergo the
      therapy for 12 sessions respectively in an alternate day basis. Both groups will be required
      to listen to a pre-recorded mp3 recording, either a progressive muscle relaxation therapy or
      an imagery therapy script. They will need to follow the instructions given in the recordings
      in each session on their own at least once a day, particularly after a meal. They are
      required to record the time they carried out their intervention in a logbook that was
      provided. A demonstration and face-to-face guidance will be given to the patients on the
      initial baseline assessment as well.

      In the preparation of the imagery therapy audio, a script will be developed based on reviews
      of past studies and analysis of locally validated audios. Assessment on the script, narration
      and recording quality would be done through multiple trial sessions before being used for the
      actual study. The aim of the imagery therapy is to guide patient into projecting an image in
      their mind, which might involve their tactile, olfactory, auditory and visual sensory. Thus,
      distracting them and reducing their discomfort into other forms of objects or creative
      energy.

      Progressive Muscle Relaxation Therapy

      Progressive muscle relaxation (PMR) therapy works by progressively relaxing and tensing the
      muscle groups throughout the entire body. The PMR script used in this study was validated and
      used by previous researchers. Each muscle group will be tensed for about 5 seconds. If
      there's any pain or discomfort at any of the targeted areas, participants were told to omit
      that particular step. Constant purposeful deep breathing was instructed throughout the
      session especially in between changes of muscle. Participants were seated in a comfortable
      position and in a cool and quiet environment. Throughout the intervention, participants may
      visualize the muscles tensing followed by a wave of relaxation as they release the tension
      slowly. A momentary pause about 5-10 seconds will be given to the participant, allowing them
      to relax before moving on from one muscle group to another.

      Control Group

      A typical psychological intervention may call upon a wait-list control to provide researcher
      a clear cut comparison in terms of efficacy between the groups. However, from an ethical
      point of view in medicine, a wait-list control group may attribute to negative emotional and
      psychosocial effects. Furthermore, the existence of such group may hinder the blinding
      process and induces bias in the study. Therefore, there is a need to determine and select a
      suitable placebo control intervention.

      Polit & Beck reported the importance of applying an attention placebo as a control in a
      study. The control group must receive an "inactive ingredient" treatment that has the same
      charateristics in terms of time and attention. This is done in order to illustrate a stronger
      design while emphasizing and isolating the effects of the interventions from the control
      group. Participants in the control group will receive an audiobook that targets to educate
      patients regarding gut-brain disorders, functional gastrointestinal disorders, causes of
      functional abdominal bloating, and treatment modalities available. Relaxing musical
      background will be added to facilitate the delivery. The musical background will be selected
      and modified to suit the purpose of the delivery by adapting the validated Brunel's Music
      Rating Inventory - 3.
    
  