
    
      Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic, progressive, inflammatory, autoimmune disease of
      unknown etiology, mainly affecting synovial joints, causing loss of function. The main reason
      that directs RA patients to medical treatment is pain. Chronic pain causes limitation of
      movement, sleep problems, fatigue, stress and depression, as well as physiological and
      psychological problems that cause negative effects on the quality of life of the individual.
      The patient's thoughts, expectations, and methods of coping with pain are effective in pain
      control. In order to identify and treat the painful condition, individual coping methods of
      the patient and the effectiveness of these methods should be evaluated. This study was
      planned to adapt the Vanderbilt Multidimensional Pain Coping Inventory into Turkish, to
      investigate its cultural adaptation, validity and reliability. The study was completed with
      352 volunteers who fulfilled the criteria to be included in the Rheumatology Clinic of
      Istanbul Haydarpasa Numune Training and Research Hospital. Data collection tools used in the
      study; Demographic Data Form, Mcgill and Melzack Pain Questionnaire, Short Form-36 (SF-36),
      Vanderbilt Multidimensional Pain Coping Inventory (VMPCI), Pain Coping Inventory (PCI), Pain
      Coping Scale were used. The language validity of the Turkish form of the scale was provided
      by the translation-back translation method. Expert opinion was obtained for scale of
      validity. In order to evaluate the reliability of the Turkish version of the scale; internal
      consistency coefficient, test retest and parallel form methods were used. After all these
      analyzes, the reliability and validity of the Turkish version of the VMPCI scale was
      obtained. In addition to this study, the descriptive characteristics of the sample, SF-36
      scale, Mcgill and Melzack Pain Questionnaire results were examined alone and together with
      the sub-dimensions of the scale.
    
  