
    
      Potential subjects will be seen in a General Thoracic Surgery clinic. If potential subjects
      have a lung nodule that is suspicious for non-small cell lung cancer, they will be a
      candidate for the operation and the study. There will be no randomization or control group
      and only subjects previously scheduled to undergo surgery will be eligible to participate.
      The investigators anticipate a 24-month period will be necessary to reach the accrual goal of
      20 subjects.

      After obtaining informed consent, subjects who are confirmed as eligible will receive a
      one-time dose of 5 to 10 mg of SGM-101, up to 5 days prior to the planned operation. As a
      prophylactic measure, the Principal Investigator may recommend giving 25 mg of IV Benadryl to
      the subject prior to the infusion of SGM-101 to ensure the possibility of an allergic
      reaction is absolutely minimized. The goal of surgery in subjects is to remove the nodule and
      lymph nodes in concern. During surgery, the investigators will take images with an
      intra-operative camera system. Imaging will take place prior to surgical resection to record
      the localization of tumors, and post-resection to document the visualization of any residual
      tumor.

      The duration of surgical procedures to resect thoracic malignancies varies substantially,
      anywhere from 2-6 hours or more. It is estimated that visualization of the chest and removal
      of nodules for the purposes of this study will require an additional ten (10) minutes. Due to
      potential quenching of the fluorophore, visualization time will be limited to 30 minutes.

      Cohort 1: The first 10 subjects will be a feasibility trial. The investigators will discover
      whether lung non-small cell lung cancers fluoresce based on the intraoperative images. The
      surgeon will look at the images during surgery to determine if the tumor is glowing or not.
      In the first 10 subjects, if the investigators identify 5 or more subjects with a false
      positive, then the investigators will review the data prior to proceeding. If the
      investigators have a high false positive rate, then the investigators will likely not proceed
      because the clinical value of the fluorescent probe is minimal. Of note, if the first five
      consecutive subjects have false positives, the investigators will stop the study and analyze
      the data carefully before proceeding with the study.

      Cohort 2: If the first 10 subjects show no significant false positives, then the
      investigators will continue to examine another 10 subjects.
    
  