
    
      In this observational study, the feasibility of an at home administration program for
      carfilzomib will be evaluated in patients with relapsed and/or refractory multiple myeloma
      having already received a minimum of 2 and a maximum of 6 full cycles of KRd (carfilzomib -
      lenalidomide - dexamethasone) in the hospital.

      One treatment cycle of KRd consists of a 28-day period. Carfilzomib is administered
      intravenously as a 10 minute infusion, on two consecutive days, each week for three weeks
      (days 1, 2, 8, 9, 15 and 16), followed by a 12-day rest period (days 17 - 28). In combination
      with carfilzomib, lenalidomide is administered orally on days 1-21 and dexamethasone is
      administered orally on days 1, 8, 15 and 22 of the 28-day cycles.

      Multiple myeloma is characterized by a recurring pattern of remission and relapse. Given the
      need for chronic treatment and good adherence, convenience and quality of life of the
      patients become important factors as well. As the majority of the multiple myeloma patients
      are elderly and the treatment schedule requires many hospital visits, this treatment schedule
      may impact the social and familial life of the patient.

      If the patient accepts to participate in the home administration program:

        -  Administration of carfilzomib during cycle 1 and 2 will be performed in the hospital

        -  During cycle 3 until 6, carfilzomib will be administered on day 1 and15 in the hospital,
           while there will be home administration on days 2, 8, 9 and 16.

        -  On day 1 of each cycle, there will be asked to the patient to complete a short
           questionnaire about the quality of life and patients satisfaction during the home
           administration program of carfilzomib.

      If the patient doesn't accept to participate in the home administration program:

      -The patient can agree on one-time collection of data: patient characteristics (date of
      birth+gender) and reason for refusal to the home administration program.
    
  