
    
      1. Working hypothesis: anodal transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) of the
           dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (dlPFC) can enhance healthy and impaired cognitive
           control (CC) and reduce the use of dysfunctional emotion regulation strategies.

        2. Previous work of the investigators: The investigators previous work has provided
           decisive evidence for polarity-specific activity-dependent effects of tDCS to the left
           dlPFC on cognitive planning and control of emotional information processing in healthy
           subjects and patients with MD. Particularly, reduced prefrontal brain activity during a
           working memory task in patients with MD was found by using near infrared spectroscopy
           (NIRS). In addition, the investigators demonstrated that a single session, anodal,
           activity enhancing tDCS to the left dlPFC ameliorates deficient CC in patients with
           depression, whereas cathodal, activity reducing tDCS, induces a depression-like
           negativity bias in healthy subjects. Furthermore, the investigators showed that during
           anodal tDCS of the left dlPFC healthy subjects showed (a) better performance in a CC
           task (b) no increase in angry mood after the task compared to a control group and (c)
           that elevated angry mood was associated to a worse performance in the CC task.

        3. Aims and workplan: to investigate the effects of anodal tDCS of the left dLPFC in
           healthy and depressed subjects the investigators will conduct a double-blind,
           randomized, sham-controlled, cross-over design. In two sessions each participant (22
           depressed and 22 healthy subjects, N= 44) will complete a CC task while receiving anodal
           tDCS (1 mA) to the left dlPFC in one session and sham tDCS in the other session
           (counterbalanced). Afterwards the ERS 'rumination' will be measured during a resting
           phase by means of a questionnaire and psychophysiological measures.
    
  