
    
      CF is the most common inherited disease causing a shortened life span, affecting ~30,000
      people in the United States with annual health care costs of at least $1.8 billion. The
      median age of predicted survival of these patients has improved and is now almost 40 years in
      the US. Over the last two decades, investigators have identified ~2,000 mutations in the CF
      transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene. These mutations are imperfectly classified
      into 5 groups, and small molecules are being developed that rescue group-specific CFTR
      mutants. These agents have produced remarkable improvements in some patients. The CFTR
      potentiator ivacaftor (Kalydeco™), approved by the FDA mainly for class III mutations
      especially G551D, improves ion transport (large decrease in sweat chloride), clinical outcome
      (increased FEV1 and weight, decreased exacerbations), and quality of life. Furthermore, the
      FDA recently approved Orkambi™ (a corrector and potentiator: lumacaftor plus ivacaftor)
      because it reduced exacerbation rates by up to 39% in patients homozygous for F508del.

      It has been demonstrated in vitro that improvements in airway surface liquid (ASL) volume are
      highly predictive of changes seen in clinical studies and track with tracheal mucus
      velocities measured in sheep in vivo using the CFTR potentiator ivacaftor, inhaled hypertonic
      saline and other interventions (preliminary data). ASL volume is regulated by ion fluxes
      through ENaC, CFTR, CaCC, and BK channels, and TGF-β1-mediated inflammation in CF cells
      decreases activities of CaCC (8) and BK. These findings suggest that effective and safe
      anti-inflammatory therapy has the potential to improve mucociliary dysfunction in CF
      patients, even in the absence of small molecule therapy. Currently used anti-inflammatory
      therapies such as high-dose ibuprofen and steroids produce unwanted side effects that negate
      their effectiveness. Other medications showed severe side effects in clinical trials.
      However, experiments proposed in this application will test the hypothesis that losartan
      provides a safe and effective anti-inflammatory therapy needed to improve outcomes in CF
      patients.

      Briefly, 16 patients with CF, >18 years of age, who are not on CFTR augmentation therapy will
      be recruited for this trial (4 per year). After signing informed consent at the screening
      visit, spirometry will be performed, take blood for safety and inflammatory markers, and test
      for pregnancy where applicable. Since losartan has teratogenic effects, strict birth control
      in female participants will be enforced. Eligible patients will complete visits as following:

      Quality of life will be assessed by CF quality of life questionnaire - revised (CFQ-R).
      Cytokines will be measured from nasal fluid collected by Leukosorb filter paper. After
      assessing baselines, a daily dose of 50 mg losartan will be started, followed by a safety
      visit 7 days after treatment start (± 2 days). Then, the losartan dose will be increased to
      100 mg daily until week 14. Since this trial assesses anti-inflammatory effects of 100 mg
      losartan, the total duration will be 14 weeks to achieve >12 weeks of treatment with
      losartan.
    
  