
    
      The study was accepted as a Master of Surgery Thesis by Research (MCh) at the Royal College
      of Surgeons in Ireland (RCSI)

      There will be two parallel studies done at the same time:

        1. POCUSS-1 for acute biliary disease

        2. POCUSS-2 for suspected diverticulitis

      STUDY DESIGN

        1. Patients with suspected acute biliary disease or acute diverticulitis will undergo POCUS
           performed by the surgeons enrolled in the study.

           These patients are recruited from either

             1. emergency department

             2. outpatients clinic

             3. ward consults

        2. Patients will have the procedure explained to them and then will receive a leaflet with
           the same information will be handed over. Consent will be obtained (verbal and written)
           from the patients that wish to be enrolled in the study.

        3. POCUS is performed and data recorded on REDCap®.

      4a. The same patients will have a departmental imagistic investigation (ultrasound, CT)
      reported by qualified radiologists.

      4b. In the event of emergency surgery without prior departmental imaging, POCUS will be
      compared to the intra-operative findings.

      5. Data will be collected and stored anonymously and processed with REDCap, Microsoft Excel,
      IMB SPSS, R-studio

      DISCLAIMER:

      Specific for this study, patient data will be anonymous and in line with General Data
      Protection Regulation (GDPR) (EU) 2016/679 law. Data protection is designed by default. There
      will be NO patients' personal name, surname, home address or date of birth needed or
      uploaded. Each patient will be represented by an unique identification number provided by the
      hospital. Only gender and age will be recorded as these will be necessary for the final data
      analysis and results. Once the study has finished, the data will be erased.

      The same rules will be applied in hospitals from other countries that will get involved in
      the study.
    
  