
    
      A pragmatic, community based, single-blind, usual care-controlled, randomised trial to
      determine whether keratin dressings increase the proportion of patients with venous leg
      ulcers healed at 24 weeks when used in addition to compression in patients with slow healing
      venous leg ulcers. Participants in have compression therapy (system of choice guided by
      patient and/or clinical preference) as delivered through district nursing services at the
      study centres as a background treatment. Keratin dressings will be applied when the
      compression bandage is changed (approximately weekly). Usual care dressings will consist of
      the usual formulary of moist wound dressings available at each study centre.

      Participants will be district nursing service patients in five study centres in New Zealand
      with prevalent or incident venous leg ulcers. A venous leg ulcer will be defined as a wound
      on the lower leg that has remained unhealed for 4 or more weeks, appears to be primarily
      venous in aetiology with other causative diseases ruled out. If the participant has two or
      more venous leg ulcers, the largest ulcer will be the reference ulcer. A participant will be
      considered to have a slow healing venous leg ulcer if the ulcer area is larger than 5 cm2
      and/or the ulcer has been present for more than six months.

      Participants will receive up to four visits from the research nurse - visit 1 to screen for
      eligibility, visit 2 to consent and randomise the participant, visits 3 and 4 to collect
      outcome data. District nurses will continue to visit the participant (about weekly or more
      frequently if required) to provide routine care between research nurse visits.

      Block randomisation will be used, stratified by study centre and prognostic index (ulcer size
      greater than 5cm2 and/or ulcer duration greater than 6 months) to ensure a balance of
      participants within study centres and for participants likely to be slow healers. Research
      nurses will input information on inclusion criteria, exclusion criteria, and relevant
      clinical history on consented participants via a tablet computer. The allocation will be
      generated after this information has been entered. Randomised participants will receive the
      allocated treatment until the reference ulcer heals or data collection is completed,
      whichever occurs sooner.
    
  