
    
      Obesity is a major global public health concern, for which the most effective therapy is
      bariatric surgery. Beyond weight loss, bariatric surgery exerts powerful effects on glucose
      metabolism, achieving complete type 2 diabetes remission in up to 70% of cases. An
      exaggeration of these effects, however, can result in an increasingly recognized metabolic
      complication known as postprandial hyperinsulinaemic hypoglycaemia (PHH). The condition
      manifests 1-3 years after surgery with hypoglycaemic episodes after meals. Emerging data
      suggest that PHH is more frequent than previously thought and affects approximately 30% of
      postoperative patients, more commonly after gastric bypass than sleeve gastrectomy . Despite
      such frequency, the underlying pathophysiology of PHH remains incompletely understood.

      A striking finding in PHH patients is the observed lack of insulin suppression and inadequate
      glucagon response to the sharply falling glucose levels. The blunted glucagon response to
      hypoglycaemia may result from altered alpha-cell function (acute or chronic) and an
      interaction with gut hormones (e.g. glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) that is known to exert
      glucagon-inhibitory effects) or altered brain signalling. It is conceivable that, both, lack
      of endogenous insulin suppression in response to falling postprandial blood glucose levels
      and impaired glucagon secretion contribute to PHH.

      Further neuroendocrine regulatory processes to counteract hypoglycaemia involve
      catecholamines, cortisol, growth hormone and autonomic nervous system activity. Two previous
      studies examined counter-regulatory hormones during experimentally induced hypoglycaemia in
      patients after gastric bypass surgery and found lower levels than before surgery, suggesting
      that bariatric surgery per se influences counter-regulation to hypoglycaemia. Underlying
      mechanisms remain speculative. Of note, impaired neuroendocrine counter-regulation to
      hypoglycaemia is further supported by the high proportion of asymptomatic patients, which may
      be reflective of impaired hypoglycaemia awareness. The role of counter-regulatory hormones in
      PHH patients remains not fully understood.

      Apart from the neuroendocrine milieu, effectiveness of hypoglycaemia counter-regulation
      depends on the capacity to provide glucose from the liver, also known as endogenous glucose
      production. In healthy humans, approximately 85% of the glucose produced by the liver during
      the initial 60-90min of hypoglycaemia is derived from liver glycogen. Postprandial hepatic
      glycogen stores, in turn, depend heavily on the hepatic glucose uptake following a meal.
      Postprandial hepatic glucose disposal and mobilization of hepatic glucose during
      hypoglycaemia in PHH patients remain unexplored to date.

      There is currently no evidence, that increased insulin sensitivity is implicated in the
      pathophysiology of PHH. Conversely, previous studies suggested increased non-insulin
      dependent whole body glucose uptake in PHH compared to non-PHH in the light of similar or
      even decreased insulin sensitivity.

      The primary objective of this study is to assess the neuro-endocrine response to
      hypoglycaemia in PHH vs. non-PHH post-gastric bypass individuals. The investigators
      hypothesize that the glucagon response to standardized and controlled hypoglycaemia is
      significantly diminished in PHH vs. non-PHH post-gastric bypass individuals. Involvement of
      non-surgical non-PHH controls and sleeve-gastrectomy non-PHH controls will allow to explore
      effects of bariatric surgery on counter-regulatory mechanisms to hypoglycaemia, including
      differences between procedures (gastric bypass vs. sleeve gastrectomy).
    
  