
    
      ODSH has demonstrated in vitro and in vivo inhibitory activity on mechanisms that are
      believed to play important roles in pancreatic cancer invasion, metastasis, and resistance to
      chemotherapy and radiation. Pancreatic cancer appears to have a dependence on autophagy, a
      regulated catabolic pathway to degrade and recycle cellular organelles and macromolecules.
      Autophagy appears to be largely driven by the binding of high mobility group box-1 protein
      (HMGB1) to the receptor for advanced glycation end-products (RAGE), which is strongly
      inhibited by ODSH. Autophagy appears to not only assist pancreatic cancer cells to survive in
      a hypoxic, relatively avascular environment, but also appears to play an important role in
      chemotherapy resistance. Other important biological activities promoting pancreatic cancer
      invasion and metastasis affected by ODSH include the inhibition of heparanase and the binding
      of tumor cells to endothelium and platelets mediated by the selectins. It is believed that
      these biological activities such as the inhibition of RAGE, heparanase, and selectin-mediated
      metastasis, can be inhibited by ODSH at dose levels that can safely be administered without
      clinically significant anticoagulation.

      The standard of care of pancreatic cancer is evolving. It appears that two combination
      regimens, the "FOLFIRINOX" regimen (a combination of 5-fluorouracil, leucovorin, irinotecan
      and oxaliplatin) and the combination of gemcitabine + nab-paclitaxel, could have more
      activity than the previous standard treatment of gemcitabine alone.

      Subjects with advanced metastatic pancreatic cancer that have not received chemotherapy,
      surgical or radiation treatments and have a good performance status will be eligible to
      participate in this study. 10 patients will be enrolled in a Run-in Period to receive
      gemcitabine + nab-paclitaxel +ODSH. PK sampling and safety assessments will be conducted to
      decide on the continuation to the Controlled Period of the study where 50 patients will be
      randomized at a 1:1 ratio to either of the two study arms: Arm A will receive gemcitabine +
      nab-paclitaxel + ODSH and Arm B will receive gemcitabine + nab-paclitaxel.

      The primary endpoint of the study is mean progression free survival. The secondary endpoints
      consist of tumor response by RECIST criteria, overall survival at the end of the study and
      changes from baseline for CA19-9 marker, weight and plasma albumin.
    
  