
    
      With improved survival, the clinical spectrum of cystic fibrosis (CF), a complex multi
      systemic disease, continue to evolve. A major emerging complication is CF related diabetes
      (CFRD). CFRD is a major co-morbidity occurring in 20% of adolescents and 40-50% of adults and
      is mainly due to reduced insulin secretion. Patients who develop CFRD are at increase risk of
      morbidity and mortality and they are also facing an increased medical burden with insulin
      therapy, the only recommended treatment. Because accelerated decline in weight and/or
      pulmonary function start 2 to 4 years before CFRD onset and that this period is characterized
      by frequent Post-Prandial Glycemic (PPG) excursions, the role of these PPG excursions in
      clinical deterioration have been investigated. The investigators have shown that higher PPG
      excursions are associated with lower pulmonary function and others have shown that PPG
      excursions predicts future CFRD risk. Food overconsumption is discouraged in other forms of
      diabetes to avoid overweight or obesity, but also to prevent an increase in insulin demand.
      In contrast, nutritional approach for patients with CF focuses on high-energy high-fat diet
      to meet increased energy requirements. In combination with an appropriate pancreatic enzyme
      supplementation, this approach contributes significantly to the improved nutritional status,
      lung function and survival of patients. However, such diet also contributes to increased PPG
      excursions. Based on the beneficial effects of nutrition therapy to improve PPG in other
      forms of pre-diabetes and diabetes, extending such benefits to patients with CF is important.
      In the context of high CF treatment burden, such approach should however be simple and not
      inducing weight loss. The investigators aim to test the feasibility and the effectiveness of
      a viscous fiber supplement to reduce PPG in adult patients with CF. Using a randomized
      crossover design, the investigators will study the impact of two doses of a viscous fiber
      supplement as compared to a placebo in controlled conditions, in 22 patients, over 8 hours,
      at the research center with 2 standardized mixed-meals: breakfast and lunch on PPG
      excursions.
    
  