
    
      Postpartum hemorrhage (PPH) is a major cause of maternal death worldwide. Oxytocin is the
      most commonly used uterotonic drug to prevent and treat PPH in the world. However, oxytocin
      has a very short duration of action, requiring a continuous infusion to achieve sustained
      uterotonic activity. Moreover, large doses are associated with adverse effects like
      hypotension, nausea, vomiting, dysrhythmias and ST changes. The Society of Obstetricians and
      Gynecologists of Canada (SOGC) has recommended a single dose of 100 mcg of the longer acting
      carbetocin at elective cesarean section to promote uterine contraction. In multiple studies
      performed at Mount Sinai Hospital, we have shown that smaller doses of oxytocin (ED 90 0.35
      IU) and carbetocin (ED 90 14.8 mcg) are effective in achieving adequate uterine tone at
      elective cesarean section. No study has directly compared the high dose regimens with the low
      dose regimens; therefore a large double-blind randomized controlled trial is necessary to
      show the non-inferiority of the lower doses of both drugs.

      There is a lack of consensus as to what the optimal uterotonic regime is globally.
      Furthermore, variability in the international guidelines regarding the choice of first line
      uterotonic in prevention of PPH adds to the confusion. With the widespread availability of
      carbetocin in some of the developed countries, including Canada, the question of which
      uterotonic to adopt and at which dose becomes even more difficult to ascertain. Studies that
      have currently been published suggest the ED90 doses of carbetocin and oxytocin provide
      adequate uterine contraction with possibly fewer side effects associated with the lower dosed
      regimens. These advantages may provide a better safety profile and patient satisfaction. To
      the best of our knowledge, no studies have compared the low doses (ED90) of oxytocin vs.
      carbetocin, or low (ED90) vs high (conventional) doses of the two drugs in the setting of
      elective cesarean section. The results of this study will provide evidence on the efficacy
      and safety of the ED90 dosing compared directly to the higher dosing of both drugs.

      Our hypothesis is that the ED90 doses of carbetocin and oxytocin will not be inferior to the
      higher dosing as determined by the intensity of uterine contraction using a VNRS in women
      undergoing elective cesarean section. We anticipate that the intensity of uterine contraction
      using the VNRS at 2 minutes post administration of all drugs will fall within the
      predetermined margin to signify non-inferiority of all regimens.
    
  