
    
      The current proposal plans to implement and evaluate a CBT intervention for building
      workplace resilience by preventing symptoms of PTSD and related conditions in Public Safety
      Personnel (i.e., police officers, firefighters, paramedics, emergency communications, and
      correctional officers), in Manitoba, Canada. The intervention used in this study is the
      Cognitive Behaviour Therapy with Mindfulness (CBTm) Course.

      Participants will be randomized into either the intervention group (CBTm) arm or the
      comparison arm. Participants placed in the intervention arm will be invited to immediately
      participate in the CBT intervention. Participants in the comparison arm will be placed on a
      3-month waiting-list and will be invited to attend the CBT intervention following completion
      of the study. While placed in the comparison arm, participants may access the usual mental
      health supports that are normally offered through their respective occupational
      organizations, EAP programs, and other programs in the community.

      Those who do not meet eligibility criteria will not be enrolled into the study, but will
      still be invited to attend the CBTm classes as space allows. Ineligible participants will not
      be randomized and their data will not be used in our analysis of the trial.

      The Cognitive Behaviour Therapy with Mindfulness (CBTm) Course for Public Safety Personnel is
      a brief psychoeducational course consisting of 5 classes (90 minutes each) occurring on a
      weekly basis. The CBTm course addresses the fundamentals of CBT and provides participants
      with practical strategies for managing stress (such as relaxation strategies, cognitive
      restructuring, goal setting, behavioural activation, and exposure therapy). The sessions will
      be facilitated by a mental health-professional (i.e. psychiatrist, psychologist, and/or
      social worker).

      Participants will complete self-report evaluation forms at baseline, weekly at CBTm Classes 1
      to 5, post-intervention at 6 weeks, and follow-up at 3 months. They will be asked to complete
      the following measures: (1) Modified DSM-5 Self-Rated Level 1 Cross-Cutting Measure - Adult,
      (2) Generalized Anxiety Disorder 7-item, (3) Patient Health Questionnaire 9-item (PHQ-9), (4)
      Session Evaluation questionnaire, (5) Homework Evaluation Form, (6) Post-Traumatic Stress
      Disorder Checklist for the DSM-5 (PCL-5) with Life Events Checklist (LEC-5) and Criterion A,
      (7) Connor-Davidson Resilience Scale 10 item (CD-RISC 10), (8) Client Satisfaction
      Questionnaire (CSQ-8), (9) Short Form-12 (SF-12), (10) Drop out Form, (11) Five Facet
      Mindfulness Questionnaire 15-Item (FFMQ-15), (12) Perceived Stress Scale, (13) Utrecht Work
      Engagement Scale 9-Item (UWES-9), and (14) Service Utilization Follow Up.
    
  