
    
      Research questions:

        1. What is the incidence of PPC in patients undergoing mechanical ventilation during
           general anesthesia for robotic surgery?

        2. Are the outcomes in patients undergoing robotic surgery dependent on ventilation
           practice and surgical positioning?

        3. What is the incidence of patients at high risk for PPC undergoing robotic surgery

      Methods:

      In this international observational study, consecutive patients undergoing mechanical
      ventilation for robotic surgery are eligible for participation. Patients in participating
      centers will be screened on a daily basis. Patients undergoing mechanical ventilation for
      robotic surgery will be included during a 30-day period. The inclusion period will be
      flexible for participating centers and determined at a later stage together with the
      study-coordinator.

      Time points of data collection:

        1. Demographic data and baseline data, including severity scores (e.g. ASA) and ARISCAT,
           are collected from the clinical files on the day of surgery

        2. Ventilation settings, gas exchange variables, positioning and vital parameters are
           collected hourly during surgery

        3. Chest radiography data from available chest X-rays (i.e., no extra chest X-rays are
           obtained)

        4. Predefined complications are recorded from medical chart until the first five
           postoperative days, discharge from hospital or death, whatever comes first

        5. Length of hospital stay, and hospital mortality

      Centres: The investigators aim to recruit 20 - 50 centers worldwide.

      Ethics Approval: National coordinators will be responsible for clarifying the need for ethics
      approval and applying for this where appropriate according to local policy. Centres will not
      be permitted to record data unless ethics approval or an equivalent waiver is in place. The
      investigators expect that in most, if not every participating country, a patient informed
      consent is not be required.

      Monitoring: Due to the observational nature of the study, a DSMB is not be necessary.

      Study Population: Adult patients undergoing mechanical ventilation for robotic surgery.

      Data Collection: Data will be collected at inclusion, during surgery and every day during
      five days, and day of hospital discharge. Data will be coded by a patient identification
      number (PIN) of which the code will be kept safe at the local sites. The data will be
      transcribed by local investigators onto an internet based electronic CRF.

      Sample Size Calculation: A formal sample size will not be calculated, seen the largely
      descriptive character of this investigation. Data from 500 patients is expected to be
      collected, which will be sufficient to test the hypotheses.

      Statistical Analysis: Patient characteristics will be compared and described by appropriate
      statistics. Student's t-test or Mann-Whitney U-tests are used to compare continuous variables
      and chi-squared tests are used for categorical variables. Data are expressed as means (SD),
      medians (interquartile range) and proportions as appropriate. Comparisons between and within
      groups are performed using one-way ANOVA and post-hoc analyses for continuous variables.

      The primary analysis concerns the determination of the incidence of postoperative pulmonary
      complications in patients undergoing mechanical ventilation for robotic surgery.

      To identify potential factors associated with outcome like development of postoperative
      pulmonary complications, or death, univariable analyses will be performed. A multi-level
      multivariable logistic regression model will be used to identify independent risk factors. A
      gradual approach will be used to enter new terms into the model, with a limit of p < 0.2 to
      enter the terms. Time to event variables will be analyzed using Cox regression and visualized
      by Kaplan-Meier.

      Organization: The study is conducted by the PROtective VEntilation Network (PROVENet).
      National co-ordinators will lead the project within individual nations and identify
      participating hospitals, translate study paperwork, distribute study paperwork and ensure
      necessary regulatory approvals are in place. They provide assistance to the participating
      clinical sites in trial management, record keeping and data management. Local coordinators in
      each site will supervise data collection and ensure adherence to Good Clinical Practice
      during the trial.
    
  