
    
      This multicenter study will investigate whether short-term exposure of elderly volunteers to
      ambient levels of O3 in a controlled exposure setting while intermittently exercising causes
      acute cardiovascular responses. The study is based on the suppositions that: 1) elderly
      people are a susceptible group for cardiovascular effects; and 2) effects are more likely
      with exercise.

      The study will involve approximately 90 healthy volunteers aged ≥55 and ≤70 who meet strict
      criteria for inclusion. They will be exposed for 3 hours to clean air, 0.07 ppm O3 (near the
      current NAAQS), and 0.12 ppm O3 (a level measured in several locations in the US). A suite of
      cardiovascular and pulmonary endpoints will be measured on the day before the exposure and up
      to 22 hours after the exposures. The study is being conducted at three centers using a common
      protocol and common SOPs. Most the endpoints will be analyzed by core laboratories to reduce
      the variability in the results. A Data Coordination and Analysis Center will assemble all the
      data generated by the three centers and conduct the statistical analyses on the combined data
      sets.

      The study has 3 main objectives:

        1. To determine the relationship of altered autonomic balance (measured as changes in heart
           rate and heart rate variability (HRV)), cardiac arrhythmia, and repolarization and ozone
           exposure.

        2. To identify instances of altered systemic vascular function [measured as brachial artery
           flow-mediated dilation (FMD)without and with nitroglycerin (NTG) when exposed to ozone.

        3. To identify pro-thrombotic vascular state (measured as increase in von Willebrand factor
           antigen in blood - primary endpoints) when exposed to ozone.

      Additional objectives include:

        1. To identify any increase in micro particle-associated tissues factor (measured as number
           of particles and tissue factor activity) and platelet activation) in ozone exposure.

        2. To identify if markers of systemic oxidative stress and inflammation and any correlation
           with the cardiovascular effects and degree of airway injury (measured as CC16) and
           airway inflammatory effects (neutrophils and cytokines in induced sputum) in ozone
           exposure.

        3. To determine if cardiovascular effects in ozone exposure are correlated with airway
           inflammatory effects, but not lung function effects.
    
  