
    
      Although EGFR- and ALK-TKIs can achieve a response rate as high as 70%, all patients treated
      with TKIs invariably develop resistance to the therapy. The median progression-free survival
      is 10-16 months. The most common mechanism of acquired resistance to TKIs is the
      therapy-induced clonal selection of a minor subpopulation of resistant cancer cells that were
      present in the original tumor. Emergence of the EGFR mutation T790M occurs in about 50-70% of
      patients with acquired resistance to EGFR-TKIs. Other EGFR mutations and mutations in
      phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate 3-kinase catalytic subunit alpha (PIK3CA) and B-Raf
      Proto-Oncogene (BRAF) are also associated with EGFR-TKI resistance, but they occur at low
      frequencies. Resistance to ALK-TKI is more complex and involves various resistant mutations.

      TKI resistance remains a major problem in clinical management of NSCLC. Patients with
      acquired resistance can be treated with second generation TKIs, though none are FDA approved
      yet, or by combination therapy strategies. Therefore, molecular characterization of tumor
      throughout the course of disease is helpful to match new drugs to the tumor's evolving
      genomic profile and guide effective personalized therapies. However, serial tissue sampling
      to monitor molecular signatures of tumor is invasive, impractical, and not a routine clinical
      practice. Obtaining sufficient tissue materials for genotyping is also a major hurdle in
      tissue sampling. There is a need to develop a technology that permits non-invasive serial
      analysis of the tumor genomic profiles.

      Cell-free circulating DNA is fragmented DNA found in circulation that is not associated with
      cells or cell fragments. When tumor cells die, they release tumor DNA into the bloodstream.
      The cell-free circulating DNA derived from tumors, known as circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA),
      carries mutations present in the tumor and hence can be distinguished from cell-free
      circulating DNA derived from normal cells. It has been shown that the detection of ctDNA and
      its concentration correlate with tumor stage and cancer survival. Moreover, ctDNA in plasma
      can be used to detect genomic alterations in solid cancers, and that there is a high
      concordance in detected mutations between paired formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) and
      plasma DNA samples.

      In a study of acquired resistance to EGFR blockade in colorectal cancer patients, repeated
      serum samples were collected at 4-week intervals until disease progression. Using
      mathematical modeling, this study had the following important findings: resistant mutations
      were present in a clonal subpopulation within the tumors prior to the initiation of
      treatment, it took a fairly consistent period of time (about 5-6 months) for the subclone to
      expand and repopulate the lesion, and circulating resistant mutations could be detected
      several months before radiographic evidence of disease progression. This seminal study
      demonstrated the potential of using a ctDNA test to track genomic evolution and selection in
      tumors in a non-invasive manner in order to facilitate individualized therapies and hence to
      prolong remission.

      The investigators have demonstrated plasma detection of EGFR mutations in patients with
      advanced stage lung adenocarcinoma bearing EGFR mutations, correlating with prognosis of
      subjects on EGFR-TKI. One prospective study had used real-time polymerase chain reaction
      (RT-PCR) to detect EGFR mutations in ctDNA from patients with advanced NSCLC. Among patients
      who were EGFR mutation + at baseline (pre-treatment), those who lost the EGFR mutation at
      cycle 3 of treatment (chemotherapy +/- erlotinib) had better progression free survival;
      median survivals were 7.2 vs. 12.0 months in patients who were EGFR mutation (+,+) and (+,-)
      at baseline and cycle 3, respectively.

      Other studies have also demonstrated the feasibility of other oncogenic mutations especially
      KRAS mutation.

      Although these studies demonstrated the feasibility of detecting tumor mutations in ctDNA,
      they were limited to examining a single gene (e.g., EGFR or KRAS).

      Other studies had applied next generation sequencing in patients with NSCLC. Max Diehn's lab
      at Stanford University has developed a method to quantify ctDNA by deep sequencing of >130
      genes. In 17 patients with paired plasma DNA and tumor tissue samples, they were able to
      detect all mutations previously identified in tissue plus many additional somatic variants.
      They also found levels of ctDNA to be highly correlated with tumor volume. Their study
      examined multiple genes, but did not have a prospective component to track ctDNA mutations
      and correlate specific mutations with treatment outcome.

      Testing of ctDNA in patients who receive chemotherapy has never been done. Genomic profiling
      can identify mutations associated with resistance and response to chemotherapy.

      The investigators therefore propose a longitudinal study in patients with advanced NSCLC
      treated with first-line TKI or chemotherapy to collect serial blood samples prospectively
      and, using next-generation sequencing of ctDNA, to examine the evolutionary genomic profiles.
      This study aims to evaluate utilities of the ctDNA test in identifying genomic markers to
      predict treatment response and survival in patients with advanced NSCLC.

      This proposed study will examine the utilities of ctDNA in identifying genomic markers for
      NSCLC prognosis in patients treated with first-line TKI or chemotherapy. After diagnosis,
      patients will be followed at 3-month intervals. At each study visit, plasma samples will be
      collected and, whenever clinically indicated, tissue samples will also be obtained. Genomic
      profiling of tumors will be done in the FFPE tissue sample and in ctDNA extracted from the
      prospectively collected plasma samples. The aims are:

        1. To determine concordance and discordance of somatic mutations found in ctDNA and tumor
           tissue DNA.

        2. To identify mutations in ctDNA that are associated with prognosis (treatment response
           and progression-free survival) in patients who receive (a) EGFR-TKI treatment, (b)
           ALK-TKI treatment, or (c) chemotherapy.

        3. To track the molecular time course in terms of (a) variation of total ctDNA
           concentration over time, (b) when the mutations associated with resistance/recurrence
           are first detectable in plasma, and (c) how the mutation fractions of the
           resistance-associated mutations vary over time.

        4. To combine information from Aims 2 and 3 to develop prediction models for prognosis in
           patients who receive (a) EGFR-TKI treatment, (b) ALK-TKI treatment, or (c) chemotherapy.
    
  