
    
      The Primary objectives of the main study are:

        1. To determine if mindfulness meditation with auditory neurofeedback (NFB) leads to
           greater improvements in mindfulness relative to a mindfulness meditation without
           neurofeedback (no-NFB).

        2. To determine if a mindfulness meditation intervention with neurofeedback leads to
           greater improvements in psychological well-being, with perceived stress levels as the
           primary outcome measure, in the two study populations, relative to a mindfulness
           meditation program without neurofeedback .

      Secondary objectives of the main study are to determine if the NFB intervention leads to
      greater improvements in 1) other measures of psychological wellbeing and 2 ) behavioural and
      EEG markers of perceptual and cognitive function, relative to the no-NFB arm, in the two
      study populations (individuals with MCI; caregivers)

      Feasibility and acceptability objectives of the pilot study

        1. To evaluate the acceptability of the intervention for older adults with MCI and family
           caregivers of persons with MCI or neurodegenerative disorders, and to examine whether
           the acceptability of the intervention is associated with the individual's technological
           abilities.

        2. To estimate the recruitment rate of older adults with MCI and family caregivers
           separately, as well as dyads of older adults with MCI and their caregivers.

        3. To determine the rate of adherence to the intervention schedule (durations per session
           and number of sessions), and the rate of completion of assessment visits and weekly
           questionnaires

        4. To determine the extent of technical expertise and time resources required of the
           experimenters to provide technical support to participants in each group

        5. To determine the feasibility of blinding experimenters to the intervention arm and of
           blinding Muse-control participants to the neurofeedback group, given that information
           about the Muse app is easily available online.

        6. To obtain preliminary estimates of the effects of Muse and Muse-control interventions on
           the psychological well-being, and perceptual and cognitive measures, and the standard
           deviations of these measures.

      Procedures:

      Briefly, participants will be enrolled on a continuous basis. After an initial pre-screening
      phone call or email, interested and eligible participants will come for a consenting and
      screening visit, which will include a clinical interview to screen for mental-health
      exclusion criteria, as well as exclusion related to prior use of the Muse device. All those
      eligible to proceed will return for a baseline assessment visit (Visit 2) where they will
      complete a series of computer-based task assessments and self-report questionnaires. At the
      end of the assessments, participants will be introduced to the research assistant responsible
      for the intervention (training RA). The training RA will train the participant on how to use
      the Muse headband and app associated with their training condition, as well as give
      instructions on the required training regimen. The next six weeks will consist of the
      training period. The training RA will contact participants by phone or email once a week to
      monitor for any issues. Following the training period, all participants will come back for
      Visit 3 to repeat the same assessments as were completed at baseline (Visit 2) with the
      experimenter RAs. All participants will be fully debriefed by the training RA during Visit 3
      as to which version of the app they trained with and what the differences are between the two
      apps.

      Sample size justification for the pilot study

      A minimum of 12 participants per group and condition is required to provide feasibility and
      acceptability information. However, to obtain reliable estimates of the variability of each
      outcome measure, our target sample size is 20 participants per condition (i.e., 40 MCI
      participants in total and 40 caregivers in total). The actual sample size for the pilot study
      will be limited by the timeline of the project and the combination of recruitment and
      retention rates.

      Recruitment:

      Caregivers will be recruited through advertisements on the Baycrest campus or at institutions
      that provide services for caregivers. Older adults with MCI will be recruited at Baycrest
      through advertisements and by contacting eligible participants through the Baycrest Client
      Registry.
    
  