
    
      Initially, the use of the drugs chloroquine, hydroxychloroquine and lopinavir / ritonavir had
      been proposed in this study, based on laboratory results of their in vitro antiviral potency
      for the CoV-2 virus, but with limited clinical evidence. However, later there were problems
      with the safety of the use of azithromycin in patients with SARS Covid 19. The coordinating
      committee of this study decided by consensus to suspend the use of hydroxychloroquine in the
      clinical trial in question by means of minutes of June 9, 2020 given that the interim
      analysis of the Recovery study showed (on June 5) that "there are no differences between
      hydroxychloroquine and standard treatment (28-day mortality between HCQ hydroxychloroquine
      and standard treatment (28-day mortality outcome (25.7% hydroxychloroquine vs. 23.5% usual
      care; Hazard ratio (HR: 1.11 [95% CI 0.98-1.26]). "(21) On the other hand, on June 29, the
      same Recovery study published the results of the interim analysis on the use of lopinavir
      ritonavir in patients with SARS Covid 19. In a statement it reports that "there were no
      significant differences in the 28-day mortality outcome (22.1% of lopinavir-ritonavir versus
      21.3 % of usual care; (relative risk RR 1.04 95% CI 0.91-1.18]; no beneficial effects were
      found on the risk of progression to mechanical ventilation or the length of hospital stay
      "(22)

      Given these results, it is relevant to know the clinical effectiveness and adverse effects of
      the drugs: emtricitabine / tenofovir, colchicine / rosuvastatin, compared with the usual
      management, as alternatives for the management of COVID-19 infection in real patient
      scenarios for support decision making in clinical practice.

      Interim analysis and sample size

      The study will be carried out in two stages, given the great uncertainty surrounding the
      safety and effectiveness of the treatments, as well as taking into account the speed in which
      evidence is appearing locally and globally. The first stage of the study will be carried out
      with a sample of 400 participants, with the aim of identifying the treatments with the
      greatest potential, as well as discarding early those treatments with the highest toxicity or
      lowest effectiveness, in order to introduce a new drug. In the second stage, with a sample of
      1,200 participants, the effectiveness of the four treatments selected at the beginning of the
      second stage will be evaluated, which may be the same contained in the 3 active treatment
      arms and the standard management group or one or more new drugs arms. The total sample size
      of the study will be 1,200 participants.

      Stage 1. Evaluation of the safety and minimum effectiveness of the selected treatments:

      For this stage, a sample size of 400 participants collected from the 6 institutions was
      calculated, obtaining, for the four interventions, 100 participants for each intervention.
      Assuming a loss percentage of 10.

      Safety evaluation: If a treatment presents in the first 30 participants 3 severe adverse
      events or if during the execution of this stage it reaches a percentage of severe adverse
      events greater than or equal to 10 percent, the drug will be withdrawn.

      Evaluation of the minimum effectiveness:

      When completing the sample size of this stage (400 participants), a interim analysis will be
      carried out that allows testing whether there is an expected difference of 15 percent (25
      percent - 10 percent), with a power of 84 percent. As in the previous analysis, if
      significant differences are found, the treatment with less effectiveness (highest mortality)
      is replaced. The correction of the type I error will be made using the O'Brien-Fleming
      method.

      Stage 2. Estimation of effectiveness:

      With a sample size of 1,2ticipants were obtained for each intervention, allowing the
      evaluation of an expected difference of 10 (25 percent - 15 percent) with a power of 81
      percent and a significance level of 0.05. A loss percentage of 10 will be considered.

      Rules for selecting a drug to be included in the RCT in stage 2

      Criteria for inclusion of a new drug, in its order:

        1. Evidence that the drug is safe in humans

        2. The drug must have a record from the National Institute for Food and Drug Surveillance
           (Invima)

        3. Drug's availability in the country

        4. The drug must show at least 15 percent superiority to standard management in other
           randomized clinical trials that have been conducted in patients with SARS CoV-2 /
           COVID-19

        5. Biological plausibility and studies that support the choice: in vitro case series
           studies, use in similar situations

        6. Ongoing studies that are evaluating the drug's effectiveness and safety

        7. The drug must meet the objective of the study
    
  