
    
      Lunch is in the Bag is a behaviorally-based, multilevel intervention to increase the
      availability of fruits, vegetables and whole grains in sack lunches for preschool children.
      The Lunch is in the Bag program was designed to fit within the limited time available for
      parents at childcare centers, and includes 5 weeks of parent handouts, classroom activities
      related to topics in the handouts, parent and child activities to reinforce behavioral
      constructs, and a one week booster 22 weeks later.

      The primary aim of this proposal is to determine if Lunch is in the Bag program improves the
      nutrient composition of sack lunches parents pack for children. The primary hypothesis for
      this aim:

      - At 6-week and 28-week follow-up periods, compared to children's lunches at the comparison
      centers, children's lunches in the intervention group will, on average, contain more servings
      of: a) fruit; b) vegetables; c) whole grains.

      The secondary hypotheses for this aim:

        1. At 6-week and 28-week follow-up periods, compared to children's lunches at the
           comparison centers, children's lunches at the intervention centers on average will have
           higher dietary quality relative to the Dietary Reference Intakes (DRI) for energy,
           dietary fiber, carbohydrate, saturated fat, trans fat, vitamin A, calcium, iron, and
           zinc.

        2. At 28-week follow-up periods, children at intervention centers will have smaller
           increase in BMI compared to children in comparison centers.

      The secondary aim of this study is to examine effects of the intervention on psychosocial,
      behavioral, and environmental supports in the child's home environment. Hypotheses for this
      aim:

      At 6-week and 28-week follow-up periods,

        1. Compared to children at the comparison centers, children at the intervention centers on
           average will have greater frequency of eating fruits, vegetables, and whole grain foods
           at home.

        2. Compared to parents of children at the comparison centers, parents of children at the
           intervention centers on average will have greater

             1. Behavioral capability/knowledge, perceived behavioral control/self-efficacy,
                expected benefits/attitudes, subjective norms/social support, and intentions for
                packing fruit, vegetable, and whole grain in the child's lunch sack daily.

             2. Amount of parent-child cooperation in lunch packing decisions and behaviors.

             3. Availability of fruit, vegetable, and whole grain in the home pantry.

             4. Number of lunches with temperature in the safe range at time of service.

      Additional aims include the evaluation of factors affecting implementation and adaption of
      the program.

      Childcare centers (n=40) that require parents to send sack lunches from home will be
      randomized to intervention and control groups. Families (n=800) will be enrolled as
      parent-child dyads comprised of the primary lunch packer and one 3 to 5 year old child per
      family. Outcome measures will be assessed at (1) baseline, (2) immediately after the
      five-week intervention (6 weeks), (3) 3 months later immediately before a "booster" activity
      (23 weeks), and (4) 5 weeks after the booster (28 weeks). Mediation analyses will be guided
      by the Theory of Planned Behavior (TPB) and Social Cognitive Theory (SCT), with particular
      attention to the reciprocal influences of the child's eating behavior and the parent's food
      packing behavior and perceptions of child food preferences. Qualitative and process data
      collection will be conducted throughout the intervention. Data from this study will enable us
      to determine the efficacy and feasibility of a parent-based intervention implemented through
      childcare centers to increase the availability of fruits, vegetables, and whole grains in
      diets of preschool children. The ultimate goal for this work is the development of new
      strategies for the promotion of healthy eating practices in children through childcare
      centers, which will decrease their risk of cancer and other chronic diseases later in life.
    
  