
    
      The derivation of human iPS cells (1-5) open new avenues to model human diseases since it may
      now be possible to develop iPS cells from the fibroblasts or other somatic cells of patients
      with various conditions. These iPS cells may be directed to differentiate into the cells
      which are affected in specific conditions. Abnormalities in the development of the affected
      cells as well as altered survival or function of the cells may be studied. Thus iPS cells may
      serve as an invaluable model for the study of the pathogenesis of human diseases and may also
      serve for the development of new drugs, and high throughput screening of molecules for toxic
      or therapeutic effects.

      In addition to the great potential of iPS cells for disease modelling and transplantation
      therapy, the cells may have broad applications in basic research in various areas such as
      reprogramming, basic development and others.

      At present, it is still unclear whether the properties of iPS cells are identical to those of
      hESCs. Initial data suggest that human iPS cells are indeed similar to hESCs in their
      phenotype, epigenetic status of pluripotent self-specific genes, telomerase activity, gene
      expression profile and in their capability to differentiate into progeny of the three germ
      layers both in vitro and in vivo in teratomas (2, 3, 5). In the mouse system, directed
      differentiation of iPS cells into bone marrow repopulating hematopoietic stem cells and
      functional dopaminergic neurons was demonstrated (6, 7). However, incomplete silencing of the
      constitutive expression of the transcription factors that were used to induce reprogramming
      can probably interfere with differentiation (1). Further studies are required to confirm that
      the developmental potential and biological properties of iPS cells are identical to hESC.

      Currently, retroviral vectors are most commonly used to introduce and express the transgenes
      which reprogram the somatic nucleus (1-5). The use of retroviral vectors, which integrate
      into the host cell genome, may cause hazardous insertion mutagenesis. Moreover, the use of
      potentially oncogenic transcription factors, such as c-Myc, significantly limits the clinical
      use of human iPS cells for future cell therapy. However, successful derivation of iPS cells
      was demonstrated without the forced expression of c-Myc. The decreased efficiency of
      reprogramming, in the absence of overexpressed c-Myc, may be improved by molecules which act
      via epigenetic mechanisms. Moreover, successful derivation of iPS cells was recently reported
      with the use of non-integrating adeno viral vectors or repeated transfections. Thus it
      appears that with further developments, it may be possible in the future to safely induce
      pluripotent cells from somatic cells for therapeutic applications.
    
  