
    
      1. This is a qualitative study based on semi-structured interviews with 21 patients with
           SEED. Grounded theory was used to analyse data. The patients had suffered from eating
           disorders on average for 21,5 years with a BMI of 15,4 (12,2-19.5) at the time for the
           interview.

        2. Methods for data collection are a semi-structured diagnostic interview, a qualitative
           interview, self-report questionnaires and data from medical records. The diagnostic
           interview and the self-report assessments will be done at start of treatment and at
           follow-ups after one, two, and three years. The qualitative interview will be conducted
           one year after start of treatment. Data from medical records will be collected
           retrospectively.

      The Structured Eating Disorder Interview (SEDI) is a semi-structured diagnostic interview for
      ED diagnoses according to the DSM-IV. The interview consists of a maximum of 30 and normally
      about 20-25 questions.

      The RAND-36 (also known as the SF-36) measures health-related quality of life (HRQoL).
      Changes in the HRQoL over time can be seen by comparing repeated assessments.

      The Eating Disorder Examination Questionnaire (EDE-Q) measures central symptomatic aspects of
      ED by way of patient's self-ratings.

      The Treatment Satisfaction Scale 2 (TSS-2) is a patient-rated assessment of treatment
      satisfaction in a simple 6-item scale. TSS-2 will be used at all follow-ups.

      The qualitative interview is semi-structured and consists of three broad themes:

        1. The patient's thoughts about her/his life situation in the year he/she has been at Eira.

        2. The patient's thoughts and reflections about her/his quality of life, and whether it has
           been affected in the year he/she has been at Eira.

        3. The patient's thoughts about her/his future. The informants will be asked to talk openly
           around these themes. The interviewer, who is the same person for all interviews, is a
           psychologist who is not part of the Eira staff.

      4. The cost-effectiveness analysis consists of costs of the CM intervention, changes in
      quality of life, as well as societal costs such as health care usage and loss of production.
      The perspective of the analysis will be societal and the time horizon three years. The
      analysis method is going to be cost-utility analysis with health effect expressed in quality
      adjusted life years (QALY). The analysis will be complemented with the probability of
      acceptable cost-effectiveness with different willingness to pay for a QALY.

      All costs of the CM intervention occur at Eira. The cost for each patient in the study can be
      calculated by Eira's total cost divided with each patient's share of resource utilization
      based on enrolled time.

      QALYs will be estimated based on RAND-36 transformed to SF-6D based on a British preference
      score. From the measures at baseline, and after 1, 2 and 3 years, changes in QALYs can be
      estimated. From medical records, changes in cost of health care usage can be calculated. The
      participants' employment and change acquisition work rate is followed during the same period
      based on interviews with participants.

      The treatment may also have impact on relatives' quality of life, costs and earnings. These
      aspects will not be considered in the analysis.

      Setting

      During the first 5-6 sessions at Eira, the patient's psychiatric, somatic and social
      condition is carefully investigated as well as her/his medical history and previous treatment
      experiences. Thereafter the CM intervention starts. The patients' needs and preferences
      guides where and how often the meetings take place and some can be done by phone or text
      messages. Another important part of the CM is to help the patients contact the authorities
      and if necessary to aid them with economic issues.

      In addition to the supportive interventions is it also important to regularly monitor the
      somatic condition and the weight of the patients. If the patient is temporarily in need of
      more somatic or psychiatric help, the therapists can help in planning a short, more intensive
      treatment.

      Twice a year, there is a lecture about the SEED condition for the relatives (without the
      patients) at Eira. During the lecture the relatives can ask questions and discuss problems
      they encounter as SEED relatives. With the patients' consent, relatives are invited to
      participate in the CM treatment. Information and support is offered relatives on an
      individual basis, this also includes underage children.
    
  