
    
      In the past decade, several studies have noted that the application of transcranial direct
      current stimulation (tDCS) when applied to the scalp of a person with dementia, as they
      completed a training task in a particular domain, can lead to improved performance on that
      task (liu, Rau, Gallagher, Rajji, Lanctot, & Hermann, 2017). In our own lab, we have also
      seen improvements in response to the application of TdCS. For example, we found that applying
      transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) to people with dementia led to an improvement
      in naming ability (Roncero, Kniefel, Service, Thiel, Probst, & Chertkow, 2017). Recently, we
      have initiated additional studies in domains such as executive function and memory. These
      studies remain in progress, but participants have again shown improvement, and the
      improvement is noted by the families. Some of the participants who completed a tDCS study in
      our lab are so impressed by the results that they have approached us about the purchase of
      their own tDCS machine. Some of these participants have even tried medication in the past and
      report tDCS is more effective. Because tDCS machines are commercially available, these
      individuals could in theory go about buying their own machines at their own initiative;
      however, participants would prefer our assistance obtaining a machine and be trained on how
      to administer tDCS at home.

      Proposed Study We will assist participants obtain their own tDCS machine, we have decided to
      do so in the form of a longitudinal study. More specifically, we plan to assist participants
      obtain their own machine and train them on the administration of tDCS, but will also collect
      longitudinal data from them. We will obtain monthly reports that will allow us to monitor
      whether stimulation remains effective and the general condition of the participant for at
      least two years.
    
  