
    
      In this international, open-label, prospective, phase III study, where approximately 1126
      patients with treatment naïve or minimally treated PSMA-positive mHSPC will be randomized in
      a 1:1 ratio to receive Standard of Care (SoC) with or without the radioligand 177Lu-PSMA-617.

      The primary objective of the study is to determine whether the combination of 177Lu-PSMA-617
      + SoC improves rPFS over that obtained by administration of SoC alone in mHSPC patients.

      The randomization will be stratified according to the following three factors: disease volume
      (high v low), age >= 70 years (yes/no), and on Previous or planned treatment (prostatectomy
      or radiation) to primary (prostate) tumor (yes/no).

      Study duration: approximately 50 months. screening period: after signing ICF, patients will
      be assessed for eligibility and will be scanned with 68Ga PSMA-11 to identify PSMA expression
      status. Following completion of all required screening procedures and verifying participant
      eligibility, the participant will be randomized via the interactive response technology (IRT)
      system.

      Prior treatment:

        -  Up to 45 days of LHRH agonist/antagonists is allowed prior to ICF signature. If patient
           did not start the ADT prior randomization, ADT should start as soon as possible and
           ideally no later than 2 weeks after randomization.

        -  Up to 45 days of ARDT is allowed prior ICF signature. If patient did not start the ARDT
           prior randomization, ARDT should start as soon as possible and ideally no later than 2
           weeks after randomization. Patients will received ARDT as per label instructions.

      Randomization period:

      The participant will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive Standard of Care (SoC) with or
      without the radioligand 177Lu-PSMA-617.

      Treatment period:

      Patients randomized to the investigational arm (i.e. SoC+177Lu-PSMA-617): Patients will
      receive SoC as per label instructions, after randomization, if not started earlier and in the
      time frame allowed by the protocol. Patients must begin 177Lu-PSMA-617 dosing within 14 days
      after randomization or as soon as possible after the product is received. 177Lu-PSMA-617 is
      administered at the dose of 7.4 GBq (+/- 10%), once every 6 weeks (+/- 1 week) for a planned
      6 cycles.

      Patients randomized to the control arm will begin receiving SoC as per label instructions
      after randomization, if not started earlier and in the time frame allowed by the protocol.

      The primary endpoint of rPFS will be assessed by a centralized blinded image review committee
      (i.e., BIRC) using radiographic images provided by the treating physician.

      An end of treatment (EOT) visit will be performed when participants permanently discontinue
      study treatment.

      Cross-over period:

      After patients randomized to the SoC alone (i.e., control) arm experience radiographic
      progression (the rPFS event) as confirmed by BIRC, they will be allowed to cross-over to
      receive 177Lu-PSMA-617 +/- SoC per the discretion of the treating physician. If cross-over to
      177Lu-PSMA-617 is selected, then 177Lu-PSMA-617 will be administered with the same
      dose/schedule as participants who were initially randomized to receive 177Lu-PSMA-617 as
      described above. Study cross-over participants for whom 177Lu-PSMA-617 is discontinued must
      have a second End of Treatment (EOT2) visit performed =< 7 days and enter the Post-treatment
      Follow-up .

      Post-Treatment Follow-Up (Safety, Efficacy):

      After treatment discontinuation, all participants will be followed for safety with a 30-day
      safety follow-up visit (FUP) as well as longer term safety follow-up assessments for a period
      of approximately 12 months.

      Participants who discontinue study treatment without having progressive disease confirmed by
      BIRC, will continue to be assessed for efficacy (efficacy follow-up) during the
      post-treatment follow-up period until the occurrence of their BIRC-confirmed radiographic
      disease progression (rPFS) event , or if the total number of protocol-defined rPFS events has
      occurred triggering the primary analysis, whichever occurs first.

      Survival Follow-Up:

      After study treatment discontinuation, or post-treatment follow-up period discontinuation,
      the participant's status will be collected every 90 days (via phone calls) as part of the
      survival follow-up. Every effort should be made to comply with the survival follow-up
      schedule and ensure collection of participant survival. The survival follow-up and the study
      will end when the number of OS events required for final OS analysis will be reached.
    
  