
    
      BACKGROUND:

      While the natural history of human lung function growth and decline has been studied
      intensively over the past 30 years, relatively few data have been collected during the period
      in which peak volumetric function is achieved, i.e., around the age of 20. As a result, very
      little is known about the factors, both demographic and environmental, which influence
      maximal attained lung function.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The longitudinal study collected information on the history of respiratory illness,
      residential history, parental smoking, socio-economic status and home characteristics via an
      initial questionnaire administered to cadets enrolling at West Point. A sequence of four
      annual measurements of lung function (by spirometry), and prior-year respiratory health
      status and activity patterns was obtained in the spring of each year. Pollution exposures
      were estimated by matching residential histories with historical pollution data stored at the
      Environmental Protection Agency. Data on meteorological variables (temperature, relative
      humidity, wind speed) and altitude were obtained for each residential location. The four
      annual lung function measurements provided precise estimates of individual mean levels of
      FVC, FEV1, FEF25-75, PEFR, and flow rates at 50 percent and 75 percent of expired FVC.
      Subject-specific lung function level was analyzed in relation to history of parental smoking
      and prior exposure to air pollution using analysis of variance methods, controlling for
      potential confounding variables. In addition to testing these hypotheses regarding the
      respiratory effects of passive smoking and air pollution exposure, the study also explored
      the effects of these exposures on the change in lung function between the ages of 18 and 22
      and on respiratory illness and symptom experience while at West Point. Finally, the study
      established a cohort which could be followed in future years.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  