
    
      This study is a prospective, randomized, double-blind, multi-center study, comparing MAE and
      WIQ rates to historical controls to evaluate the safety and efficacy of Rejuveinix for the
      treatment of patients presenting with symptoms as defined by Rutherford categories 4, 5, or
      6, and who have undergone a successful infrainguinal percutaneous intervention within the
      femoral, femoral-popliteal, popliteal, peroneal, and/or tibial arteries. Treatment at or
      below the ankle will be permitted (e.g. pedal arteries). This intervention must be successful
      as defined by ≤ 30% stenosis as determined by angiographic or duplex ultrasound.

      Preclinical studies support that Rejuveinix has acute perfusion properties that have the
      potential to provide synergistic benefits to patients after undergoing current standard of
      care interventional procedures.

      Following an endovascular intervention, in one or more target vessels/lesions, using FDA
      cleared technology, such as a bare metal stent, angioplasty, and/or atherectomy, patients
      will receive Rejuveinix as an adjunct therapy. Enrolled subjects will be assigned randomly to
      one of two groups. Group A will receive two 20 mL treatments of Rejuveinix per week plus one
      placebo treatment per week comprised of 20 mL 0.9% saline. A dye will be added to the
      placebo; the dye will be selected from one found in the Orange Book. Group B will receive
      three treatments of Rejuveinix per week. Each 20 mL treatments will be combined with 100 mL
      0.9% saline and administered via intravenous (IV) injection over the course of a minimum of
      30 minutes. The study trial will occur for 12 one-week cycles with a washout period of two
      days between each cycle (a one-week cycle will include either 2 or 3 Rejuveinix treatments
      depending on the randomized group). Reven will also assess results calculated on four 21-day
      cycles to allow for a direct comparison to preclinical results.

      The goal of the study is to demonstrate Rejuveinix treatment as an adjunctive therapy is
      non-inferior to historical controls in terms of patient safety, as measured by MAE rates, and
      efficacy, as assessed by the modified WIQ.
    
  