
    
      A total of 30 subjects at least 83 years of age are recruited using advertisements in
      newspapers, magazines, public places and further personal contact. After information and
      written ethical consent (in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki II) health status is
      evaluated by a medical doctor including blood screening, screening for dementia and routine
      objective evaluation. If there is no reason to exclude subjects (see exclusion criteria),
      they are whole-body DXA-scanned (Dual X-ray Absorptiometry) and MR-scanned (Magnetic
      resonance imaging)(dominant knee and femur) and functional measures (30s chair-stand, 10m and
      8m gait speed, DEMMI-test) and strength measures (isometric and isokinetic leg power, power
      rig, grip strength) and tendon stiffness are measured. At least 4 days after this the first
      muscle biopsy in the dominant m. vastus lateralis is taken. Hereafter subjects are randomized
      to one of two groups:

      Group one (n=15) is the exercise and nutrition group (HRT). Subjects in this group are to
      conduct supervised center-based heavy resistance exercise of the lower extremities three
      times weekly for 12 weeks. As for group two, this group receives nutritional supplementation
      twice daily throughout the 12 weeks period. Supplementation contains 20g of milk protein and
      some carbohydrate and lipids.

      Group two (n=15) is the nutrition group (PRO). Subjects in this group only receives
      nutritional supplementation as described above.

      After 12 weeks of intervention the same strength- and functional measures are made, DXA- and
      MR-scans and a second biopsy is made along with tendon stiffness measurement.

      Data is collected and analyzed by staff blinded to randomization. Personal data is locked up,
      and only anonymized data is analyzed. Differences in both primary (m. quadriceps femoris
      cross sectional area) and secondary outcomes (functional measures, strength measures, muscle
      cell- and fiber type count, mRNA expression, muscle collagen content and distribution) are
      evaluated using two-way anova with repeated measures and, if allowed, post-hoc tests.
      Analysis will be made as intention-to-treat.

      Power:

      With an expected 10% increase in quadriceps CSA (cross-sectional area) (from 4500 square mm
      at baseline) with a SD of 600 square mm, power is 82% with alfa 0.05 with inclusion of 15
      subjects in each group.

      In case of systematic health-issues in response to the intervention, the trial will end
      immediately.
    
  