
    
      The practice of medicine by health care professionals (HCPs), while often meaningful and
      rewarding, can have a detrimental effect on mental and physical well-being. Alongside the
      impact of exposure to environmental hazards, doctors are at above-average risk of developing
      stress-related psychological morbidities, substance abuse, and dysfunctional interpersonal
      relationships. In particular, the profession of emergency medicine, with its proclivity for
      complex caseloads, high personal responsibility, and a high-stress environment, can be
      emotionally and physically arduous. This is corroborated by findings from a recent report by
      the Royal College of Physicians of Ireland (RCPI), which asserts that high percentage of
      Irish hospital doctors experience increased levels of burnout. Burnout comprises emotional
      exhaustion, a diminished sense of personal accomplishment, and depersonalisation, which can
      manifest as cynicism and a lack of empathy. In light of this, burnout among HCPs can have
      significant implications for the quality of healthcare provided to patients. Indeed, research
      demonstrates an association between HCP burnout and reduced compassion and empathy, increased
      medical errors, and decreased patient satisfaction. There is growing evidence indicating the
      psychological and physiological benefits of mindfulness and meditation in the general
      population. While less attention has been afforded to the potential gains for physicians and
      other HCPs, a limited body of research demonstrates the efficacy of mindfulness-based
      interventions in improving psychological well being and job satisfaction among this
      population. For example, a recent pilot study conducted by RCPI demonstrates that mantra
      meditation significantly reduced emotional exhaustion in 19 HCPs. The enhanced insight and
      awareness gleaned from meditation can translate into considerable gains for HCPs, patients,
      and the health service. Meditation can enable HCPs to recognise their own limitations and
      errors, to listen more attentively, and to observe and understand both physiological and
      behavioural factors at play. This is corroborated by Beach et al. (Annals of Family Medicine.
      2013;11(5):421-8), who found that patients were more likely to give high ratings on clinical
      communication and to report increased overall satisfaction with clinicians who engage in
      regular mindfulness practices. Encounters with such clinicians were more likely to be
      characterised by a patient-centred pattern of communication and conversation about
      psycho-social issues, while there was no association between clinician mindfulness and
      discussion of biomedical issues. Meditation also has the potential to enhance patient safety,
      however, a complex and high-risk system such as healthcare requires additional approaches to
      augmenting safety. Central to situational awareness, in the context of the health system, is
      the concept of a mindful clinician who is present in the moment and unencumbered by
      distraction. In recent years, a state of crisis within Irish healthcare developed, with an
      increase in the migration of doctors, low levels of recruitment, and under-resourced
      services. Accordingly, Irish healthcare is characterised by the second-highest level of
      physician emigration in the world and one of the lowest ratios of doctor/per capita in Europe
      (www.oecd.org/health/health-at-a-glance-19991312.htm). Reasons for the difficulty in
      retaining qualified Irish doctors include more favourable working conditions and greater
      career opportunities abroad. Moreover, the quality of healthcare in Ireland is likely to be
      compromised by long-term absenteeism if HCPs are forced to leave their jobs prematurely. In
      light of the unprecedented difficulties in Irish healthcare, and considering the association
      between HCP burnout and increased absenteeism and disability, the pertinence of this research
      becomes apparent. HCPs are a vital resource for society and their loss as a result of
      avoidable ill-health is not only damaging to the health service, but a loss to patients and
      colleagues. Thus, interventions that aim to reduce or prevent burnout and stress-related
      psychological morbidities in HCPs are urgently required.
    
  