
    
      This randomized controlled trial (RCT) evaluates the effectiveness of Questscope Non-Formal
      Education (QS NFE) on impacting psychosocial outcomes for out-of-school youth, ages 13-21, in
      Jordan. QS NFE is an empowerment-based education program. A unique agreement with the
      Jordanian Ministry of Education enables participating youth to receive a 10th-grade
      equivalent certificate upon successful completion of the 24-month non-formal education. The
      main components of QS NFE include retraining formal education teachers for fostering positive
      relationships with at-risk youth, asset-building learning and social activities, and a
      youth-driven learning environment.

      The study hypothesis is that by engaging youth in positive relationships with local teachers
      and enabling the youth to drive the learning experience, the intervention will have positive
      impacts on general self-efficacy, social supports, social skills, and strengths and
      difficulties.

      Youth will be recruited according to normal Questscope recruitment procedures by program
      leaders in five poverty pocket communities in Amman, Jordan. Six QS NFE centers will be
      involved in the impact evaluation (four male centers and 2 female centers). Youth will be
      recruited, enrolled, and randomized on an individual basis until each NFE center's sample
      target is met (between 24 and 40 youth, depending on the center). The overall sample target
      is 200 for the six NFE centers aggregately (100 intervention group and 100 waitlist
      comparison). The study aims to recruit 54 females and 146 males.

      Randomization will be conducted electronically using a random permuted block method through
      SealedEnvelope.com. Data collection for outcome measures will involve a computer-based,
      self-administered questionnaire designed with The Survey System software by Creative Research
      Systems. The computer-based survey will provide both text and audio to accommodate low
      literacy levels.

      In the event that a participant rejects his/her random assignment within 48 hours of
      enrollment, the youth will be replaced in the study and will not be included in final data
      analysis. Additionally, all siblings recruited together into the study will be blocked and
      randomized together in enrollment.
    
  