
    
      Why is this study conducted to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of the ActiSight
      Needle Guidance System in assisting trained physicians perform CT guided percutaneous needle
      biopsy (PNB) and fine needle aspiration (FNA) procedures in the chest.

      Subjects, who are scheduled for medically indicated chest PNB or FNA procedures and meet all
      the inclusion and exclusion criteria, will be asked to participate in the study. The aim is
      to enroll 40 subjects that will complete the whole study.

      Recruited subjects will go through screening tests and if eligible, will undergo, within 18
      days of screening, CT Guided chest PNB or FNA utilizing the ActiSight Needle Guidance system.
      Subjects will be observed and tested for at least an hour after the procedure to detect any
      serious complications. A follow-up will be conducted within 7-10 days after the procedure day
      for safety evaluations. Safety and accuracy data from all stages of the study will be
      collected and analyzed.

      The effectiveness of the guidance system will be measured primarily by the frequency of
      reaching the intended targets, as determined by a final CT scan. Other measures will include
      the number of needle punctures and the number of intermediate CT scans needed to complete the
      procedure. The safety of the system will be measured by the frequency and severity of adverse
      events.

      Procedure description:

      First, a single-use, disposable pad (ActiSticker) is attached to the patient's skin over the
      point of needle insertion as selected by the interventionist. The pad incorporates reference
      objects that are easily detectable both on CT images and visually. A volume CT scan, covering
      at least the pad, the target lesion and adjacent structures is then performed. Next, the CT
      images from the volume scan are transferred to the ActiSight computer where the operator
      marks the target of the procedure, as well as all the reference points on the ActiSticker.
      Next, an optical sensor, also single-use and disposable, is attached to the top of the
      needle. By optically detecting all the reference points and relating them to their known
      positions on the CT images, the system can calculate the position of the top and the tip of
      the needle with relation to the target lesion. During the procedure, the system shows the
      user, on a graphic computer display, whether the needle is aimed directly at the target and
      how far the tip of the needle is from the intended target to help the user aim the insertion
      and guidance of the needle to the target.
    
  