
    
      The purpose of this Open Label, Multi-Center Treatment Protocol, phase III trial is to
      examine the safety and efficacy of Anascorp, for treatment of patients envenomed by scorpion
      sting.

      The treatment protocol, including up to 25 Arizona sites, increases the total number of
      subjects receiving Anascorp™, and can provide supplemental safety data for the review
      process. At the same time, it will prevent a public health crisis in rural Arizona by
      replacing the dwindling supply of local antivenom before an BLA is approved.

      Patients who arrive at the emergency clinic presenting with scorpion sting symptoms will be
      evaluated for treatment with Anascorp.

      Each patient who qualifies for entry into the study, according to inclusion/exclusion
      criteria, is assigned a patient number in sequential order of entry. Approximately 100
      patients could be enrolled in the study per year.

      After informed consent has been obtained, a baseline history and physical will be obtained
      and documented in the patient's chart. This will include an evaluation of the symptoms of
      systemic scorpion envenomation. The patient's vital signs (blood pressure, pulse and
      respiration) will be taken. The patient will be questioned as to concomitant medications.
      Demographic data will also be collected.

      Three vials of Anascorp will be administered in a total volume of 50 mL, intravenous over not
      less than 10 minutes or as permitted by IV access. If clinically indicated by systemic signs,
      a second dose (one vial) will be administered if clinically indicated by systemic signs. One
      additional dose may be administered 30 minutes later if indicated by clinically significant
      signs of envenomation. When clinically significant signs have been absent for at least 30
      minutes, a final physical assessment will take place and the patient will be discharged to
      home.

      Twenty four hours and fourteen days after Anascorp™ treatment, all patients will be monitored
      for signs and symptoms of adverse events, including acute hypersensitivity reactions
      (anaphylactic and/or anaphylactoid reactions) and delayed serum sickness. All patients who
      received study drug will be included in the final analyses.

      For the individual patient, the study starts at the time the consent is signed and ends at
      the 14 day telephone interview. The outcome is assessed 14 days after discharge by telephone
      interview.

      Concomitant therapy and medications may be used at any time as needed. All concomitant
      medication must be documented in the CRF from time of entry into the study until the 14 day
      follow up telephone interview..
    
  