
    
      Calcaneal fracture occurred in about 2% of patients; they represented almost 60% of all
      tarsal fractures.

      Calcaneal fractures are caused by high velocity Force to the heel, mostly vehicle accident or
      fall from height. There are many factors affect the fracture pattern: age of the patient,
      weight , type of fall . Male patients predominated (75%) and younger than 50 years. In most
      cases, these fractures are bilateral and conjoined with lumbar spine fractures.

      According to the result of computed tomography (CT) scanning. The calcaneal fractures can be
      classified into 4 categories, among which the SANDERS TYPE Ⅱ and Ⅲ fractures are the most
      common types.2 Thus the development of effective and safe treatment strategies for these two
      fracture types has always been an issue among orthopedic surgeons.

      The treatment of intra-articular calcaneal fractures has always been controversial. Currently
      open reduction and internal fixation through L-Shape extensile incision has been considered
      as the gold standard surgical therapy for calcaneal fractures. This approach provide a large
      view to expose the fracture, allowing accurate reduction of the deformed posterior facet and
      convenient placement of the plate to achieve stable fixation. Postoperatively, plaster cast
      is worn for 2 weeks, walking with the crutches for additional 8-12 weeks is prescribed, and
      return to work is achieved after 6-9 months. However, the high incidence (approximately 30%)
      of complications associated with this approach, including wound dehiscence and deep infection
      , remain a non-negligible problem .

      To lower the wound complications , a minimally invasive approaches has been introduced such
      as percutaneously applied distraction systems K-wires or screw fixation of intra-articular
      fractures , the use of elizarov device , percutaneous arthroscopy assisted osteosynthesis and
      Sinus Tarsi approaches . The sinus tarsi approach has become one of the most frequently
      applied minimally invasive approaches because of its ability to provide adequate exposure for
      the posterior facet, the anterolateral fragment and the lateral wall. Wound complication rate
      with this approach have been reported to range from 0% to 15.4% . Nevertheless, the poor
      visualization of the lateral wall of the calcaneus through this small incision makes it
      difficult to insert the conventional plate for obtaining a stable fixation. Thus, the
      development of a plate that is adaptable to the anatomic characteristics of the calcaneus and
      sinus tarsi approach is important.
    
  