
    
      Myeloproliferative disorders (MPDs) are clonal hematologic diseases characterized by the
      excess production of one or more lineages of mature blood cells, a predisposition to bleeding
      and thrombotic complications, extramedullary hematopoiesis, and a variable progression to
      acute leukemia. The classical Philadelphia chromosome-negative MPDs are polycythemia vera
      (PV), characterized by an expansion in red blood cell production; essential thrombocythemia
      (ET), characterized by an isolated elevation in the platelet count; and myelofibrosis,
      distinguished by a fibrotic bone marrow and peripheral blood cytopenias, and accompanied by
      the highest risk of leukemic transformation. Myelofibrosis can arise de novo, as primary
      myelofibrosis (PMF), or can evolve out of PV or ET as those diseases progress (so called
      post-PV MF and post-ET MF). Amongst the MPDs, those characterized by myelofibrosis (PMF
      together with post-PV and post-ET MF) carry the worst prognosis, with a median survival on
      the order of 3 to 5 years. Patients typically present with anemia, often requiring
      transfusions, symptomatic splenomegaly and severe constitutional symptoms. Donor stem cell
      transplantation is the only potentially curative therapy. To date there is no therapy for
      myelofibrosis that has been shown to offer a survival benefit, and all other therapies for
      myelofibrosis are palliative.

      In 2005, a major breakthrough in understanding the pathophysiology of MPDs came when 4 groups
      described a recurrent somatic mutation in Janus kinase 2 (JAK2) in the majority of patients
      with MPDs. The point mutation in JAK2 encodes a valine to phenylalanine change at position
      617 (JAK2 V617F), and confers constitutive tyrosine kinase activity. Introducing the mutation
      into the bone marrow of mouse models recapitulates the PV phenotype (complete with evolution
      to bone marrow fibrosis) and inhibitors of JAK2 attenuate the growth of cell lines bearing
      the mutation in vitro and in vivo, suggesting that JAK2 V617F is a pathophysiologically
      relevant therapeutic target. It is estimated that 95% of PV cases carry JAK2 V617F, while 50
      to 60% of ET and PMF cases are JAK2 V617F+. The discovery of the JAK2V617F mutation in nearly
      all patients with PV and half those with ET and PMF have redefined the classification and
      possibly the management of MPNs.

      Despite the discovery of the JAK2V617F mutation, many of the clinical questions in the
      management of MPNs remain unanswered. In PV, for example, cardiovascular mortality remains
      1.4 to 1.6 times that of the reference normal population with leukemia and myelofibrosis
      rates many times increased over baseline. Debate continues over the role of venesection
      versus cytoreduction as first-line therapy, and whether hydroxycarbamide (Hydroxyurea) is
      associated with better thrombotic prophylaxis and/or a higher rate of leukemic
      transformation. Interferons may produce molecular responses in PV patients. In high-risk ET,
      while Hydroxyurea and aspirin appear to be more optimal than anagrelide and aspirin, vascular
      complications remain the most significant cause of mortality and morbidity, suggesting that
      targeting vascular risk factors may be worthwhile.

      Furthermore while Hydroxyurea is regarded as the first-choice therapy in most of high risk
      patients with ET and PV; up to 10% of the patients do not attain the desired reduction of
      platelet number or hematocrit with the recommended dose of the drug, exhibiting clinical
      resistance, whereas some will develop unacceptable side effects, demonstrating clinical
      intolerance.

      Quantitation of the JAK2V617F allele burden provides for the first time the opportunity to
      monitor the effect of potential therapeutic agents on the malignant clone in patients with
      PV. Great enthusiasm has been expressed for the use of small molecule inhibitors of JAK2 for
      the treatment of patients with MPN. Phase 1/2 trials have indicated greater than expected
      toxicity, non specificity of action and an inability of these compounds to dramatically alter
      the JAK2V617F allele burden. Interferon (rIFN -2b), is a drug that appears to be
      non-leukemogenic (contrary to 32P, alkylating agents, and possibly Hydroxyurea), and may have
      a preferential activity on the malignant clone in PV, as suggested by cytogenetic remissions
      obtained in patients treated with rIFN -2b.

      This trial was designed as open-label phase 2 study conducted in two strata of patients with
      high risk PV or ET who were intolerant of hydroxyurea. Patients with ET or PV with Splanchnic
      Vein Thrombosis (regardless of prior hydroxyurea) are enrolled in separate strata.
    
  