
    
      Tendon pain is a common complaint in older adults. The mechanisms contributing to the large
      number of tendon problems in older adults are not known. It has been shown that tendon
      cross-sectional area (CSA) is reduced with aging concurrent with a significant loss of tendon
      collagen. Exercise is used to reverse the loss of muscle mass with aging but surprisingly
      exercise interventions designed to reduce tendon problems in older people are relatively
      unexplored. In young adults, exercise stimulates tendon collagen synthesis and enhances the
      production of growth factors, which stimulate tendon collagen production. It is presumed that
      exercise-induced increase in collagen synthesis contributes to the increase in tendon
      stiffness and CSA noted in young adults after chronic resistance exercise (RE). In contrast,
      our preliminary work indicates that RE is not effective at reducing the effects of aging on
      tendon. The investigators have demonstrated that 12-weeks of RE does not lead to increases in
      tendon CSA or stiffness, even when skeletal muscle mass and strength are greatly enhanced. To
      prevent tendon injury, greater tendon CSA and stiffness aid in withstanding the force
      generated by trained skeletal muscle. Greater CSA and stiffness also optimize force transfer
      through tendon to maximize musculoskeletal function. Our findings indicate that RE is not an
      optimal intervention for reversing age-related changes in tendon properties. Novel
      interventions are clearly needed that will enhance collagen synthesis leading to an increase
      in tendon stiffness and CSA while also improving skeletal muscle mass and strength in older
      individuals. This study will evaluate the effectiveness of various methods for stimulating
      tendon collagen synthesis during a bout of acute exercise. Specifically, the investigators
      propose two approaches to this problem.

        1. An acute bout of cycling exercise will enhance the release of growth factors leading to
           a larger increase in tendon collagen synthesis.

        2. A bolus of amino acids given orally will increase the release of key stimulators of
           tendon collagen synthesis leading to enhanced collagen synthesis after acute exercise.
    
  