
    
      To evaluate the safety and efficacy of a food-source nutrient by comparing changes in total
      cholesterol levels, 44 other blood chemistries, and self-reported quality of life as a
      function of consuming two different functional-food supplements versus a placebo in a 60-day
      study.

      Upon completion of the pre-study screening, and after having received an explanation of the
      requirements, risks and benefits, and completing the informed consent interview with the
      research coordinator, subjects will execute a written informed consent. Subjects will be
      randomly assigned to one of three study groups.

      Relevant Background Information.

      A factor leading to development of vascular disease, a leading cause of death in
      industrialized nations, is elevated serum cholesterol. It is estimated that 19% of Americans
      between the ages of 20 and 74 years of age have high serum cholesterol. However, in an
      analysis of 10,000 test results in our database from subjects similar to those who are likely
      to participate in this study, we found 37% of subjects had TC scores between 200 and 250 and
      10.3% above 250.

      The most prevalent form of vascular disease is arteriosclerosis, a condition associated with
      the thickening and hardening of the arterial wall. The regulation of whole-body cholesterol
      homeostasis involves the regulation of intestinal cholesterol absorption, cellular
      cholesterol trafficking, a modulation of cholesterol biosynthesis, bile acid biosynthesis,
      steroid biosynthesis and the catabolism of the cholesterol-containing plasma lipoproteins.
      Regulation of intestinal cholesterol absorption has proven to be an effective means by which
      to regulate serum cholesterol levels.

      Ad-Chol-Pre (ACP) is a functional food ingredient designed to inhibit cholesterol absorption.
      ACP is a freeze dried defatted egg powder containing specific Anti-NPCIL1 (Niemann-Pick
      C1-like 1) IgY. NPC1L1 is known as a biological target of the cholesterol-uptake inhibitor,
      Ezetimibe. In previous unpublished pilot studies examining the safety and efficacy of ACP
      include:

        -  ACP was shown to produce a statistically inhibition of [3H]-Cholesterol absorption from
           50 ug/ml (P<0.05) in NPC1L1 over-expressing HepG2 cell lines as compared to an
           inhibition of 10ug/ml with Ezetimibe alone.

        -  I preliminary unpublished animal studies, ACP was shown to significantly inhibit
           radiolabelled cholesterol. ACP was found to significantly lower total cholesterol (38%
           ~56%) and LDL cholesterol (46~57%) in bloods from animals fed who had been fed a high
           fat diet for 6 weeks.
    
  