
    
      Cryotherapy has traditionally been used for the acute treatment of musculoskeletal injuries
      and following operative procedures. Cryotherapy currently represents the standard of care
      following common orthopaedic procedures to the knee and shoulder. In addition to relieving
      pain and swelling during the acute inflammatory period following surgery, cryotherapy has
      also been shown to reduce muscle spasms, promoting quicker functional recovery, accelerating
      post-operative rehabilitation and return to regular activities. Multiple investigations have
      demonstrated the benefit of cryotherapy following both shoulder and knee surgeries when
      compared to ice alone or no cryotherapy, however conflicting data prevents consensual
      agreement regarding the success of cryotherapy when compared to other post-operative pain
      control modalities.

      The use of cryotherapy has been extensively studied in the shoulder following operative
      procedures. Kraeutler et al. compared compressive cryotherapy versus ice alone, reporting no
      reduction in pain between the two modalities following arthroscopic rotator cuff repair or
      subacromial decompression. Singh et al. reported in their randomized controlled trial that
      patients undergoing arthroscopic procedures to the shoulder reported lower pain intensity on
      Days 1, 14 and 21 with the use of cryotherapy compared to patients in the non-cryotherapy
      group. Meanwhile, Speer et al. found in their prospective study that use of cryotherapy in
      the post-operative period was associated with reduced pain and swelling, decreased opioid use
      and better sleep quality following arthroscopic rotator cuff repair.

      Similar results have been reported in patients treated with cryotherapy following anterior
      cruciate ligament reconstruction. Seacrist et al. performed a systematic review, identifying
      10 randomized controlled trials investigating the effects of cryotherapy/compression on pain
      management following anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction. Cryotherapy was found to
      improve analgesia compared to patients treated without cryotherapy in 4 trials, while in 4
      trials ice water and water at room temperature provided equivalent analgesic effects. Raynor
      et al. found in their meta-analysis that cryotherapy following anterior cruciate ligament
      reconstruction significantly improved post-operative pain control, while no improvements in
      postoperative range of motion or drainage were appreciated. Meanwhile, a combined
      cryotherapy-compression device was found to result in a significantly higher percentage of
      patients discontinuing narcotics 6 weeks post-operatively with a significantly greater
      decrease in VAS scores from pre-operative levels at 2 and 6 weeks post-operatively when
      compared to ice packs alone.

      Adverse reactions to cryotherapy including frostbite, cutaneous necrosis and neuropathy are
      rare, but have been reported, necessitating the need for appropriate use guidelines,
      recognition and prevention.

      As such, despite multiple studies examining the post-operative impact of cryotherapy
      following shoulder and knee procedures, no definitive conclusions on the effectiveness of
      cryotherapy on outcomes related to the use of post-operative analgesic medication, pain
      control, functional outcomes and range of motion have been determined. The conflicting
      reports regarding the benefit of cryotherapy may be related to the failure to achieve
      required decreases in intra-articular temperatures. Additional investigations are needed to
      better understand the impact of cryotherapy following arthroscopic rotator cuff, shoulder
      labral repair, anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction and meniscal repair/resection
      procedures.

      Breg polarcare is a commonly used cryotherapy device that has a variety of clinical
      applications. The polarcare device requires ice and water, which is then circulated through a
      pad which the patient applies directly to the affected area. The Thermazone device does not
      require the use of ice and allows for osscilation between hot and cold temperatures.
      Currently, both cryotherapy devices are approved for use following surgery. However, no study
      to date has compared the Breg polarcare and thermazone devices in the context of arthroscopic
      rotator cuff surgery.
    
  