
    
      In this phase II study, the investigational new drug (not approved by the FDA) GPI 1485 is
      being assessed for its ability to delay or stop disease progression and improve symptoms in
      patients with mild to moderate Parkinson's disease (PD). These potential effects of GPI 1485
      are based on animal studies in which the drug was shown to both protect nerves from damage
      and to regrow damaged nerves. Participants in this study will be randomly assigned to receive
      either GPI 1485 or placebo (inactive pill). GPI 1485 will be supplied as an oral tablet
      formulation to participants enrolled in the study. Participants randomly assigned to receive
      GPI 1485 will be required to take four tablets four times a day by mouth. GPI 1485 matching
      placebo will also be supplied as an oral tablet formulation. Participants randomly assigned
      to placebo will be required to take four placebo tablets four times a day by mouth. The
      duration of this study is 24 months which includes 12 clinical visits at one of 21
      participating sites and three imaging visits to Molecular NeuroImaging (MNI) in New Haven
      Connecticut. At MNI, participants will be injected with a radioactive investigational drug
      b-CIT to obtain images of the activity in the brain with Single Photon Emission Computed
      Tomography (SPECT). This will evaluate whether GPI 1485 slows or delays the loss of brain
      activity in patients with mild to moderate PD. During this study you will also have other
      clinical evaluations including a physical exam, blood work, ECG (tracing of your heart
      rhythm), and urinalysis. Tests specific to Parkinson's disease will also be performed
      including: Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS), Dyskinesia Rating Scale,
      Bilateral finger-tapping test, and Parkinson's Disease Sleep Scale (PDSS). In addition
      assessments of your health and mood will be done.
    
  