
    
      Up to 71% of the persons living with dementia (PLwD) and 70% of their caregivers experience
      sleep disturbances, which are distressing for both the PLwD and their caregivers.
      Specifically, PLwD often experience restlessness and fragmented sleep, which in turn can
      affect caregivers' sleep patterns leading to multiple nightly awakenings, shorter sleep
      duration, and/or inconsistent sleep-wake times. These disturbances increase the risk for a
      myriad of psychological, cognitive, behavioral, and physiological health issues and poor
      quality of life for the dyad. Given the interdependence of the dyadic sleep disturbances and
      the negative health consequences of sleep disturbances on the dyad, there is a critical need
      to develop and provide effective interventions to improve their sleep. Pharmacologic
      treatment often results in potential harmful side effects like falls and cognitive decline;
      therefore, non-pharmacologic approaches are recommended for this population.

      Cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia (CBTi), a non-pharmacologic intervention that has
      demonstrated effectiveness for improving sleep disturbances in multiple populations, is
      delivered in various formats including face-to-face and videoconferencing. Individually, PLwD
      and caregivers have successfully deployed behavioral sleep techniques, resulting in improved
      sleep quality. However, there is no current published research on CBTi completed
      simultaneously by the PLwD-caregiver dyad, and that is exactly what the researchers of this
      study seek to do with early-stage individuals and their caregivers. The researchers premise
      this effort on the notion that a dyadic intervention can use early-stage individuals'
      retained capacity for communication and comprehension to establish in-the-moment agreements
      about strategies the caregiver can employ to enact and facilitate positive sleep behaviors in
      the PLwD and to pair that with acquired strategies to engender his/her own positive sleep
      behaviors.

      This project seeks to gather formative and preliminary data on CBTi delivered simultaneously
      to the PLwD-caregiver dyad. The researchers will use a quantitative, descriptive approach to
      determine the feasibility, acceptability, and preliminary efficacy of a 4-session CBTi
      intervention administered to 40 PLwD-caregiver dyads via videoconferencing sessions who will
      receive the intervention as a unit. Objective and subjective sleep, depressive symptoms, and
      cognitive health data will be collected at baseline, and 1 week and 3 months post-completion
      of the intervention.

      In community-dwelling PLwD and their caregivers where both persons in the dyad self-report
      sleep disturbances, the specific aims for this study are:

        1. Assess the feasibility of a video conferencing dyad-based CBTi intervention.

        2. Evaluate the acceptability of a video conferencing dyad-based CBTi intervention.

        3. Examine the preliminary efficacy of video conferencing CBTi intervention on sleep
           quality outcomes including sleep efficiency and perceived sleep quality.
    
  