
    
      Pelvic cancer accounts for 38,000 cancer cases in France; among them, 15,500 are gynecologic,
      i.e. endometrial, ovarian, cervical, vaginal and vulval. In 2017, 8,367 new endometrial
      cancer cases were reported in France1. Endometrial cancer mostly affects women who already
      underwent menopause; indeed, the median age at diagnosis is 68 years. Cervical cancer is less
      frequent, with 2,835 new cases reported in France in 2017, but affects younger women. The
      incidence peak is reported at 40 years, with a median age at death of around 50 years.

      The standard of care for cervical cancer combines chemoradiotherapy with utero-vaginal
      brachytherapy, followed or not with surgery. For endometrial cancer, post-operative vaginal
      brachytherapy is recommended for intermediate-risk tumors or following radiotherapy for
      high-risk patients. However, in both cancer localizations, the combination of external
      radiation and brachytherapy induces numerous adverse effects affecting the patients' overall
      and sexual quality of life. Digestive, urinary and sexual disorders reported include
      abdominal pain, incontinence, cystitis, dyspareunia, vaginal irritation, pain during
      intercourse. A major adverse effect reported is reduction of vaginal elasticity together with
      vaginal shrinking (shorter and tighter vagina), up to vaginal stenosis. The EMBRACE study
      showed in 630 patients with locally-advanced cervical cancer a grade ≥ 2 vaginal stenosis
      rate of 21% at 2 years. A study reported that among sexually active women, 54% were not
      satisfied or little satisfied with their sexual activity; about 50% women also reported
      vaginal dryness and more than 40% pain during penetration. The EMBRACE study reported in
      locally-advanced cervical cancer patients the persistence of treatment-related symptoms,
      diarrhea, menopausal symptoms, peripheral neuropathy and sexual functioning problems two
      years after diagnosis. Vaginal dryness, hot flashes and pain at penetration were reported up
      to 5 to 10 years after diagnosis in cancer survivors as compared with controls in a
      case-control study. In endometrial cancer patients, a long-term analysis of the PORTEC-2
      study reported vaginal dryness, short or narrow vagina and pain during intercourse at 7 years
      after treatment.

      Studies in psycho-oncology or nursing care have assessed the impact of these disorders and
      are bringing up some solutions, among which use of vaginal dilators to prevent vaginal
      stenosis and improve sexual quality of life. International guidelines were issued on the use
      of vaginal dilators by these patients. Both guidelines and studies assessing patient
      education interventions to increase the patients' use of the vaginal dilators concluded on
      the possible benefit of educational programs stenosis prevention. Some programs well
      integrated in the patients' care pathway have been published. Early interventions starting as
      soon as the disease announcement consult with the radiation oncologist are still needed to
      improve vaginal stenosis prevention and the patients' sexual quality of life.

      In this context, the investigator have initiated, for the first time in France, the "Gyn and
      Co LR" patient education program, approved by the Regional Health Agency. This program, fully
      integrated in the patients' care pathway, aimed to optimize an early care of sexual disorders
      and prevent vaginal stenosis in patients treated with brachytherapy for cervical or
      endometrial cancer.
    
  