
    
      The purpose of this study is to determine the value of a detailed medical history, acquired
      by computer-directed, patient self-entry of data, for efficient disposition of patients
      presenting to the emergency department (ED) with chest pain and non-diagnostic first ECG
      and/or serum markers for acute coronary syndrome (ACS). The research questions posed are:
      will the added data and systems-based analysis of the data provided by computerization of
      these processes, as compared with routine physician-acquired histories and analysis; (1)
      safely risk stratify patients with chest pain, and (2) save time and resources?

      Computerized, patient-entered histories will be collected with the software program CLEOS
      running on tablets (iPad®, Apple Inc, Cupertino, California, USA). The histories to be
      collected include demographic data, present illness, systems review, past medical history,
      prescription drugs, previous adverse drug reactions, social history, life-style risks, and
      family history. Histories will be collected during wait times in the ED, e.g., before
      patients are seen by a physician and while patients wait for reports of laboratory data
      collected by routine care.

      Data acquired by CLEOS will be related to clinical outcomes in the acute setting and at 30
      days and 1 year post-presentation for patients without documented ACS in the acute setting.
      Outcomes for all patients will be extracted from hospital records and national registries.

      For the validation and future development of CLEOS, interviews with patients for the
      evaluation of patient experience regarding feasibility, acceptance, comprehensiveness and
      technical aspects of answering the CLEOS interview will take place within one to three months
      after the ED visit.

      This is an exploratory study in which the calculation of the number of participating patients
      is based on the desired precision of sensitivity and specificity. Assuming that the
      prevalence is 0.5 (50 %), a power calculation with nQuery® version 7.0 (Statistical Solutions
      Ltd, Boston, Massachusetts, USA) shows that with 1000 patients the estimated precision of
      sensitivity and specificity is ±0.03 (3 %). The more the extreme the result, i.e. sensitivity
      or specificity approaching 0 or 1 (100 %), the higher the precision. The models will be
      developed in the first 50% of the data acquired (training data set) and validated in the last
      50% of the data acquired (validation data set). We also intend to make estimates in
      subgroups. To ascertain that such estimates can be done, an even larger number of patients
      must be recruited. Thus, the study intends to recruit data from approximately 2000 patients.

      Taken together, this study:

        1. will evaluate established clinical guidelines risk scores, as populated with CLEOS data,
           and compare these results with data obtained during the concurrent ED visit and made
           available in the standard hospital medical records;

        2. will assess how data collected with CLEOS in combination with established risk scores
           can rule-in and rule-out a diagnosis of an ACS, we will calculate sensitivity,
           specificity and negative and positive predictive value;

        3. aim to develop new risk prediction scores for patients with chest pain, based on data
           collected with CLEOS; and

        4. will evaluate economic aspects of routine care, as compared with management by CLEOS by
           using standard health economy procedures and analyses to determine the resource
           utilization and cost differences between management according to guidelines, based on
           data collected with CLEOS, and current clinical practice.
    
  