
    
      This is a single-center, prospective, randomized, crossover study to address the
      pharmacokinetic effects of atorvastatin on irinotecan metabolism in patients receiving their
      first cycle of FOLFIRI (5-fluorouracil + leucovorin + irinotecan).

      Each cycle of FOLFIRI is defined as 28 days, with a dose of FOLFIRI administered on day 1 and
      day 15. Patients will be recruited from the UNC Lineberger Cancer Center, referred by their
      primary oncologist for the treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC). After obtaining
      informed consent, the patient will be randomized to either ARM A or ARM B.

      Blood samples will be collected on day 1 and 15 of FOLFIRI prior to treatment with irinotecan
      (baseline), immediately following the end of the irinotecan infusion, and at 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2,
      4, 6, and 24 hours following the end of the irinotecan infusion.

      ARM A subjects will receive atorvastatin 20 mg orally once daily given for two weeks starting
      on Day -14 during PERIOD ONE. ARM A will then receive no statin during PERIOD TWO. Patients
      will receive FOLFIRI infusion on day 1 and day 15. Blood samples will be collected at
      baseline and periodically through 24 hours.

      ARM B subjects will receive no atorvastatin during PERIOD ONE. ARM B subjects will receive
      atorvastatin 20 mg orally once daily for two weeks during PERIOD TWO (starting on Day 2).
      Patients will receive FOLFIRI infusion on day 1 and day 15. Blood samples will be collected
      at baseline and periodically through 24 hours.

      DNA extraction and genetic analysis of UGT1A1 polymorphisms will be performed in
      collaboration with Dr. Federico Innocenti and those patients homozygous for the UGT1A1*28
      allele will be excluded due to their altered irinotecan metabolism.

      Patients will be followed until Day 1 of Cycle 2 of FOLFIRI. Patients removed from study for
      unacceptable adverse events will be followed until resolution or stabilization of the
      event(s).
    
  