
    
      Methods:

      We aim to perform a two-step blood glucose survey in 2008-2009 in a population selected from
      a single urban community of Shanghai. The Institutional Review Board of the Rui-Jin Hospital
      approved the study protocol. Informed consent will be obtained from each participant.

        1. In the first step, we first invited all registered permanent residents aged 40 or above
           by local poster advertisement and by mail to participate in a screening examination,
           during which we collected information on lifestyle, medical history and the use of
           medications using a questionnaire, and performed anthropometrical measurements and
           fasting glucose measurement. The first step of diabetes screening finished in June,
           2008.

        2. In the second step, after exclusion of subjects with self-reported diabetes, we
           classified the screened subjects into 3 groups according to their fasting plasma glucose
           concentration of 7.0 mmol/L or above, 5.0 to 6.9 mmol/L or below 5.0 mmol/L. We selected
           randomly a sample from these 3 subgroups for further investigation including a 75-g oral
           glucose tolerance test (OGTT) and blood and urine sampling and other vascular functional
           measurements. Our selection was based on a ratio of 1:1.2:1.44, because of the concern
           that by knowing the results of fasting plasma glucose test, subjects with lower glucose
           levels might have a lower participation rate than those with higher glucose
           concentrations. Nevertheless, this ratio was arbitrarily chosen. Finally, 1000 Type 2
           diabetic patients, 1200 subjects with IGR and 1440 subjects with normal glucose
           metabolism were selected as target population of this study by random sampling for
           further blood and urine sampling.

        3. Biomarkers and genetic risk factors will be evaluated in the study subjects.
    
  