
    
      In April 2017, the investigators launched a platform named PaWei which contains an iOS and
      Android smartphone application for patients and doctors. The platform connects patients,
      doctors and researchers by establishing communication and data transfer between the cloud
      platform and the mobile applications over the internet. The PaWei app is made available for
      free to download through the Apple App Store and Android Market. Through national outpatient
      service, advertisement and community outreach, potential participants will be directed to the
      PaWei APP. The overall goal of this project is to identify, assess and longitudinally monitor
      subjects who are interested in participating in this study. Participants will enroll through
      the PaWei APP, and provide informed consent prior to any study activities.

      The PaWei APP will include:

        1. Information about the National Registry Study (who is eligible to participate, the goals
           of the project and other relevant information about investigators and sponsors involved
           in the Initiative).

        2. Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) such as "How will my information be used?", "How will
           patient information be safeguarded?", "What information will be requested?", "How much
           time will be required for registration and testing?" will be addressed for participants.

        3. General information about Parkinsonian Disorders.

      The National Registry Study will be a large, online database of volunteers who are interested
      in participating in this study. Anyone with Parkinsonian Disorders is welcome to join the
      Registry.

        1. Participants will provide their email address or telephone number and create an account
           and username with the Registry.

        2. The Registry will send an automatic email or short message to the participant to verify
           their email address or telephone number.

        3. Participants will read the online Information Sheet and will be asked to provide their
           consent by clicking either "I consent" or "I decline." Participants who decline to
           participate in the Registry will be not included in our study.

        4. Participants who give their consent will be permitted to continue through the
           registration process, which includes completing a battery of questionnaires designed to
           obtain a general understanding of participants health, medical history wellbeing.

        5. In addition to questionnaires, participants will be able to complete online scales
           related to quality of life, and cognitive assessments.

        6. Participants will be given the option to elect a Caregiver and/or Study Partner (CASP)
           to enrich their study profile.

        7. Video recordings: Participants are asked to perform finger tapping, hand movements, and
           walking in MDS-UPDRS III test after being instructed by the video example, and then to
           upload the videos to the PaWei APP. The severity of motor dysfunctions on those videos
           can be judged by clinicians, and be potentially quantified in the future by AI
           technology under development.

        8. Data validation: (1) The quality control of raw data is the initial step of data
           analysis for any successful research. In PaWei platform, the investigators take a
           strategy of assessing the data quality by identifying poor-quality data, like incomplete
           data and illogical data based on the logistic verification about consistency of relevant
           questions. (2) Automated feedback loops are employed with this strategy to enable
           real-time detection of incomplete data or illogical data, which can be used to improve
           data collection quality.

        9. Participants may be referred to other research studies and/or clinical trials.
    
  