
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the alteration of tumor blood flow using dynamic contrast-enhanced magnetic
           resonance imaging (DCE-MRI) in patients with advanced or metastatic colorectal cancer
           after 2 courses of combination chemotherapy comprising oxaliplatin, fluorouracil, and
           leucovorin (FOLFOX) and bevacizumab at 5 mg/kg vs 10 mg/kg or FOLFOX alone.

      Secondary

        -  To correlate tumor blood flow, as assessed by DCE-MRI, with time to progression in
           patients receiving bevacizumab at 5mg/kg vs 10mg/kg.

        -  To correlate vascular proliferation, as measured by DCE-MRI, with markers of endothelial
           cell proliferation (i.e., CD31, 34, 105; integrin αvß3; phospho-ERK; Ki67; PCNA; and
           smooth muscle actin).

        -  To obtain pilot data on whether assays that measure vascular endothelial cell mitogenic
           stimulation and mitogenic activity may predict response to therapy, time to progression,
           and overall survival of patients receiving bevacizumab at 5mg/kg vs 10mg/kg.

        -  To investigate the association of various markers of apoptosis in tumor cells (e.g.,
           MIF, CREB, or HIF-1-alpha expression/polymorphism and others) and tumor vascularity, as
           assessed by DCE-MRI.

        -  To correlate markers of apoptosis in tumor cells with response to therapy, time to
           progression, and overall survival.

        -  To determine serum levels of VEGF prior to the initiation of chemotherapy and then prior
           to courses 2 and 3 of chemotherapy as potential markers of antiangiogenic activity.

      OUTLINE: Patients who are eligible to receive bevacizumab are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment
      arms. Patients who are ineligible to receive bevacizumab receive FOLFOX alone.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours and oxaliplatin IV over 2
           hours on day 1 and fluorouracil IV continuously over 46 hours (FOLFOX) beginning on day
           1. Patients also receive bevacizumab at 5 mg/kg IV over 90 minutes on day 1. Treatment
           repeats every 14 days for 6 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
           toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive FOLFOX as in arm I and bevacizumab at 10 mg/kg IV over 90
           minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 14 days for 6 months in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  FOLFOX alone (control): Patients receive FOLFOX as in arm I. All patients undergo
           dynamic contrast-enhanced MRI at baseline and between courses 2 and 3 (between days 17
           and 29) to assess tumor blood flow.

      Tumor tissue specimens are obtained from prior colonoscopic biopsy or surgical resection in
      patients receiving bevacizumab. Tissue specimens are examined by immunohistochemistry to
      evaluate tumor markers of angiogenesis and apoptosis (e.g., CD31, 34, 105, phospho-ERK, PCNA,
      Ki67, SMA, and integrin αvß3). Blood specimens are obtained at baseline and prior to courses
      2 and 3 (days 15 and 29) to evaluate plasma levels of VEGF.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed every 2 months for 1 year and then
      every 3 months thereafter.
    
  