
    
      Objective: Apathy is one of the earliest and most profound disturbances that occur in
      Alzheimer's dementia (AD). Based on promising preliminary data from our open-label pilot
      study we propose a double blind, placebo-controlled randomized clinical trial of
      methylphenidate for treatment of apathy in AD.

      Research Design: Randomized double blind, placebo-controlled study which will evaluate the
      effect of methylphenidate on apathy and also the impact of improvement of apathy on caregiver
      burden and functional status.

      Hypotheses: 1. Methylphenidate will improve apathy significantly more than placebo in AD.

      2. Successful treatment of apathy will improve Instrumental Activities of Daily Living
      (IADLs), and caregiver burden.

      Methodology: 60 patients with apathy in the context of AD will be recruited over the next
      three years. In our proposed study patients will be recruited from relevant clinics at the
      Omaha Veterans Affairs Medical Center (VAMC) including clinics in Geriatric Psychiatry,
      Neurology, Primary Care and Geriatric Medicine. 30 patients each with AD and apathy will be
      randomly assigned to placebo or MPH. All patients in the methylphenidate arm will be started
      at 5mg twice daily and titrated to 10mg twice daily at two weeks. Patients will be continued
      in this arm for 12 weeks followed by a 2-week discontinuation phase. Patients will be
      assessed on regular intervals using the Apathy Evaluation Scale, Instrumental Activities of
      Daily Living, Zarit Burden Scale and Mini Mental State Examination.

      Findings: None, the study is not complete.

      Clinical Relationships: While memory is the key cognitive problem in AD, apathy is the key
      behavioral problem. Apathy is characterized by indifference, disengagement, passivity, and
      lack of enthusiasm, interest, empathy and interpersonal involvement. Apathy is the most
      common, one of the earliest and probably the most persistent of behavioral problems in AD.
      Apathy is the most disturbing behavior to caregivers and has the greatest impact on
      functional status and caregiver burden.

      Despite this, apathy as a behavioral problem has largely been neglected. Most of the research
      directed towards behavioral problems in dementia is targeted towards more visible behaviors
      such as agitation, and psychosis. Remarkably, there are no published randomized, double
      blind, placebo controlled studies in the treatment of apathy associated with AD.

      Impact/Significance: Around 1.4 million veterans suffer from apathy in association with AD.
      Apathy is a strong predictor for functional decline and caregiver burden. Treatment of apathy
      is remarkably understudied and is absolutely critical to allow veterans to maximize their
      functional status, social engagement and quality of life, and thus delaying placement in
      assisted living or nursing home settings.
    
  