
    
      This is an interventional, phase I/IIa clinical trial to investigate the efficacy (by changes
      in Model for End-Stage Liver Disease [MELD] score) and safety (by monitoring adverse events)
      of the IMP in patients with acute-on-chronic liver failure grade 2 and 3. The allogeneic IMP
      allo-APZ2-ACLF contains skin-derived ABCB5-positive mesenchymal stem cells isolated from skin
      tissue of healthy donors and stored in a donor cell bank.

      The clinical trial will be conducted in Germany and will consist of a screening, treatment
      and efficacy follow-up period, and a safety follow-up period.The total duration is planned to
      be about 3 years including the follow-up period.

      The planned sample size is up to 18 treated patients. 2 x 10e6 cells/kg, each at Day 0, Day 5
      (±1) and Day 13 (±1), will be administrated into peripheral vein (arm) by use of a perfusor.
      allo-APZ2-ACLF will be in a concentration of 1 x 10e7 cells/mL in HRG-solution. In patients
      which require dialysis, the IMP application has to be performed at least 3 hours after end of
      dialysis. This is necessary to ensure that cells and secreted molecules are not cleared from
      the system by the dialysis.

      Patients will be followed up for 24 weeks with clinic visits at Weeks 3, 4, 8, 12, 16, 20 and
      24 after IMP application. Further safety follow-ups will be scheduled as home interviews via
      telephone at Months 15 and 24. If necessary (at the discretion of the investigator), safety
      follow-ups at Months 15 and 24 can also be carried out as an on-site visit.

      The first six patients will be enrolled into the clinical trial consecutively with an
      interval of 2 weeks between the third IMP-application of the first patient and the enrolment
      of the second patient, etc. During this period the patient receives all three applications
      and immediate severe adverse effects (allergic reactions, SIRS) that could occur after
      treatment would be reported before treatment start of the next patient.

      The safety data of these first six patients will be reviewed by the Medical Monitor
      continuously, if required with assistance of the further members of the DSMB. The safety
      evaluation of the DSMB will be submitted to the PEI and recruitment can only be continued
      after approval of an amendment.
    
  