
    
      This study aim to evaluate the immune response of negative patients during a COVID-19
      outbreak in patients with no symptoms and with no known exposure to the COVID-19.

      Patients are tested with a VivaDiag ™ COVID-19 lgM / IgG Rapid Test at day 0, day 7 and day
      14. The investigators expect test to be negative on all the measurements in those patients
      that do not develop symptoms and that continue to have no known history of exposure to
      COVID-19

      Patients that develop symptoms (cough, fever or respiratory distress) and a possible contact
      with people positive for COVID-19 OR patients that show a positive VivaDiag test during the
      time frame of the test are asked to attend the COVID-19 RT - PCR &CT.

      Subsequently, the investigators will continue, repeating two tests seven days apart every 30
      days (predefined times 0-7-14, then 30-37, 60-67) for the next six months. The investigators
      can evaluate to stop the test however before the six months if there are no new cases of
      COVID-19 for at least 21 days in the region where the enrolled patients live.

      The test in use is the VivaDiag ™ COVID-19 lgM / IgG

      Procedure (as per the protocol in use for the administration of the test)

        1. take out the test kit and leave it at least 30 minutes in the room where the test will
           be performed.

        2. place the test equipment on a clean and dust-free surface

        3. First insert 10µL of whole blood or serum or plasma in the area reserved for blood (in
           the well) present on the test, then apply 2 drops of buffer.

        4. read the result after 15 minutes

      Interpretation of test results

      Positive result

        1. The anti-COVID-19 lgM antibody is detected if: the quality control band C and the lgM
           band are both colored and the lgG band does not stain. This means that the anti-COVID-19
           lgM antibody is positive.

        2. The anti-COVID-19 lgG antibody is detected if: the quality control band C and the lgG
           band are both colored and the lgM band does not stain. This means that the COVID-19 lgG
           antibody is positive.

        3. The lgG and lgM anti-COVID-19 antibodies are detected if: the C band, the lgG band and
           the lgM band are all three colored. This means that the anti-COVID-19 lgG and lgM
           antibodies are both positive.

      Negative result The anti-COVID-19 lgG and lgM antibodies are not detected if only the quality
      control C band is stained but the lgG and lgM bands are not colored, this means that the test
      is negative.

      Invalid result

      If the quality control band C does not color, regardless of whether the lgG and lgM bands are
      colored or not, the result is invalid and the test must be started again.

      Specs of the test

      Product Name VivaDiag™ COVID-19 IgM/IgG Rapid Test Test Principle Colloidal gold Sample Type
      Whole blood (from vein or fingertip), serum or plasma Sample Volume 10 μL Test Time 15 min
      Operation Temperature 18-25ºC Storage Temperature 2-30ºC Shelf Life (Unopened) 12 months
    
  