
    
      The purpose of this study is to examine the feasibility, acceptability, and preliminary
      efficacy for the inclusion of support figures and romantic partners throughout the bariatric
      surgery process, from pre-surgery to two months post-surgery. This will be done using a
      four-arm randomized controlled trial (RCT). Using simple randomization, female patients in
      romantic relationships will be randomized into partner attended (PA) groups and treatment as
      usual (PA-TU) groups; patients (female or male) not in romantic relationships will be
      randomized into support figure attended (SFA) and SFA-TU groups.

      The goals of this study are to provide preliminary evidence for including support
      figures/partners in patients' routine BS healthcare visits, including the subsequent impact
      on post-surgery patient and support figure/partner behavior change and weight loss,
      relationship outcomes, and exploration of barriers to support figure/partner involvement.

      Inclusion criteria for the PA arm requires patients be pre-surgery and registered for
      pre-surgery classes, identify as female, and in a romantic relationship with a cohabitating
      partner/spouse for at least 6 months. Inclusion criteria for the SFA arm requires patients be
      pre-surgery and registered for pre-surgery classes, and not be in a cohabitating romantic
      relationships. Known terminal illness diagnosis excludes patients and support figure/partner
      participation. The recruitment goal is 110 dyads in all four arms of the study (SFA, SFA-TU,
      PA, PA-TU).

      Patients in all arms will receive routine care, which includes four pre-surgery classes and
      routine clinical visits. Support figures/partners of patients in the SFA and PA arms will be
      requested to attend the four pre-surgery classes with the patient and the three clinical
      visits; patients in the SFA-TU and PA-TU arms will attend individually. Assessments will be
      completed by patients and support figures/partners (all four arms) at the first pre-surgery
      class (T1) and routine clinical visits: the pre-surgery appointment (T2), two-weeks
      post-surgery appointment (T3), and at the two-months post-surgery appointment (T4).

      Aim 1: To assess the feasibility and acceptability of support figure/partner involvement for
      BS patients. Feasibility will be assessed throughout the study by attendance at the four
      pre-surgery classes and the clinic visit assessment time points. Perceived fiscal and time
      involved in the study will be assessed. Acceptability will be assessed from patient and
      support figure/partner interviews regarding the barriers and benefits to attendance, and
      alternative mediums to engage support figures/partners.

      Aim 2: To evaluate the effect of support figure/partner attendance (SFA, PA arms) on patient
      weight loss, behavior change, and relationship outcomes from T1-T4. Estimates of effect size
      and variance in patient weight loss and behavior change will be collected from T1-T4 for
      comparison of the SFA/PA and SFA-TU/PA-TU arms.

      Hypothesis. Patients in the SFA and PA arms will experience increased weight loss, physical
      activity frequency, and higher compliance with post-surgery dietary recommendations compared
      to patients in the SFA-TU and PA-TU arms at T4.

      Sub-aim 2.1. To evaluate the effect of attendance on support figure/partner weight status.
      Support figures and partners will complete measures of weight status at the same time points
      as the patient. Because it is largely unknown if support figures/partners could benefit from
      intervention with the patient, or if support figures/partners' weight status is similar to
      the patients, we will explore support figures/partners' weight status and if their weight
      status changes from T1 to T4.

      Sub-aim 2.2. To determine the preliminary effect of attendance on relationship outcomes.
      Patients and support figures/partners will complete self-report measures of relationship
      quality (PA-only), attachment security (PA-only), family functioning, and perceived social
      support from T1-T4 to determine the effect of attendance on patient and support
      figure/partners' perspectives of relationship outcomes.
    
  