
    
      This prospective longitudinal study will be a two-group, single-blind, pre-post-test design
      randomized clinical trial (RCT). The purpose of this study will be two-fold:

        1. To compare the efficacy of passive stretching and Perception-Action (P-A) Approach
           interventions in improving postural alignment, symmetrical use of both sides of the body
           during movement and play, and gross motor development in infants with congenital
           muscular torticollis (CMT)

        2. To compare therapy-related behavior in infants with CMT undergoing passive stretching
           and P-A Approach interventions during physical therapy (PT) sessions

      Within group comparisons will be made to assess change over time, and between group
      comparisons will be made to compare the effects of the two interventions. Both interventions
      are used in the clinic for infants with CMT but it is not known whether they are equally
      effective or if one is more effective than the other.

      Thirty-six consecutively enrolled infants with CMT will be randomly assigned to a Passive
      Stretching group or a P-A Approach group using a blocked randomization procedure. Each infant
      will attend 5 weekly 60-minute PT sessions, including the initial evaluation, 3 interventions
      sessions, and a re-evaluation. The total duration of each participant's involvement in the
      study will be approximately 1-2 months. At visits 1 and 5, each infant's habitual head
      deviation from midline, active head rotation to both sides, neck muscle strength on both
      sides, motor development, and symmetrical use both sides of the body for movement and play
      will be assessed.

      Participants' photos will be taken in a supine position and parts of the initial PT
      evaluation and re-evaluation sessions will be video recorded for future analyses by an
      assessor blind to the infants' group assignment. Such analyses will include still photography
      measurements, assessment of motor development using the Alberta Infant Motor Scale (AIMS),
      and assessment of symmetrical use of both sides of the body using the Functional Symmetry
      Observation Scale (FSOS). Treating therapists will perform "live" active head rotation and
      muscle strength measurements, for which assessor blinding will not be possible. In addition,
      each infant's behavior exhibited during therapy will be assessed by the treating therapist at
      intervention sessions 2-4. Results obtained from the two groups will be compared.

      At the first PT visit, the treating therapist will conduct a PT evaluation, educate the
      caregiver in proper positioning and benefits of tummy time, and provide intervention specific
      to the infant's group assignment. For the Passive Stretching Group, intervention will include
      caregiver instruction in passive stretching for lateral flexion and rotation of the neck,
      with the parent practicing the techniques. For the P-A Approach Group, intervention will
      include the interpretation of the infant's behavior for the caregiver while manual guidance
      is provided to the infant. At 3 subsequent PT sessions, group-specific intervention and
      continued caregiver instruction will be provided. Passive Stretching Group intervention
      components will include passive stretching and associated strengthening activities. P-A
      Approach Group intervention components will include environmental set-up and manual guidance.
      At the final PT visit in the study, a PT re-evaluation will be conducted, followed by
      group-specific intervention as needed.

      Prior to initiating the RCT, a pilot study will be conducted to establish the intrarater,
      test-retest or inter-rater reliability of the outcome measures, as appropriate. A total of 10
      infants with CMT will be recruited for the pilot project.

      Fidelity of intervention will be evaluated during the pilot study using a Fidelity of
      Intervention Checklist to ensure the treating therapists' adherence to the strategies
      outlined as essential elements of each of the intervention approaches. In addition, during
      the main study, intervention adherence will be assessed by tracking the participants'
      attendance, the PT session length and frequency, and the total duration of each subject's
      research participation.
    
  