
    
      African Americans account for half of all Americans currently living with AIDS, and men
      account for two-thirds of all African Americans with HIV. AAMSMW are at particular risk for
      contracting and transmitting HIV, and represent a priority population for developing
      effective interventions. Studies of AAMSMW conducted in multiple HIV-epicenters in the United
      States have reported high rates of unprotected intercourse with male and female partners,
      concurrent partnerships, and frequent substance use before sex, accompanied by non-disclosure
      and secrecy regarding sexual risk behaviors. These behavioral dynamics are likely to fuel
      transmission of HIV and other STDs in diverse sexual networks and communities. Despite the
      urgent need for effective prevention approaches for AAMSMW, to our knowledge no
      evidence-based HIV interventions have been developed and tested for this population.

      We propose to test a behavioral prevention intervention, the BP, to reduce HIV-related sexual
      risk behavior among AAMSMW. The intervention was designed through four years of formative
      research with AAMSMW consisting of: (1) qualitative in-depth interviews, focus groups and
      field ethnography; (2) protocol and measure development; (3) pilot testing and evaluation;
      and (4) further refinement following process and preliminary outcome data. The BP counseling
      process was formulated on principles of the Information-Motivation-Behavior (IMB) theory of
      HIV prevention, and is characterized by an individual-level counseling process that is
      specifically tailored to recognize the social and cultural contexts that inform sexual
      behavior for AAMSMW. Delivered in a series of four sessions by trained African American male
      counselors, the BP focuses on reviewing HIV transmission routes for male and female partners,
      strengthening sexual communication skills with both male and female partners, and improving
      condom use skills and other safer sex negotiation strategies. Evidence thus far indicates
      that BP is an acceptable and feasible model for providing HIV prevention counseling to this
      population, and pilot outcome data show promising indications of behavior change. A team of
      trained BP staff have successfully utilized a multi-tiered outreach approach to identify
      AAMSMW, recruit eligible individuals, and engage and retain participants in a longitudinal
      evaluation design. A randomized controlled trial of BP is necessary to determine the efficacy
      of the intervention and can lead to improved public health efforts at reducing HIV risk
      behavior among AAMSMW and in the African American community more generally.
    
  