
    
      Background:

      There is currently no data on invasive measurement of FFR, CFR and IMR in patients with
      diabetes mellitus. Studies such as RIPCORD has shown that using coronary angiography alone to
      guide revascularization strategy may be flawed in a significant proportion of patients.

      Patients with diabetes mellitus are more likely to have diffuse CAD and microvascular
      disease. Current recommendation of invasive physiological assessment to guide percutaneous
      coronary intervention (PCI) is limited to FFR alone. This can be misleading in diffuse
      coronary artery disease and microvascular disease as both conditions are associated with
      higher FFR. The proportion of vessels which show discordance between FFR and CFR consistent
      with diffuse CAD and/or microvascular disease in patients has been shown to be as high as 30%
      in a study not exclusive to diabetics.

      This is a pilot study of 50 patients referred for PCI based on angiographic stenosis of ≥50%.
      Comprehensive physiological assessment will be undertaken in target and non-target vessels to
      determine the prevalence of discordant FFR and CFR consistent with diffuse CAD and/or
      microvascular dysfunction in diabetics.

      Methods:

        1. Patients will receive an information sheet after initial invitation to participate in
           the study.

        2. Written informed consent will be obtained.

        3. Patients will undergo invasive assessment of FFR, CFR and IMR in non-target vessels.

        4. An optical coherence tomography (OCT) study will be performed to correlate physiological
           parameters with intravascular imaging for diffuse atheromatous disease.

        5. Patients will then undergo OCT and invasive assessment of FFR, CFR and IMR in the target
           vessel pre and post PCI.

        6. Any change in FFR, CFR and IMR post PCI will be recorded.

        7. All physiological parameters will be measured using the pressure wire from St. Jude
           Medical, USA (currently, Certus). Results will be grouped according to 4 possible
           permutations of FFR and CFR.
    
  