
    
      Stroke is a leading cause of disability in Canada and frequently causes hemiparesis (upper
      limb and lower limb weakness on one side of the body). Approximately one third of stroke
      survivors require physical rehabilitation to improve their motor and functional recovery (1).
      Although many strategies have been shown to be effective in promoting recovery after stroke,
      the uptake of evidence-based practice by rehabilitation professionals across Canada is
      variable. The aim of this project is to evaluate whether using an implementation intervention
      promotes use of best practices by rehabilitation professionals and leads to improvements in
      patient outcomes for individuals with stroke.

      This project is a cluster randomized implementation trial for upper and lower limb
      interventions. Rehabilitation centres across Canada will be randomized to receive either an
      outcome-oriented implementation strategy (OOI) to facilitate implementation of the EIPRs or a
      process-oriented implementation strategy (POI). At the onset, rehabilitation professionals
      practicing in all centres will receive education in using best practice outcome measures
      related to stroke rehabilitation. All centres will be assessed for baseline adherence to the
      EIPRs. Centres in the OOI will receive "usual care" (i.e. passive dissemination of the
      written protocols and information about outcome measures). Centres in the POI arm will
      receive a combination of strategies to facilitate EIPR uptake (i.e., use of a local
      facilitator, practice audits with feedback, reminder systems and educational sessions).
      Following exposure to the EIPRs, all centres will document adherence to the EIPRs, and
      patient outcomes as assessed by the measures. An analysis of the costs associated with
      rehabilitation interventions and the incremental expense of a POI strategy will be
      undertaken. These data will be used to compare the OOI and POI centres with respect to the
      level of uptake and implementation of EIPRs and related expenses.
    
  