
    
      Young Black men who have sex with men (YBMSM) face a disproportionate burden of HIV
      infection. Pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) is an effective tool for protecting individuals
      from HIV infection. However, uptake has been relatively slow among YBMSM (5-10%). 8 There is
      an urgent need to develop and test interventions to increase PrEP uptake with YBMSM, which is
      consistent with NIH priorities to examine the use of biomedical interventions for HIV
      prevention with high risk populations.

      Our prior research indicates that many YBMSM are considering using PrEP, but they are
      skeptical about taking a pill daily for HIV prevention. 5 YBMSM's willingness to use PrEP is
      affected by many factors such as PrEP literacy, their own perceived low risk for HIV,
      concerns about taking the pill and side effects, medical mistrust, concerns about cost, lack
      of social support for using PrEP, and PrEP-related stigma. Consistent with our prior research
      showing the powerful influence of close social network members on HIV-related health
      behaviors, we have found that close friends of YBMSM can strongly influence YBMSM's'
      motivation to use PrEP via conversations with each other.

      Guided by peer influence theory, a motivational interviewing (MI) approach and prior
      research, the goal of the proposed research is to develop, manualize, and evaluate a
      culturally-congruent intervention, "PrEP-Talk," which aims to increase PrEP uptake and
      adherence among YBMSM. We propose that their close friends can apply positive peer influence
      about taking PrEP. Our research is based on exploring how using MI with YBMSM and their close
      friends may help to overcome barriers to PrEP uptake and adherence.

      We designed a dyad-level intervention concept for PrEP-Talk that involves three
      interconnected components to increase PrEP uptake: 1) a "PrEP Counselor" (PC), in which
      information and guidance will be provided to YBMSM and a Close Friend they select to help
      address barriers to making an informed decision regarding PrEP uptake, (2) a Close Friend
      (CF), defined as someone with whom the YBMSM has discussed sexual health topics in the past
      year (but not had sex with in the past year), who is aware that he has sex with men, and who
      agrees to support his PrEP uptake goals by engaging in dyad-level sessions about PrEP uptake
      and adherence with their friend, and (3) training on PrEP supportive communication (PSC) in
      every day conversations between YBMSM and CFs. PSC is talk between CFs that is well-informed
      and non-judgmental about PrEP, in which YBMSM discuss the pros and cons of PrEP use, helping
      YBMSM overcome barriers to uptake. All three components address the mechanisms of change
      (barriers and facilitators such as PrEP-related stigma, medical mistrust, concerns about
      cost, etc.) that are related to PrEP uptake and adherence among YBMSM. Culturally congruent
      referrals and linkages will also be provided. The proposed study is built on the scientific
      premise that peers, especially close friends, have a strong influence on health behaviors,
      through their communication about attitudes toward health topics such as PrEP uptake.

      Our research has shown that YBMSM's CFs are particularly helpful in facilitating decisions
      about PrEP through providing supportive communication and that using MI can lead to increased
      antiretroviral therapy (ART) adherence among Black people living with HIV. 1, 4-7 In our
      proposed intervention, the PC will work with the YBMSM and the CF as they grapple with
      concerns about PrEP before they decide to access a clinic. Building on our prior research and
      collaborations with key community stakeholders providing services to YBMSM and with research
      experts, we will develop and pilot test "PrEP-Talk," a brief 3-session, 4-week dyad-level
      intervention, with up to 3 booster sessions on PrEP adherence for any dyad in which the YBMSM
      index participant (IP) starts PrEP; the IP is the focus of the intervention. IPs randomized
      to the control will receive regular care. We will accomplish our goal with the following
      specific aims:

        1. To develop and manualize "PrEP-Talk," which aims to increase PrEP uptake and adherence
           among YBMSM. This will be done through qualitative formative research (3 focus groups
           with 12-18 YBMSM and CF dyads, N=24-36); partnering with our community advisory board
           (CAB; comprised of individuals knowledgeable about HIV work with YBMSM); and field tests
           of the intervention with 5 YBMSM and CF dyads (N=10).

        2. Examine feasibility, acceptability and indicators of preliminary efficacy of "PrEP-Talk"
           on PrEP uptake and adherence among YBMSM. This will be accomplished through a
           small-scale pilot randomized controlled trial (RCT) with 30 dyads (YBMSM and CFs) in the
           intervention and 30 dyads in the usual care control arm (N=120). We will conduct
           assessments of all participants (IPs and CFs) at baseline, 3-months and 6-months
           post-baseline. We will collect urine samples as a biomarker of PrEP uptake from all
           YBMSM IPs who report use of PrEP in both arms.

      Our intervention may increase PrEP uptake and adherence among YBMSM, thereby helping to
      reduce HIV incidence and reducing a critical public health disparity. If the proposed
      intervention shows trends for feasibility, acceptability and indicators of preliminary
      efficacy for increasing PrEP uptake among YBMSM, we will pursue funding for a full-scale
      R01-funded RCT.
    
  