
    
      Peroxisome biogenesis disorders (PBD) are a group of inherited conditions caused by faulty
      assembly of peroxisomes, structures located inside cells that regulate levels of important
      fats and lipids in the body. When there is faulty peroxisome assembly, as in PBD, these
      important fats and lipids either accumulate or are not made. There is no specific treatment
      for these disorders, and management is supportive. In order to complement existing supportive
      therapies, physicians and researchers are still actively looking for new treatments acting on
      the root cause of PBD: the peroxisome function. To identify drugs that help recover
      peroxisome function a group of scientists developed a laboratory-based research test aimed at
      reviewing the activity of the large number of potential treatments. Using this test, they
      have uncovered that Betaine can improve the function of the peroxisome, when the defect is
      caused by a PEX1-Gly843Asp mutation, and as such may improve the overall health of child
      suffering from PBD.

      Betaine is a medication already available as a powder for oral solution, for another rare
      disease. It is approved in many countries, including Health Canada for Canada and the Food
      and Drug Administration for the USA. Paediatric genetic physicians are used to prescribing
      this medication and know it well.

      At the current stage of scientific knowledge, it is a critical next step to evaluate the
      benefit of betaine in children having a PBD due to a PEX1-Gly843Asp mutation, to ensure that
      the medication is safe and to measure the level of improvement of the function of the
      peroxisome.

      Thus, the principal objective of the study is to determine the improvement in the key
      peroxisome functions (plasma very long chain fatty acid profiles red cell plasmalogen levels,
      plasma pipecolic acid levels and plasma bile acid profiles). Another objective is to measure
      the growth of your child and his / her development.
    
  