
    
      Major depressive disorder (MDD) has been associated with abnormally reduced function of
      central serotonergic systems by various types of evidence. One instructive paradigm for
      investigating the relationship between serotonergic function and depression has involved the
      mood response to tryptophan depletion (TD), achieved by oral loading with all essential amino
      acids excepting the 5-HT precursor, tryptophan. We obtained preliminary evidence that the
      mood lowering effect of TD depends upon the genotype for a functional polymorphism in the
      promoter region of the 5-HT transporter (5-HTT), designated 5-HTTLPR, as well as upon family
      history. In healthy females the s-allele and a positive family history for mood disorders
      appeared to be additive risk factors for the development of depressive symptoms during TD.

      The current study employs quantitative PET imaging of cerebral blood flow (CBF) and glucose
      metabolism to investigate the effect of variant 5-HTTLPR genotypes on the neurophysiological
      response to TD. The current study will examine the relationship between 5-HTTLPR genotypes
      and the TD effect on PFC metabolic activity. We will determine whether under TD the reduction
      in PFC metabolism in response to TD will occur to a greater extent in subjects with the s/s
      allele, and in subjects with a single s allele plus a family history of depression. We will
      also examine whether this reduction in PFC metabolic activity is unique to subjects who
      develop depressive symptoms during TD.

      In addition, based upon evidence that 5-HT inhibits neuronal activity in the amygdala, and
      modulates transmission of emotionally-salient sensory information from the sensory cortices
      to the amygdala, we will test the hypothesis that in MDD, reduced serotonin function
      associated with TD may disinhibit the amygdala response to sensory stimulation. This
      hypothesis will be explored by assessing the physiological responses of the amygdala to
      sensory stimuli that normally activate the amygdala, namely pictures of human faces that show
      fearful or sad emotional expressions. We are particularly interested in determining whether
      the amygdala CBF response to emotional stimuli during TD will be most prominently increased
      in subjects carrying the s-allele of the 5-HTTLPR, and whether it will be unique to subjects
      who develop depressive symptoms during TD.

      Twenty-four unmedicated-remitted subjects with MDD and 24 healthy controls will be studied in
      a double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized (according to 5-HTTLPR genotype) crossover
      study.
    
  