
    
      The improvement of postoperative analgesia is an important issue in orthopedic surgery,
      especially after total knee arthroplasty. The early postoperative mobilization of these
      patients is crucial to ensure a favorable functional evolution, and this goal can't be
      accomplished without effective analgesia. Opioids offer an efficient pain relief, but their
      consumption can result in side effects that can increase the length of hospital stay. The use
      of a peripheral nerve block, such as the adductor canal block (BCA) is a widely favored
      alternative since it allows postoperative analgesia superior to opioids while preserving the
      strength of the quadriceps.

      For a long period of time, the femoral block has been the most popular peripheral nerve block
      for patients after a knee arthroplasty. However, this perineural block is associated with an
      important rate of quadriceps' weakness, which could impair the post-operative mobilization
      and expose the patient to a risk of falling. It has now been widely replaced by the adductor
      canal block. The latter has the advantage of providing analgesia at rest and during movement
      equivalent to the femoral block, while preserving the quadriceps strength and offering a
      better mobility in the first 24 hours after surgery. In opposition to the femoral block, the
      adductor canal block does not increase the risk of falling since it is mainly a sensitive
      block.

      The adductor canal block is an advantageous analgesic modality for patients after TKA, but it
      is limited since it offers only analgesia to the anteromedial aspect of the knee, sparing the
      lateral and posterior faces. It is common to combine this block with a periarticular knee
      infiltration with local anesthetics, performed by the surgical team at the end of the
      surgery. The two modalities combined make it possible to achieve very low pains scores at
      rest and during walking, compared to both techniques used separately.

      The adductor canal block can be administered in one unique injection or with a perineural
      continuous infusion, to extend the block's analgesic duration. However, it is uncertain
      whether there is an advantage to use a continuous infusion. There is a significant rate of
      catheter migrating out of the adductor canal and losing effect. There is also the possibility
      that the continuous infusion results in a proximal extent of local anesthetic in the femoral
      canal, generating quadriceps weakness that invalidates the benefits for ACB in the context of
      postoperative mobilization.

      Indeed, the location of the catheter near the surgical site predisposes it to be dislodged
      out of the adductor canal during surgical manipulations in a significant proportion of
      patients. A rate as high as 30% of catheter dislodgement on postoperative day 1 was observed.
      It is possible to perform the block after surgery, before the dressing is applied, but this
      practice tends to create delays, which are not desirable in the actual context of
      optimization of the OR time.

      In addition, perineural catheters require a strict surveillance by a specialized team and
      could interfere with patient mobilization because of the restriction associated with the
      equipment involved. It is reasonable to think that the absence of a catheter and an infusion
      pump offers an easier mobilization, although this has not been validated in clinical trials.

      Finally, continuous infusions increase the cumulative dose of local anesthetics that the
      patients is exposed to. In order to reduce the toxicity risk, it is necessary to reduce the
      periarticular infiltration doses, which could impair the quality of analgesia.

      Alternatively, it has been demonstrated that adequate post-operative analgesia could be
      obtained with an adductor canal block, combined with extended release opioids. Several
      clinical trials involving patients after total knee arthroplasty have shown that there is a
      benefit to using extended release opioids added to a multimodal analgesia protocol. Their
      pharmacokinetic profile ensures a more constant analgesia, while offering a safety profile
      similar to immediate release opioids, a lesser risk of respiratory depression and overdose.
      The usage of extended release opioids after TKA is justified since patients accuse moderate
      to severe pain during the first days after surgery, despite the use of a multimodal analgesia
      protocol and sustained consumption of immediate release opioids.

      These two protocols have not been compared.

      In conclusion, there is a consensus that postoperative analgesia in patients after TKA should
      be addressed with a multimodal analgesia protocol that includes a perineural block and
      analgesic adjuvants. However, the optimal composition of this protocol is not well defined.
      In our hospital center, the postoperative analgesia protocol for TKA includes a continuous
      adductor canal block for 48 hours, intravenous dexamethasone, periarticular infiltration of
      the posterior capsule by the surgeon and analgesic adjuvants such as acetaminophen, celecoxib
      and pregabalin.

      Study outcome and hypothesis

      The primary objective in this study is to compare two analgesic protocols on the pain score
      while walking 24 hours after total knee arthroplasty.

      Here are the two protocols compared :

        1. Adductor canal block followed by continuous perineural perfusion for 48 hours

        2. Adductor canal block (single shot) followed by hydromorphone extended release
           formulation for 48 hours In addition to analgesic adjuvants administered in both groups
           : acetaminophen, celecoxib, pregabalin, dexamethasone and periarticular infiltration.

      Our hypothesis is that both protocols ensure a similar analgesia.

      Our secondary issues are the proportion of patient that achieve a pain score at walk < 4, the
      time for the 10 m walk test, the incidence of drowsiness, nausea and vomiting and the
      postoperative opioid use at 24 and 48 hours postoperatively.

      This clinical trial is relevant since it aims to answer a frequently asked question in
      clinical practice, and its outcome will have a direct impact on the anesthetic practice. In
      addition, it aims to improve early postoperative mobilization with acceptable pain, which is
      important after orthopedic surgery.

      Methodology

      Study design This will be a prospective, randomized, double blind study.

      Population Patients undergoing elective TKA

      Duration of study 18 months

      Sample size Assuming a walking pain score at day 1 of 4.8 (± 2.3) with continuous infusion
      adductor canal block, periarticular infiltration and analgesic adjuvants, 69 patients per
      group will detect a difference of 25% between pain scores in both groups, with a power of 90%
      and an alpha = 0.05. In order to compensate for the losses at follow-up, a total of 150
      patients will be recruited.
    
  