
    
      Epidural analgesia is a popular choice among patients for relief of severe pain associated
      with labor and delivery. Currently, at the investigators' institution the investigators use a
      continuous infusion of low dose local anesthetic and narcotic (12 ml/hr of 0.0625%
      bupivacaine with 2 micrograms/ml fentanyl) after the initial spinal or epidural dose to
      maintain patient comfort until delivery. This dose of the infusion is chosen because it often
      provides adequate comfort without interfering with the mobility of the patient and her
      ability to effectively push during delivery. However, this low-dose epidural infusion
      strategy often results in recurrence of pain after an initial pain-free period. This
      recurring pain is known as breakthrough pain and is alleviated by administering small boluses
      of analgesics via the epidural catheter.

      The pain occurring in labor is initially of visceral origin and is mediated by pain fibers
      originating from the low thoracic and upper lumbar segments of the spinal cord. As labor
      progresses to the late first phase (also known as transitional stage), pain sensations
      originating from the distension of the pelvic floor, vagina and perineum adds a somatic
      component to labor pain. This type of breakthrough pain, mediated by nerve fibers originating
      from the sacral nerves at dermatomes S2-S4, is often difficult to treat. Patients may
      experience inadequate analgesia even after boluses of analgesics are administered. Inadequate
      analgesia is deleterious due to subjective discomfort with its associated neurohumoral and
      physiological changes, and can be an initiator of the urge to bear down (push). Pushing
      before complete dilation of the cervix may lead to swelling, cervical injury and premature
      exhaustion of the mother. Adequate pain control will allow the cervix to fully dilate and
      motivate the mother to push effectively at the appropriate time. Although requests from
      patients to alleviate late stage breakthrough pain are common, there are no established data
      in the literature regarding the most effective strategy for pain management in this stage of
      labor.

      This study is designed to compare the efficacy of two treatments for controlling late first
      stage breakthrough pain during labor: clonidine-bupivacaine versus fentanyl-bupivacaine. Both
      strategies are used at Columbia University Medical Center (CUMC) in this clinical situation,
      and there is no clear evidence whether one is superior.
    
  