
    
      Unpublished pilot data collected by the same PI and sub-investigator shows that volitional
      activation of the TA during self-selected paced ambulation significantly decreases the time
      to first peak ground reaction force (T1) in the sagittal plane in participants with KOA (D.W.
      Flowers, C. Frilot, unpublished data, May 2018). This same kinetic gait variable is included
      in this investigation as one of the dependent variables in all three parts of the
      investigation.

      Nearly four percent of the global population has KOA, with the global female percentage
      nearing five percent. Additionally, the years lived with disability (YLDs) resulting from the
      disorder increased by 64.8% from 1990 to 2010. The picture is not much better in the United
      States, where osteoarthritis ranks eighth highest in YLDs compared to other pathologies. The
      rate of KOA has continued to climb here in the U.S., doubling in the past half-century even
      when accounting for increased life expectancy and higher average BMI, both of which are
      considered risk factors in the development of KOA.

      Patients with KOA have been shown to have gait abnormalities when compared to healthy
      controls, including alterations in trunk and pelvic kinematics, lower extremity kinematics
      and kinetics, gait speed, and functional outcome measure scores. Some of these differences,
      like an increased external knee adduction moment (KAM) and a decreased peak stance knee
      flexion angle (KFA), have been shown to correlate with the advancement of KOA and may be
      causative in nature. Others, like an increased T1 and reduced freely chosen gait speed, may
      be compensatory. The same has been found in regard to the reduced second peak ground reaction
      force in the sagittal plane (F2) observed in this population.

      Reduced gait speed alone is predictive of increased fall risk in older adults, without any
      need to consider additional activities performed during walking tasks. Additionally, the gait
      impairments observed in this population can be so extreme that they can be more limiting than
      those observed in patients with diagnoses typically considered more severe, like congestive
      heart failure, diabetes, heart disease, and stroke. Therefore, improving function via
      improving gait speed via novel approaches is indicated, but not at the expense of increasing
      wear and tear on osteoarthritic joints. This investigation aims to show that core
      stabilization, which has been shown beneficially influence the kinetics and kinematics of
      lower extremity movements in younger, more active populations, can serve the same purpose in
      a population with KOA. The investigators are specifically trying to improve self-perceived
      function and gait speed, via improving the kinetics and kinematics observed in self-selected
      ambulation.

      This investigation will be divided into three parts, each associated with one of the specific
      aims detailed in Section 1. All procedures will be performed in the School of Allied Health
      Professions, either in the Motion Analysis Laboratory (Gait Lab) or the Rehabilitation
      Faculty Practice (RFP) Clinic.

      Part 1: Compare age and gender matched healthy controls and KOA groups on kinetics,
      kinematics, and gait speed during self-selected speed via a between groups analysis across
      the dependent variables, and determine if those differences in the KOA group have a
      predictive relationship with their KOOS scores.

      Part 2: Within-group comparison of both groups (with and without volitional TA activation)
      and between-groups (control group versus KOA group). Compare pain levels during both
      conditions via VAS for the KOA group. Participants will wear biofeedback under both
      conditions, and all condition trials will be randomized. Alarm or verbal cue will be provided
      at 30% MVIC, and two electrodes placed over TA/obliquus internus (OI) just medial to anterior
      superior iliac spine (ASIS). A comparison of TA activation will be performed both within and
      between groups.

      Part 3: Within-groups comparison of KOA group (pre-treatment and post-treatment; six-week
      training program) on kinetics, kinematics, and gait speed during self-selected paced
      ambulation. A comparison of KOOS scores before and after treatment with be performed as well.

      Once recruitment and informed consent are completed:

      Part 1: All participants will undergo anthropometric data collection first, including weight,
      height, leg length, knee joint width, and ankle joint width. Age matching will be done within
      +/- 5 years between the two groups. Reflective markers will then be placed on bilateral lower
      extremities following the Plug in Gait Model. EMG electrodes will be placed bilaterally just
      medial to the ASIS, over the TA/OI. The Gait Lab will undergo calibration, and the
      participant will undergo a static trial. In participants with bilateral KOA, the most painful
      limb, identified by subjective report, will be used in the data collection procedures.
      Healthy controls will undergo analysis of their dominant limb by indicating with which leg
      they would kick a ball.

      Once the set-up and calibration are completed, the data collection will begin. The
      participant will be allowed a brief warm-up of 1-2 minutes, walking in the Gait Lab prior to
      data collection commences. The participant will then be asked to walk at a self-selected pace
      across the capture area until three trials with good force plate contact are obtained. Good
      force plate contact is defined as initial contact at the heel and pre-swing/toe off occurring
      on the force plate, and the absence of any evidence of distraction via the video cameras,
      such as the participant talking or looking around the lab. These three trials will be used in
      the kinetic, kinematic, and gait speed data analysis.

      See Part 2 for additional trials that will be performed concurrently for both groups.
      Participants in the experimental group will also be asked to complete a KOOS questionnaire at
      the same time.

      Part 2: Participants will undergo the same procedures described in Part 1 above. While the
      three trials are obtained for Part 1, three additional walking trials will be concurrently
      collected for the both groups. These will include the participant volitionally activating
      their TA during the walking trials, performed and screened exactly the same as in Part 1.
      These trials will be performed with and without audible biofeedback (via an alarm or verbal
      cueing), indicating the TA meeting the threshold subsequently discussed below. Investigators
      will randomly determine whether the trials with or without volitional TA activation are
      performed first (i.e., Part 1 versus Part 2 trials). The randomization done for Part 2 to
      determine whether or not the without (Part 1) or with (Part 2) volitional TA activation
      trials are performed first will be determined via random number generation between 0 and 1 in
      Excel. Those with 0 will perform the without volitional TA (Part 1) trials first, while those
      with 1 will perform the with volitional TA activation trials (Part 2) first.

      The patient will lie supine on the mat in the lab and will be taught how to perform a TA
      contraction. Please see the attached script with the instructions that will be used in this
      education. A baseline maximal contraction will be performed supine, and the amplitude of
      contraction will be considered maximal voluntary isometric contraction (MVIC). The device
      will be set to provide audible feedback, or the participant will receive a verbal cue from
      the investigator, at 30% MVIC. This feedback will be randomized throughout the trials with TA
      activation via random number generation in Excel, with 0 signifying no cue and 1 indicating a
      cue. The task will be repeated seated, then standing, prior to data collection.

      The experimental group, during both sets of trials, will be asked to subjectively rate their
      perceived pain in the lower extremity being used in data collection via a 10-point scale,
      typically used on the VAS, although no visual will be used. Please see the supplemental
      script document attached to this protocol for the instructions used.

      Part 3: Participants in the experimental group will participate in a six-week core
      stabilization intervention program. Please see the attached intervention program. This
      program will commence as soon as possible after Parts 1 and 2 of the investigation are
      completed. Participants will participate in two scheduled intervention sessions each week.
      Additionally, there will be a home exercise program, consisting of exercises from each week
      to be performed at home independently. Participants will be provided education and a handout
      on these exercises by the PI, which will include directions, photographs of the exercises,
      and a completion check-off for each session. These will be performed three times per week,
      every other day. The PI will be coordinator of the scheduling and performance of these
      interventions. These intervention sessions will be performed in the RFP Clinic in the SAHP,
      either in the open gym or in a private treatment room. This decision will be left up to the
      participant. More than one participant may or may not undergo intervention with the PI
      simultaneously, but only with the participants' consent. No more than three participants will
      undergo the training simultaneously. Training sessions will not be performed on consecutive
      days in an effort to reduce the chances of delayed onset muscle soreness being present during
      treatment sessions. Additionally, the core training program includes predetermined guidelines
      on exercise progressions in order to ensure that the exercises are not progressed too
      rapidly. The PI will be present and will lead all sessions, ensuring that the exercises and
      their progressions are done correctly.

      After the completion of the intervention program, each participant will undergo gait analysis
      in the same manner mentioned in Part 1, with the exception of no anthropometric data being
      collected. Participants will then complete a second, post-intervention KOOS questionnaire,
      and turn in their home exercise program sheet with tallies from completed sessions. Please
      see Part 1 for completion of the pre-intervention KOOS questionnaire.
    
  