
    
      Background and Objectives of the Study

      Cochlear Implantation A cochlear implant (CI) is a prosthetic device for the inner ear that
      bypasses damaged inner ear hair cells and directly stimulates the auditory nerve, thereby
      providing audible sensations to patients with sensorineural hearing loss (SNHL). The
      implanted part consists of a hermetically sealed electronics package, a receiver coil which
      communicates with external components, and a magnet to help align the internal and external
      receiver coils. Attached to the implant package is the lead assembly that includes an array
      of electrode contacts that is inserted into the cochlea and interacts with its stimulable
      elements, the spiral ganglion cells and the cochlear hair cells. Today's CI models have
      between 12 and 22 intra-cochlear electrode contacts, each of which can be independently
      stimulated. In the healthy cochlea, different pitches are perceived at distinct locations
      along the length of the cochlea. This tono-topic organization is utilized when stimulating
      the cochlea electrically, as individual contacts can preferentially address neural
      populations associated with discrete regions of the cochlea. For example, when a low-pitched
      sound is captured by the microphone of the external sound processor, stimulation is routed to
      more apical electrodes, while for high-pitched sounds more basal electrode contacts are
      engaged.

      Performance and Candidacy

      Cochlear implants are currently the standard-of-care for patients with significant SNHL and
      poor speech understanding. Preservation of the delicate anatomy within the cochlea is
      well-known to correlate with hearing and speech understanding outcomes. During electrode
      insertion, it is common for the surgeon to make subtle adjustments to insertion parameters
      such as the angle of insertion or speed of insertion; such modifications are part of the
      standard-of-care of conventional CI surgery. The current state of conventional CI electrode
      insertion provides the surgeon with no feedback as to whether and when the delicate
      structures of the cochlea are damaged. Such a tool by which the surgeon can obtain real-time
      measurements of the electrophysiological function of the cochlea could help improve the
      current surgical procedure.

      Electrocochleography

      One means of achieving this level of feedback is using electrocochleography (ECochG). ECochG
      is an objective electrophysiological reflection of peripheral acoustic-electric interactions
      within the cochlea. ECochG devices are FDA cleared Class II devices. An example of a cleared
      device is the Otometrics device (k143670). The FDA 510(k) clearance letter for this device is
      provided (See Appendix). During ECochG measurement, a brief acoustic tone burst with a
      defined frequency and level is delivered to the external ear canal. This results in normal
      physiologic movements of the outer and the inner cochlear hair cells. These movements produce
      small electrical potentials that can be sensed by a recording electrode placed near the
      cochlea (e.g., historically, on the promontory or the round window). Averaging of these
      recordings in synchrony with the acoustic stimulus allows the small ECochG signal to be
      reinforced while any physiological or electrical noise is averaged out.

      With ECochG measurements, the functional integrity of different elements of the peripheral
      auditory system can be examined. Specifically of interest, ECochG measurements can be
      resolved into the cochlear microphonic (CM) - generated by the cochlea's outer hair cells -
      and the auditory nerve neurophonic (ANN) - generated by the auditory nerve. By comparing the
      energy in the recorded signal at the measurement frequency with the noise floor of the
      measurement, behavioral hearing thresholds can be estimated with an accuracy of +/- 10 dB.

      Real-Time ECochG monitoring

      Advanced Bionics (AB), a manufacturer of FDA-approved CIs, has introduced a software approach
      to allow for utilization of ECochG during surgery. The prototype version of the AB-ECochG
      system has been successfully utilized in several clinical studies. The technological
      characteristics of the ECochG system utilized here are equivalent to existing FDA-approved
      systems.

      This protocol will utilize the latest system under development from AB that enables data
      collection with sufficient speed and precision to provide real-time observations to the
      surgeon during CI electrode insertion.

      Objectives

      This investigation does not involve a novel CI or a modification of an existing implantable
      device. The CIs to be used in this study are physically and technologically unchanged and
      have current FDA approval (Ultra MS: Model# CI-1600-04, FDA PMA Approval Number P960058/S117;
      Ultra Slim J: Model# CI-1600-05, FDA PMA Approval Number P960058/S121). Utilization of the
      device in the diagnosis and treatment of disease (i.e., hearing loss) is also unchanged and
      consistent with existing FDA-approved indications.

      ECochG systems themselves are not novel and have been in clinical use for many years. ECochG
      devices are FDA-cleared Class II devices. An FDA 510(k) clearance letter is provided (See
      Appendix). Use of ECochG for the purposes described here is consistent with indications
      covered under this FDA 510(k) clearance.

      The objective of this study is to learn about how ECochG-based observations during
      conventional CI surgery can improve outcomes compared to the standard-of-care technique of
      blind electrode insertion. Two clinically relevant outcomes will be considered:
      post-operative electrode location (i.e., correct electrode placement within the scala
      tympani) and hearing performance (i.e., postoperative audiometric thresholds in clinic).

      Significance

      Compared with previous relevant work, whereby ECochG was recorded near the cochlea before and
      after CI electrode insertion, recording ECochG from the vantage point of the CI's apical
      electrode within the cochlea during CI electrode insertion has the advantage of closer
      proximity to the ECochG signal generators (i.e., cochlear hair cells and the acoustic nerve).
      This approach has been shown to result in larger amplitude recording, and, thereby, more
      immediate feedback to the surgeon should these potentials change. An added advantage of this
      method is that it does not involve any change to the CI device itself, to the way the device
      is used, or to the surgical technique to place the device.

      The potential utility of ECochG during CI is illustrated by the following scenario: if the CI
      electrode touches the delicate structures of the cochlea (i.e., the basilar membrane or the
      spiral ligament) during insertion, the ECochG potentials become smaller in amplitude. With a
      real-time measurement system used during electrode insertion, decrease in ECochG potentials
      could be detected, and the surgeon could more purposely employ their modifications to
      insertion technique such as changing the insertion angle to avoid trauma or translocation.

      Use of intra-cochlear electrodes for ECochG offers an additional capability of observing
      potentials post-operatively in the clinic. ECochG allows an objective method of monitoring
      hearing at regular intervals over the early post-operative period and may give insights into
      hearing outcomes.

      Study Design

      A prospective, randomized, multi-center controlled study design will be used in this study.
      The total study duration will be up to two years. This study will be conducted in agreement
      with the Internal Review Board (IRB). The study will be registered through Clinical
      Trials.gov (account created; IRB approved).

      Outcome Measures

      The post-operative outcome measures of this study will be (1) the CI electrode's scalar
      position as indicated by post-operative computed tomography (CT) and (2) post-operative
      hearing performance. Following the clinical convention, the surgeon will pre-operatively
      select the type of CI electrode (i.e., the MidScala electrode or the SlimJ electrode) that
      they would like to use during surgery. As detailed below, the patient will then be randomized
      to "audible ECochG signal off" or "audible ECochG signal on."

      Hypotheses

      The hypotheses of this study are that:

        1. Changes in the ECochG signal observed during CI electrode insertion will correlate with
           insertion position outcomes as indicated by post-operative CT scan.

        2. Participants randomized to "ECochG audible response on" will demonstrate a significantly
           lower rate of scalar dislocation compared to participants randomized to "ECochG audible
           response off."

        3. Changes in the ECochG signal during CI electrode insertion will correlate with
           post-operative audiogram.

        4. Post-operatively, changes in the ECochG signal over time in clinic will correlate with
           changes observed over time in post-operative audiograms.

      Participants

      In total, 192 participants will be included in this study. This sample size was determined by
      a power analysis, detailed below in Statistical Analysis.

      Inclusion criteria are:

        -  Pure-tone audiometry thresholds ≤80 dB HL at 500 Hz

        -  One year of age and older

        -  Normal candidacy requirements for cochlear implantation met

        -  No cochlear abnormality that might prevent full insertion of the CI electrode array

        -  No additional handicap that would prevent study procedures from being followed

      Exclusion criteria are:

        -  Chronic otitis media

        -  Malformed cochlea

        -  Auditory neuropathy spectrum disorder (ANSD)

        -  Presence of ear tubes

        -  Prior middle ear surgeries or trauma including disruption of ossicles

      At any point in the study, the participants are free to end their involvement without any
      effect on their clinical care. Because this study does not involve any changes to the CI, its
      use, or the surgical technique, if a participant were to elect to end involvement in the
      study, it does not impact their treatment in any way. CI candidates meeting inclusion
      criteria will be given the opportunity to participate at the time of their regular
      pre-operative clinic visit or on the day of surgery itself.

      Randomization

      Interested CI candidates meeting study inclusion criteria will be randomized to one of two
      treatment arms. Randomization has been accomplished using a "randomized block design" to
      ensure that equal numbers of participants are included in each "treatment condition." For
      each participating institution, an impartially designed randomization schedule has been drawn
      up with the assistance of a biostatistician. The arm to which participants are randomized
      will be unknown to the investigators at the time of enrollment and to the participants
      themselves. By necessity, surgeons themselves will be "unblinded" on the day of surgery.
      Figure 1 depicts the study's randomization arms and post-operative outcome measures.

      Arm 1: Audible ECochG Response Off

      This condition is identical to the current standard-of-care for conventional CI surgery used
      worldwide. The surgeon will perform his or her electrode insertion without ECochG monitoring.
      Minute manipulations of the electrode are a normal part of conventional electrode insertion;
      manipulations such as redirecting the insertion vector or slowing down insertion speed will
      be made, as deemed necessary by the surgeon. A full electrode insertion will be performed, as
      appropriate. The ECochG responses will be recorded, but the surgeon will be blinded to this
      information during surgery.

      Arm 2: Audible ECochG Response On

      This condition will have the audible ECochG response on and available to the surgeon. In this
      condition, the surgeon perform a conventional electrode insertion while listening to the
      running ECochG signal for drop in amplitude (suggesting impending trauma). If no drop is
      detected, insertion will proceed to the full electrode length according to the
      standard-of-care. If an ECochG amplitude drop is observed, the surgeon will place this
      observation in its clinical context and evaluate insertion parameters, (i.e., insertion
      vector, insertion speed, etc.), customary practice with conventional CI surgery, but here
      supplemented by the ECochG response. In the case of an ECochG amplitude drop that does not
      recover, the standard-of-care practice of achieving a full electrode insertion will be
      followed.

      Protocol timeline

        1. Pre-Operative (typically 1-30 days before surgery)

             1. Standard counselling regarding CI study; collect consent form for adults or assent
                form for pediatric participants; collect data release forms.

             2. The surgeon makes his or her CI electrode selection between two options: (1) the
                HiFocus SlimJ (lateral wall array) or (2) the HiFocus MidScala. Electrode selection
                is a normal component of conventional CI surgery. All CIs models to be utilized in
                this study are FDA-approved and will be used within their approved indications
                (Ultra MS: Model# CI-1600-04, FDA PMA Approval Number P960058/S117; Ultra Slim J:
                Model# CI-1600-05, FDA PMA Approval Number P960058/S121).

             3. Pure tone audiometry (standard-of-care pre-operative CI candidacy evaluation). In
                pediatric patients, for whom completion of pure tone audiometry may be difficult or
                unreliable, auditory brainstem response (ABR) testing can be used to supplement or
                estimate behavioural thresholds.

             4. Pre-operative CT scan (standard-of-care) for surgical planning.

        2. Day of surgery

             1. Ensure that no cerumen or surgical preparation fluid is in the external ear canal.
                Place the ear piece in the external ear canal and fold the pinna forward, as in the
                conventional procedure.

             2. Enter the pre-op audiogram into the software.

             3. Normal CI surgical approach. A conventional round window or extended round window
                entry into the cochlea is prepared.

             4. Measure ECochG in response to a 500 Hz tone burst stimulus, at 110 dB SPL, during
                insertion of the CI electrode and after insertion of the CI electrode. Figure 2
                schematically depicts the intraoperative set-up. Figure 3 shows the non-invasive
                surface electrode and earphone array used in ECochG. Figure 4 shows the enclosure
                box and monitoring screen.

           i) For participants randomized to Arm 1 of the study, the surgeon will perform CI
           electrode insertion without ECochG feedback.

           ii) For participants randomized to Arm 2 of the study, the surgeon will make insertion
           modifications as appropriate in response to ECochG feedback.

        3. Initial CI Activation Visit (3-5 weeks after surgery)

           a) Audio Assessment i) Unaided pure tone audiometry in the implanted and the unimplanted
           ear ii) Bone-conduction thresholds when possible, depending on the patient's residual
           hearing status iii) For pediatric patients, unaided audiometric data may be collected as
           tolerated, across different visits, to accommodate the unique challenges of hearing
           assessment of young children.

           b) Measure ECochG responses in clinic (to coincide with audiometry, +/- 1 week) i)
           125-2000 Hz (frequency scan) ii) At an acoustic intensity level at or below their
           comfortable level through an insert earphone iii) Directly through the CI c) Post-Op CT
           scan to identify CI electrode scalar location i) Obtain scan within one month following
           surgery ii) Patient identifiers removed from CT scan data and sent to collaborators in
           DICOM format for analysis (See Appendix 1).

        4. Approximately 3 Month Visit

           a) Audio Assessment i) Pure tone unaided audiometry in the implanted and the unimplanted
           ear ii) Bone-conduction thresholds when possible, depending on the patient's residual
           hearing status b) Measure ECochG responses in clinic (to coincide with audiometry, +/- 1
           week) i) 125-2000 Hz (frequency scan) ii) At an acoustic intensity level at or below
           their comfortable level through an insert earphone iii) Directly through the CI

        5. Approximately 12 Month Visit a) Audio Assessment i) Pure tone unaided audiometry in the
           implanted and the unimplanted ear ii) Bone-conduction thresholds as appropriate b)
           Measure ECochG responses in clinic (to coincide with audiometry, +/- 1 week) i) 125-2000
           Hz frequency scan ii) At an acoustic intensity level at or below their comfortable level
           through an insert earphone iii) Directly through the CI Detailed description of
           measurements and procedure Pure tone and bone-conduction audiometry Pure tone audiometry
           will be performed following the conventional, routine protocol currently in place for
           determining CI candidacy. Where possible, pure tone thresholds will be established in
           the implanted ear for 125, 250, 500, 750, 1000, 1500, 2000, 3000, 4000, 6000, and 8000
           Hz. Testing will be conducted using insert earphones, and where indicated, the
           contralateral ear will be masked. Both the implanted and the non-implanted ear will be
           measured. If clinically appropriate, bone-conduction testing will be performed as well
           following conventional practices. For young children in our cohort, for whom hearing
           testing can be uniquely challenging, thresholds obtained across more than one visit will
           be permitted and thresholds may be estimated base on auditory brainstem response (ABR)
           testing.

      In line with the Minimum Reporting Standards for Adult Cochlear Implantation recommendations,
      in patients with functionally relevant pre-operative low frequency pure tone averages (125,
      250, 500 Hz) < 80 dB HL, post-operative residual hearing will be reported. Each frequency
      will be reported individually (125, 250, 500, 1000, 1500, 2000, 4000, and 8000 Hz) rather
      than as a pure tone average.

      Electrocochleography

      In the operating room, a 500 Hz tone burst will be presented to the participant at a 110 dB
      SPL through an insert earphone in the external auditory canal. This acoustic stimulus will
      provoke movements of remaining inner and outer cochlear hair cells and evoke a response from
      the auditory nerve. Tone burst stimuli at 500 Hz have been shown to produce the largest
      amplitude ECochG response, therefore, will be used as the default stimulus here. The
      resulting cochlear potentials will be recorded using the recording electrode from the apical
      aspect of the CI electrode. By averaging the recorded signal synchronized with stimulus
      delivery, the responses can be reinforced while unsynchronized noise will average out. This
      utilization is consistent with indications covered under this FDA 510(k) clearance.

      Intra-operative preparation

      The insert earphone will be placed in the external ear canal after cerumen removal. The ear
      canal will be surgically prepared, followed by suctioning of prep fluid. Following the
      conventional technique, the measurement ear will be folded forward and taped. The surgery
      will proceed following the standard-of-care practice consisting of a cortical mastoidectomy,
      a facial recess (posterior tympanotomy), and preparation of intracochlear access via the
      round window or an extended round window approach. Before the CI electrode will be inserted,
      the headpiece will be connected to the implant, and the ECochG software will be triggered to
      begin the ECochG recordings. Figure 2 depicts a schematic of the measurement system setup.
      Figure 3 shows an example of the noninvasive surface electrode and earphone array. Figure 4
      shows the monitor and unit through which the ECochG is observed and recorded.

      To facilitate correlation of changes in ECochG potentials during CI electrode insertion and
      surgical events that ultimately relate to trauma within the cochlea, the surgeon will
      verbally indicate the progress of electrode insertion (e.g., "at the round window," "at the
      first marker on the electrode," "at the last marker on the electrode"), which will be
      recorded in the software by an assistant and synched with the ECochG signals.

      Post-operative ECochG

      For post-operative ECochG measurements in the clinic, the setup depicted in Figure 3 will be
      utilized. For this testing, the external component of the CI will be temporarily removed
      (equivalent to simply taking off a hearing aid) and replaced with an external head coil
      component (physically identical to the CI's external head coil) that allows for ECochG
      measurement. After connecting the head piece, a frequency scan from 125-2000 Hz will be
      presented to the participant at an acoustic intensity level at or below their comfortable
      listening level through an insert earphone in the external auditory canal. After measurements
      are collected, the participant's own external component will be put back in place. This
      measurement takes up to 5 minutes and does not require active participation of the
      participant.

      CT Scan

      A single post-operative CT scan will be conducted to identify the electrode's scalar
      location. A post-operative CT scan is often performed as a part of the regular clinical
      routine in patients for whom more information about the CI electrode location is needed. The
      post-operative CT will be collected per parameters outlined in Appendix 1.

      Risks

      The chief risks associated with this study are those inherent to CI surgery itself. The use
      of intraoperative ECochG has been well-demonstrated to pose no added patient risks, but may,
      as discussed above, provide an important benefit. Participation in this study will involve
      the following specific considerations:

        1. Increased surgical time: The ECochG measurement procedure adds up to 5-15 minutes to the
           procedure. During this added procedure time, the Anesthesia team will closely monitor
           the patient. If there are any concerns at any time, the study activity will be ceased.

        2. Post-operative CT scan: Associated radiation exposure. The implant, sound processor, and
           the clinical programming interface (CPI) hardware are all FDA-approved, and their use in
           the study is not associated with any additional risk to the patient. ECochG devices are
           FDA-cleared Class II devices. For an example of an FDA 510(k) clearance letter for the
           Otometrics device (k143670), please see Appendix. The ECochG recording software is not
           FDA/Conformité Européenne (CE) certified, but it has been thoroughly tested per AB's
           internal quality system. The recording software is not part of the CI operation and does
           not introduce any new or changed risk to the patient. It has been verified that the
           experimental software does not affect the performance of the FDA-approved software or
           hardware. Further, the entire protocol detailed above has been utilized and reported
           upon across several institutions validating the feasibility, ease, and safety of this
           modification to the convention "no feedback" approach to CI electrode insertion. This
           study's principal investigator (PI) also has experience using the current system.

      Data Acquisition and Storage

      Post-operative audiometric measurements and post-operative CT scan results will be recorded
      in the participant's study binder. Results of intra-operative and post-operative ECochG will
      be saved by the ECochG software program but will also be printed and kept in the
      participant's binder. All files will be archived. The main study results will be transferred
      to Excel-files for analysis. Further analyses will be done with Excel, Matlab or statistical
      software packages. A member of the Biostatistics Department will assist in statistical
      analysis. All results will be made anonymous prior to being shown to any third party. It will
      not be possible for any individual study participant to be recognized from his or her study
      data.

      In addition, we will compare ECochG-based predictions associated with CI electrode scalar
      position and hearing outcomes to predications made based on conventional demographic and
      audiometric data. To facilitate multivariate analysis, we will extract biographical (e.g.,
      age, etiology of hearing loss, duration of deafness) and surgical (e.g., device and electrode
      type) factors from the electronic medical record.

      Statistical Analysis

      Randomization

      Block randomization is statistical strategy to prevent unequal numbers of participants from
      being randomized to one arm vs the other (here, audible signal "on" versus audible signal
      "off"). For example, using a random number generator set to individually assign 100
      participants to one of two groups, there is no assurance that an equal numbers of study
      participants would end up in the "audible signal on" group, resulting in an unbalanced
      overall sample, despite randomization of each participant.

      Using a block approach, the total sample is divided into smaller blocks and randomization is
      performed within each block with the rule that the number of allocations is balanced within
      that block. In our study, although each institution will likely only contribute about 40
      participants, we have designed a randomization schedule to allow for 100 participants to be
      run for each program. This sample of 100 was divided into 50 blocks of two participants; the
      two participants are randomized ensuring that one goes into the "signal off" group and one
      goes to the "signal on" group.

      Power Analysis

      To ensure that our study is appropriately powered to detect a significant difference in the
      primary outcomes measures, we performed a power analysis with the assistance of a
      biostatistician. Post-operative CT-based indication of scalar position is treated as a
      dichotomous variable (i.e., either in the scala tympani or in the scala vestibuli);
      post-operative hearing outcomes are treated as a continuous variable.

      Scalar Dislocation: Preliminary data indicates that the current state of CI electrode
      dislocation from the scala tympani to the scala vestibuli is approximately 35% (or, a
      "successful" scala tympani position is achieved at a rate of 65%). For participants
      randomized to "ECochG audible signal on," our expectation, driven by preliminary data, is to
      decrease the rate of scalar dislocation to approximately 15% (or, a "successful" scala
      tympani position rate of 85%). Setting the alpha error rate at 2.5%, a total sample size of
      192 participants, or 96 participants in each of the two randomization groups, was determined
      using a Fischer exact test. If we permit a 5% error rate, the total sample size drops to 162
      patients (81 randomized to audible signal "on"; 81 randomized to signal "off"). While these
      numbers of participants are higher than would be possible to achieve at our site alone in an
      average two-year period, through a coordinated effort to pool multi-center data, it will be
      easily achievable.

      Secondary Planned Analysis

      Electrode Type: As detailed above, once a participant is enrolled in the study, the surgeon
      will select which of two CI electrodes are most appropriate. A secondary analysis comparing
      scalar position and hearing preservation outcomes will be performed (i.e., four total
      between-group analyses) between the two electrode groups.

      Pediatric Participants: This study will include both adult and pediatric participants. A
      secondary analysis comparing scalar position and hearing outcomes between adult and pediatric
      participants will be performed (again, four total between-group analyses).

      Regression Analysis: To model the influence of "ECochG on" on the primary outcome measures in
      the context of participant age group and electrode choice, two regression analyses will be
      performed - one for the outcome measure of scalar position and one for hearing outcomes.

      Hospital Effect Analysis: To determine if there is a meaningful difference in outcome
      measures across the different participating hospital settings, a secondary analysis will be
      performed as well.

      Safeguarding of Protected Health Information (PHI) Upon study enrollment, participants will
      be assigned an alphanumeric code that will be used to track their data. A code key will be
      maintained by the investigators on a secure server and accessed using password-protected
      computers located in a locked office in a secure research space. Participant identity cannot
      be discovered from ECochG data. Likewise, CT images and audiometric data will not reveal
      participant identity and will be made fully anonymous prior to sharing with any third party.
      Participant study binders, labeled using their alphanumeric code only, will be stored in a
      locked cabinet, in a locked office, in a secure research area accessible only to the
      investigators.
    
  