
    
      Up to 10 subjects diagnosed with stable chronic heart failure (CHF) on high oral diuretic
      dose and an MDRD eGFR > 30ml/min/1.73m2 will undergo subcutaneous implantation of the
      alfapump DSR system (Day-13) and portacath system and participate in a 6 week interventional
      study. Prior to an inpatient study period, the subject will undergo a 40mg IV furosemide (or
      1 mg IV bumetanide) diuretic challenge with timed biospecimen collection. On day 14
      post-implant (Day 0), the subject will be admitted for a 14-day period in which diuretics
      will be withheld and subjects will be on a strict low-sodium (3g/day) diet with strict
      intake/output and all urine collected and samples saved for analysis. During the first 7 days
      (Day 0 - 6) subjects will be treated with 1000ml of DSR Infusate Monday, Wednesday, Friday
      administered to the peritoneal cavity through the subcutaneous peritoneal catheter. The
      infusate will remain in the peritoneal cavity for a 2 hour dwell time, then all fluid will be
      removed from the peritoneal cavity to the urinary bladder using the alfapump DSR system over
      the subsequent 8 hours. On day 7, subjects will be transitioned to a moderate to high salt
      diet given as the same low-sodium (3g/day) diet with supplementation with sodium chloride
      tablets (2g/day) (5g/day total sodium), as this will likely represent their typical home
      sodium intake. During this time, the optimal treatment protocol (frequency of administration
      and volume of DSR infusate administered) for individual subjects based on daily sodium
      balance, weight changes, and blood pressure will be created and tested over the next seven
      days in hospital (Day 7 - 13). Following the inpatient period, a second diuretic challenge
      will be conducted. Over the subsequent 28 days, diuretics will continue to be withheld with
      preferential maintenance of euvolemia through DSR and subjects will come into the clinic
      based on their tailored therapy schedule and undergo supervised DSR infusate administration.
      Addition of diuretic treatment will only be allowed if maximal DSR therapy has been
      instituted (DSR 7 days per week (i.e., including weekends) at 1.5L per session with dwell
      time of 4 hours) and/or holding diuretics until additional DSR can be utilized would
      represent a risk to the subject, as described in the CIP diuretic algorithm.

      After the completion of the study period, the alfapump DSR therapy is halted and the subject
      undergoes a third diuretic challenge to quantify diuretic response. At this point oral
      diuretic therapy will be resumed. At the end of the study the alfapump can remain implanted
      and set to 'dormant' state after discussion and agreement between subject and investigator,
      and if there are no clinical, ethical or other reasons indicating explanation of the
      alfapump. Alternatively, the subject may elect to enroll into a low intensity follow-on
      study.
    
  