
    
      Overt maternal hypothyroidism and/or iodine deficiency during pregnancy are linked to mental
      retardation in their offspring. Iodine deficiency may lead to maternal hypothyroxinemia, and
      even mild hypothyroidism in predisposed women. Indeed, thyroid hormones are of paramount
      importance for fetal brain development. During the first trimester of pregnancy, the only
      thyroid hormones available to the fetus are from maternal origin. Later in pregnancy, fetal
      thyroid progressively starts producing thyroid hormone, providing that maternal iodine status
      is adequate (≥200-250 mcg/day). It has been shown recently that mild maternal hypothyroidism
      may be responsible for discrete neuropsychological impairment in her child, implying a
      potential benefit for early screening and care during pregnancy. Furthermore, iodine
      deficiency is extremely common in our area (Brucker-Davis et al 2004). However, there is no
      official recommendation for screening and prevention, as for gestational diabetes for
      example.

      We propose to study healthy pregnant women, screened before 12 weeks of gestation and without
      thyroid disease. They will be randomized in 2 groups and will therefore take pregnancy
      tablets, iodine fortified or not (Oligobs Maxiode -150 mcg/j of iodine, vs Oligobs
      grossesse), in addition to appropriate nutritional advice. Their longitudinal study will
      involve:

        1. Evolution of thyroid function parameters in the 2 groups, with comparison of maternal
           thyroid volumes, maternal thyroid hormones levels and cord blood parameters, including
           thyroglobulin, during pregnancy and in postpartum.

        2. Establishment of reference ranges for thyroid parameters for each trimester of
           pregnancy.

      This public health project rests on our expertise in the care of pregnancies with maternal
      endocrine and metabolic disease (Hieronimus et al 2003-2005) and on a close collaboration of
      our Departments within the Pole "Mother-Child", conveniently located at the same hospital. It
      will allow us to precise iodine deficiency screening and prevention in our population and to
      structure and optimize the care for women with thyroid disease screened early in pregnancy
      (opening of a specific clinic), in order to improve maternal and fetal prognosis
    
  