
    
      The investigators have recently shown that infectious HIV is carried by platelets in the
      blood of HIV-infected patients which failed to respond immunologically to cART despite viral
      suppression (Immunological nonresponders, InRs) and that platelets can mediate HIV
      transmission to macrophages in vitro, in line with our recent description of HIV reservoir
      occurrence and establishment in macrophages in cART-suppressed patients. Around 20% of the
      overall cART-treated patients are InRs that fail to reconstitute their competent immune
      status despite treatment observance with prolonged viral suppression. The causes of this
      immunological failure remain unclear and no treatment is available to improve the health of
      InRs, which are at higher risk of AIDS and non-AIDS morbidity and mortality. The poor
      immunological recovery in InRs is mainly driven by a sustained low CD4+ T-cell counts that
      relies on persistent inflammation and immune activation affecting T-cell population profile.

      Platelets are cleared by tissue macrophages in vivo in physiological or inflammatory
      contexts, what could represent a route for HIV to establish reservoirs in macrophages. We
      have shown that HIV sheltered in platelets can transfer infection to macrophages, in a
      process blocked by anti-αIIb/ β3 antibody Abciximab. This infection is productive as in turn,
      infection spreads replication-competent virus to non-infected CD4+ T-cells. This viral spread
      may increase the blood T-cell HIV reservoir, a hallmark of immunological failure as observed
      in InRs. In contrast, HIV-containing platelets fail to directly infect CD4+ T, unless
      infection is forced by the fusion inducer polybrene. Thus, in contrast to macrophages, CD4+ T
      cells are not targeted by HIV enclosed in platelets.

      However, HIV-containing platelets might immunomodulate CD4+ T cell functions thereby
      triggering the immunological failure observed in cART-suppressed patients. Hence,
      platelet-T-cell conjugates form in the blood of HIV patients, suggesting that HIV-containing
      platelets could downregulate T-cell functions. Platelets are known to express adhesive
      proteins that not only promote platelet aggregation responsible for primary hemostasis, but
      also to mediate interactions with leukocytes, driving either inhibition of proliferation and
      differentiation of CD4+ T-cells into TH17, crucial in mediating chronic inflammation.
      Platelets can also shed microvesicles (ectosomes) which directly contact these lymphocytes,
      driving TH17 polarization of CD4+ T-cells and in turn an unbalanced TReg/TH17 ratio
      characteristic of InRs. Such TReg/TH17 unbalance might reflect a persistent inflammatory
      state that could translate in a cytotoxic/antiproliferative effect on CD4+ T-cells and
      ultimately immunological failure.

      Very recently, we found that the number of platelets-CD4+ T-cells conjugates circulating in
      the blood of cART-treated HIV-infected patients is increased in InRs (virally suppressed and
      <350 CD4+T-cells/μl) compared with immunological responders (IR, >500 CD4+T-cells/μl). In
      addition, conjugates form more with TH17 in InR compared with IR, whereas conjugates form
      equally with TReg in the two InR and IR patients groups. These results indicate that InRs not
      only present a strong probability to have HIV-containing platelets but are also prone to form
      platelets-TH17 cells conjugates, suggesting a causal connection between association of HIV
      with platelets and platelet-driven immunomodulation of CD4+T-cells toward a TH17 profile.
      Whether these platelet-TH17 conjugates we observed form with full platelets or platelet
      ectosome (that both harbor CD41 used as platelet marker in our conjugate analyses) remains
      unknown.

      Importantly, HIV RNA is only detected in circulating CD4+ T-cell reservoirs when latent
      proviral DNA is reactivated, suggesting that platelet-containing HIV does not conjugate with
      CD4+T cell in InR patients but rather with bystander platelets or platelet ectosomes (lacking
      HIV). Thus, immunomodulation of CD4+T cells in InRs might result from the interaction with
      these bystander platelet/ectosomes or ectosomes shed from HIV-containing platelets.

      Platelets have been shown to exchange mRNA upon interaction with immune cells and tumors .
      Furthermore, transfer of functional mRNA and microRNA is so far demonstrated to be mediated
      by platelet ectosomes, targeting macrophage/monocytic and epithelial cells. Thus, transfer of
      messenger RNAs or microRNAs from platelets/ectosomes to macrophages and/or CD4+ T-cells could
      be the mechanism of platelet-dependent immunomodulation of target leukocytes. Platelets
      display a repertoire of mainly pro-inflammatory microRNAs such as miRNA-155 and miRNA-326,
      involved in NF-κB-mediated inflammatory macrophage responses 25 and TH17 cell-polarization.
      These miRNAs could be differentially expressed in platelets containing HIV and their eventual
      transfer to target immune cells could participate in immune cell dysfunction as observed in
      InRs. Furthermore, αIIb/ β3 mRNA are platelet-specific transcripts conserved in circulating
      platelets throughout their life-span, and can be exploited to tag leukocytes targeted by
      mRNA/microRNA of HIV-containing platelets.
    
  