
    
      Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM), the most common primary brain tumor in adults is known for its
      highly invasive and angiogenic profile. Despite advances in different modalities of GBM
      treatment, the overall prognosis of GBM remains dismal. The current standard of care is
      Radiation Therapy (RT) at a dose of 60 Gy (30 fractions) for 6 weeks with concurrent
      Temozolomide (TMZ; 75 mg/m2 daily for 6 weeks) followed by adjuvant TMZ (150/200mg/m2 daily,
      for 5 of 28 days x 6 months). The DNA repair protein O6-methylguanine methyltransferase
      (MGMT) removes alkyl adducts at the O6 position of guanine and therefore counteracts the
      cytotoxic effects of alkylating agents such as TMZ. Thus, GBM patients harboring tumors with
      unmethylated MGMT promoter and increased MGMT protein expression do not derive benefit from
      TMZ treatment.

      Sunitinib (Sutent, SU11248) is an oral multitargeted receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) inhibitor
      with anti-angiogenic activities. Sunitinib has been approved by the FDA for the treatment of
      patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumors after disease progression on or intolerance to
      imatinib, for the treatment of patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma and for the
      treatment of patients with unresectable, locally advanced, or metastatic well-differentiated
      pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (pNET). Previous pre-clinical data showed the efficacy of
      sunitinib in GBM. The investigators preclinical data highlighted the differential effect of
      sunitinib in GBM MGMT-positive tumors with a greater response to sunitinib in combination
      with RT and TMZ compared to MGMT-negative tumors.

      In this phase II trial, Investigator will test the efficacy and the safety of combining
      Sunitinib with RT and TMZ in newly diagnosed GBM patients displaying tumors with unmethylated
      MGMT promoter. Based on the investigators preclinical findings, patients with MGMT (+) tumors
      (do not derive benefit from TMZ treatment) are more likely to respond to sunitinib-based
      therapy. MGMT promoter methylation will be therefore used as a biomarker for selection of
      newly diagnosed GBM patients enrolled in this study.
    
  