
    
      The aims of the investigators studies are to determine the plasma FA composition and to
      assess changes in the latter in response to n-3 supplementation in French-Canadian youth
      since (i) none of the available pharmacological agents could be recommended for treatment of
      children with NAFLD; (ii) n-3 PUFA are quite safe diet supplements that showed efficacy in
      the prevention and therapy of cardiovascular diseases, dyslipidemia and metabolic syndrome;
      (iii) loss of n-3 PUFA dietary intake was found in pediatric NAFLD and (iii) no attention has
      been given to French-Canadian population, which is primarily and historically located in the
      province of Quebec, has the highest prevalence worldwide of lipoprotein lipase deficiency,
      includes a large pool of individuals at risk for atherosclerosis and other lipid-related
      diseases, and exhibits a founder effect among the 8,000 ancestors of present-day
      French-Canadians, who have had relatively little cross-breeding with individuals from other
      national origin groups.

      Subjects The present randomized clinical trial was performed on 30 NAFLD children followed as
      outpatients at the Gastroenterology/Hepatology and Nutrition clinic of MCHU Ste-Justine and
      the Gastroenterology division of the Montreal Children's Hospital, Montreal.

      The children have between 8 years and 18 years of age, with obesity and a diagnostic of NAFLD
      based on the results of a clinical evaluation, liver echography, and magnetic resonance
      imaging-proton density fat fraction.

      Inclusion and exclusion criteria The children are eligible for the study if they are boys
      (according to the literature review on NAFLD prevalence), with a body weight ≥ 95th
      percentile (based on the CDC Chart), aged <18 years, have a diffusely hyperechogenic liver at
      ultrasonography (consistent with NAFLD diagnostic), and have normal or high transaminases (>
      2N). Moreover, the exclusion criteria is based on subjects having pin or cochlear implants
      may affect the magnetic resonance imaging examination; subjects who consumed natural medicine
      products have an increased risk of haemorrhage, and those in whom a surgical procedure was
      planned, and the child who founded to consume fish, flaxseed oil and foods enriched with n-3
      PUFA (eggs, or milk containing n-3 PUFA supplements), probiotics, vitamin E or use of drugs
      known to induce fatty liver during the study.

      Study design The present study is a 6-month, double-blind, one-way, crossover randomized
      study. The treatment consisting of n-3 PUFA supplement (NutriSanté Inc./Ponroy, Canada),
      administered in two phases, each of 3-month duration. In the first phase, an NAFLD group will
      receive an active n-3 PUFA supplement and another will receive equivalent quantities of
      sunflower oil as a placebo. During the second phase (after the first 3 months), all NAFLD
      subjects will receive an active n-3 PUFA. The study is approved by the Clinical Research
      Ethics Committee of MUCH Ste-Justine (Montreal, Quebec. Informed consent was obtained from
      all subjects before starting experimental procedures, and the study followed the Helsinki
      guidelines.

      Dosing The dose supplementation considered for this study is 2.0 g of fish oil per day,
      providing a total of 1.2 g of n-3 PUFA. This dose is chosen according to official
      recommendations, based on our previous studies and pediatric clinical trials. Compliance to
      the study treatment will be evaluated by pill count at every visit, review of medication
      records, and direct interview of patients by the physician.
    
  