
    
      The cases derive from patients with acute ischemic stroke hospitalized in Neurology
      Department General Hospital of Guangzhou Military Command of PLA. The diagnosis of ischemic
      stroke is diagnosed using the diagnostic criteria of the International Association of
      Neurological Diseases and Stroke Association in 1982. The classification criteria for
      ischemic stroke are based on the current international TOAST etiological classification
      method.

      The study passed the approval of the ethics committee of General Hospital of Guangzhou
      Military Command of PLA, and all patients or their guardian sign informed consent. According
      to the location and diagnostic criteria, the patients are divided into three groups: left
      hemisphere infarction patients group, right hemisphere infarction patients group and normal
      healthy control group. The subjects performed index finger tapping test, the maximum hand
      grip strength test of both hands, National Institute of Health stroke scale(NIHSS), Barthel
      Index(BI), Hamilton Anxiety Scale(HAMA), Hamilton Anxiety Scale(HAMA) and functional magnetic
      resonance (fMRI) tests at 3 days (V1), 30 days (V2) and 90 days (V3 phase) after the onset of
      cerebral infarction. In the healthy control group, the above examination is performed only 1
      times. All subjects are assessed for clinical behavior by an independent third party.

      Task-state function magnetic resonance design: Using the block design. There are two
      sequences. One sequence is in the way of rest and left hand movement, then repeat 5 times,
      ending at rest. The other is in the way of rest and right hand movement, then repeat 5 times,
      ending at rest. Each sequence lasted 220s, and the total duration of all tests was 440s. At
      the hand movement stage, each participant is at 1HZ Rhythm for the clenched fist movement
      with maximum strength, keep their whole body relaxed at the resting phase, with wrist and
      fingers not moving. participants use visual information to strictly control time and
      frequency of movement. Visual information is written by DMDX software, and accept the work
      instruction then sent to a transparent screen via a computer projector. Participants observed
      the information through a reflector mounted on a head coil.

      Magnetic resonance data acquisition: 1.5 Tesla superconducting magnetic resonance scanner of
      Siemens Sonata company is applied. The standard phased array head coil is the radio frequency
      coil. Gradient field is 40m T/m, and switching rate is 200m T/m/ms. The scanning sequence and
      parameters are as follows:(1) T1 WI scan, obtaining whole brain structure image data: repeat
      time is 683ms, echo time is 11ms, layer thickness is 4mm, layer spacing is 1mm, matrix is
      192x144, field of vision is 230mmx230mm, a total of 28 layers, range including whole brain.
      (2) The blood oxygen level dependent signal of the motor task state and resting state
      functional magnetic resonance imaging: using gradient echo combined with single excitation
      echo plane Imaging technology, the parameters are as follows: repeat time is 2000ms, echo
      time is 49ms, layer thickness is 4mm, layer spacing is 1mm, matrix is 64x64, field of vision
      is 210mmx210mm, a total of 28 layers.
    
  