
    
      Suicide prevention is the top clinical priority for VA/DoD. Suicide is one of the leading
      causes of death in the United States and worldwide with suicide rates among U.S. military
      Veterans doubling (27.7 per 100,000) the rate of civilian levels. Despite a rise in
      prevention efforts, rates have continued to increase. Theories of suicide and rehabilitation
      psychology stress the importance of the person-environment interaction in contributing to
      one's disability experience. Several studies have found that the most frequent situation
      precipitating suicide was a problem with a romantic partner. In contrast, people with higher
      relationship satisfaction are less likely to have suicidal thoughts. The International
      Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health (ICF) identifies social engagement and
      communication as important components of functioning. Prevention of suicide in at-risk
      Veterans is of vital importance and the quality of one's intimate relationship is an
      understudied intervention target for suicide prevention. The importance of including family
      members in Veterans' suicide related care is a critical component of the National Strategy
      for Preventing Veteran Suicides 2018-2028, the National Action Alliance on Suicide
      Prevention, and a key finding from VA/DoD patient focus groups conducted for the 2019 VA/DoD
      Clinical Practice Guidelines for the Assessment and Management of Patients at Risk for
      Suicide. Despite the fact that VA/DoD recommend and Veterans desire treatments that involve
      family members, currently no couple-based suicide-specific interventions exist. The goals of
      this CDA-II are to refine and pilot a novel suicide-specific couple-based
      intervention-Treatment for Relationships and Safety Together (TR&ST). TR&ST adapts an
      evidence-based intervention for suicide, Brief Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (BCBT) for
      Suicide, to be dyadically focused and integrates Cognitive Behavioral Couple Therapy (CBCT)
      skills.

      The proposed 5-year study consists of two phases. Phase 1: treatment refinement with 10
      couples (N=20) and Phase 2: pilot Randomized Controlled Trial (RCT) of TR&ST compared to VA
      Standard Suicide Intervention, which will involve suicide risk assessment, VA safety
      planning, Suicide Prevention Coordinator (SPC) follow-up, and referral to outpatient mental
      health with 60 couples (N=120). The intervention period is 12-weeks and the entire study
      period is approximately 7 months. Couples in both phases will be quantitatively assessed at
      baseline, mid-treatment, post-treatment, and 3-months post-treatment. The primary outcome to
      be evaluated is change in severity of suicidal ideation. Secondary outcomes concern changes
      in interpersonal functioning theorized to influence suicidal ideation and behavior.

      The Specific Aims of the study are:

      Aim 1 (Phase 1): refine TR&ST in a population of Veterans with active suicidal ideation Aim 2
      (Phase 2): evaluate feasibility and acceptability of TR&ST Hypothesis 1 is that TR&ST will be
      feasible to deliver, as evidenced by attainment of recruitment goals, retention rates 70%,
      and high credibility and expectancy ratings and satisfaction.

      Aim 3 (Phase 2): estimate the preliminary impact of TR&ST vs. VA Standard Suicide
      Intervention on suicidal ideation severity and proximal targets of interpersonal functioning
      over 7 months to determine if a future efficacy trial is warranted.

      Hypothesis 2a is that Veterans engaged in TR&ST (vs. VA Standard Suicide Intervention) will
      have greater reduction in suicidal ideation severity (primary outcome) Hypothesis 2b is that
      Veterans and partners engaged in TR&ST (vs. VA Standard Suicide Intervention) will have
      improved interpersonal functioning (i.e., communication, bonding, relationship satisfaction)
      Hypothesis 2c is that the effect of TR&ST on Veteran's reduced suicidal ideation will be
      mediated by improvements in Veteran and partner interpersonal functioning Exploratory Aim 1:
      examine rates of suicide related behavior for Veterans in TR&ST (vs. VA Standard Suicide
      Intervention) Exploratory Aim 2: examine links between weekly changes in suicidal ideation
      and relationship quality Exploratory Aim 3: examine the impact of TR&ST on depression, PTSD,
      and relationship conflict
    
  