
    
      The multimodal optical imaging technology, OCT-AFI, has demonstrated the ability to image the
      small peripheral airways of the lung, allowing for high resolution of structural and
      functional details of airway tissue and the vasculature. Through the OCT (optical coherence
      tomography) component, the bronchial epithelium can be visualized and its thickness
      quantifiable. Micro invasion of the basement membrane can be seen in the acquired images. The
      AFI (autofluorescence imaging) component showed the vascular network, areas of pulmonary
      fibrosis and areas with loss of endogenous fluorescence beside pulmonary nodules.

      The investigators anticipate OCT-AFI to be able to see subsurface structures in the cervix
      and vulva as well. Through previous work, the investigators found AFI to be sensitive to
      detecting high grade cervical lesions but the technology was confounded by normal subsurface
      tissue structures. By combining OCT with AFI, the investigators anticipate a higher
      sensitivity to detecting high grade lesions on the cervix than with just AFI. The OCT-AFI
      imaging probe is also small enough to fit into the endocervical canal and will allow for
      imaging of neoplasias that originate in the canal. These abnormalities are on the rise.
      Vulvar neoplasias are also on the rise and visually difficult to identify and determine
      surgical margins. OCT-AFI may help clinicians locate and determine the extent of vulvar
      lesions.

      The objectives are to determine

        1. feasibility of the technology in imaging vulva and its capability in detecting carcinoma
           and vulvar intraepithelial neoplasias

        2. feasibility in imaging complete cervix from endocervical canal to transformation zone to
           ectocervix

        3. if combined OCT with AFI increases the sensitivity of detecting high grade lesions in
           the cervix compared to just AFI alone (previous work was AFI alone).

      This study will image 10 subjects for endocervical canal and ectocervix sites. Another 10
      subjects will be imaged for vulvar sites. Imaging will not affect where standard of care
      biopsies will be taken from. Imaging results will be correlated with histology.

      No statistical analysis will be performed. This feasibility study will look at the quality
      and utility of the acquired image sets. If possible, the investigators will quantify the
      images in terms of epithelium thickness, basement membrane location, presence of vasculature
      and sub-epithelial structures.
    
  