
    
      Heated Intraperitoneal chemotherapy (HIPEC) has several potential benefits. High-dose
      chemotherapy can be used due to the plasma-peritoneal barrier resulting in little absorption
      into the blood stream. Additionally, there is higher peritoneal penetration in comparison to
      IV regimen, and does not have the limitation of traditional IP regimen of post-operative
      adhesions. Hyperthermia itself has cytotoxic effects and can increase the depth of tumor
      penetration by the chemotherapeutic agent up to 3 millimeters; moreover, hyperthermia can
      potentiate its antineoplastic effects.

      In recent times, morbidity and mortality associated with HIPEC has drastically improved. One
      large retrospective review of 694 patients, treated between 2005 and 2011, utilizing the
      American College of Surgeons National Surgical Quality Improvement Program (ACS NSQUIP)
      database, demonstrated a complication rate of 33% and 30-day mortality of 2.3%, both rates
      consistent with outcomes for other major complex abdominal operations.

      Recently, a Phase I dose escalation study to evaluate maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of HIPEC
      administration of cisplatin in recurrent epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) patients was
      published. The MTD of cisplatin was 100 milligrams per meter squared (mg/m2) with no
      mortality or safety concerns. While the trial had only 12 patients, all were able to receive
      post-operative IV chemotherapy, with all patients completing at least five cycles.

      In protocol Gynecologic Oncology Group (GOG)-0172, intraperitoneal cisplatin and paclitaxel,
      plus intravenous paclitaxel, demonstrated the longest median survival reported in optimally
      debulked stage III ovarian cancer. Currently, the GOG is studying variations of the
      intraperitoneal (IP) regimen to preserve the survival advantage, but make it tolerable for
      patients to receive 6 cycles without discontinuing therapy due to distress and toxicity. The
      importance of developing an acceptable GOG-0172 alternative is emphasized by the recent
      National Cancer Institute (NCI) Clinical Announcement recognizing the superiority of
      intraperitoneal chemotherapy in the optimal disease setting.
    
  