
    
      The recent emergence and commercialization of immersive virtual reality (VR) shows great
      promise in its application to medical education. While several surgical, critical care, and
      procedural 'virtual reality simulators' are described, very few immersive VR experiences that
      use 360-degree videos have been described (Alakar et al., 2016; Zhu et al., 2014). 360-degree
      video is a form of virtual reality that shows video content in a globe creating a sense of
      immersion and realism that is not possible in standard 2D-videos. The videos are viewed using
      a virtual reality headset capable of displaying the 360-degree content. Among the few studies
      that do describe immersive learning experiences in medical training, very few have explored
      the modality from a pedagogical perspective (Barsom et al., 2017; Cha et al, 2006). It is
      still unclear whether learning via an immersive experience through 360-degree videos is
      better than traditional methods such as 2D videos.

      The use of traditional 2D video is quite well established in medical education as it enhances
      knowledge transfer, communication skills, attitude formation, and appeals to learners with
      various learning styles (Abraham et al, 2011; de Leng et al., 2007). Videos are commonly used
      for clinical skills training as they provide standardized and consistent learning experiences
      (Flores et al., 2010; Knowles et al., 2001). They can also be used as resources for
      'just-in-time' learning, where students preview content by watching videos before attending
      didactic or hands-on sessions. Patient case videos allow for rare clinical scenarios to be
      available to students in perpetuity (Gagliano, 1988). The use of video has allowed for the
      delivery of educational content in both asynchronous and synchronous (i.e. live or real-time)
      formats allowing for streaming of video to distant locations with real-time dialogue at all
      sites (Bridge et al., 2009; Gandsas et al., 2004). These advantages of video have enabled the
      rapid expansion of some medical schools to multiple hospitals. As medical students rotate
      through these sites during their clinical years, they often face the challenge of adjusting
      to unfamiliar environments. Anecdotal as well as survey feedback from our site suggests that
      unfamiliarity with a new environment induces anxiety among trainees and may result in some
      'false' starts on the first day of the rotations. Furthermore, the unfamiliarity may cause
      students to get lost and arrive late to their clinical assignments. Current solutions include
      text-based directions for way-finding and orientation, which are at times are supplemented by
      photographs and standard 2-dimensional video. The realism of 360-degree videos may provide a
      sense of direction with better wayfinding skills because it will allow the learner to explore
      and 'experience' the depicted location. To date, there is no study reported comparing 2D with
      360-degree video on wayfinding and the orientation experience for medical students.

      The use of video to assist with wayfinding and orientation exists but is not currently
      reported in the literature. Spofford et al. (2012) conducted a randomized controlled trial to
      evaluate the utility of standard lecture and 2D video in orienting students to the anesthesia
      machine and the operating room setup. The orientation 2D video group performed significantly
      better with higher post-test scores but scored lower on satisfaction as students preferred
      the traditional lecture. The study did not assess the utility of orientation videos for
      wayfinding. Furthermore, the efficacy in improving spatial orientation, reducing anxiety, or
      enhancing the orientation process is not well known.

      Hypothesis: 360-degree videos will enhance spatial orientation of medical students by:

        1. Improving way-finding and sense of orientation

        2. Conferring a sense of presence

        3. Increasing level of satisfaction with the learning experience

        4. Decreasing anxiety with a new environment

      Methods:

      This will be a prospective randomized controlled trial. Pre-clerkship (year 1 and 2) medical
      students from the University of Toronto Faculty of Medicine will be recruited to take part in
      the study. Participants will complete a baseline questionnaire collecting data quantifying
      key potentially confounding factors such as previous 360 videos, previous visits to Toronto
      Western Hospital, physical gait disability, and navigation experience.

      Students will be randomized to two groups (see below) and given video orientation for each
      route. It takes approximately 4 minutes to walk each one.

      Route 1: Conference room 2nd floor to the Day Surgery Unit on the 4th floor. Route 2:
      Anesthesia lounge on 2nd floor to preoperative assessment clinic on the ground floor to the
      operating rooms on the 2nd floor

      The goal of having each group complete different routes is to assess internal validity within
      each group when given traditional vs. VR instructions. Group 1 and 2 will also be compared to
      assess which learning method is superior.
    
  