
    
      Approximately 20 percent of unselected patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer
      (NSCLC) and progression during or after standard first line chemotherapy will experience
      tumor response to nivolumab. Treatment options for patients who are not responsive to
      programmed death 1 (PD-1) axis inhibitor therapy are limited, and the mechanisms of primary
      resistance are poorly understood.

      The combination of nivolumab and ipilimumab is currently FDA approved for the treatment of
      advanced melanoma based on superiority to either agent alone5. The results of a phase I study
      evaluating combination therapy with nivolumab and ipilimumab in patients with advanced NSCLC
      (NCT01454102) were presented at the annual American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO)
      meeting in 20166. Dosing of nivolumab 3 mg/kg every 2 weeks and ipilimumab 1 mg/kg every 6
      weeks yielded an objective response rate (ORR) by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid
      Tumors (RECIST) v1.1 of 39%, with one-year survival rate of 69% and grade 3-4
      treatment-related adverse event rate of 33%. These results prompted an ongoing phase III
      study comparing this regimen to standard first line chemotherapy, nivolumab monotherapy or
      combination therapy with chemotherapy and nivolumab for patients with advanced NSCLC
      (NCT02477826).

      The investigators propose a trial to evaluate if the addition of ipilimumab to nivolumab
      after primary resistance to anti-PD-1 axis therapy can lead to objective radiographic tumor
      regression. It is hypothesized that ipilimumab will enable more effective immune priming in
      some patients, resulting in the trafficking of tumor-specific cytotoxic T cells to the tumor,
      as well as depletion of tumor-permissive T regulatory cells. With concurrent nivolumab, PD-1
      inhibition in the tumor will enable effective anti-tumor attack by tumor-specific T cells.
      Serial tumor biopsies and blood collections will allow interrogation of changes in the tumor
      microenvironment (and periphery) that support this hypothesis.

      The investigators will primarily enroll patients who have experienced progression of NSCLC
      after anti-PD-1- axis therapy without initial response to such therapy ('primary
      resistance'). A smaller cohort of patients with acquired resistance to anti-PD-1 axis therapy
      (i.e. progression after initial response) will additionally be accrued.
    
  