
    
      [I] Recruitment: Children aged 5~8 years old with teeth decay requiring restorative dental
      treatment will be randomly selected according to the Intrusion and Extrusion Criteria.

      [II] Intervention:

      -Steps:

        1. The operator will select the teeth; child must have decayed tooth requiring restorative
           dental treatment.

        2. The visit will be started by using the tell-show-do technique to explain the procedure.
           After that the Facial Image Scale is validated to assess dental anxiety and will be
           explained to the child. The dentist will ask the child to choose one of the six faces
           that best represented his/her current emotional state.

        3. Pulse oximeter sensor will then be placed and initial pulse rate will be obtained.

        4. Patient will choose from a bowl a piece of paper to decide if AV-distraction will be
           used or not.

        5. Above steps will be done in both visits, with and without the intervention.

        6. If the toss had AV-distraction, The operator will introduce the Audio-visual device
           (Virtual Reality Eye Glasses) to the patient and how it works and will allow the patient
           to choose his favorite show to watch during the dental visit.

        7. The operator will instruct the patient with the rules that will be applied during the
           dental visit to assure complete cooperation.

        8. The operator will apply topical and dental anaesthesia

        9. Pulse rate will be measured every 5 minutes.

       10. The operator will allow extra time if the dental visit ended before the child finishes
           the tv-show.

       11. Then operator will ask the patient to choose from the face scale diagrams about his
           anxiety state at the end of the visit.

      Intervention modifications:

      In case the child interrupted the dental visit for questions or any reason, the last record
      of pulse oximeter will be repeated.
    
  