
    
      In some research studies, saliva has been shown to be as good as or even better than an
      anterior nares or nasopharyngeal specimen in detecting SARS-CoV-2; we are interested in
      making sure that is the case. Being able to collect a specimen at home and mail it in would
      help with patient compliance and would reduce the need for clinicians (nurses or other health
      care professionals) to use personal protective equipment (PPE), which is in short supply.
      Also, people would not have to go to a healthcare facility or other testing site to have the
      COVID-19 or the Influenza A/Influenza B testing done. We are using a sensitive method
      (RT-PCR) to look for the three viruses.

      Once you have had the anterior nose swab collected by the study clinician, your participation
      would last only as long as it takes to complete the self-collected saliva collection and
      return the sample to the researchers. The self-collection of the saliva specimen should be
      collected as soon as possible after the collection of anterior nares and saliva samples by
      the clinician You will mail in the saliva swab in a prepaid mailer no later than 10 days
      after sample collection and the result will be available within one day of our lab receiving
      the swab. Once our lab receives your specimen, the gift card which you received will be
      activated and your participation will be complete. Biocerna, LLC (Fulton, Maryland), is the
      commercial laboratory to which the research subjects' samples will be shipped and tested.

      We anticipate approximately 500 subjects will be enrolled. You qualify because you live in a
      location which is reporting an increased number of COVID-19 positive cases. Incidence of
      Influenza A/Influenza B is also useful to track to find out whether social distancing and/or
      wearing masks decreases the number of Influenza A/Influenza B cases during the winter months.
    
  