
    
      CP QOL has two separate forms, for both the child and the primary caregiver. CP QOL- The
      primary caregiver proxy report consists of 66 items for children ages 4-12 years old.

      The child self-report form contains 52 items for children ages 9-12 years old. The version CP
      QOL-Child Self Report Questionnaire (9-12 years) is divided into areas: well-being and social
      acceptance, functionality, participation and physical health, emotional well-being and
      self-esteem, access to services and pain and impact disability.

      This version should be answered by the children with CP, that is, it is the child's
      self-report.

      All the items are rated from 1 to 9, except for one item in pain and impact of disability
      domain, which is rated on a 5-point scale. All responses will then be converted into scale
      score between 0 to 100. Higher scores meant a higher quality of life. In case children needed
      any help while filling out the questionnaires, they could easily consult caregivers or
      researchers. As the CP QOL-Child is a well-developed measurement scale, it is meaningful to
      validate its Urdu, Pushto, Punjabi, Sindhi and Balochi versions. It is also useful to study
      the QOL of children with CP in different cultural settings by using the same measurement
      items so that a more direct comparison can be made. Therefore, the aim of this study is to
      translate the CP QOL questionnaire in Urdu, Pushto, Punjabi, Sindhi and Balochi and also to
      assess the reliability and validity of this translated version of CP QOL questionnaire in
      Pakistan.

      The translation and cultural adaptation processes would start after obtaining approval from
      the developer of the original CP QOL Child. This would be done according to WHO guidelines.
      Translation will be done by symmetrical category. The purpose will be to gain uniformity in
      the translation of tool in both the Target language and Source language. This will involve 5
      steps. (Forward translation, synthesis 1, Back translation, synthesis 2 and pilot testing.)
      Phase 2 would be done according to the guidelines of COSMIN in which psychometric properties
      will be measured. (reliability, internal consistency, construct validity and factor
      analysis.)
    
  