
    
      Background:

        -  Chordomas are a rare tumor with an incidence of 325 new cases per year in the United
           States. Pediatric chordomas are very rare and comprise only 5% of all chordoma cases.

        -  The standard therapy for localized primary or recurrent chordomas is surgical resection.
           However, complete surgical resection is often not possible due to the location of the

      chordoma.

      -For chordomas that cannot be surgically resected, treatment options are limited. Currently,

      no standard therapy approach exists for recurrent chordomas. In addition, there are no FDA
      approved medical therapies for chordoma.

        -  The natural history of pediatric and adult chordoma is incompletely understood. Patients
           with chordoma seek expert advice in the management of their care.

        -  The NCI has basic and clinical expertise and research interest in chordoma. The planned
           natural history study as part of the NCI POB Rare Tumor Patient Engagement Network
           (RTPEN) will allow for comprehensive evaluation and recommendations to these patients
           while longitudinally collecting clinical, epidemiologic and biological data.

      Objective:

      -To characterize the natural history of chordoma, including clinical presentation and
      patterns of disease progression.

      Eligibility:

        -  Subjects with histologically documented chordoma.

        -  Age greater than or equal to 2 years old

      Design:

      -This protocol is a subprotocol to protocol 19-C-0016: Natural History and Biospecimen

      Acquisition Study for Children and Adults with Rare Solid Tumors . After enrollment on the
      master protocol and undergoing evaluations detailed, patients will be enrolled on this
      subprotocol specific for chordoma.

      -Medical histories will be documented, and patients followed throughout the course of their
      disease, with particular attention to patterns of disease recurrence and progression,
      response to therapies, duration of responses and patient reported outcomes. Tumor growth
      rates will also be calculated throughout the course of the disease.
    
  