
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare time to disease progression in patients with unresectable advanced
           hepatocellular carcinoma treated with cisplatin-based trans-arterial chemoembolization
           vs hepatic intra-arterial yttrium Y 90 glass microspheres (TheraSphere®).

        -  Compare the health-related quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the safety of these regimens in these patients.

      Secondary

        -  Compare survival of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare tumor response by CT scan in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare treatment-related costs, in terms of cost of therapy and number of
           hospitalization days, in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are stratified according to extent of tumor in
      the liver (< 50% vs ≥ 50%) and presence of portal hypertension (yes vs no). Patients are
      randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients undergo trans-arterial chemoembolization comprising intra-arterial (IA)
           infusion of cisplatin over 30-60 minutes followed by embolization of the hepatic artery
           (that brings blood to the tumor) on day 1. Treatment repeats every 8-10 weeks in the
           absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive yttrium Y 90 glass microspheres (TheraSphere®) IA on day 1.
           Beginning 60 days after the first TheraSphere® treatment, patients may receive
           additional treatment with TheraSphere® only if follow-up CT scans show progressive
           disease.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline and then every 3 months thereafter.

      After the completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 30 days and then every 2
      months for 2 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 120 patients (60 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study.
    
  