
    
      Background: Patients with an ejection fraction of less than 40% are at high risk of
      developing postoperative low cardiac output syndrome (LCOS). Despite the use of potent
      inotropic agents or even ventricular mechanical assist devices, the mortality rate of such
      patients remains very high (from 17 to 38%). Their hospital stay is also prolonged and the
      cost of care for this population is increased. Two studies have suggested that post-operative
      administration of levosimendan could reduce hospital length of stay and long term (Day180)
      mortality in patients with LCOS. In addition a few studies have also suggested that
      pre-operative infusion of levosimendan (pre-conditioning) could reduce the use of other
      inotropes and mechanical assist devices in patients at high risk of developing LCOS.
      Unfortunately, the data supporting the beneficial effects of levosimendan in high risk
      cardiac surgery patients is very limited. Main goal: To evaluate the efficacy of a
      pre-operative infusion of levosimendan in high risk patients (EF less than 40%) undergoing
      cardiac surgery (CABG or combined surgery: CABG and valve replacement) to improve outcome.
      Secondary goals: To evaluate: 1) the clinical safety of a pre-operative infusion of
      levosimendan, 2) the costs of care in the levosimendan and control groups. Experimental
      setup: Prospective, multicenter, randomized versus placebo, double-blind trial. Treatment
      modalities: levosimendan will be administered by the intravenous route, according to a
      continuous infusion of 0.1mcg/kg/min over 24 hours. Levosimendan infusion (0.1mcg/kg/min)
      will be started immediately after induction of anaesthesia. The delay between infusion start
      and skin incision can be estimated between 30 to 60 min. The investigators decided to skip
      the bolus infusion that is frequently associated with systemic hypotension, which may result
      in serious adverse events and protocol exclusion. Study duration and patient follow-up:
      Patients will be recruited over 23 months. Individual follow-up will last 6 months. Overall
      duration of study will be 29 months.
    
  