
    
      Metastases-directed therapy with stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) is emerging as a
      new treatment option for solid tumor patients with a limited number of metastases (< 5) at
      the time of recurrence/progression, so called oligoprogression therapy. As such,
      oligoprogression is defined as prostate cancer patients with castration resistance and no
      metastases (M0CRPC) who are receiving ADT and new generation hormonal therapy (enzalutamide,
      apalutamide or darolutamide) as standard of care, and who are then progressing to
      oligometastases. The new generation hormonal therapy used in this study will be darolutamide
      (ODM-201). The rationale behind this approach has been to delay the start of palliative
      systemic therapies that are most often toxic and associated with a negative impact on
      patient's quality of life, as well as being more costly. However, to date, there are no
      prospective published data or ongoing studies that are looking into non metastatic castration
      resistant prostate cancer (M0CRPC) patients who progress to oligometastases
      (oligoprogression). To this end, we are proposing this pilot phase II trial to assess the
      impact of SBRT on radiological progression-free survival (RPFS) of M0CRPC patients who are
      receiving darolutamide and progress to oligometastatic disease (oligoprogression).

      Prostate cancer patients with castration resistance and no metastases (M0CRPC) diagnosed by
      bone scan and CT scan or MRI will be recruited in this phase II and initiate darolutamide
      while continuing on ADT (Part 1 of the study). Patients who then progress to wide spread
      metastases or metastases situated at locations not amenable to ablative therapy will be
      excluded and treated with second line therapy as per the treating physician. Patients with
      oligoprogression (< 5 mets) and amenable to ablative therapy will be then treated with SBRT
      or surgery as an ablative therapy if SBRT is not feasible (Part 2 of the study). All patients
      will continue to receive non-interrupted LHRH agonist, PSA testing every 6-12 weeks and
      re-imaging every 6 months. Imaging will also be repeated at the appearance of symptoms or at
      PSA progression, whichever occurs first and this schedule continues until disease
      progression.

      This is the first pilot phase II trial assessing the response of SBRT layered on darolutamide
      on RPFS and deferring palliative second line systemic therapy in M0CRPC with
      oligoprogression. This phase II will consist of 66 M0CRPC patients treated with darolutamide,
      of which we anticipate 48 will be eligible for SBRT.
    
  