
    
      This project employs a cluster randomized, controlled, repeated measures trial study design,
      with parent-child dyads assigned to an evidence-informed manualized, social-cognitive parent
      intervention (NOURISH-T+) or to a comparison group (Enhanced Usual Care group - Brief
      NOURISH-T+). NOURISH-T+ stands for Nourishing Our Understanding of Role modeling to Improve
      Support and Health for Healthy Transitions.

      Parents of pediatric cancer survivors (ages 5-12.9 years) with overweight and obesity, and
      off treatment for more than 6 months to up to less than 5 years will be recruited across
      multiple pediatric oncology clinic sites: Johns Hopkins Medical Center, Nicklaus Children's
      Hospital, Virginia Commonwealth University and, Children's National Hospital. The University
      of South Florida (USF) serves as the coordinating data management and centralized research
      and intervention team and will also recruit eligible participants from its pediatric oncology
      clinic.

      NOURISH-T+ targets parents as agents of change by providing intensive parent skills training
      emphasizing role modeling of positive health behaviors to foster the development of healthy
      eating and physical activity in pediatric cancer survivors. The NOURISH-T+ group will have 6
      weekly, 1-1.5 hour, manualized sessions delivered using video-conferencing. There will be 2
      additional brief sessions where the child will participate along with their parent to promote
      child engagement. Additionally, there will be one session with a pediatric oncology dietician
      based out of Nicklaus Children's Hospital who will discuss personalized nutritional
      strategies. Brief booster sessions at 2-, 4-, 8-, and 10- months will maximize retention and
      follow-up participation. NOURISH-T+ content is theory-based, manualized, and builds upon
      strengths of our prior work with NOURISH-T (our pilot) and NOURISH (our work with otherwise
      healthy overweight and obese children).

      Parents randomized to Brief NOURISH-T+ will participate in one information session moderated
      by a USF-based interventionist using videoconferencing. Session content is taken from the
      publicly available We Can! Manual. Parents in this group will receive nationally available
      web-based brochures on pediatric overweight/obesity on two occasions during the 6 weeks that
      NOURISH-T+ families participate in the study. Check-ins will take place at 2-, 4-, 8-, and
      10- months post-intervention.

      Outcome measures will be completed at baseline, 3-, 6-, and 12-months post-intervention.
    
  