
    
      The overall objective of this study is to compare the effectiveness of a behavioral,
      family-based weight management program and a self-help only group for the prevention of
      obesity in adolescents. The treatments are; Self Help(SH) Instructions to follow a 12-week
      self help manual for healthy eating and increased physical activity; Intensive Intervention
      (II) 12 Weeks of daily and 7 Monthly sessions consisting of nutrition instruction, physical
      activity training, and behavior modification instruction. One hundred (BMI-for-age = 85th -
      97.5th % or parent BMI > 25) adolescent males and females will be recruited into the study
      and randomly assigned to SH) Instructions to follow the self help manual for healthy eating
      and increased physical activity; II) 12 Weeks daily and 7 Monthly sessions consisting of
      nutrition instruction, physical activity training, and behavior modification instruction for
      one year. Participants will receive final measurements at the end of year 1 and intermediate
      evaluations at month 6. Given that the interventions decline in intensity and frequency after
      3 months, the 1 year assessments will help evaluate which treatment was most effective in
      maintaining weight losses with minimal contact.

      SH will consist of participants being instructed to follow a 12-week parent/child based self
      help book for weight loss, but they will not receive any active intervention. The manual
      (TRIM Kids, Sothern, von Almen, & Schumacher, 2001) that the families will follow is a
      treatment program which uses a family-based, behavioral intervention that focuses on diet and
      exercise with instructions and guidelines designed to assist the family in maintaining weight
      losses. II will consist of 12 Weeks of daily and 7 Monthly sessions consisting of nutrition
      instruction, physical activity training, and behavior modification instruction over the
      1-year period. Body mass index (BMI), blood analyses (i.e. cholesterol, triglycerides,
      insulin, glucose, C-reactive protein, mono-unsaturated fatty acids, and inflammatory
      cytokines), analysis of eating and exercise behavior, and eating and exercise self-efficacy
      measures will be taken throughout the study. The focus of this study is to evaluate the
      effectiveness of an active, behaviorally designed intervention for the prevention of adult
      obesity.
    
  