
    
      Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease (NAFLD) is the most common liver disorder in the USA,
      present in 20% to 30% of the population and rapidly increasing. Fatty liver is generally
      diagnosed by abdominal ultrasound frequently as an incidental finding. Major risk factors for
      NAFLD include central (or abdominal) obesity, diabetes, elevated lipids, and metabolic
      syndrome.

      Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) are those patients where the presence of fat in the liver
      is accompanied by an inflammatory process that can cause progressive fibrosis in the liver.
      Which can ultimately lead to end stage liver disease (i.e., cirrhosis) and hepatic failure
      requiring liver transplantation. The 1990's was the decade of hepatitis C-related cirrhosis
      requiring transplantation. NASH is found in 3-5% of the population and is a subset of those
      patients with fatty liver.

      Aminoaminoalanine Transaminase (ALT) is the liver enzyme measured in the blood that is a
      surrogate marker for inflammation and is frequently elevated in patients with NASH.
      Normalization of ALT is the ultimate treatment goal; however reduction in ALT is of
      significant clinical benefit.

      Currently, the only treatment modality for patients with fatty liver disease is weight loss
      and exercise which is challenging for most patients. Therefore, a huge need exists for an
      alternative approach to reducing ALT levels for these patients.

      Low level laser light therapy (LLLT) offers a simple, non-invasive, safe, effective and
      side-effect free alternative to achieving this goal, through LLLT's proven ability to effect
      weight loss, body circumference reduction and inflammation reduction.

      Application of the Erchonia® Verjú™ (green diode) Laser and Erchonia 635nm (red light) lasers
      to the body mid-region has been proven through controlled clinical trials to reduce body
      circumference in these areas in a statistically significant and clinically meaningful manner
      and to effect a decrease in overall body weight, both associated with reducing in ALT levels
      for the management of NASH patients. The Erchonia® EVRL Laser violet diode has been proven in
      controlled clinical trials to additionally effect inflammation reduction, another factor
      important in the management of NASH patients. Additionally, the United States Food and Drug
      Administration (U.S. FDA) identifies the Erchonia 532nm (green diode) and 635nm (red diode)
      lasers under Product Code OLI as: "A Low Level Laser System for Aesthetic Use is a device
      using low level laser energy for the disruption of adipocyte cells within the fat layer for
      the release of fat and lipids from these cells for non-invasive aesthetic use."

      Therefore, it is hypothesized that treatment application with the Erchonia LLLT devices will
      effect a reduction in body circumference, weight and inflammatory factors significant enough
      to effect a clinically meaningful decrease in ALT levels in NASH patients in a safe and
      timely manner.

      The biochemical effect of Erchonia® low level laser light therapy devices stimulates the
      mitochondria of the adipocyte cells which in turn increases the production of adenosine
      triphosphate (ATP). The newly synthesized ATP triggers the up-regulation of cyclic adenosine
      monophosphate (cAMP). cAMP has been shown to stimulate cytoplasmic lipase, triggering the
      conversion of triglycerides into fatty acids and glycerol that can easily pass through the
      cell membrane. The transitory pore is evidence that the laser is allowing for the movement of
      fatty acids, glycerol, and triglycerides to pass across the membrane and into extra-cellular
      space. Through vasodilation of nearby blood vessels and arteries, oxidization of the
      triglycerides and fatty acids occurs within the extra-cellular space. Additionally, LLLT is
      known to influence the receptors on the membrane of the cell and on the membrane of the
      cell's mitochondrion, eventually reaching the cell's DNA, which directly controls cell
      function. When cells function better, so do tissues, and as such, LLLT promotes inflammation
      reduction and the consequent healing and regeneration of damaged tissues.

      LLLT has been found to alter gene expression, cellular proliferation, intra-cellular
      (potential of hydrogen) phosphorus (pH) balance, mitochondrial membrane potential, generation
      of transient reactive oxygen species and calcium ion level, proton gradient and cellular
      oxygen consumption. With laser light able to induce cellular modulation, it has been proposed
      that LLLT may be able to serve as a subtle, non-invasive instrument in the reduction of
      clinical levels such as serum cholesterol levels, wherein it is proposed that laser therapy
      may suppress cholesterogenesis by altering the transcription factors responsible for the
      expression of essential genes involved in the biosynthetic process.

      Recent studies have already identified the modulation of transcription factors subsequent to
      laser irradiation. Jackson and coworkers (2002) have identified more than twenty
      transcription factors that are regulated by the intracellular redox state. In a pilot study,
      Erchonia observed that low-level laser application 3 times per week for two weeks reduced
      cholesterol levels, and even more importantly, reduced LDL levels while preserving HDL
      levels. It is proposed that laser therapy, by means of altering the intracellular redox
      state, can affect the function of transcription factors tightly associated with cholesterol
      synthesis.

      Moreover, laser therapy has been proven via multiple investigational studies to emulsify
      adipose tissue liberating all adipocyte stored fatty debris, demonstrated clinically through
      the observance of circumference reduction following LLLT administration. It is theorized that
      the liberation of fat is absorbed via the lymphatic system where lipolysis occurs in the
      lymph nodes and fatty-acid oxidation occurs in the liver. The mobilization of the fatty
      debris and production of ketone bodies may have an effect on applicable clinical lab markers.

      Therefore, the Erchonia Lasers are proven to be efficacious in effecting weight loss,
      circumference reduction, reduction of inflammation and improvement in clinical levels, all of
      which are factors that both directly and indirectly impact the reduction of ALT levels and
      improvement in the overall condition of NASH in affected individuals.
    
  