
    
      An unrelated adult donor who is HLA-matched to the recipient at the allele-level (at HLA-A,
      -B, -C, -DQB1 and -DRB1) is considered the best choice in the absence of an HLA-matched
      sibling for patients needing hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (SCT).

      However, using matched unrelated donors (MUD) is limited by (1) a prolonged time to identify
      and schedule donation for some MUD allowing some patients to relapse before transplantation
      can be performed, and (2) limited availability of fully HLA-MUD for the non-Caucasian
      population.

      Alternative donors are used for transplantation in patients without a fully-MUD including
      single HLA mismatched unrelated donor, unrelated umbilical cord blood and grafts from
      haploidentical related donors but are associated with higher non-relapse mortality and
      delayed immune reconstitution.

      A more recent strategy for haploidentical (haplo) related donor SCT (haplo-SCT) has improved
      dramatically outcomes using T-cell replete grafts with administration of post-transplantation
      cyclophosphamide (PTCy).

      From retrospective studies, haplo-SCT with PTCy are associated with similar overall and
      progression-free survivals as with MUD stem cell transplantation (MUD-SCT), but with lower
      rates of toxicity and graft versus host disease (GvHD), and thus potentially better results
      than MUD-SCT after reduced intensity conditioning (RIC) regimen. Haplo-SCT with PTCy is thus
      highly discussed nowadays motivating prospective trials to confirm the benefit of this
      procedure.

      In the setting of a myeloablative conditioning (MAC) regimen in adults with high risk
      hematological malignancies, few retrospective non-controlled registry studies recently
      suggest that outcomes after haplo-SCT using PTCy approach might also be superior in terms of
      GVHD free survival to that after MUD stem cell transplantation (MUD-SCT).

      The investigators propose to address this question, in a randomized prospective phase III
      clinical trial comparing HLA 10/10 MUD and haplo-SCT after MAC regimen. The stem cell source
      will be bone marrow for haploidentical SCT and peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) for
      HLA-matched unrelated transplantation.

      The primary endpoint is the 1-year progression free survival without acute grade II-IV GvHD
      and without moderate and severe chronic GvHD.
    
  