
    
      State of research. The proposed trial has a common theme, i.e., the understanding of the
      enduring efficacy of psychological treatments in individuals who suffer from general anxiety
      disorder (GAD). There is meta-analytic evidence that bona fide psychotherapy is an effective
      treatment for GAD, but also for individuals that suffers from anxiety and depression.
      Nonetheless, in spite of the empirical evidence of the overall efficacy, there is a lack of
      randomized controlled studies that systematically investigate the therapists' variability (i.
      e. therapist effects) within the very same treatment protocol. The development of study
      designs to investigate potential health professional effects along treatment effects is a
      general claim for human interventions. This protocol includes one of the very first
      process-outcome trials in GAD that systematically examine theory-based patients' and
      therapists' characteristics simultaneously using longitudinal multilevel methodology.

      Along with investigating therapist and patient characteristics, two methods for timing the
      check-in phase at the beginning of each session will be compared by keeping constant the
      standardized treatment manual for patients with GAD: (a) prolonged focus on subtle changes
      check-in condition lasting from 7 to 20 minutes and (b) a state of the art (SOA) check-in
      phase lasting from 5 to 10 minutes. To address the nested data structure, therapists will be
      allocated by a single-subject ABAB-design. A total of 80 patients (40 participants in each of
      the two conditions) with a primary GAD diagnosis will be treated by 20 advanced
      cognitive-behavioral therapy trainees at the psychotherapy outpatient clinic in the
      department of psychology at the university of Zürich.

      Relevance. (a) Study population. GAD is a neglected disorder in the Swiss mental health
      system. GAD is associated with personal suffering, a reduced quality of life, and high
      economic costs. (b) Design development. Systematic integration of potential therapist effects
      is a neglected aspect in many areas of evidence-based human interventions (inside but also
      outside of psychological interventions). (c) Treatment development. Evidence-based treatments
      are usually far from being fully efficacious. There is a debate about innovative research
      agendas and how to foster the efficacy of such treatments. (d) Experimental process-outcome
      research. There is a need for future research to investigate theory-based therapist effects
      and in-session timing within rigorous experimental process-outcome research designs to better
      understand the factors involved in therapeutic change (e.g.
      http://www.nature.com/news/therapy-deficit-1.11477).
    
  