
    
      INTRODUCTION: Fractures of the distal radius are the most common upper extremity fractures,
      accounting for approximately 250,000 to 300,000 injuries in the United States annually. The
      goals of treatment for patients with distal radius fractures are restoration of wrist
      anatomy, return of normal pain-free hand and wrist range of motion, and early return to
      normal activities of daily living. Management of distal radius fractures is dictated by the
      fracture pattern, the degree of displacement of the bone fragments, whether or not the
      fracture involves the joint, the presence of other bodily injuries, and the patient's
      pre-injury activity level and physical demands.

      Unstable distal radius fractures require surgical fixation of the broken bone because closed
      reduction (nonsurgical manipulation of the fractured bones and casting) often is not
      sufficient to maintain fracture reduction and promote bone healing. Operative management of
      distal radius fractures has been studied extensively and has evolved over the past decade.

      STUDY HYPOTHESIS: There are no published prospective, randomized trials comparing open
      reduction using volar plating to intramedullary fixation for the management of displaced
      unstable, metaphyseal distal radius fractures. The study hypothesis is that the outcomes of
      treatment of distal radius fractures using an intramedullary radius fixation system
      (Micronail®) will result in the earlier return of wrist range of motion, earlier functional
      recovery, and improvements in health-related quality of life equal to or superior to the
      outcomes of volar plate fixation.

      SPECIFIC AIMS: The specific aim of this randomized, controlled clinical trial is to compare
      an intramedullary radius fixation system (Micronail®) to a volar locking plate technique for
      the management of displaced, unstable, metaphyseal distal radius fractures. Both functional
      and health-related quality of life outcomes of the study participants will be documented
      during the trial. In addition, radiographic information will be collected to compare the
      radiographic evidence of fracture healing in the two treatment groups.
    
  