
    
      : Brain metastases are reported to occur in 20% to 40% of all patients with cancer. Treatment
      options for brain metastases include surgical resection, particularly in lesions causing
      significant mass effect, whole brain radiation (WBRT) and radiosurgery (SRS). Due to concerns
      of neurocognitive toxicity following WBRT, there is growing use of SRS, particularly in
      patients with limited brain metastases and controlled extracranial disease.

      Radiosurgery delivers a high dose of radiation to a defined intracranial target through
      precise targeting with a sharp dose fall off at the target boundaries and minimal damage to
      surrounding tissue. To date, precision radiation delivery has been facilitated through the
      Leksell Coordinate Frame (LCF), fixated to the patient's skull through 4 pins. A relocatable
      mask system (RMS), consisting of a patient specific head rest and mask was developed to
      enable minimally-invasive fractioned radiosurgery.

      A cone-beam computed tomography (CBCT) image guidance and intra-fraction motion management
      (IFMM) system was previously developed in-house in order to measure and address setup
      uncertainties on Gamma Knife. The in-house prototype has been integrated into a commercially
      available GammaKnife device with CBCT guidance. The installation of this device will enable
      volumetric guidance for all patients treated in either a single or multiple session on
      GammaKnife Perfexion.

      This study is designed to have 2 arms, A and B. Both Arm A (using the Leksell Coordinate
      Frame) and Arm B (using the relocatable mask) are undergoing standard of care treatment on
      GammaKnife Perfexion for SRS. CBCT is part of standard of care for Arm B. However, CBCT
      imaging is considered as part of study treatment for Arm A. Pre and post treatment images
      will be acquired of the patient treated on Perfexion Gamma Knife using the Leksell Coordinate
      Frame in order to aid in analyzing the imaging metrics of the Image Guided Perfexion unit.
    
  