
    
      Calcium channel blockers are widely used to reduce blood pressure in hypertensive patients on
      hemodialysis. They are useful I patients with left ventricular hypertrophy, diastolic
      dysfunction and stable angina pectoris. Adalat GITS, a long-acting dihydropyridine calcium
      channel blocker, has been used as one of first choices to treat the hypertension because of
      its effective hypotensive potency and relative absence of side effects compared with the
      short-acting agent. Antihypertensive effects of calcium channel blockers largely depend on
      their plasma concentrations, a rapid increase in blood pressure may occur as circulating
      levels of such blockers decrease after hemodialysis. This rapid fluctuation in blood pressure
      may evoke rapid alteration in hemodynamics. Luik et al. show that pre- or post-dialysis blood
      pressure measurements in patients with hemodialysis may be misleading for determining the
      blood pressure. Ambulatory pressure monitoring (ABPM) may be more useful for estimating blood
      pressure control in the dialysed patients. For most patients on dialysis, the goal office
      blood pressure is less than an average value below 150/90 mmHg on no medication. The
      reasonable target goal of mean ambulatory blood pressure is less than 135/85 mmHg during the
      day and less than 120/80 mmHg at night.

      There is need of more convincing data to demonstrate the effect of Adalat GITS on
      hemodialytic patients by using ABPM and investigating the plasma concentrations. This study
      was designed to investigate effects of Adalat GITS on hemodialytic blood pressures in
      patients with chronic hemodialysis by using ABPM and measuring the drug plasma
      concentrations.

      This is a prospective, open, non-randomized, non-controlled study. 20 patients with
      hypertension on chronic maintenance hemodialysis will be enrolled in the study. All patients
      had mild to moderate hypertension and are receiving antihypertensive agents.

      All antihypertensive agents received by patients screened were withdrawn and patients are
      assigned to receive only nifedipine controlled release tablets 60mg/day. The agents are given
      orally once a day at 08:00h and patients are followed for at least 4 weeks. After 4 weeks of
      antihypertensive treatment, 20 patients with adequate blood pressure achieved
      (pre-hemodialysis office blood pressure < 140/90 mmHg) will be recruited into the study. If
      adequate blood pressure is not achieved, the patients will be excluded.

      After patients have achieved adequate blood pressure (pre-hemodialysis office blood pressure
      < 140/90 mmHg) at enrollment, 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM) is
      immediately performed on the day of hemodialysis within the subsequent two days. The
      administration of Adalat will continue as previously until the morning of the hemodialytic
      day with AMPM and blood samplings for study. The blood was sampled just before, 1 hour after,
      2 hour after and 3 hour after the start of hemodialysis, and immediately after hemodialysis
      to measure circulating levels of nifedipine and the corresponding time points on the next
      hemodialysis-free day.

      The 24-hour ABPM is performed in each enrolled patient on the day of hemodialysis. The
      monitoring is started at 08:00 h when the drugs are given. The device is programmed to
      measure blood pressure every 30 min (from 08:00 h to 21:00 h) and every 60 min (from 21:00 h
      to 08:00 h).
    
  