
    
      Objective: Exendin-4 (or exenatide) is a medication currently used in the treatment of
      diabetes mellitus (DM). Exendin-4 has generated promising results as an agent protecting
      neurons from a number of assaults both in the laboratory and in studies on animals.
      Specifically, there is pre-clinical evidence that Exendin-4 may be a treatment for
      Alzheimer's disease (AD). Based on these facts, we conducted a pilot Phase II double blind
      randomized placebo-controlled clinical study to assess the safety and provide proof of
      concept for exendin-4 treatment in early Alzheimer's disease (AD), by demonstrating a
      response of disease biomarkers to the intervention. Our main hypothesis is that long-term
      administration of Exendin-4 in participants with amnestic MCI/early AD in FDA-approved doses
      is safe and will induce a change over time in AD biomarkers. Subject population: We intend to
      screen up to 100 potential participants in order to ensure that at least 40 participants
      (enrolled based on a clinical diagnosis of amnestic MCI/early AD and Cerebrospinal Fluid
      (CSF) biomarker evidence of AD) will be enrolled into treatment and complete the study.
      Design: Enrolled participants will be randomly assigned into one of two groups (Exendin-4 vs.
      Placebo) and will be followed at regular intervals for 18 months. Outcome measures: Safety
      and tolerability will be the primary outcomes. In addition, we will measure and assess the
      change over time of a number of exploratory outcomes with the intervention, including CSF and
      plasma biomarkers (such as CSF A42, tau, p181-tau and plasma A42/A40), cognitive performance
      measures (such as the Alzheimer's Disease Assessment scale, cognitive sub-scale, and other
      tests), clinical progression of dementia measures (such as the Clinical Dementia Rating scale
      sum-of-boxes), volumetric changes on structural brain MRI and changes in resting fMRI. All
      research will be performed on the National Institute on Aging (NIA) Clinical Research Unit
      located on the 5th floor of Harbor Hospital.
    
  