
    
      The current study aims to investigate if altering the microbiome though Pendulum Glucose
      Control supplementation can have implications aimed at maintaining normal blood glucose
      levels that are critical for preventing diabetes and its metabolic complications. The
      experimental design consists of two-12 week treatment periods in subjects with prediabetes,
      as defined by the National Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP) criteria.

      The first study period of 12 weeks will be double-blinded, placebo-controlled. The Pendulum
      Glucose control and placebo will be in a capsule form and identical in appearance, and
      dispensed to each participant according to the randomization schedule in the first 12 weeks.
      All subjects will receive the active product (Pendulum Glucose Control) in the second,
      subsequent 12 week period.

      Fasting total cholesterol, triglycerides, LDL, and HDL cholesterol, Fasting insulin and
      Glucose, High sensitivity C Reactive Protein (hsCRP), Chemistry 14, and HbA1c will be
      obtained at baseline, and during first and second study period, as well as vital signs of
      weight, BP, and waist circumference.

      In addition, CGM (Abbott System Freestyle Libre Pro) data collection will be done three times
      during the study as noted in Schedule of Events. Baseline Blinded CGM will be performed for
      approximately 14 days prior to starting the intervention with Pendulum Glucose Control.
      Second Blinded CGM period for approximately 14 days will occur mid-way through the
      intervention (weeks 5 and 6) and a third period of Blinded CGM wear will occur during the
      last 2 weeks of the intervention (weeks 11 and 12). During the Baseline, study period one and
      period 2 a mixed meal tolerance consisting of 2 Boost Shakes will be given on day 5 of each
      sensor wear.

      At the completion of the study, analysis of the vital signs, laboratory values, CGM data for
      average glucose, standard deviation, TIR (time in range), as well as glycemic results of MMT
      for each time interval; baseline, study period one, and two.
    
  