
    
      Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) poses a substantial long-term health burden to women due
      to the 7-fold increased risk of developing type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and other
      cardiovascular disorders. Yet, there are many gaps in the transition period after GDM, which
      is a particularly critical time due to enhanced motivation and access. Nevertheless, a
      minority of women receive postpartum screening for dysglycemia or have successful transition
      to primary care. Although T2DM prevention interventions can be successful, they cannot be
      deployed without retention and engagement in care. Addressing the unique barriers experienced
      by postpartum women requires innovative models of health care delivery to promote prevention
      of T2DM after GDM. One potential intervention with demonstrated successes in other arenas is
      patient navigation, a barrier-focused, longitudinal, patient-centered intervention that
      offers support for a defined set of health services.

      This protocol is to perform a pilot assessment of Sustaining Women's Engagement and Enabling
      Transitions after GDM (SWEET), a GDM-focused intervention that will apply barrier-reduction
      patient navigation strategies to improve health after a pregnancy with GDM. The investigators
      aim to determine, via a randomized controlled trial of 40 women who have had GDM, whether
      those who receive the SWEET navigation intervention have improved diabetes-related health at
      1 year after birth compared to those who receive usual care. In order to promote
      self-efficacy, enhance access, and sustain long-term engagement, the SWEET intervention will
      provide GDM-specific, individualized navigation services that leverage existing clinical
      infrastructure, including logistical support, psychosocial support, and health education,
      through 1-year postpartum.

      Aim 1 will evaluate whether clinical (weight, glycemic control, abdominal circumference, and
      blood pressure), health services (postpartum and primary care visit attendance), and
      patient-reported (diabetes self-efficacy, activation, and T2DM risk perception) outcomes
      differ in women exposed to SWEET versus usual care. Aim 2 will evaluate feasibility and
      acceptability. This proposal will generate key data for the conduct of a full-scale trial of
      a GDM-specific postpartum patient navigation program that will address critical questions
      about long-term maternal health and T2DM prevention.

      SWEET bridges the chasm between care during pregnancy - focused on improving the health of
      the pregnant woman and her offspring - and long-term women's health care - focused on chronic
      disease management and preventive health. The long-term goals are to understand how to
      optimize long-term health after GDM in order to prevent or ameliorate the effects of T2DM
      beyond the perinatal period.
    
  