
    
      This cross-over study (double 5x5 latin square design) includes 10 young healthy subjects (5
      males, 5 females).These subjects are studied in two different situations: a situation of good
      chewing efficiency, and a situation of disturbed chewing. This second situation is simulated
      by the wearing an occlusal appliance interfering with chewing and experimentally leading to
      poor masticatory efficiency. The overall study is conducted in two distinct protocols. The
      first protocol "Food bolus" is dedicated to the study of the rheological properties of the
      food bolus including analysis of the release of amino acids and bioactive peptides (secondary
      objective). The second protocol "Bioavailability" is the study of the bioavailability of
      bioactive compounds target (main objective). Each volunteer participates in both protocols.
      The sessions, with or without occlusal appliance, are randomized individually for each
      subject. Each subject is his own control and confounding factors related to individual
      variability of mastication and the general functioning of the digestive tract are therefore
      minimized.

      Meat model was pork (Longissimus dorsi). Meat was sliced 2 cm thick, and two types of cooking
      were applied: 10 min cooking at 75 ° C and 45 min cooking at 90 °C. Meat was presented to
      volunteers in the form of pre-calibrated cubes (2x2x2 cm) of about 7 g.

      Protocol 1: Sampling for "food bolus" study This part of the study allowed a complete
      description of the physical / rheological properties of bolus after good or poor mastication
      of the pork meat cooked according to the 2 previously described conditions. The analysis of
      these properties is followed all along the chewing sequence, until bolus swallowing. For
      that, boli are collected at different moments during the sequence of mastication. Subjects
      stopped chewing when indicated by the experimenter, and spat out the entire bolus with the
      saliva. This protocol also allows the release of carnosine and amino acids from the meat
      matrix during mastication to be studied.

      Protocol 2: Sampling for 'bioavailability' study The volunteers participated in five sampling
      days. The determination of the kinetics of appearance in peripheral blood of targeted
      bioactive compounds (carnosine, lycopene) as well as the release of all amino acids, is done
      after ingestion of a mixed meal (meat, tomato, pasta), under conditions of normal or poor
      chewing. Meal is prepared from 100 g of cooked meat (low cooking or high cooking meat), 40 g
      of tomato puree, 10 ml of olive oil, and 80 g of raw pasta. An additional meal containing
      calcium is tested in normal chewing condition with low cooking meat. Meals are tested on
      different days. These days are spaced by at least 7 days.
    
  