
    
      Participants will be assigned to one of two treatment conditions (HealthTRAC or Standard
      Behavioral Weight Control) using urn randomization procedure. Participants assigned to either
      condition will receive a 12-month weight control intervention that includes 12 weekly
      sessions and 2 bi-weekly sessions (14 primary sessions delivered over 4-months), followed by
      8 months of maintenance sessions. Both conditions will also include parents at sessions 1, 7,
      and 14, and maintenance sessions at 6-8-,10-, and 12 months.

      Both interventions will be delivered using a group-based treatment model. We selected a
      control condition that offers a more rigorous test of the program than a treatment as usual
      condition, commonly included in efficacy trials. Few studies have examined the combined
      impact of targeting emotion regulation skills and standard behavioral weight control
      strategies. Given the literature documenting the relationship between emotion regulation and
      weight-related behaviors, and the evidence from adult weight management studies, targeting
      this construct in adolescent populations may facilitate improved weight management outcomes
      via a reduction in emotional eating and sedentary time and improvement in overall diet
      quality.

      The timing of study assessments immediately following intervention and at 12 months are
      justified by improvements in primary weight status outcomes observed in the treatment
      development study that was the immediate precursor of the proposed trial. Our previous work
      delivering adolescents weight control interventions supports our ability to retain
      participants through this study period. We have included an 18-month follow-up to examine
      sustainability of intervention effects. Few weight control interventions with adolescents
      include outcomes out to 18 months, and those that do, often have low rates of retention.
      Following established protocols, we anticipate approximately 80% retention at 18-month
      follow-up.

      Participants will be enrolled into the efficacy trial continuously between Year 1, Month 6
      and Year 4, Month 37. Consistent with the HealthTRAC pilot trial, we will recruit
      participants from primary care clinics and subspecialty clinics affiliated with children's
      hospitals, as well as through community advertisements. The majority of adolescent referrals
      to the treatment development study came from pediatric health care clinics at Hasbro
      Children's Hospital in Providence, RI (90%), with local advertisements accounting for the
      remainder. We anticipate that health care clinics will serve as a primary source for
      recruitment for the current trial. We will use parallel procedures to enroll participants in
      Providence, RI and Portland, OR. The PIs will work with representative staff from Hasbro
      Children's Hospital (RI) and Doernbecher Children's Hospital (OR) to distribute Consent to
      Contact forms, which can be completed by interested families. Families recruited in these
      settings will receive follow-up calls, emails, or texts (based on preference) to further
      determine initial eligibility and schedule consent/assents. Study brochures and
      advertisements will also be sent to adolescents who receive care within these various
      settings via direct home mailings. In addition to these successful approaches from the
      HealthTRAC pilot trial, we will also advertise through Facebook ads directed at parents. This
      strategy has been very effective in recent enrollment of adolescents to a behavioral weight
      control trial.

      Initial evaluations will be conducted at the Weight Control and Diabetes Research Center or
      the University of Oregon Portland campus. Parents will undergo a brief interview and parents
      and adolescents will complete questionnaire measures. Adolescents will also complete
      computerized emotion regulation tasks. Parent questionnaires will focus on socio-demographic
      variables, the teen's dieting and medical history, any psychiatric history and treatment and
      emotion regulation abilities. Adolescent questionnaires will focus on emotion regulation
      abilities, mental health symptoms, and emotional eating. The first of the 24-hour dietary
      recalls will also be conducted during this visit, and adolescents will be provided
      instruction regarding completing 7-day accelerometry. Adolescent height and weight will be
      obtained at the end of the evaluation. Participants will be asked to return accelerometers
      after one week of wear or at the first intervention session, depending on the timing.
      Adolescents and parents will be informed of randomization condition at the first intervention
      session.

      Most of the baseline battery will be re-administered post treatment, 12-, and 18-month
      follow-ups by an assessor masked to the baseline results and treatment assignment. In order
      to increase convenience, every effort will be made to conduct follow-up evaluations at the
      conclusion of intervention sessions or at times convenient for families (18-month
      assessment). This approach has been effective in both our previous weight control and
      adolescent emotion regulation trials. Assessments may be conducted on weekend mornings to
      avoid disruption to school attendance.

      For the adolescent group interventions, the adherence measure developed in the pilot trial
      for HealthTRAC will be used. All efficacy trial sessions will be videotaped. We have chosen
      to videotape sessions in order to capture both verbal and nonverbal aspects of participant ad
      interventionist interactions, especially relevant for the emotion regulation skill building
      components of the HealthTRAC intervention.

      The HealthTRAC intervention was tested in an open trial with youth 13 - 17 years of age and
      in a recently completed treatment development study that included a small randomized
      controlled trial with adolescents (R21 DK108164). The HealthTRAC intervention combined two
      efficacious interventions that separately targeted adolescent weight management (SBWC:
      R01HL6513201; R01DK062916) and adolescent emotion regulation skill building (TRAC; R01
      NR011906). We will use procedures established in our previous work to ensure that the
      intervention is administered in a standardized manner across groups.

      The goals of the HealthTRAC intervention are to facilitate improved emotion regulation
      abilities with the goal of promoting healthy pediatric weight management. This will be
      achieved in accordance with goals established by the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP)
      guidelines that support modest weight loss for youth with BMI greater than or equal to the
      95th percentile. These guidelines serve as the principles on which both interventions are
      based. Reductions in weight status are supported by recommended calorie reductions
      established in pediatric samples and are as follows:

      150 lbs. or less 1200 - 1400 calories 151-249 lbs. 1400 - 1600 calories 250 lbs. and more
      1600 - 1800 calories

      Activity goals prescribed through the intervention are commensurate with current activity
      guidelines for youth and include gradually increasing moderate-to-vigorous physical activity
      to 60 minutes daily and decreasing sedentary behavior to no more than two hours per day.

      Specific content included over the course of the intensive weekly curriculum include: (1)
      orientation to the program and self-monitoring, (2) energy balance and nutrition goals, (3)
      stimulus control, (4) physical activity and sedentary behavior, (5) diet quality, (6) ding it
      on your own and self-motivation, (7) behavior chains and problem solving, (8) eating outside
      the home, (9) timing of eating occasions and coping with cravings, (10) developing and
      maintaining a healthy body image, (11) managing holidays, vacation, and special occasions,
      (12) cultural and social influences, (13) relapse prevention, and (14) review and transition
      to monthly sessions.

      Content covered during the course of the maintenance sessions include managing daily
      challenges, moods and foods, managing peer interactions, maintaining motivation, tricks and
      tips, myth busters, and undoing small weight gains.

      Lesson Format: Each session will last 75 minutes. The first 15 minutes will be devoted to
      adolescent weigh-ins and review of self-monitoring records. The remaining 60 minutes is
      focused on the specific weekly content, with 10 minutes at the end of each session dedicated
      to setting goals and problem solving relevant to the week;s lesson. While these are
      approximate times, the allocation clearly indicates the emphasis placed on problem-solving
      and overcoming challenges throughout the curriculum.

      We will also employ our previously used strategy of awarding points for gradual weight loss,
      achievement of self- selected dietary or physical activity goals, and submission of weekly
      food diaries, which was also endorsed in adolescent interviews, to support retention of
      participants through the maintenance phase. Incentivizing weight loss behaviors and weight
      loss has been demonstrated to be an effective strategy in previous trials and was therefore
      implemented within the pilot trial and will be retained for the current proposal.

      HealthTRAC Specific Format: Within emotion regulation training intervention emotion
      regulation skills are incorporated into the weigh-in. Facilitators prompt each participant to
      identify bodily cues associated with emotions prior to stepping on the scale and review
      potential emotions that could have interfered with previously set weekly goal.

      Emotion regulation training skills are taught across the first 7 sessions of the program, and
      specific activities linking emotion regulation to dietary behaviors are utilized across all
      remaining sessions across specific mood induction tasks.
    
  