
    
      Preoperative anxiety can compromise surgical outcome. Anxiety increases serum cortisol,
      adrenaline, and noradrenaline. This results in postoperative pain, increased postoperative
      analgesic requirements, prolonged hospital stay and patient dissatisfaction. However, this
      anxiety can be reduced.

      Patient education has been widely used to reduce operative anxiety; however, some patients
      have more anxiety after patient education. This incident could be explained by different
      individual's coping styles that patients use to deal with their anxiety. There are four major
      coping style: vigilant, avoidant, fluctuating, and flexible. Vigilant coper desires extended
      information to reduce anxiety. Avoidant coper desires minimal amount of information as too
      much will cause anxiety. Fluctuating coper generally desires small amount of information but
      desires greater detail in certain area. Flexible coper is able to adapt to whatever
      information available. Thus, if patient education with extended information is given to
      patients with avoidant coping style, they will have more anxiety. One study found that
      avoidant coping style is 31% of surgical patients in the study population. This is also
      supported by another study that one-third of patients reported to be worried after receiving
      an informative booklet. Therefore, to be able to deal with all types of coping style, patient
      education with different levels of information regarding patient needs is proposed to be
      developed.

      Needs-based patient education has become more promising with increased supporting literature.
      It uses the principle of shared decision making, which is the pinnacle of patient-centered
      care. Needs-based patient education is also consistent with adult learning theory, which
      learning should be matched with different individual background and needs. A randomized
      controlled trial was conducted to compare needs-based patient education with traditional
      patient education in rheumatoid arthritis and found a superior result. However, there is
      still lack of evidence in using needs-based patient education in surgery.

      This study evaluates needs-based patient education in reducing preoperative anxiety. To
      assess patient needs, a questionnaire is used as a tool. After receiving completed
      questionnaire, the physician provides information based on patient needs. Not only patients
      will benefit from this questionnaire but also physicians. The questionnaire enables physician
      to cut unnecessary information and pay more attention to the fact that patients need. Less
      information needed is less time spent in patient education session. As the most important
      reason why patient education is omitted is shortness of time. This needs-based patient
      education can contribute tremendously to the way we educate surgical patients.

      Objectives This study aims to compare needs-based patient education to traditional patient
      education in how they affect preoperative anxiety, patient satisfaction, and time
      consumption.
    
  