
    
      Pulmonary rehabilitation is a cornerstone in the management of patients with chronic
      obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and includes self-management strategies and exercise
      training. Pulmonary rehabilitation has been shown to decrease dyspnea, improve physical
      capacity, level of physical activity and health-related quality of life. Traditionally
      patients with COPD have been treated at pulmonary or medical departments in hospitals.
      However, due to changes in the Swedish health system these patients now are mainly treated in
      primary care. Though, the pulmonary rehabilitation programs are still mainly offered by
      hospitals.

      Our research group performed a survey in all hospitals treating patients with COPD in Sweden.
      The investigators found that less than a half percent of the COPD population took part in
      pulmonary rehabilitation in 2011. Moreover, a recent survey study performed in Swedish
      primary care settings found that physiotherapists were available for patients with COPD which
      is positive. However, only 10 % of the patients with COPD have had access to physiotherapy
      for their disease. Consequently there is an urgent need to find new strategies to facilitate
      the provision of pulmonary rehabilitation in the primary care and to provide to people with
      COPD.

      The components included in pulmonary rehabilitation can be considered as health promotion
      intervention. Health promotion interventions are an important part of the primary care's
      assignment/mission in Sweden and in order to stress the responsibility for these
      interventions directed to people with COPD, we have chosen to use the term health promotion
      interventions instead of pulmonary rehabilitation. Even though there is strong scientific
      evidence for beneficial effects of health promoting interventions including physical exercise
      and self-management strategies, a very limited proportion of the people with COPD get access
      to such services in the primary care. There is an obvious need to find ways to implement
      available knowledge in clinical practice. Accordingly, KOL-webben is developed as a method
      (measure/tool) to implement evidence based health promotion interventions and to facilitate
      the delivery of such services to people with COPD. KOL-webben is also developed as a tool
      that will support self-management including health promotion among people with COPD.

      The design of the explorative feasibility study will be an controlled study with a baseline
      assessment, delivery of the intervention during 3 months and a follow-up at two month after
      the completion of the delivery. In order to explore best practice, the usefulness and the
      effect of the intervention, the feasibility of the data collection and recruitment of people
      with COPD, a process evaluation will be carried out.Two primary health care units in the
      county council of Västerbotten in northern Sweden and four primary units in the county
      council of Dalarna in Mid Sweden will be included in the study. The units will represent both
      rural and urban settings.

      KOL-webben is an interactive web-based system directed towards two target groups; people with
      COPD and health care professionals. The section directed towards people with COPD will
      provide tools that improve health literacy and thereby promote and enable a healthier
      lifestyle with a specific focus on 1) increased physical activity and 2) use appropriate
      self-management strategies. The tools include educational material, use of (e.g. texts,
      images, movies, web-links) and interactive components (e.g. ability to report steps per day
      and symptoms with feedback) adapted to the different stages of the disease. The section
      directed towards health care professionals includes tools that aim to improve the knowledge,
      attitudes and confidence in providing evidence based health promotion interventions. The
      tools include easily accessible knowledge and material (e.g. movies, screening tests, images,
      power point presentation for patient education and exercise programs).The control group will
      be recruited from the same health care units among listed patients with no planned visit
      within the 3 month intervention period. The control group will not receive any intervention.

        -  All persons with COPD who visits the primary care centre during the study period will
           constitute the sample in the intervention group (KOL-webben).

        -  The control group will be recruited from the same primary health care units among listed
           patients with no planned visit within the 3 month intervention period

        -  A subgroup of 40 persons (8 from each unit) will be included in additional assessment
           according to the following: measure of physical activity, measure of physical activity
           and the process evaluation, or the process evaluation alone. The subgroup will be
           consecutively recruited among those who visit the primary care centres. Measures of
           physical activity will also be made in a similar size subgroup of participants in the
           control group.

      Before and after the three month intervention period effects on impact of COPD in daily life,
      health literacy, confidence in managing their COPD, aspects of physical activity,
      self-efficacy to perform physical activity, quality of life, dyspnea and level of physical
      activity will be collected. In addition will we determine effects on instrumental and
      conceptual knowledge among health professionals
    
  