
    
      This study will collect high-quality data on how practicing specialist physicians,
      specifically cardiologists and pulmonologists, across the U.S. currently manage patients with
      unexplained chronic dyspnea and and how the results of Janssen Pharmaceuticals' test change
      clinical decision making. Data from this study will better illuminate the clinical use cases
      in which the Janssen test has the most significant impact on clinical decision making (and
      thus the largest potential clinical utility) and the associated physician characteristics
      (e.g., age, practice setting, training) associated with test adoption.

      This study leverages simulated patient cases called Clinical Performance and Value vignettes
      (CPVs) in a proven methodology to rapidly measure physician care decisions. CPVs are a unique
      and scalable tool that standardizes practice measurement by having all providers care for the
      same (virtual) patients. With all providers caring for the same patients, the CPVs generate
      unbiased data that yields powerful insights into clinical decision making and how these
      decisions change with the introduction of a new product or solution. Data from the CPVs can
      quickly demonstrate the clinical utility of a solution, be published in peer-reviewed
      literature, inform marketing strategies and positively impact coverage and reimbursement
      decisions.

      The study is a prospective cohort trial with six steps:

        1. Enrollment: The study will enroll 249 cardiologists and pulmonologists practicing in the
           U.S. who are determined to be eligible by an eligibility screener.

        2. Provider survey: Once the participants are enrolled in the study, they will be asked to
           complete a questionnaire describing their practice and professional background.

        3. Randomization: The 249 participants will be randomized into three equally-sized arms (83
           participants each arm): Control, Intervention 1, and Intervention 2.

        4. CPVs (First Round): Participants will complete three randomly-assigned CPV patient
           simulations. Cases will be identical across the intervention and control arms. All
           interactive cases are presented on an online platform, and are accessible via unique
           weblinks and any internet-connected computer.

        5. Education: The Intervention-1- and Intervention-2-arm participants will receive
           educational materials duplicating what physicians would receive in the real-world market
           as they adopt the Janssen technology. These materials are comprised of a slide deck, a
           sample test report, and a frequently asked questions (FAQ) sheet.

        6. CPVs (Second Round): All participating physicians will then be asked to complete three
           additional CPV patient simulations. The cases are given to the doctors in a random
           order. Cases will be identical across the intervention and control arms. At an
           appropriate point in each case, Intervention 1 participants only will receive the
           Janssen test results whether they select it or not, and Intervention 2 participants will
           receive the Janssen test results only if they select it. Control arm participants will
           continue to have access to standard of care diagnostic tools, but not the Janssen test.
           All cases are presented on an online platform, and participants are provided with unique
           weblinks, accessible via any internet-connected computer.
    
  