
    
      Background: Technological support using e-health mobile applications (m-health) is a
      promising strategy to improve the adherence to healthy lifestyles in breast cancer survivors
      (excess in energy intake or low physical activity are determinants of the risk of recurrence,
      second cancers and cancer mortality). Moreover, cancer rehabilitation programs supervised by
      health professionals are needed due to the inherent characteristics of these breast cancer
      patients. Our main objective is to compare the clinical efficacy of a m-health lifestyle
      intervention system alone versus an integral strategy to improve Quality of Life (QoL) in
      breast cancer survivors.

      Methods: This therapeutic superiority study will use a two-arm, assessor blinded parallel
      randomized clinical trial (RCT) design. Women will be eligible if: they are diagnosed of
      stage I, II or III-A breast cancer; are between 25 and 75 years old; have a Body Mass Index >
      25kg/m2; they have basic ability to use mobile apps; they had completed adjuvant therapy
      except for hormone therapy; and they have some functional shoulder limitations. Participants
      will be randomized to one of the following groups: integral group will use a mobile
      application (BENECA APP) and will receive a supervised rehabilitation (8-weeks); m-health
      group will use the BENECA app for 8-weeks. Study endpoints will be assessed after 8 weeks and
      24 weeks. The primary outcome will be QoL measured by The European Organization for Research
      and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Core and breast module. The secondary
      outcomes: body composition; upper-body functionality (handgrip, Disability of the Arm,
      Shoulder and Hand questionnaire, goniometry); cognitive function (Wechsler Adult Intelligence
      Scale, Trial Making Test); anxiety and depression (Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale);
      and accelerometer.

      Discussion: This study has been designed to seek to address the new needs for support and
      treatment of breast cancer survivors, reflecting the emerging need to merge new low cost
      treatment options with much-needed involvement of health professionals in this type of
      patients.
    
  