
    
      The overall aims of this study are to assess the uptake and impact of six-month medication
      dispensing (6MMD) on HIV patients' treatment outcomes at public-sector clinics; estimate the
      costs of the intervention; and assess patients' and providers' perspectives on 6MMD. All
      implementation of the interventions and generation of data will be done by the National
      Department of Health and its support partners; this study will evaluate the outcomes.

      The specific objectives of the evaluation are to:

      Objective 1: Among HIV infected patients on antiretroviral therapy who are newly eligible for
      6MMD, assess the uptake of 6MMD among eligible patients, stratified by repeat prescription
      refill strategy. Evaluation questions:

        -  What proportion of patients is eligible for 6MMD?

        -  What proportion of eligible patients choose to enrol in 6MMD?

        -  What proportion of enrolled patients receive more than one consecutive 6-month refill?

      Objective 2: Is six-month dispensing non-inferior to standard of care (two- or three-month
      dispensing) in terms of retention in care and viral suppression? Evaluation questions:

        -  What is the effect of 6MMD on retention compared to standard of care for patients
           eligible for 6MMD?

        -  What is the effect of 6MMD on viral suppression within 6 and 12 months of intervention
           enrollment (intervention patients) or eligibility (comparison patients), compared to
           standard of care for patients eligible for 6MMD?

        -  What is the effect of 6MMD on retention and suppression among all ART patients in a
           clinic, regardless of whether they were eligible for or received 6MMD?

      Objective 3: Is 6MMD more or less acceptable to patients and providers than standard of care?
      Evaluation questions:

        -  What factors influence patient choice to enrol in 6MMD?

        -  To what extent does the risk of COVID-19 influence a patient's decision to enrol in
           6MMD?

        -  What are the barriers and facilitators to implementing 6MMD from the perspective of
           providers?

        -  How has COVID-19 impacted the implementation of 6MMD?

        -  Has there been any task shifting as a result of the implementation of 6MMD?

        -  What was the level of fidelity to the standard operating procedures (SOP) for 6MMD
           implementation?

      Objective 4: What is the cost of 6MMD to providers and patients compared to standard of care.
      Evaluation questions:

        -  How often do 6MMD patients return to facilities for HIV or other health care or to
           collect other chronic medications between scheduled ARV dispensing visits?

        -  What is the average cost to the provider (DOH) per 6MMD patient and for all ART patients
           at the study clinics?

        -  What is the patient cost of ART for those receiving 6MMD compared to standard of care?
    
  