
    
      Surgery is the cornerstone in the treatment of non-metastatic sarcomas. Whenever feasible the
      resection should include a free surgical margin providing a rim of uninvolved tissue
      surrounding the tumor. In most deep located tumors however, to preserve essential
      neurovascular and bone structures and thus to preserve function, the margins are often
      limited. High grade tumors are, even with wider margins, at higher risk of local failure.
      Radiotherapy can reduce this risk of local failure.

      Preoperative radiotherapy does increase the risk for early complications due to unavoidable
      irradiation of the normal tissues surrounding the sarcoma mass, particularly for lower
      extremity lesions (6-9).

      Preoperative radiotherapy aims to reduce tumor vitality prior to resection, theoretically
      allowing more conservative surgical therapy. Postoperative RT allows histological examination
      of the tumor specimen, especially the margins, aiding in further treatment planning; it may
      also be associated with fewer early wound complications. (10, 11).

      In preoperative radiotherapy, as compared to postoperative radiotherapy, lower doses (50
      versus 60 to 66 Gy) and smaller field sizes can be used, resulting in a reduced risk of late,
      often irreversible, complications. Consequently, preoperative RT is the preferred approach in
      many centers. Although the outcomes of combined RT and surgery are favorable, approximately
      15% of the patients may relapse locally and about 30-50% distantly (dependent upon, among
      others, age, histopathology, size and grade), stressing the need for further improvement.
      These improvements should not only be sought in the domain of oncological endpoints, but also
      in decreasing treatment burden. A reduction in treatment duration, maintaining local control
      rates without increasing the rates of postoperative wound complications would serve the
      latter endpoints. For this purpose, quality of life questionnaires as well as patient
      reported outcomes measurements could come of help.Modern radiobiological investigations
      suggest that, on average, intermediate to high-grade soft tissue sarcomas may have α/β
      ratio's substantially below 10 Gy, justifying clinical studies exploring the possibility of
      (modest) hypofractionation. Obviously, various subtype derived cell lines exhibit different
      characteristics but on average an α/β ratio of 5 Gy would be a reasonable denominator for
      sarcomas as a group. However, it is important not to exaggerate hypofractionation in a
      setting where patients still need to undergo surgery.
    
  