
    
      1. INTRODUCTION

           1.1. Background

           Weight reduction can be obtained by decreased appetite or increased metabolism. However,
           acute weight loss can also be obtained by loss of fluids - for example, urinary loss.
           The last of these effects was investigated during 2016.

           The medical education at The Sahlgrenska Academy in Gothenburg offers in its third
           semester a student lab called "Vattenbalans" [=Water balance]. The purpose of this lab
           is to study fluid loss by the kidneys. In total more than 120 students participate,
           although the urine flow rate is only measured on approximately 50 students each
           semester. The rest of the students function as secretaries. The lab protocol can be
           found in "Komplett-laborationskompendium-T2-T3-uppdaterat-150318" pp. 123-134.

           In summary a total of 50 students wore a weight west. Half of the students wore a 10 kg
           weight vest and half of the students wore a 1 kg weight vest. The study lasted for four
           hours. The students were only allowed to sit a maximum of 10 minutes during each hour.
           No significant difference was observed in urine flow rate. Surprisingly however, the
           investigators found that the students who wore a 10 kg weight vest excreted more
           electrolytes than those wearing a 1 kg weight vest. In the group free from treatment
           (see below) only consisted of 13 subjects and the investigators were therefore not able
           to obtain significant results (p=0,088). The investigators believe that with a larger
           study population and better matched controls the investigators will reach significant
           results.

           It shall be noted that these results were obtained during a student lab with a fixed
           protocol. In addition to wearing a weight vest the students also received one of the
           following treatments: one liter of water orally, one liter of water orally and oral
           administration of a vasopressin analogue called Minirin© (desmopressin, 60 µg), a loop
           diuretic called Furix© (furosemide, 40 mg) or one liter water orally and eight tablets
           of Resorb© which is a rehydration therapy. The multiple treatments and the fixed
           protocol are confounders and support the repetition of these experiments with a more
           suitable design.

           1.2. Rationale for conducting this study

           The medical relevance of these experimental results is still unclear because of the
           short duration of four hours. With more experimental support, it is possible that this
           strategy could be used to create potent diuretics. It is also possible that long-term
           body weight loading could decrease body weight in a different way, especially by
           decreasing fat mass. This mechanism could therefore be used to create potent drugs for
           obesity.

           1.3. Risk/Benefit evaluation

           In general this is a study with few risks. The weight vests used in this experiment are
           in daily use by thousands of people during exercise . During the experiment with medical
           students only one of the students experienced an adverse event. This student experienced
           mild dizziness which subsided within a few minutes after removing the weight vest and
           sitting down. To further minimize the risks in our future study the investigatorshave
           decided to include only healthy research subjects consuming no medications. The
           investigators will also have medically trained personnel available during the study and
           perform it in close vicinity to the Sahlgrenska University Hospital.

           Blood sampling can be experienced as somewhat uncomfortable by a few individuals.
           However it is generally free from complications. In some subjects, there may be small
           local bruising or inflammation.

           In summary the investigators believe the risks to be very low compared to the potential
           of exploring a new physiological mechanism with potentially important applications such
           as new diuretics or anti-obesity medicine.

        2. STUDY DESIGN AND PROCEDURES

      The study is executed with all 15 study subjects over three study days with one week between
      each study day. In order to decrease the variation of the measurement values and increase the
      power of the study cross-over study design will be used. The study subjects will on one of
      the days wear a weight vest with 10 % of body weight in the standing position, on one of the
      days the same study subject will wear a weight vest with 1 % of body weight in the standing
      position and on one of the days the same study subject will wear a weight vest with 1 % of
      body weight in the sitting position.

      Hence, three procedures are included in the study. Each of the procedure corresponds to a
      separate day.

      Procedure 1: Wearing a weight vest with 10 % of body weight standing for seven hours. The
      study subject is allowed to sit for 10 minutes each hour. The reason for this is because it
      has been considered that the effect may be transmitted by weight loading of the lower
      extremities.

      Procedure 2: Wearing a weight vest with 1 % of body weight standing for seven hours. The
      study subject is allowed to sit for 10 minutes each hour.

      Procedure 3: Wearing a weight vest with 1 % of body weight sitting for seven hours. This is a
      control group without loading of the lower extremities. This is also the normal working
      position for many sedentary jobs (e.g. office workers) and why this is of special interest
      for further investigation. There is a large body of investigative literature showing the
      negative health consequences of the sitting working position.

      Blood drawing will be performed with a peripheral venous catheter of the smallest size.
      Furthermore there will be several steps each day which will be uniform for each of the
      procedures.

      Time point 1 (0 h): "Oral water load"

      The catheter will be placed by an experienced nurse from Gothia Forum and is removed seven
      hours later when the procedure day is finished. Study proceedings and record keeping will be
      told to the research subject before the experiment officially starts.

      Just before the experiment starts the study subject will drink 5 ml of water per kg body
      weight. For example, if the study subject weighs 70 kg (no weight vest), he or she will drink
      350 ml of water.

      To maintain a normal hydration level and urine production the study subject will continue to
      replace with fluids during the experiment. The volume of fluids that will be replaced will be
      equal to the amount of lost urine volume. If for example the study subject loses 100 ml urine
      he or she will drink of 100 ml water before continuing the experiment. By this method a urine
      production of approximately 200 ml per hour is maintained which is more than enough to
      perform all the required urine measurements.

      This approach mimics physiological conditions wherein urinary losses are matched by water
      intake. It will avoid water intake in excess of replacement amounts which, in some
      circumstances, is viewed as treatment.

      It is then decided by dice throw if a study subject will start with procedure 1, 2 or 3. When
      two of the procedure groups are full, with five individuals in each of them, the rest is
      transferred to the last procedure group. Rotation between the procedures occurs in random.
      Each study subject will have one week between performing each procedure.

      The study subjects will empty their urine bladder just before the study starts. The study
      subjects start with five minutes separation to avoid congestioin to the toilets. The study
      starts when a study subject put on a weight vest.

      Time Point 2 (0-7 h): Measurements and blood drawing

      This time period consists of the part from when the study subject puts on the weight vest
      until the he or she takes it off.

      The study subject shall each hour collect his or her urine volume in a specially designated
      measurement cup. The Urine Volume is noted. 10 ml of the urine are then used to measure the
      electrolyte concentration. Another 10 ml of urine is saved for further analyses at the
      Sahlgrenska University central lab. These analyses are routine but samples may be stored for
      a few days before the measurement takes place. This depends on when the central lab can
      accept our samples and on their specific working load. Sample storage and handling will be
      performed according to the central lab recommendations. The samples will at maximum be frozen
      down once at a temperature of -80°C.

      When the urine measurements are complete the study subject will have five minutes to relax
      before measuring his or her heart rate and blood pressure. Heart rate and blood pressure are
      both measured standing and sitting with digital blood pressure monitors for quick and
      reliable values.

      Blood will be drawn four times. The samples will be analyzed as soon as possible after each
      procedure day. Some analyses will be at the Sahlgrenska Academy directly, others will be
      delivered to Sahlgrenska University central lab (please see section 6.1 for details). These
      analyses are routine but samples may be stored for a few days before the measurement takes
      place. This depends on when the central lab can accept our samples and on their specific
      working load. Sample storage and handling will be performed according to the central labs
      recommendations.

      Time point 3 (7 h -): The experiment is finished

      Weight vest and peripheral venous catheter are removed. A procedure protocol is handed in
      from the study subject to the investigator who confirms its completeness. . The procedure
      protocol is either handed in digitally by uploading an excel file or handed in printed out.
    
  