
    
      Background: Jaundice due to hyperbilirubinemia is the most common entity that requires
      medical management in neonates. About 50% of full-term newborns and 80% of premature infants
      develop jaundice. The effectiveness of phototherapy for neonatal jaundice depends on two
      factors: the spectrum of light emitted and the spectral irradiation of light. An ideal
      phototherapy device should have a broad light emission surface, in order to cover the maximum
      of the body surface in the horizontal plane, it should be durable, generate relatively little
      heat and provide a wavelength and light intensity (radiation) optimal (460-490nm and ≥ 30uw /
      cm2 / nm). The conventional phototherapy devices use fluorescent lamps that emit heat and
      require eye protectors, in addition to increasing water losses, which requires a permanent
      monitoring of vital functions and temperature. Its use imposes hospitalization and
      consequently mother-child separation, always traumatic. The most recent devices use light
      emitting diodes (LED light) as the light source. Objective: to evaluate the effectiveness,
      safety and level of satisfaction of parents and healthcare team with one innovative device
      for phototherapy to which a LED light mesh has been incorporated (a sleeping bag ), comparing
      it with conventional phototherapy for hospitalized patients. Methods: randomized controlled
      clinical trial with newborns more than 2000 g of birth weight that required phototherapy
      according to the guidelines of the American Academy of Pediatrics, admitted to the "Hospital
      Universitario San Ignacio Neonata Care Unit (NCU)" . The Protocol was evaluated and accepted
      by the Hospital and "Pontificia Universidad Javeriana" research committee. Informed consent
      was requested from parents and the authors declared no conflict of interest. Sample size and
      allocation: using the STATA 12 program, a sample size of 58 patients was calculated, 29 for
      each group, with significance level of 0.05, power of 80% and difference in bilirubin
      decreasing of at least 0,1 mg/dl/h with standard deviation of 0.14 mg/dl/h. A computer
      program randomized the allocation to the intervention and the concealment of the assignment
      was through sealed opaque envelopes. Seric bilirubin levels were taken at the start and at
      the end of phototherapy. Controls were at the beginning, every 8 hours and every 12 hours at
      the time of bilirubin stabilization in the case of hemolysis, or every 24 hours depending on
      risk factors. Axillary temperature was measured at the beginning and during phototherapy.
      Physical examination and daily water balance were performed. Parents and health personnel
      answered a survey on comfort and perceptions with the use of the devices at the end of the
      intervention. Analysis: Comparison of means was made for decrease of bilirubin levels and
      body temperatures and chi-square for incidence of side effects and results of the survey.
    
  