
    
      Subject with Precision models of spinal cord stimulators will be invited to take part in the
      study that will compare the high frequency stimulation versus low frequency stimulation to
      look for any changes in efficacy, and preferability between high and low frequency
      stimulation program for the spinal cord stimulator (SCS) system.

      The study is designed as 7 week study that can take up to 9 weeks per subject. 7 weeks are
      divided into 3 segments. First segment will be 3 weeks of spinal cord stimulation followed by
      second segment of wash off period, which will take 1 week (7 days), then the last segment
      with 3 weeks of spinal cord stimulation. At the end of each segments, there will be a follow
      up visits.

      Each follow up visits can occur up to 5 business days after the follow up due date for post
      spinal cord stimulation follow ups, and up to 3 business days after the follow up due date
      for the post wash off visit.

      At each visits, including baseline, subject will be asked to answer Numeric Pain Rating Scale
      (NPRS), Oswestry Disability Index (ODI), and Patients Global Impression of Change (PGIC) to
      assess interval effect of the programming parameter for the spinal cord stimulator.

      Visit schedule and assessment summary:

      Visit 1: Screening and Baseline

        -  Review inclusion and exclusionary criteria (I&E)

        -  Informed Consent

        -  Demographics, Medical History

        -  Physical examination, Vital signs.

        -  Randomization (A, or B) and programming of devices according to randomization

        -  Baseline questionnaires

        -  Numeric Pain Rating Scale (NPRS) to measure the pain experienced by the subject over 1
           week prior to enrolling in the study. this will include best pain, worse pain, and
           average pain as well as pain at the time of enrollment.

        -  Oswestry disability index (ODI) will measure the average disability caused by the
           painful condition approximately 3 weeks prior to the enrollment in to the study. Subject
           will be asked on 10 different categories of activities of daily living. They are: pain
           intensity, personal care, lifting, walking, sitting, standing, sleeping, sex life,
           social life, and traveling.

        -  Patients Global Impression of Change (PGI-C) will be asked to assess the subject's
           impression of their painful condition, since the implanting of the spinal cord
           stimulator.

        -  Concomitant medications

      Visit 2: (end of 3 week assessments, + 5 days) End of first treatment period

        -  Interim Questionnaires:

        -  NPRS: We will measure pain experienced by the subject over 3 weeks since the last
           research visit (visit 1),prior to visit 2. This will include best pain, worse pain, and
           average pain as well as pain at the time of enrollment.

        -  Oswestry disability index will measure the disability caused by the painful condition
           since last visit of the study (visit 1), which covers 3 weeks of duration after the last
           research visit. Subject will be asked on 10 different categories of activities of daily
           living. They are: pain intensity, personal care, lifting, walking, sitting, standing,
           sleeping, sex life, social life, and traveling.

        -  PGI-C will be asked to assess the subject's impression of their painful condition, since
           the last visit of the study (visit 1), which covers 3 weeks of duration since the last
           research visit, prior to visit 2.

        -  Device Interrogation and turn off SCS for 7 to 10 days

        -  Start wash off period for 7 to 10 days

        -  Review Adverse Events (AE) and Concomitant medications (Con meds)

      Visit 3: (end of wash off period, +3 days) Beginning of second treatment period

        -  Questionnaires:

        -  NPRS to measure the pain experienced by the subject over 1 week since visit 2, prior to
           visit 3, this will include best pain, worse pain, and average pain as well as pain at
           the time of enrollment.

        -  Oswestry disability index will measure the disability caused by the painful condition 1
           week since last visit 2, prior to the visit 3. Subject will be asked on 10 different
           categories of activities of daily living. They are: pain intensity, personal care,
           lifting, walking, sitting, standing, sleeping, sex life, social life, and traveling.

        -  PGI-C will be asked to assess the subject's impression of their painful condition,
           during the last 1 week since visit 2, prior to visit 3.

        -  Device interrogation and programming; start of next treatment period.

        -  Review AE and Con meds.

      Visit 4: (end of 3 week assessment +5 days) End of Treatment

        -  End of second treatment period.

        -  End of treatment Questionnaires:

        -  NPRS: We will measure pain experienced by the subject over 3 weeks since the last
           research visit (visit 3) prior to visit 4. This will include best pain, worse pain, and
           average pain as well as pain at the time of enrollment.

        -  Oswestry disability index will measure the disability caused by the painful condition
           since last visit of the study, which covers 3 weeks of duration after the last research
           visit (visit 3). Subject will be asked on 10 different categories of activities of daily
           living. They are: pain intensity, personal care, lifting, walking, sitting, standing,
           sleeping, sex life, social life, and traveling.

        -  PGI-C will be asked to assess the subject's impression of their painful condition, since
           the last visit of the study, which covers 3 weeks of duration since the last research
           visit (visit 3), prior to visit 4.

        -  Device Interrogation and re-programming if necessary.

        -  Review AE's and Con meds
    
  