
    
      The study examine the stay safe programme effectiveness among school teachers and children,
      as Pakistan is today badly indulge in this issue; In this circumstances this type of study
      provide essential role in society. some schools from Multan city are included, the quasi
      experimental study is used, where the participants are randomly divided into two groups
      (control and experimental). school based sampling method is used where different campuses of
      one school is included, through random number generator, six schools are selected for
      participation where 3 schools are included in control group and 3 are in experimental group.
      the participants consist of school teachers and children, where each group (children &
      teachers) is further divided into control and experimental group. children and teachers of
      class 1 and 2 are included. scales used in the study are Battle self-esteem inventory and
      children knowledge and skills questionnaire for children while teachers knowledge and skills
      questionnaire for teachers is used in study. 1 week time gap is also considered between pre
      and post testing for better examination of change. stay safe programme is very powerful tool
      as it cover different sensitive issues and provide confidence or safety skills to children.it
      also provide teachers with the strategies that they should use to make classroom environment
      healthy or encourage children to speak up and also provide guidance to deal with issues
      safely and listen every child carefully. Different videos, worksheets, basic knowledge that
      cover 5 major topics like feeling safe and unsafe, wanted and unwanted touch, bullying, tell
      adults about negative interaction with bullies and victimizers, strangers and dealing with
      strangers are all include in the stay safe programme. The lessons that include in this
      programme are so healthy and best for the protection of child, it also boost their
      self-esteem and make them worthy and active cognitively. informed consent is provided to
      participants for initiating the study properly, as it is ethical. every participant data
      would be confidential or the theme of study would be debrief to the control group after
      study.
    
  