
    
      It is important to plan and implement initiatives to increase breast milk intake with
      numerous benefits in terms of mother and baby health. It is stated that these interventions
      initiate breastfeeding in the early period and increase the rates of breastfeeding. It is
      stated that breastfeeding success and duration are influenced by many factors such as health
      status of the baby, mother's demographic characteristics, psychological factors, social
      support and professional support. It is emphasized that breastfeeding self-efficacy is the
      most important factor in breastfeeding to maintain healthy and sufficient time. Breastfeeding
      self-efficacy refers to the full effort of the mother in order to breastfeed her baby,
      whether she is emotionally ready to breastfeed, and her thoughts on breastfeeding.
      Demonstrates the ability of the mother to cope with the difficulties she will face in the
      breastfeeding process.

      Determining the factors affecting the continuation of breastfeeding from the prenatal period,
      breastfeeding support and training against possible risks increase breastfeeding performance.
      The global vurgulan Baby Friendly Hospital ır application and the Barcelona Declaration of
      2001 emphasize that every woman should be encouraged to be informed about breastfeeding and
      to encourage breastfeeding. Within the framework of these internationally accepted contracts,
      different educational practices have been introduced to start and sustain breastfeeding.

      Breastfeeding trainings can be given by all health personnel such as midwives, nurses,
      physicians or dieticians. In addition to this, breast-feeding training is offered to
      individuals who serve voluntarily. Trainings can be carried out individually or in support
      groups. The planning, implementation and follow-up of breastfeeding education should be
      carried out periodically. Within the framework of the training programs to be implemented, it
      is emphasized that mothers should take more role in their health audits in order to maintain
      breastfeeding self-efficacy and to maintain well-being. The development of breastfeeding
      self-efficacy is influenced by many variables. However, it is stated that the mother will
      increase her self-care skills and increase her proportionality with the encouragement of her
      baby to be breastfed. In order to improve the self-care of the postpartum mother and to
      increase her participation in health, various theory and approach models are used. Among
      these, Dorote Orem's Self-Care Theory, Health Belief Model, and Teach-Back Method, which is
      recently described as a communication technique, are frequently recommended.

      Using Teach-Back method, health personnel service management and service service guiding
      design in the framework of the framework, to use the time effectively, to provide a more
      professional way to provide service delivery. Health institutions are expected to reduce
      health care costs by reducing returns. The unconditional fact that individuals are given al
      understood liği means that they are learned with their own sentences and the use of the
      subject in this regard expects to reduce the complications and take the level of experience
      and experience when the investigators can go to breastfeeding after the birth of one of our
      members. Also the use of usulem; It will be possible to supervise the understanding of the
      transferred information in a systematic, space for the education and services that will be
      given at the end of birth. Health literacy and health-related quality of life in this method
      of learning.

      Purpose of the research The aim of this study is to evaluate the effect of breastfeeding
      education on breastfeeding success. In addition, the method of telling the learned method is
      aimed to be recognized in our country and to guide health professionals in health services.

      Research Hypotheses H0: Using the Teach-Back method, breastfeeding education has no effect on
      breastfeeding success.

      H1: The teaching of breastfeeding by using the Teach-Back method has an effect on the success
      of breastfeeding.
    
  