
    
      The reduction of fractures is a commonly performed procedure in emergency departments (EDs).
      In most Canadian EDs, reductions are performed by emergency physicians (EPs). The distal
      radius fracture is the most common fracture requiring reduction. Fracture reduction is
      time-consuming with several steps required: initial evaluation including x-ray, equipment and
      personnel gathering, sedation and/or local anesthesia, reduction attempt(s) and
      splinting/casting, and post-reduction x-rays, with subsequent patient reassessment. These
      steps have a negative effect on ED patient throughput. Subsequent to the reduction
      attempt(s), the patient is sent for x-ray often with uncertainty regarding the reduction
      success. Fluoroscopy is generally not an option for the EP in evaluating accuracy of
      reduction. If the reduction is not adequate, further reduction attempts are needed. This
      utilizes more resources, either in the ED or orthopedic clinic or operating room, depending
      on where further reduction attempts are made.

      Emergency ultrasound (EU) in Canada has become a well-established part of emergency medical
      practice in recent years as evidenced by the latest position statement of the Canadian
      Association of Emergency Physicians
      (http://caep.ca/template.asp?id=B5283F4158FB471AA56E480D6277C1AC) and the development of the
      Canadian Emergency Ultrasound Society (www.ceus.ca). A growing body of literature has shown
      the utility of EU in the diagnosis and reduction of fractures (1-6). A recent case report (7)
      showed that EU can be used to aid Colles fracture reduction. Similar to fluoroscopy, EU may
      be a fast and accurate method of determining successful fracture reduction. Unlike
      fluoroscopy, EU is available immediately in the ED. EU may also obviate the need for the
      post-reduction x-ray, particularly in the setting where the patient will have yet another
      x-ray at the time of orthopedic follow-up to evaluate for interval loss of reduction. Thus,
      EU has the potential to significantly reduce time to discharge.

      Our study has the following objectives:

        -  To assess EU utility for guiding reduction attempts of distal radius fractures.

        -  To compare EU to x-ray for the final assessment of reduction adequacy.
    
  