
    
      Heart failure (HF) is a clinical syndrome of exercise intolerance and/or congestion. The
      management of heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF) has improved over the last
      decades. In contrast, little progress has been made in identifying evidence-based, effective
      treatments for heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF, LVEF >50%). Treatments
      proven effective in HFrEF have failed to show significant benefit in patients with HFpEF.
      Potential contributors include an incomplete understanding of pathophysiology and poor
      matching of therapeutic mechanisms. The challenges of the use of diagnostic criteria,
      prognostic evaluation and treatment highlight the need for more research in this field.

      This portion of HFpEF consists predominantly older age and high prevalence of co-morbidity
      such as overweight/obesity, diabetes mellitus, hyperlipidemia, metabolic syndrome and
      hypertension. The systemic pro-inflammatory state may induce coronary endothelial
      inflammation, microvasular dysfunction, myocardial substrate shift, myocardial and
      interstitial fibrosis that contribute to high diastolic left ventricular stiffness and HF
      development. Myocardial metabolic and perfusion imaging is a vital tool for understanding the
      physiologic consequences of HF. Absolute myocardial blood flow (MBF) and myocardial flow
      reserve (MFR) provide incremental diagnostic and prognostic information over relative
      perfusion alone. Recent development of dedicated cardiac SPECT cameras with better
      sensitivity and temporal resolution make dynamic SPECT imaging more practical. Quantitative
      18F-FDG PET could be used as a means to measure myocardial metabolic changes. The study
      investigators propose that microvasular dysfunction and abnormal metabolic substrate shift
      precedes and triggers the onset of diastolic dysfunctions. The potential roles of myocardial
      perfusion and metabolic abnormalities in subjects with cardiovascular risks, metabolic
      disease and HFpEF assessed by nuclear dynamic imaging warrant further investigations.

      The present project aims (1) to develop and validate the noninvasive measurement of absolute
      myocardial blood flow (MBF) and myocardial flow reserve (MFR) by using dynamic imaging with a
      CZT camera, (2) to assess myocardial glucose metabolism by using 18F-FDG dynamic PET, and
      MBF, MFR and LV systolic and diastolic function by dynamic SPECT comprehensively in
      participants at cardiovascular risks and metabolic disease, HFrEF and HFpEF, (3) to correlate
      with peripheral serum markers and blood mononuclear cells subsets with myocardial perfusion
      and metabolic abnormalities, and (4) to test the hypothesis of these imaging and blood
      markers in diagnosis and prognostic implications. The study investigators also assess
      myocardial metabolic utilization in healthy and mice model of different metabolic disorders
      (obesity, diabetes mellitus and hypertension) by using 18F-FDG dynamic micro PET/CT, as an
      in-vivo measures which could be used to better understanding the disease mechanism and
      evaluating therapeutic strategies.
    
  