
    
      OVERALL AIM OF THE STUDY To evaluate three diagnostic methods for assessment of intestinal
      disease in patients with suspected or newly diagnosed Crohn's disease and patients with known
      Crohn's disease.

      PARTICIPATING CENTRES

        -  Department of Medical Gastroenterology, Odense University Hospital, DK-5000 Odense C

        -  Department of Internal Medicine, section of Gastroenterology, Vejle Hospital, DK-7100
           Vejle

        -  Department of Internal Medicine, section of Gastroenterology, Sydvestjysk Hospital,
           DK-6700 Esbjerg

        -  Department of Internal Medicine, section of Gastroenterology, Svendborg Hospital,
           DK-5700 Svendborg

        -  Department of Radiology, Vejle Hospital, DK-7100 Vejle

      PROTOCOL A

      A comparative study of capsule endoscopy, magnetic resonance imaging and computer tomography
      scanning of the small bowel in patients with suspected or newly diagnosed Crohn's disease

      Protocol procedures:

      At inclusion all patients will have a standardised work-up including medical history,
      physical examination, blood and faeces samples and ileo-colonoscopy. Within two weeks MRI and
      CT scanning of the small intestine (on the same day and in randomised order) and subsequently
      CE will be performed in all patients. All investigations are described in a similar
      pre-defined and standardized fashion and the radiologist and physician responsible for
      describing the findings at MRI, CT and CE are blinded to the findings at ileo-colonoscopy and
      the other small bowel examinations. In the follow-up part of the study the physician in
      charge of the patient will be randomised to receive the results of either MRI, CT or CE.

      Anticipated outcome:

      The study is performed to improve evidence about what is the best primary investigation for
      assessment of small intestinal involvement in patients with suspected Crohn's disease, to
      evaluate if a combination of diagnostic modalities may improve our assessment of disease
      burden for the individual patients, to study whether the initial diagnostic modalities affect
      the handling of the patients and to study the interobserver variation of MRI and CT scanning.

      PROTOCOL B

      A comparative study of magnetic resonance imaging, computer tomography scanning and capsule
      endoscopy in patients with known Crohn's disease

      Protocol procedures:

      At inclusion all patients will undergo a standardised work-up including history, physical
      examination, blood and faeces samples and ileo-colonoscopy. Within two weeks MRI, CT scanning
      of the small intestine (on the same day in randomised order) and capsule endoscopy will be
      performed in all patients. Capsule endoscopy will not be performed in patients with small
      bowel stenosis confirmed at ileo-colonoscopy, MRI and/or CT. All three investigations will be
      described in a similar predefined standardized fashion with the radiologist blinded to the
      findings at ileo-colonoscopy. In the randomised part of the study the physician in charge of
      the patient will be randomised to receive the result of either MRI, CT og capsule endoscopy.

      Anticipated outcome:

      The best diagnostic method for evaluation of small intestinal involvement in patients with
      known Crohn's disease may be different from patients suspected of Crohn's disease. Thus in
      the current study we hope to provide evidence of whether MRI, CT scanning or capsule
      endoscopy is the best diagnostic approach.
    
  