
    
      Ulcerative colitis (UC) is a chronic, progressive immunologically mediated disease affecting
      nearly 1 million Americans. Up to one third of patients with UC will require hospitalization
      for severe disease (termed 'acute severe colitis (ASUC)'), often within the first year after
      diagnosis. Advances in therapy for UC with the availability of effective biologics have
      revolutionized the medical care of UC, improving ability to achieve remission and reducing
      the need for colectomy for refractory disease. However, despite this general progress,
      investigators have not witnessed a corresponding temporal improvement in disease outcomes
      among those with the most severe disease. As well, providers lack the ability to
      'personalize' care for UC by predicting up front which patients may develop ASUC or fail
      medical therapy and may benefit from early surgery, preventing protracted morbidity.

      Over one-third of patients with ASUC will be refractory to intravenous steroids, the
      cornerstone for initial management of this condition. Infliximab and cyclosporine, the two
      most commonly used medical rescue therapies for this cohort, have comparable short- and
      long-term efficacy in two randomized controlled trials. However, up to a third of patients
      will not respond to such medical rescue. Lack of response is poorly understood and may be
      multifactorial with both patient- and drug-related factors. Among the latter, those with
      severe disease may have greater fecal loss of infliximab resulting in lack of efficacy.
      Attempts to overcome this have included accelerated induction with infliximab administered up
      front at a higher dose (10mg/kg) or more frequent intervals. A small single center
      retrospective study of only 50 patients among whom 15 received accelerated induction showed
      reduced short-term but not long-term rates of colectomy with this approach. However, a robust
      and generalizable comparison of the two infliximab induction treatment strategies are
      lacking. A key factor limiting study of ASUC is the lack of availability of large cohorts
      with detailed clinical information and linked specimens.

      Here, investigators will develop a large multi-center cohort of patients with ASUC with
      homogeneously collected detailed longitudinal clinical and laboratory data. To the
      investigators' knowledge, this will be the first of its kind in the United States, and will
      be a key resource to understand the natural history, risk stratify and optimize therapeutic
      algorithms for care of patients with ASUC. A sub-study with blood, stool and biopsy specimens
      can be utilized for translational research into mechanisms of lack of response and
      development of biomarkers. The infrastructure of this network will also serve as a valuable
      resource for clinical trials of new therapies and novel strategies, a significant unmet need.
    
  