
    
      Study Design Aim & Objectives Primary

      • To study the efficacy of targeted albumin therapy versus standard medical treatment in
      reduction in 6-month mortality in recurrent ascites in patients with decompensated cirrhosis

      Secondary Objectives

        -  To study the frequency of therapeutic paracentesis in both groups

        -  Incidence of complications: paracentesis induced circulatory dysfunction (PICD), AKI,
           hyponatremia, bacterial infections, hepatic encephalopathy and variceal bleed

        -  Impact on systemic hemodynamics and portal pressures

        -  Impact on fraility and sarcopenia

        -  Time to resolution of ascites in both groups

        -  Changes in renal reserve as assessed by sequential Cystatin C based equations for eGFR
           and other biomarkers (urine-NGAL, Kidney Injury molecule-1, Liver-Fatty Acid Binding
           Protein (L-FABP) every 3 months)

        -  Adverse effects and discontinuation rates of beta-blockers in both groups

        -  Survival free of liver transplant and TIPS in both groups at 6 months and 1 year

        -  Quality of Life as assessed by short form survey-36 version (SF-36)

        -  Effect of albumin therapy on immunomodulation

        -  Effect of albumin on 12-month mortality

      Methodology DOSING REGIMEN (Describe the subject or animal dosing) In this open labeled
      randomized study, consecutive cirrhotic patients, fulfilling the inclusion criteria and
      exclusion criteria will be enrolled in the study. Details of sample size calculation are
      given under section of statistical methods. Severity of liver disease will be assessed
      according to severity scores- CTP and MELD score.

      The patients will be randomized to 2 groups by the clinical trial coordinator (CTC). The CTC
      will be blind to the patient and treatment received, and the allocation concealment by the
      sequentially numbered opaque sealed envelopes (SNOSE) technique would be done. Patients would
      be assessed at 2 weeks, 4 weeks with serum albumin levels, ascites grade and use of diuretics
      and then every 3 months

      Group A- Would receive standard medical treatment (details as in patients for Group B) plus
      Targeted albumin therapy would be given as under:

      Patients with serum albumin <3 g/L with recurrent ascites - Will receive 20 % albumin at 60
      grams/week until target serum albumin of 3.0 g/L is achieved following this patients would
      get 40 grams of albumin every week until ascites resolution or serum albumin >3.5 g/L.
      Patients who achieve this target will continue with 20 gm/week until patient has complete
      resolution of ascites and serum albumin >3.5 gm/L or a maximum of 6 months following this
      patients would receive albumin 20 gms once every 2 weeks Group B: Standard Medical Treatment-
      Salt-restriction, diuretics with large volume paracentesis These patients will be put on low
      sodium diet (2 g/day) and will be given a combination of loop diuretic (furosemide 40-160
      mg/day) and a distal acting diuretic (spironolactone 100-400 mg/day) with dose escalation by
      one step at a time with monitoring for side-effects. Large volume paracentesis (LVP) will be
      performed along with intravenous albumin (8 g/L ascites removed) as required with record of
      the frequency of taps.

      Follow up: 2 week, 4 weeks then every 3 months for 1 year

      Important definitions:

      Recurrent ascites will be defined as ascites that recurs on at least three occasions within a
      12-month period despite dietary sodium restriction and adequate diuretic doses.

      Ascites resolution would be defined as absence of clinical ascites (ascites grade 0 or 1)
      which can either be partial- Would be defined as resolution of ascites on diuretics and
      complete would be defined as resolution of ascites without the need of diuretics.

      Investigations: Baseline HVPG with assessment of portal (systemic and pulmonary hemodynamics)
      and cardiac hemodynamics, cystatin C, plain CT scan for assessment of sarcopenia. Body
      weight, blood pressure and echocardiogram would be done for all patients. Glomerular
      filtration rate (GFR) will be estimated by using eGFR equations -modification of diet in
      renal disease (MDRD6) and Cystatin C based (Chronic kidney disease Epidemiology
      Collaboration). Along with this, arterial blood sample will be collected after overnight fast
      and bed rest at least for 8 h in supine position for plasma renin activity, plasma
      aldosterone and plasma norepinephrine concentration. A baseline urinalysis with assessment of
      urinary sodium would also be done for all enrolled patients. Patients would subsequently
      undergo HVPG after 3-6 months and cystatin C every 3 months. Apart from this, urine
      neutrophil-gelatinase associated lipocalin (NGAL), plasma renin activity and serum
      aldosterone levels would be performed at baseline, 3 and 6 months. A repeat plain CT scan to
      assess sarcopenia would be done at 3 months and at 6 months. The follow up would be 1 year or
      until TIPS or liver transplant.

      Albumin related immunological assessment:

      Considering immunomodulation as an important mechanism of action of albumin. Additional
      experiments would be done at baseline, 3 and 6 months to assess the albumin isoforms (HMA,
      HNA1, HNA2, IMA) , levels of pro-inflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokines (multiplex
      luminex based cytokine array) , inflammatory mediators (C-Reactive Protein, endotoxin assay,
      compliment proteins; DAMPS ); Frequency and functional profile of innate immune cells
      (monocytes, neutrophills)

      Albumin isoforms analysis:

      Chemicals Change in albumin isoform will be done by quantification of different albumin
      modification(HMA, HNA1, HNA2, IMA) on an electron spray ionization orbitrap HRMS system "(Q
      Exative plus) mass spectrometer coupled to UHPLC from Thermoscientific USA.Briefly the
      isolated plasma of patients blood at given time point (day 0 and three month) will be diluted
      with distilled water at a 1:4,000 ratio, and then 8 uL of this diluted plasma will be
      injected into the high performance liquid chromatography-electron spray ionization MS system.
      High-performance liquid chromatography separation will be performed on a reverse-phase C8
      column (Agilent ZORBAX RRHD 300SB-C8, 2.1 mm id 3 50 mm, 1.8 lm threaded column with a pore
      size of 300 Å) at a flow rate of 0.2 mL/minute using an H2O-acetonitrile (with 0.1% formic
      acid) solvent system under a gradient of 90% H2O to 90% acetonitrile over a period of 25
      minutes with acquisition starting at 3 minutes. Under auto-MS conditions, mass spectral
      analysis will be performed. A similar analysis will also be performed with exogenous albumin
      solution. The obtained compound electron spray ionization MS spectra will be analyzed using
      the software Protein Deconvolution soft warre (thermoscientific germany). Here, after
      minimizing the base peak chromatogram from the total ion chromatogram, albumin mass
      chromatograms will be obtained and analyzed. The obtained albumin spectra will then be
      deconvoluted within mass range from 66,000-67,000 Da (as the molecular weight [MW] of various
      albumin isoforms fall within this range. Finally, from the intensity of the peaks, the
      abundance of albumin isoforms will be measured and the relative abundance of the various HSA
      isoforms will be reported as described in Das et.al 2017. This will be performed at baseline
      and 3 months. ( Mass spectrometry (MS)-grade water, acetonitrile, and formic acid will be
      purchased from Sigma-Aldrich (St. Louis, MO). Purified HSA was purchased from Baxter
      (Gurgaon, India). All reagents will be of analytical grade.

      Cytokine array A panel of 45 cytokines, chemokines, and growth factors will be analyzed in
      blood plasma of patients group at baseline and 3 months using a Bio-Plex multiplex cytokine
      bead assay system (Bio-Rad, CA) as per the manufacturer's protocol. The intra-assay and inter
      assay coefficient of variation considered for multiplex assays will be < 5%

      Innate Immune cells profiling:

      Total whole blood will be collected from patients pre and post therapy and evaluated for %
      frequency of monocytes by staining with fluorochrome labeled anti-CD14 anti CD16 and for
      neutrophils anti-CD11b anti CD16 anti-CD15, anti-CD66b and will acquired and anlaysed using
      flow cytometry FACS verse (BD biosciences). For the functional profiling of innate immune
      cells, the blood will be divided into two parts. The PBMCs will be isolated using
      ficoll-hypaque (Himedia) and monocytes will be isolated using CD14 isolation kit from
      miltenyi biotech as per the manufacture protocol. Whereas, other part of the blood will be
      used to isolate the neutrophils using gran-hypaque (Himedia). The intracellular cytokines
      such as IFN-y, TNF-a, IL-1b will be analysed after low dose of LPS stimulation. Also,
      phagocytic burst or ROS generation will be done using manufacturer's described protocol.
      Again the data will be acquired and anlysed using FACS verse (BD biosciences).

      Seahorse metabolic analysis methodology:

      Effect on energy metabolism of monocytes (that guide the functional property of immune cells)
      we be analyzed by measuring the extracellular acidification rate (ECAR) and oxygen
      consumption rate (OCR) through Seahorse XF24 Extracellular Flux Analyzer instrument in
      peripheral blood monocytes of patients at baseline and 3 months as a measure of lactate
      production (a surrogate for the glycolytic rate) and OXPHOS respectively. In brief, monocytes
      will be isolated from freshly collected blood using CD14 isolation kit from miltenyi biotech
      as per the manufacture protocol. Isolated monocytes will be seeded in triplicate at a density
      of 1X105 cells per well. Prior to starting the assay, cells will be incubated in Seahorse
      Assay Medium supplemented with 10 mM glucose and 1 mM sodium pyruvate and glutamine in 37°C
      incubator without CO2 for 45 min. Further change in parameters of oxidative phosphorylation
      will be calculated by a real-time change in OCR in response to treatment with Oligomycin
      (ATPase inhibitor, 1 μM), FCCP (0.2 μM) and rotenone (0.5 μM).

      Study Population:

      SUBJECT POPULATION/PRE-CLINICAL MODEL (Describe the subject population including
      inclusion/exclusion criteria or animal model)

      Study Design:

        -  A randomized controlled study.

        -  The study will be conducted on patients admitted to Department of Hepatology from August
           2020 to August 2022 at ILBS, New Delhi

        -  Study group will comprise of patients of decompensated cirrhosis with recurrent ascites

      Sample Size calculation: In the randomized controlled trial by Singh et al (Journal of
      Hepatology 2012) the 90-day mortality in patients of recurrent ascites on midodrine was 15/20
      (75%) vs. 8/20(40% ) in the standard medical treatment group (large volume paracentesis and
      albumin infusions). Assuming that the survival for albumin is 75% and with SMT is 40%, then
      with alpha of 5% and power 90% we need to enroll 90 cases i.e 45 cases in each group. Further
      assuming 10% drop out rate we need to enroll 100 cases 50 each group and randomly allocated
      with block randomisation method with block size taken as 10.

      Proportion of survival in the treatment group at a given time point = 0.75 Proportion of
      survival in the control group at a given time point = 0.40 Hazard ratio = 3.19 Power (%) = 90
      Alpha Error (%) = 5 Sided = 2 Required sample size for treatment group = 45 Required sample
      size for control group = 45 Alpha Error (%) Power (%) First Group Second Group 5 70 27 27 80
      34 34 90 45 45

      Intervention: Targeted albumin therapy Monitoring and Assessment: Follow up: 2 weeks, 4
      weeks, 3 months, then every 3 months for 1 year

      Statistical analysis

        -  All variables shall be expressed in mean (sd) or median (range)

        -  Variables will be compared by Mann- Whitney U test

        -  For Categorical variables we will use Chi-Square or Fisher's test

        -  Survival analysis will be done using Cox-proportional regression analysis

        -  Actuarial probability of survival shall be calculated by Kaplan- Meier graph and
           compared by log- rank test.

        -  Competing risk survival analysis with competing events as TIPS and liver transplant
           would be performed Adverse Effects: Allergic reactions to albumin, worsening of dyspnea,
           volume overload Stopping rule: Reaction to albumin infusion

      Ethical issues in the study and plans to address these issues:

      There are no ethical issues with respect to the trial protocol. Albumin is routinely
      recommended for the management of patients with cirrhosis with ascites. In a large
      multicentric trial it was shown that high dose of albumin of 40 grams/week improved outcomes
      in cirrhotics with uncomplicated ascites. This however lacks clinical application based on
      feasibility to provide high doses in a resource constraint country like India. Our data would
      therefore provide a targeted approach (escalation/de-escalation) based on response
      individualised for each patient and its effect on imrpving overall outcomes. The study drug
      would be provided free of cost and the cost of special investigations which are not part of
      the standard of care would not be borne by the patients.
    
  