
    
      There is a pressing need for improved acute care setting suicide prevention interventions.
      The Safety Planning Intervention (SPI) is a protocol driven, brief suicide prevention
      strategy that is a good fit for acute care settings (i.e., emergency departments (ED) and
      inpatient units). The SPI involves a clinician working collaboratively with the patient to
      build a personalized safety plan that is documented using a templated paper form and includes
      warning sign identification, means restriction and personalized strategies to deescalate a
      suicide crisis. It is easy to learn and administer, acceptable to patients, brief, firmly
      rooted in an empirical base and has preliminary studies supporting its feasibility and
      potential to impact patient outcomes, including suicidal behavior and treatment engagement.
      However, while it is being adopted widely, it lacks a randomized controlled trial (RCT) to
      definitively determine its efficacy. The purpose of this study to conduct a randomized
      control trial of the Safety Planning Intervention (SPI) compared with receiving risk factors
      and warning sign information (RWI) in acute care settings.

      All participants in this study will complete some baseline assessments, following which they
      will be randomly assigned to one of two study conditions: Safety Plan Intervention (SPI) or
      receiving risk factors and warning sign information (RWI). If assigned to SPI, participants
      will receive the assigned intervention by the research clinician. They will receive a paper
      copy of their safety plan while in the ED or on the inpatient unit and a back-up copy will be
      sent approximately 1 week after discharge to participants. For RWI participants, ED and
      inpatient unit care will be delivered as usual, with the addition of a printed information
      sheet listing suicide risk factors and crisis hotlines. In addition to the baseline
      assessment, multi-method outcome assessment will be conducted at 1, 3, and 6 months. This
      will include telephone evaluations by a blinded assessor (not the research clinician),
      medical record review, and vital statistics registry review.
    
  