
    
      Background:

        -  Autologous Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation (AHCT), which represents the standard of
           care for newly diagnosed Multiple Myeloma (MM), is not curative therapy. New approaches
           to prevent relapse after AHCT and to treat relapse are needed.

        -  In murine models, we used ex vivo culture to generate rapamycin-resistant, Th1 (type 1 T
           helper cells)/Tc1 (T cytotoxic cells, type 1) polarized T cells (Th1/Tc1.Rapamycin
           (Rapa) cells) that were both rapamycin-resistant and apoptosis-resistant with an
           increased in vivo survival and in vivo function.

        -  Because Th1 /Tc1 polarized lymphocytes are pivotal in anti-tumor effects, we hypothesize
           that adoptive transfer of Th1/Tc1Rapa cells will be of benefit to MM patients.

      Objectives:

      Primary

      Dose escalation study

      Evaluate the feasibility and toxicity of an infusion of autologous, ex vivo
      rapamycin-generated, anti-cluster of differentiation 3 (CD3) and anti-cluster of
      differentiation 28 (CD28) co-stimulated, Th1/Tc1 lymphocytes (Th1/Tc1.Rapa cells) in subjects
      diagnosed with high-risk multiple myeloma following AHCT.

      MM Relapse Prevention and Treatment Cohorts

        -  For Cohort A, in newly diagnosed MM patients who have received AHCT, evaluate the safety
           of a defined regimen of Th1/Tc1.Rapa cell therapy and determine progression-free
           survival.

        -  For Cohort B, in relapsed MM, determine the partial response (PR)/complete response (CR)
           rate of Th1/Tc1.Rapa cell therapy.

      Eligibility:

        -  For Cohort A relapse prevention, patients with MM (normal- or high-risk) who are
           receiving induction therapy and subsequent AHCT.

        -  For Cohort B relapse therapy, patients with MM who have measurable disease after at
           least 2 prior treatment regimens.

      Design:

        -  For Cohort A, patients will receive two infusions of autologous Th1/Tc1.Rapa cells (at
           one and two months post-AHCT; each infusion preceded by a 7-day course of immune
           modulating chemotherapy [pentostatin plus low-dose cyclophosphamide; PC regimen].

        -  For Cohort B relapse therapy, patients will up to four infusions of Th1/Tc1.Rapa cells,
           with each infusion preceded by either a 7-day or 14-day PC regimen.
    
  