
    
      Accurate blood pressure (BP) measurement plays an important role in peripartum care as it is
      essential in detecting hypertensive disorders in pregnancy and medical decision making during
      the pregnancy. The cuff and bladder size have been highlighted as an important factor
      affecting the accuracy of BP measurement. Current international BP measurement
      recommendations are based on mid-arm circumference (MAC) assuming the arm is cylindrical in
      shape. However, evidence have shown a mismatch between these sizes, leading to BP
      overestimation or underestimation in obese patients. This is because the shape of the arm is
      a truncated cone instead of a cylinder, and the cuff will expand irregularly during inflation
      thus yielding inaccurate BP measurements. This is especially evident in Asian pregnant
      patients whereby no available guideline can recommend a suitable cuff for parturients with
      different MAC. Nexfin is a finger cuff device that can be a suitable alternative BP
      measurement device for such patients. In this study 300 parturients will be recruited in
      third trimester and undergoing nonemergent caesarean section in KKH. Patients' arm and finger
      sizes will be measured, and their user experience on current practices on BP measurement. The
      arm measurements will help to identify the proportion of women that may require non-standard
      cuff sizes for BP measurement. A conicity index will be determined whether the MAC, finger
      measurement or BMI is the best clinical predictor. The finger measurements will also help to
      determine the proportion of women that may require non-standard cuff sizes on the Nexfin
      device for BP measurement. The knowledge gathered in this pilot study will be used to design
      future studies in which the accuracy of Nexfin will be compared with standard BP measurement,
      which in turn will improve BP detection, subsequent patient monitoring and satisfaction.
    
  