
    
      Tobacco use is one of the leading causes of preventable illness and premature death
      worldwide. Individuals who smoke tobacco tend to develop a physical addiction to nicotine.
      Behavioral interventions have been shown to be an effective means of assisting with smoking
      cessation. Smoking cessation interventions, especially those of a brief and intensive nature,
      have been shown to be a cost-effective means of preventing negative health outcomes and
      extending life expectancy.

      The PRIME theory of motivation regards cigarette addiction as a disorder of motivation.
      Accordingly, this theory seeks to help practitioners to identify effective means of
      overcoming addition through an analysis of the plans, responses, motives, impulses, and
      evaluations of smokers. Behavioral interventions often employ motivation interviewing with
      the goal of enhancing the motivation of smokers to quit by increasing their enthusiasm for
      positive life outcomes associated with quitting as well as giving a sense of purpose to this
      behavioral change.

      Evolutionary perspectives on human behavior suggest that the desire to find a mate is a
      fundamental social motive that drives much of human behavior. Accordingly, encouraging
      smokers to think about how quitting could be beneficial to their mating goals could be an
      effective means of enhancing motivation to quit. A brief intervention that requires smokers
      to employ episodic future thinking (EFT) has been shown to effectively reduce smoking
      behavior. The current proposal aims to (1) develop and test the effectiveness of a behavioral
      intervention that employs EFT about how immediate quitting of smoking could enhance prospects
      for mating success and (2) refine this intervention by identifying key individual differences
      that impact its effectiveness, in order to maximize successful cessation outcomes by
      targeting populations that would be more strongly motivated by mating-related goals.

      Aim 1: To develop and test the effectiveness of a behavioral smoking cessation intervention
      that employs EFT about future mating opportunities. EFT involves thinking about oneself
      experiencing a specific future event. Research indicates that this type of thinking reduces
      the tendency for people to discount the future costs associated with current behaviors and to
      reduce cigarette consumption. Since mating goals are of fundamental importance to human
      social life, an intervention that involves EFT about how quitting smoking could lead to
      increased likelihood of success in a specific future mating situation may be an especially
      effective means of motivating smokers to quit. Specifically, smokers will be instructed to
      imagine how quitting today could improve their chances of attracting a mate in a specific
      future mating situation.

      Aim 2: To determine whether individual differences in mating motives moderate the
      effectiveness of the proposed intervention. People who are involved in a committed romantic
      relationship are often less motivated to seek a new mate than people who are single.
      Furthermore, some people are generally more motivated to seek new mates than others,
      regardless of relationship status. Self-report measures are commonly used to measure
      individual differences in preference for sexual variety and motivation to seek new mates. The
      investigators aim to determine whether relationship status and mating motivation moderate the
      effectiveness of the proposed mating-EFT smoking cessation intervention. The investigators
      predict that this intervention would be most effective among individuals who are not
      currently involved in a committed romantic relationship and are highly motivated to seek new
      mates.
    
  