
    
      This is a prospective, phase 2, open-label, multi-center, single arm, single agent study, in
      unfit adult patients with AML or HR MDS who failed or relapsed following first-line therapy.

      The study consists of three periods:

      Screening: Up to 28 days Treatment: Recurrent 6 days treatment courses with BST-236
      Follow-up: The period of time from last day of BST-236 treatment to completion of one year
      (365 days ±7 days) from the first day of BST-236 treatment

      Post-study Follow-up: The period of time from last day of BST-236 treatment to completion of
      one year (365 days ±7 days) from the first day of BST-236 treatment

      Follow-up: One-Year follow-up of survival, starting at the end of study visit

      Treatment period: After signing the Informed Consent Form (ICF), meeting all eligibility
      criteria, and undergoing screening assessments for up to four weeks, eligible patients will
      receive the first induction course with BST-236, 4.5 g/m2/d administered IV over 1 hour for 6
      consecutive days. The first day of the induction is defined as Study Day 1. Following the
      first treatment course:

        1. AML patients in complete remission (CR) or CR with incomplete count recovery (CRi) or CR
           with partial hematologic recovery (CRh), and HR MDS patients with CR will receive
           between 2 to 4 maintenance courses of 6-day treatment with BST-236, every 4-6 weeks. The
           BST-236 dose in these subsequent treatment courses will be 2.3g /m2/d or 4.5 g/m2/d. The
           reduced dose must be used in case of previous courses toxicity and is allowed in certain
           cases according to physician discretion following consultation with the study medical
           monitor. The interval between treatment courses may be extended to up to 12 weeks to
           allow resolution of toxicities per investigator discretion and in consultation with
           principal investigators.

        2. Patients with stable disease defined as failure to achieve at least PR, but with no
           evidence of disease progression or patients in partial response (PR) will receive a
           second 6-day course with BST-236, at a dose of 4.5 g/m2/d. Following which:

             1. AML patients in PR or CR, (including CR, CRh or CRi) and HR MDS patients in PR or
                CR will be treated with maintenance courses as detailed above Patients in stable
                disease or disease progression may receive alternative treatment outside of the
                protocol and will be followed for overall survival (OS) until the completion of 1
                year of participation in the study (365 days±7 days from the first day of BST-236
                treatment). Additional 1 year of post study follow-up will be implemented for these
                patients in order to follow up on their survival status and their current AML/MDS
                treatments.

      Patients that have a disease progression while treated in the maintenance courses, will not
      receive any additional BST-236 treatment and will be followed until the completion of 1 year
      of participation in the study. These patients may also receive alternative treatment outside
      of the protocol, in such case, they will be followed in regular intervals for progression
      free survival, OS and development of new malignancies.

      Follow-up period: All patients will be followed by periodic in person in-clinic visits, until
      the completion of 1 year of participation in the study (365 days±7 days from the first
      BST-236 treatment day).

      End of Study (EOS) visits: will be performed on the last day of participation in the study
      for all patients.

      Scheduled in-clinic visits to assess safety and efficacy outcomes will be conducted during
      the study periods as specified in the Schedule of Activities.

      Unscheduled visits may be conducted at any time for safety reasons or for any other reason.

      Post study follow-up: All patients will be followed for survival for an additional 1 year
      from the EOS

      QT Evaluation with Pharmacokinetics (PK) sub-study: Up to 20 patients participating in the
      main study in pre-selected sites, will be asked to participate in a QT evaluation with PK
      sub-study to assess the effect of BST-236 on the cardiac electrophysiology. In this study, up
      to 14 blood samples for PK analysis will be taken from each patient during the first
      induction course and a continuous electrocardiogram (ECG) recording by a Holter monitor will
      be done in the first 24 hours of BST-236 administration. Patients participating in this study
      will be asked to sign an additional ICF for the collection of the PK blood samples and ECG
      recording.
    
  