
    
      Background and Rationale: Proprioception is the awareness of where our limbs are in space, in
      the absence of vision. It is an important sense that allows us to have control over our
      movement and perform many activities of daily living. Every year, approximately 62,000
      Canadians suffer from a stroke. Around 50% of individuals who suffer from a stroke are left
      with deficits in proprioception, yet clinically very little is done to rehabilitate this
      sense. Two novel interventions for rehabilitating proprioception are robotic rehabilitation
      and Transcranial Direct Current Stimulation (tDCS). Robotic rehabilitation is potentially
      beneficial over conventional therapies as the number of repetitions performed in a single
      session can be drastically increased and these movements can be performed in a
      well-controlled manner, something that is more difficult in conventional therapy. It is also
      easy to occlude vision when performing rehabilitation in a robotic environment, meaning
      proprioceptive retraining can be explicitly targeted. tDCS is another technology which has
      the potential to enhance rehabilitation. The technique involves placing two sponge electrodes
      over the scalp and passing a small electrical current (1-2mA) between the two electrodes,
      altering the membrane potential of the brain tissue through which the current passes. When
      tDCS has been paired with training, it has been shown to enhance learning in both healthy and
      stroke populations. tDCS has yet to be investigated to improve proprioception in a stroke
      population.

      Research Question: Can a combination of robotic rehabilitation and tDCS enhance
      proprioception in a chronic stroke population?

      Ethics: This study has been approved by the Research Ethics Board at the University of
      Calgary

      Design: This is a Single-Blinded, Pilot, Randomized Controlled Trial with a Sham Arm

      ----------Methods----------

      Recruitment: 30 individuals with proprioceptive deficits beyond 6-months post-stroke are
      being recruited from the outpatient stroke community in Calgary, Alberta, Canada.

      Randomization: Individuals are randomized into one of three groups: robotic rehabilitation
      plus anodal tDCS, robotic rehabilitation plus sham tDCS or standard of care rehabilitation.

      Robotic Intervention: The robotic rehabilitation intervention consists of 10-days of robotic
      therapy in the Kinesiological Instrument for Normal and Altered Reaching Movements (KINARM)
      Exoskeleton. Robotic rehabilitation is conducted for 1 hour each day, on 10 consecutive days
      (excluding weekends). Therapy is tailored specifically towards rehabilitating proprioception
      and consists of a battery of 5 simple video game-like tasks. Each task is performed for 10-15
      minutes each day. The order in which these tasks are completed are pseudo-randomized each
      day. Each day a motivation questionnaire will be completed.

      tDCS Intervention: In addition to robotic rehabilitation, those in the tDCS group will also
      receive 20 minutes of 2mA anodal tDCS. This is applied during the first 20 minutes of each
      robotic session and is targeted over the ipsilesional sensory cortex. For the sham condition,
      the same setup will be used. Each day a tDCS tolerability questionnaire will be completed.

      Assessments: All subjects will undergo 3 robotic assessments of proprioceptive performance,
      one at baseline (day 1), one immediately after the intervention (day 12) and one more at 3
      months follow up. Two components of proprioception will be assessed during these robotic
      assessments (position sense and movement sense). Robotic assessments will be conducted in the
      same robotic exoskeleton that the therapy is delivered in.

      A variety of clinical scales (Fugl-Meyer Assessment, Functional Independence Measure, and
      Nottingham Sensory Scale) will be collected at each time point. These will be secondary
      outcome measures. Performance on a robotic assessment of visually-guided reaching will also
      be a secondary outcome measure. All clinical assessments will be performed by a blinded
      assessor therapist.

      Data analysis: Primary outcome measures will be analysed using a repeated measures ANOVA.
      Comparisons will be made between groups at each assessment time points. Secondary outcome
      measures and questionnaire data will also be analysed with a repeated measures ANOVA.
    
  