
    
      Background: In developed countries, an increase in cardiovascular events and related
      mortality has been seen; even more prominent in people living with HIV (PLWHIV) as compared
      to non-HIV control groups. Studies have shown dyslipidaemia and diabetes mellitus type 2 as
      important risk factors for cardiovascular diseases in PLWHIV.

      The original study by this group in 2014 was a cross sectional study into the prevalence of
      cardiovascular risk factors (dyslipidaemia and diabetes mellitus) in PLWHIV in Austria and
      identified characteristics associated with these two risk factors. In that previous study
      dyslipidaemia was diagnosed in 46.3% of cases and half of all the study participants showed
      an increased insulin resistance. Eight persons (1.6%) fulfilled the criteria for diabetes
      mellitus type 2.

      Purpose: The aim of this follow up study is to see the progression of our study sample and to
      see what prevalence levels may be found after 7 years. Additionally, a look into previously
      identified characteristics associated with dyslipidaemia and diabetes mellitus type may
      provide valuable insight into the temporal effects. Finally, examining resource use this
      population in terms of medications can provide insights into current practice and its
      associated costs in Austria, as well as an estimate of the added medication cost of
      dyslipidaemia and diabetes mellitus type 2 in this population.

      It is our aim to close the existing knowledge gap on the role of dyslipidaemia and diabetes
      mellitus on cardiovascular risk among PLWHIV in Austria. Therefore, the investigation will be
      carried out by using routine data within minimum additional effort to the study team. The
      data obtained may serve as a base for future decisions on treatment of the Austrian HIV
      population.

      Study details: Our epidemiologic evaluation documents real life major cardiovascular risk
      factors of HIV-infected patients, focusing on lipid profiles and diabetes mellitus risk. The
      gathered data from approximately 450 originally enrolled patients will be compared with the
      baseline values analysed in the original study in 2014.

      Data collection: Dataset definitions and the minimum dataset will be determined by the study
      authors. Parameters used and documented must match those that were taken in the original
      study. These were specified in the case report form (CRF). The data collection and
      preparation will be done by a student of the Medical University of Vienna (Department of
      Social and Preventive Medicine) as a part of the graduate thesis.

      Enrolment Strategy: Patients will be recruited through the original study sites (2 extramural
      HIV clinics in Vienna). Original patient lists will be screened through the official
      Mortality Register of the Statistics Austria, where patients who have died during the follow
      up period will be identified. Additionally, other patients who decline participation will be
      asked to give reasons of declining participation.

      Data Validation and Data quality: Accurate data are crucial contributors to informative
      statistical analyses. Missing data will not be systematized.

      Quality Control: Source documentation and data accuracy will be verified by site visit(s) in
      1 randomly selected site after termination of the enrolment period. 10% of case report forms
      of the reviewed site will be randomly selected for monitoring.
    
  