
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the dose limiting toxicity and recommended phase II dose of docetaxel when
           given at escalating doses with weekly irinotecan hydrochloride and concurrent
           radiotherapy in patients with locally advanced esophageal cancer.

        -  To determine the dose limiting toxicity of cisplatin, once the recommended phase II dose
           of docetaxel is established, when given weekly with docetaxel, irinotecan hydrochloride,
           and concurrent radiotherapy in patients with locally advanced esophageal cancer.

      Secondary

        -  To evaluate the clinical and pathological complete response rate in patients with
           locally advanced esophageal cancer treated with induction chemotherapy comprising
           docetaxel and irinotecan hydrochloride with or without cisplatin followed by concurrent
           docetaxel and irinotecan hydrochloride with or without cisplatin plus radiotherapy.

      OUTLINE: Patients receive one of the following regimens. Regimen 2 is for patients recruited
      after the recommended phase II dose has been determined in patients recruited (who receive
      regimen 1).

        -  Regimen 1:

             -  Induction chemotherapy (weeks 1-6): Patients receive docetaxel IV over 15 minutes
                and irinotecan hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8. Treatment repeats
                every 3 weeks for 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
                toxicity.

             -  Chemoradiotherapy (weeks 8-13): Beginning in week 8, patients receive docetaxel IV
                over 15 minutes and irinotecan hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1 (week 8)
                and 8 (week 9). Patients also undergo radiotherapy once daily, 5 days a week, in
                weeks 8-10. Treatment with chemoradiotherapy repeats every 3 weeks for 2 courses in
                the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Regimen 2:

             -  Induction chemotherapy (weeks 1-6): Patients receive docetaxel IV and irinotecan
                hydrochloride as in regimen 1 induction chemotherapy. They also receive cisplatin
                IV over 20-30 minutes on days 1 and 8. Treatment with irinotecan hydrochloride,
                docetaxel, and cisplatin repeats every 3 weeks for 2 courses in the absence of
                disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

             -  Chemoradiotherapy (weeks 8-13): Patients receive docetaxel IV, irinotecan
                hydrochloride IV, and undergo radiotherapy as in regimen 1 chemoradiotherapy.
                Patients also receive cisplatin IV over 20-30 minutes on days 1 (week 8) and 8
                (week 9). Treatment with irinotecan hydrochloride, docetaxel, cisplatin, and
                radiotherapy repeats every 3 weeks for 2 courses in the absence of disease
                progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every
      6 months for 3 years, and then annually thereafter.
    
  