
    
      The main objective of the study is a head to head comparison of the everolimus eluting
      XIENCE-V ®, XIENCE-Prime® or PROMUS ® stent with the biolimus A9 eluting NOBORI® stent in
      order to observe whether there is a difference in clinical outcome between both stents in a
      real world / all-comer situation.

      Clinical outcome of both stents will be assessed by the composite end point of: cardiac
      death, non fatal myocardial infarction and target vessel revascularization.

      Endpoints

      The primary end point of the study is the composite of safety (cardiac death, non fatal
      myocardial infarction) and efficacy (target vessel revascularization) at 12 months.

      The secondary end points of the study are:

      A) The combined endpoint of cardiac death, non fatal myocardial infarction, ischemic driven
      target lesion revascularization (TLR) rate at 12 months follow-up.

      B) Incidence of Cardiac Death and Post-Procedural (>48h) MI rate at 12 months, 3 and 5 years
      C) Target lesion revascularization at 12 months, 3 and 5 years D) The combined endpoint of
      cardiac death, non fatal myocardial infarction, target vessel revascularization (TVR) rate at
      3 and 5 years follow-up.

      E) The combined endpoint of cardiac death, non fatal myocardial infarction and target vessel
      revascularization at 12 months, 3 and 5 years in STEMI patients, small vessels (< 2.75 mm
      RVD), long lesions (> 20 mm), female patients, DM patients and octogenarians. F) Procedural
      performance at the index procedures, measured by the ability to cross the lesions with the
      designated DES stent.

      G) Incidence of definite and probable stent thrombosis at 12 months, 3 and 5 years time.

      H) Incidence of definite, probable and possible stent thrombosis at 12 months, 3 and5 years
      time.

      Overview of the study

      This is a prospective, randomized, multi center study. Approximately 2700 patients will be
      entered in the study and will be randomized on a 2:1 basis. Patients who meet the eligibility
      criteria will be randomized to the everolimus eluting XIENCE-V®, XIENCE-Prime® or PROMUS®
      stent versus the Biolimus A9 eluting NOBORI® stent. Patients will be followed for 5 years.

      The study population will consist of approximately 2700 patients (1 year enrollment of
      consecutive all-comers referred for percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) with coronary
      artery or by-pass grafts lesions). Patients must meet all eligibility criteria for inclusion
      into the study.

      Randomization will be performed by using a closed envelope with code N for the NOBORI stent
      and code E for the Everolimus eluting stent. Duration of the study The enrollment phase will
      start January 2009 and will stop December 2010. The followup phase will last till December
      2015.
    
  