
    
      The investigators aim to improve knowledge of the association between epicardial adipose
      tissue, myocardial lipid content, and left ventricular regional myocardial function.

      In this protocol, obese adolescents are recruited undergoing a 3-month lifestyle intervention
      residential program. Adolescents from the intervention group will be enrolled at the obesity
      center for the whole school year. The obesity center employs a multidisciplinary team to
      provide the best weight management care to adolescents during their stay. The weight loss
      program is an integral part of the obesity center program and fundamentally combines physical
      activity with a normocaloric diet monitored by a dietician. The physical activity program
      consists of two training sessions (aerobic and resistance training) per week. Moreover,
      adolescents will be engaged in two additional sessions per week, consisting in recreational
      activities such as ball and racquet games, trekking, snowshoeing or swimming.

      There will be two measurement time: one at baseline (Day 0) and one at three months after the
      beginning of the lifestyle intervention (M3). The controls will be evaluated at baseline
      only.

      Statistical analysis will be performed using Stata software (version 13; Stata-Corp, College
      Station, Tex., USA). All statistical tests will be two-sided and p inferior to 0.05 will be
      considered significant. Qualitative variables will be described in terms of numbers and
      proportions. Quantitative variables will be described in terms of numbers, mean standard
      deviation or median according to statistical distribution (normality studied using
      Shapiro-Wilk test). Graphic representations will be complete presentations of results. The
      main analysis will be performed with the Stata software (version 13, StataCorp, College
      Station). All statistical tests will be carried out at a risk of error of first species α set
      at 5%. Most of the analysis of the secondary evaluation criteria will be exploratory in
      nature and may lack power in terms of numbers. As discussed by Feise in 2002,104 the
      adjustment of the risk of error of 1st species will not be systematically proposed, but case
      by case in view of clinical considerations and not only statistical (e.g. Sidak correction
      for the analysis of correlation coefficients).

      Qualitative variables will be described in terms of numbers and proportions. Quantitative
      variables will be described in terms of standard deviation or mean median according to
      statistical distribution (normality studied using Shapiro-Wilk test). Graphic representations
      will be complete presentations of results.

      Intergroup comparisons will be systematically conducted without adjustment and by adjusting
      for factors whose distribution could be unbalanced between groups. Patients will be described
      and compared between groups at inclusion according to the following variables: compliance
      with eligibility criteria, epidemiological characteristics, clinical characteristics and
      characteristics of possible treatments. The baseline comparability of the two groups will be
      assessed on the main characteristics of the participants and potential factors associated
      with the primary outcome. A possible difference between the two groups on one of these
      characteristics will be determined according to clinical considerations and not solely
      statistical ones.
    
  