
    
      The investigators seek to learn whether clinical decision support (CDS) systems from
      well-resourced care settings are effective in safety net community health centers (CHCs), and
      how to enhance such cross-setting implementation. Thus, the investigators propose a
      clinic-randomized, pragmatic trial of the uptake and impact of the 'CV Wizard' CDS tool in 60
      CHCs that share a linked electronic health record. CV Wizard summarizes each patient's
      reversible CVD risks, generates prioritized, guideline-based care recommendations based on
      those risks, and shows these in a 'provider view' and a 'patient view,' enabling patient
      engagement. Use rates and satisfaction with this CDS were high in the large healthcare
      delivery system where it was developed and tested. The investigators will: study its impact
      in the CHC setting, assess uptake of the CDS system, assess strategies for integrating it
      into CHC workflows, and its impact on patients' CVD risk and risk factor management. The
      investigators hypothesize that this cutting-edge CDS will improve rates of guideline-based
      CVD preventive care in CHC patients, who experience disparities in CVD risk factors, care and
      outcomes. The 60 study clinics will be members of OCHIN, Inc., a non-profit health
      center-controlled network and national leader in health information technology for CHCs.
      OCHIN's leadership enthusiastically supports the proposed work and will help ensure that
      recruitment goals are met. The investigators will partner with stakeholders / medical
      leadership from OCHIN's member clinics at every step, via existing structures. This study
      addresses gaps in guideline-based CVD care in high-risk populations, using targeted,
      multi-level strategies; considers setting-specific needs; tests how CDS affects guideline
      implementation in community clinics; and uses technology to support patient engagement.
      Results will yield knowledge about providing CHCs with cutting-edge CDS, and associated
      impacts on CVD disparities. The innovative study is the second trial to implement CDS tools
      from private care settings in CHCs, and the first to do so with complex CDS tools that
      address a range of CVD risk management guidelines, make prioritized care recommendations, and
      facilitate point-of-care patient engagement. Results could lead to substantial improvements
      in CVD prevention, care, and outcomes in CHCs nationwide.

      Our overarching aims are to:

      Aim 1. Conduct a clinic-randomized trial of the impact of an evidence-based point-of-care CDS
      system on (i) overall CVD risk scores, and (ii) control of individual CVD risks (blood
      pressure; HbA1c, lipid levels; aspirin use; smoking; body mass index), among high CVD risk
      CHC adult patients. H1: High CVD risk patients in Arm 1 CHCs will have significantly lower
      overall CVD risk scores over a 12-month post-index visit period, compared to those in Arm 2
      CHCs. H2: High CVD risk patients in Arm 1 CHCs who have poor control of specific CVD risk
      factors at an index visit will have significantly better control of those factors over a 12
      month post-index visit period, compared to those in Arm 2 CHCs. H3: Disparities in specific
      CVD risk factor control between CHC patients' versus national CVD risk factor control rates
      will be significantly reduced by 18 months post-implementation in each Arm (secondary
      analysis).

      Aim 2. Develop and hone need-based implementation support protocols to help Arm 1 CHCs
      implement the CV Wizard CDS system into their standard workflows; assess whether use of the
      protocols developed for Arm 1 CHCs accelerates implementation and adoption of the CDS system
      in the Arm 2 CHCs. H4: CDS uptake into CHC workflows will be significantly faster in Arm 2
      CHCs than in Arm 1 CHCs.

      Aim 3. Conduct a mixed methods process evaluation, guided by the Technology Acceptance Model,
      to identify and address patient, provider, and delivery system barriers to uptake / impact of
      this CDS in CHCs.
    
  