
    
      This is a prospective, open label, randomised, multi-centre Phase 2 study that will assess
      the efficacy and safety of olaparib monotherapy versus olaparib in combination with an
      inhibitor of ATR (Ceralasertib) and olaparib monotherapy versus olaparib in combination with
      an inhibitor of WEE1 (adavosertib) in second or third line setting in patients with TNBC
      prospectively stratified by presence/absence of qualifying tumour mutation in genes involved
      in the HRR pathway.

      Eligible patients will be randomised by a ratio 1:1:1 to treatment Arm 1: olaparib continuous
      in a 28-day cycle, Arm 2: Ceralasertib Days 1-7 with olaparib continuous in a 28-day cycle or
      Arm 3: adavosertib Days 1-3 and 8-10 with olaparib continuous in a 21-day cycle. Following
      the ISRC meeting on 17 April 2019 a recommendation was made to close the adavosertib+olaparib
      treatment arm across all biomarker strata. Following closure of this arm the randomisation
      ratio will be 1:1 to olaparib monotherapy or Ceralasertib+olaparib. Patients who were
      receiving treatment with adavosertib+olaparib treatment were offered the opportunity to
      continue treatment on olaparib monotherapy at the approved dose (300 mg bd).

      The study subject population will be divided into Stratum A (patients with mutations in BRCA1
      or BRCA2 (Breast cancer susceptible gene mutation (BRCAm)), Stratum B (patients with
      mutations in any of the other genes involved in the HRR pathway and no mutation in BRCA1 and
      no mutation in BRCA2), and Stratum C (patients with no detected tumour mutations in any of
      the HRR genes). Within each stratum A, B and C, there will be further stratification by
      whether the patient received prior platinum-based therapy.

      In the olaparib monotherapy treatment arm as well as in the Ceralasertib+olaparib treatment
      arm, patients will be administered olaparib bd at 300 mg continuously. Two (2) 150 mg
      olaparib tablets will be taken at the same time each day, approximately 12 hours apart with
      one glass of water (approximately 250 mL). In the adavosertib+olaparib treatment arm,
      patients will be given olaparib 200 mg bd (2 x 100 mg tablets twice a day) and adavosertib
      150 mg bd from Day 1 to Day 3 (inclusive) and Day 8 to Day 10 (inclusive) of every 21-day
      cycle. Ceralasertib will be supplied as 20 mg, 80 mg, or 100 mg film coated tablets. Patients
      will be administered Ceralasertib od at 160 mg from Day 1 to Day 7 (inclusive) of every
      28-day cycle. A total of 160 mg of Ceralasertib tablets will be taken at the same time on
      each day of dosing with approximately 250 mL of water. Adavosertib will be supplied as
      capsules containing 25 mg, 50 mg, 75 mg, 100 mg, or 200 mg of drug substance. Adavosertib
      will be taken with approximately 250 mL of water approximately 2 hours before or 2 hours
      after food. Olaparib, Ceralasertib and adavosertib will be provided by AstraZeneca.

      Primary outcome measures (progression free survival [PFS]) will be analysed for the 3 patient
      populations BRCAm, Non BRCAm HRRm (Homologous Recombination Repair gene mutation) and Non
      HRRm. Secondary outcome measures will be analysed in 2 patient populations HRRm and All for
      PFS, Objective response rate (ORR) and overall survival (OS) will be analysed in all 5
      patient populations. DoR, and tumour change will be analysed in BRCAm, Non BRCAm HRRm, and
      Non HRRm patient populations. Tumour and germline mutation status will be analysed only in
      the all patient population. PK outcome measures will be analysed only in the all patient
      population. Blinded Independent Central Review (BICR) of radiological imaging data will be
      carried out using RECIST version 1.1 and Investigator assessments will also be analysed for
      sensitivity purposes.
    
  