
    
      The assessment and intervention will be carried out only by the researcher, which has
      physical therapy training and expertise in dermato-functional physiotherapy with clinical
      experience in 11 years, as well as fulfilling all the prerequisites required for the
      management of carboxytherapy, according the judgment 293 of 16 June 2012 the Federal Council
      of Physical Therapy and Occupational Therapy (COFFITO). Patients will be submitted for
      assessment and intervention once.

      Assessments should contain demographic information of the participants by asking questions
      such as age, marital status, education and contact, lifestyle, gynecological history,
      surgical history, anthropometric measurements and physical inspection examination (Annex 3).
      Patients are advised not to make use of any medication for pain relief such as painkillers
      and anti-inflammatories, within 4 hours before the physiotherapy session. For physical
      examination, evaluations will be conducted in the standing position, with bathing suit,
      keeping the gluteal region with maximum visibility. The appraiser will inspect the bilateral
      gluteal region, to confirm the moderate degree of severity of the gynoid lipodystrophy,
      defined by the gynoid lipodystrophy severity scale, with the number of skin depressions (ND)
      in moderate amount, ND≥ 5-9 depressions, according CSS classification.

      For the study, three groups will be divided: group A (active TENS + active Carboxytherapy), Y
      group (TENS placebo + active Carboxytherapy) and S (active - control Carboxytherapy). Group A
      (active TENS + active Carboxytherapy) will be submitted to the application of TENS during the
      application of Carboxytherapy, both linked. The Y group (TENS placebo + active
      Carboxytherapy) will be submitted to the application of Carboxytherapy and TENS with low-dose
      therapy. The group S (active - control Carboxytherapy) will be submitted to the application
      of Carboxytherapy and off TENS. Prior to the beginning of the study, both devices will be
      calibrated. The gluteal that receive the intervention will be defined by lot.

      After drawing the group and laterality of the gluteal region that receive the intervention,
      will be marked by white pencil, the depressions of the skin with cellulite and the
      delimitation of the area, from the following lines: lateral line will have as midpoint the
      greater trochanter, where a vertical line will be drawn from the iliac crest to the lateral
      edge of the gluteal groove; top line will be drawn a horizontal line parallel to the gluteal
      groove, 4 cm below the posterior superior iliac spine to the vertical line drawn previously
      from the greater trochanter bottom line will be drawn a horizontal line delimiting the
      gluteal groove; the medial end of the gluteal groove to the vertical line drawn previously
      from the greater trochanter; medial line is delimited by anatomically intergluteal slot.
    
  