
    
      B-cell activating factor (BAFF) excess causes lupus disease by exerting costimulatory effects
      on the B-cell compartment but also on a variety of non-B-cell subsets such as T-helper cells
      and monocytes/dendritic cells. The 2019 updated European League Against Rheumatism (EULAR)
      recommendations for SLE recommend usage of belimumab (anti-BAFF mAb) in persistently active
      or flaring disease based upon evidence for efficacy, reduction of flares and organ damage
      accrual without increasing the risk of infections. Still, belimumab is usually reserved for
      established, refractory cases. It is conceivable that earlier usage may halt the progression
      of the disease, especially prevent flares and dysfunction in major organs. The investigators
      have completed a combined genetic and transcriptomic analysis in the peripheral blood of SLE
      patients and have characterized distinct gene signatures for disease activity/flare and
      severity. Using machine learning techniques, the investigators can predict SLE patients
      likely to develop major organ involvement. In vitro and gene profiling studies in purified
      lupus monocytes indicate that these cells exist - under the effect of type I interferon - in
      a "high alert" autoreactive and metabolic state (reminiscent of 'trained immunity'), which
      may contribute to risk of flares, tissue injury but also major comorbidities seen in SLE,
      particularly accelerated atherosclerosis and infections. Based upon the clinical experience
      accumulated thus far, it is likely that belimumab may neutralize these molecular signatures
      for flares and disease progression without interfering with host defense immune pathways.

      The investigators propose to perform RNA-sequencing of the whole blood initially, in a cohort
      of 80 SLE patients who will receive belimumab as part of standard clinical practice, in order
      to assess intra-patient longitudinal (baseline, 1, 3 and 6 months) transcriptome changes and
      examine whether treatment can ameliorate the identified activity/flare, severity and major
      organ disease signatures. The investigators will also obtain preliminary information on
      molecular signatures predicting clinical responses and the impact of belimumab on gene
      signatures of host defense against viral and bacterial (including mycobacterial) pathogens.
      Using modules of cell type-specific genes and co-expression gene networks, the investigators
      will deconvolute our data to define pertinent molecular alterations in specific immune cell
      types. Results will be validated and functionally characterized by single-cell mass cytometry
      (performed at the aforementioned time points), which enables investigation of the cell
      identity (including subsets of B-cells and myeloid cells of particular relevance to the
      disease) and activation status at protein level (e.g. phosphorylation) through
      next-generation, high-dimensional flow cytometry. Through a focused analysis of the
      deconvoluted RNA-seq and mass cytometry data followed by targeted gene expression and
      function studies in purified monocytes, the investigators will determine whether belimumab
      can restore "SLE-primed" monocytes thus, alleviating their inflammatory and pro-atherogenic
      phenotype and enhancing their bactericidal activity. Collectively, these studies will provide
      novel mechanistic insights on the beneficial efficacy/toxicity ratio of belimumab therapy in
      SLE, while supporting the early use of the drug.
    
  