
    
      Background: Osteoporosis leads to decreased bone mass, skeletal fragility, and fractures.
      Fractures cause disability, deformity, and even death. Osteoporosis affects 1.4 million
      Canadians, 25% of women and 12% of men >50 years. Current guidelines recommend aggressive
      secondary prevention in patients with osteoporosis and a fracture, because risk of
      re-fracture is as high as 20% within a year, and because treatment can reduce this risk by
      40-50%. Because bisphosphonates are safe and efficacious in preventing both vertebral and
      nonvertebral fractures, they are the treatment of choice. Patients with a wrist fracture are
      ideally suited to a strategy of case-finding and secondary prevention since this is a
      sentinel event in the natural history of osteoporosis: wrist fractures are common and easily
      diagnosed, always present to medical attention, are usually related to low bone mass, and
      wrist fractures tend to occur years before the more devastating fractures of the hip or
      vertebrae. However, these patients are under-diagnosed and under-treated. Eight studies have
      reported that one year after a wrist fracture, fewer than 10-20% of patients >50years of age
      have been tested or treated for osteoporosis. A significant care gap between evidence-based
      best practice and usual care exists.

      Objective: To improve the quality of care for patients with osteoporosis and wrist fractures.

      Hypothesis: An evidence-based quality improvement intervention will overcome multiple
      barriers to best practice and improve rates of diagnosis and effective treatment for
      osteoporosis in high-risk patients. The intervention will be directed at patients (education
      and counseling) and their primary care physicians (reminders and opinion leader generated and
      endorsed single page guidelines).

      Specific Aims: To determine whether the proposed intervention can:

      Aim #1- Increase use of effective osteoporosis treatment in patients with a fracture of the
      wrist.

      Aim #2- Increase rates of bone mineral density testing in these patients.

      Aim #3- Increase osteoporosis-related knowledge in these patients.

      Aim #4- Increase satisfaction with medical care in these patients.

      Study Design: A prospective randomized controlled trial comparing the proposed intervention
      to usual care in Emergency Departments and Fracture Clinics. Eligible patients will be >50
      years and present with any wrist fracture and not be taking bisphosphonates. Primary outcome
      is the proportion of patients starting bisphosphonate treatment within 6 months of fracture.
      The main secondary outcomes are starting any effective osteoporosis treatment
      (bisphosphonates, calcitonin, raloxifene, or hormone replacement therapy) and bone mineral
      density testing within 6 months. There will be blinded ascertainment of all outcomes. The
      intervention is expected to increase the primary outcome (bisphosphonate treatment) by at
      least 20% over usual care rates of 10%. With an alpha=0.05, beta=0.90, and a 20% loss to
      followup, the minimum required sample size is 220 patients.
    
  