
    
      1. General design and study population

           Controlled, randomised, double-blind study with no crossover; sample size estimate:
           20-36 participants.

           Sample size calculations are not necessary for pilot studies. A general 'rule of thumb'
           is to use 30 or more patients.

           An interim analysis of the data will be performed after completion of the second course
           (stimulation of 24 patients). We reserve the right to increase the sample size by 12-24,
           depending on the effect size, so that we have data from 30 participants per arm and the
           estimate is reliable.

           Study participants will be recruited via newspaper advertisements, advertisements on the
           internet page of the tobacco outpatient clinic and announcements on notice boards in the
           Department of Psychiatry.

           Study duration: it is estimated that 12 days will be required for each patient to
           complete the study protocol. The total study duration for 36 patients is estimated to be
           12 months.

        2. Screening

           No screening investigations will be performed.

        3. Randomisation and blinding

           Patients will be randomised to two groups of 10-18 patients each. One group will receive
           7x verum treatment with tDSC, the other 7x sham treatment. All participants will then
           receive standardised behavioural therapy ('The smoke-free programme'). Both patients and
           clinical raters will be blind to the treatment condition. Unblinding will take place
           only after completion of the study or if the whole study is discontinued because of
           severe incidents.

        4. Experimental paradigm

           Up to 12 participants (maximum number of participants for the smoke-free programme) will
           be stimulated per course. A total of 3x12 participants will be stimulated during the
           study and subsequently participate in the certified behavioural therapy 'Smoke-free
           programme' by Gradl, S. and Kröger, C. (2008).

           Blinding will be performed before the start of the study. Every participant will be
           given a number (pseudonym), which will be programmed into the stimulator. Each number
           will be randomly assigned to sham or verum treatment and the same treatment will then be
           performed at every session. The stimulator can be programmed beforehand to assign
           numbers randomly to the verum or sham group, so that the respective patient data are
           unknown to both the person who performs the stimulation and the course leaders. Half of
           the participants will be randomly assigned to the sham group and half to the verum
           group. The stimulator will be programmed at the start of the study.

           Stimulation will be performed with a DC stimulator MC (neuroConn GmbH, Ilmenau,
           Germany). The stimulator is a micro-processor-controlled constant current source with up
           to 16 freely programmable independent channels. The maximum current strength is 5 mA and
           the maximum stimulation duration 30 minutes. The stimulator is a CE-certified medical
           product that has been used in various national and international studies.

           The current is transmitted via sponge electrodes (35 cm2) soaked in physiological salt
           solution. The electrodes are attached to the head with elasticated bands.

           Location of stimulation: Anode over the left dorsolateral cortex, corresponding with F3
           (in 10-20 EEG system); cathode over the right temporal cortex; Intensity: 2 mA; Total
           duration: Constant stimulation for 20 minutes, plus 15 seconds ramp-in and ramp-out
           phase during which the current will be regulated up and down, respectively.

           Stimulation time schedule: Each participant will be stimulated a total of 7 times over 7
           weeks.

           The stimulation will be followed by a 90-minute session of the 'Smoke-free programme'.

           The standardised behavioural therapy will be performed according to the certified
           "Smoke-free programme' of the of the Institute for Therapy Research ('Institut für
           Therapieforschung', IFT). The course leaders' manual specifies that the ideal number of
           participants is 8-12.

           IFT 6-week course

           Schedule:

           Duration: 7 weeks 1 group session for 90 minutes/week for 7 weeks 2 telephone calls of
           10 minutes each, first after the fourth session 3 days after collective smoking
           cessation, second on day 3 after the last session.

           Study procedures:

             -  1st session: Smoking and a smoke-free life

             -  2nd session: The smoker's ambivalence

             -  3rd session: Errors in reasoning and alternatives

             -  4th session: Preparing to quit smoking

           SMOKING CESSATION

             -  1st telephone call: Individual telephone support

             -  5th session: Experiences from quitting smoking

             -  6th session: Identity as a smoke-free person

             -  7th session: Planning the future

             -  2nd telephone call: Individual telephone support

        5. Evaluation scales

             -  Edinburgh Handedness Test: Test to assess left- or right-handedness to evaluate the
                dominant hemisphere.

             -  Comfort Rating Questionnaire: Questionnaire to record symptoms after tDCS

             -  Fagerström Test: Questionnaire to evaluate physical tobacco dependence

             -  Questionnaire on Smoking Urges (Tiffany & Drobes, 1991) (German version: Müller,
                Mucha, Ackermann & Pauli, 2001): Uses two scales to measure craving for cigarettes.

        6. Additional evaluations

           As an additional evaluation, at the start of the stimulation and at four follow-up
           appointments salivary cotinine (a degradation product of tobacco) and the carbon
           monoxide content of expired air will be measured. Carbon monoxide will be measured with
           a Micro Smokerlyzer (Bedfont Scientific Ltd., Maidstone, England).

           At the end of each tDCS treatment, the study participants will complete a Comfort Rating
           Questionnaire (CRQ). Our research group has used this questionnaire about direct current
           stimulation for several years and has continually improved and updated it. The
           questionnaire records unpleasant sensations and side effects during and after direct
           current stimulation.

        7. Sample size estimate

           Sample size estimation and study design correspond with the usual procedures in
           comparable pilot studies (e.g. on tDCS or TMS).

        8. Statistical analysis

      Data will be analysed with a multivariate analysis of covariance (MANCOVA). The absolute
      values of the evaluation scales will be the dependent variables and the treatment condition
      the independent factor.
    
  