
    
      Antibody-mediated rejection is now recognized as the first cause of long-term kidney
      transplant loss. This type of rejection is mediated by the presence of graft-specific
      antibodies, usually directed against HLA (Human Leukocyte Antigens), called DSA (Donor
      Specific Antibody). It results from the interaction between DSA and HLA present on the
      surface of graft endothelial cells, complement activation, endothelial cell activation and
      recruitment of inflammatory cells within the renal microcirculation leading to a graft
      dysfunction.

      De novo DSA (ie, post-transplantation) is detected in approximately 20% of transplant
      recipients in the first five years, and is a major risk factor for antibody mediated
      rejection and graft loss. However, the presence of a DSA is not always associated with
      humoral rejection.

      All anti-HLA antibodies therefore do not have the same pathogenicity. The antibody titre
      (assessed by the fluorescence average (MFI) on Luminex beads) is involved in the risk of
      rejection but is far from explaining the disparities in clinical evolution.

      DSA are mainly IgG of different subclasses whose distribution could have a major impact on
      their pathogenicity. Indeed, complement-dependent cytotoxicity (CDC) and antibody-dependent
      cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) functions differ according to IgG subclass. IgG3 is the subclass
      that has the greatest potential for complement activation followed by IgG1. IgG3 and IgG1 are
      also the two subclasses with the best affinities for the FcγRIIIa activating receptor for
      ADCC mediated by Natural Killer (NK) cells.

      Some teams have shown that the detection of IgG3 anti-HLA by cytometry is associated with a
      higher risk of humoral rejection but these results have not been confirmed by others. One of
      the limitations of the cytometry by Luminex technique is that it only informs the detection
      of each subclass but does not allow analysis of the distribution of the different subclasses
      of a DSA.

      A method has been developed for the relative detection and quantification of different
      subclasses of the DSA using the mass spectrometry technique and will be tested during this
      study. This new quantification method therefore opens up the prospect of studying whether,
      not only the presence but especially the distribution of IgG subclasses, in particular IgG3,
      could constitute a reliable and robust marker of humoral rejection.
    
  