
    
      Endovascular Aortic replacement (EVAR) for the treatment of aortic aneurysms in patients at
      risk of aneurysm rupture is an established endovascular technique (ref: Blankensteijn, NEJM,
      2005). However, the development of the endograft design is ongoing in order to prevent late
      endograft failure (e.g. graft breakage, graft displacement). The stresses and forces applied
      to the endograft by the high physiological forces and stresses in the aorta have an effect on
      the durability and functioning of the endograft. The stresses and forces that occur during
      movement may be reflected by movement of the endograft itself during the cardiac cycle.
      Standard patient follow-up involves transverse CT imaging to detect endograft leakage.
      However, transverse imaging does not provide information on endograft displacement but does
      provide information on shrinkage of the aneurysm after endograft placement. Therefore,
      additional information on the longitudinal displacement of the endograft during the cardiac
      cycle may assist in determining the optimal characteristics of a durable endograft and
      therefore benefit the patient in the long-term. Evaluation of the stresses and forces by
      calculating longitudinal displacement of the endograft appears possible by applying a cardiac
      CT technique, namely, dynamic CTA (computed tomography angiography), on an endovascular
      device. To our knowledge, this new approach will yield new in vivo data on endograft
      behavior.

      This pilot study aims to quantitatively characterize the stresses and forces on an implanted
      endograft during the cardiac cycle in patients scheduled for standard endograft follow-up. In
      addition, in order to have the possibility to compare the movement of the aorta pre- and
      post-endograft placement, the aorta of patients planned for an endograft implantation
      procedure and who are thus already planned to undergo a clinical CT will also instead be
      scanned using ECG gated dynamic CTprotocol.

      The developed techniques will be applied in future studies for characterizing and comparing
      the currently commercially available endografts so as to gain insight into the mechanisms
      underlying potential endograft failure, and in addition, to assist in developing endografts
      with long-term durability and functioning characteristics for the benefit of the patient.
    
  