
    
      Criminal victimization represents a major public health problem in the United States. As many
      as one-third of adults have been the victim of a violent crime (rape/sexual assault, physical
      assault, or armed robbery) during their lifetime, and individuals exposed to violence are at
      risk for developing chronic psychiatric problems, including posttraumatic stress disorder
      (PTSD), depression, and substance abuse.

      The high prevalence of psychopathology among crime victims underscores the importance of
      effective interventions for this population. As such, considerable work has validated formal
      treatments for victims who have already developed chronic trauma-related difficulties. Very
      little effort, however, has been devoted to testing acute interventions that can be
      implemented soon after a crime event (i.e., within 4 weeks) with the ultimate aim of
      preventing longer-term psychiatric problems.

      Despite the limited research on acute interventions for crime victims, researchers recently
      developed an acute intervention called Psychological First Aid (PFA) for individuals exposed
      to natural disasters or other catastrophic events. Important for present purposes, however,
      researchers have argued that the primary PFA components (Contact and Engagement,
      Stabilization, Information Gathering, Safety Planning, Practical Assistance, Connection with
      Social Supports, Information on Coping, and Linkage with Collaborative Services) also have
      direct relevance for victims of crime. Thus, we propose that PFA could represent an ideal
      approach for responding to the acute needs of crime victims, with the goal of reducing their
      risk for development of chronic psychiatric problems. Importantly, although PFA has been
      strongly advocated by trauma experts, there have been no empirical tests of the model,
      highlighting the importance of the proposed research.

      Thus, this R34 project aims to implement and refine research protocols required for a
      full-scale randomized controlled trial of PFA for crime victims. Specifically, this project
      will examine the feasibility of a protocol for recruiting, assessing, and retaining acute
      crime victims in the study (Aim 1). Additional preliminary work that is essential for
      treatment research also will be completed, including the development and evaluation of a PFA
      fidelity instrument (Aim 2) and the refinement and testing of protocols for training
      paraprofessionals (i.e., Victim Advocates) to deliver PFA with a high level of fidelity (Aim
      3). Finally, a controlled pilot study will examine the effects of PFA on the key psychiatric
      outcomes (Aim 4).
    
  