
    
      Falls in older adults have a major impact on health, morbidity and mortality and have
      significant cost implications to healthcare providers (Alexander et al., 1992, Tinetti and
      Williams, 1998, Davis et al., 2010). Government legislation states targeted multifactorial
      falls rehabilitation programmes should be provided to older adult fallers (Excellence, 2013).
      The FaME programme, a group based rehabilitation programme is reported effective for
      improving balance and walking speed, and reducing the number of falls, chance of
      hospitalization, institutionalization, and death, and fear of falling (Skelton et al., 2005,
      Yeung et al., 2014). Sensory integration and re-weighting of peripheral sensory information
      from visual, somatosensory, and vestibular (i.e. inner ear) systems play an important role in
      maintaining balance (Horak, 2006). However, until recently no studies had incorporated
      vestibular exercises into falls rehabilitation programmes and therefore, the efficacy of this
      type of multisensory balance programme in older adult fallers was unknown.

      A recent study showed that a programme combining the widely used modified OTAGO falls
      rehabilitation programme with multisensory balance exercises was feasible in older adult
      fallers and may have a greater beneficial effect on balance, gait, and falls risk compared to
      the OTAGO programme in isolation (Liston et al., 2014). However, multisensory rehabilitation
      targeting sensory integration and re-weighting which is crucial for postural control is not
      addressed in current guidelines. To develop the best programme for fall prevention,
      understanding the complexity of postural control and defining a specified exercise programme
      targeting essential systems is required. The FaME programme includes certain multisensory
      balance exercises, but these are introduced only in the latter phase of the programme. This
      study's main aim is to compare the effect of a modified FaME vs. a multisensory balance
      exercise programme on falls risk, balance confidence and quality of life in older adults who
      fall or at risk of falling when implemented in a group setting.

      Research questions:

      Primary research question:

      Does exposure to multisensory balance rehabilitation provide better outcome in balance
      confidence, falls risk and quality of life in older adult who fall or are at risk of falling
      compared to the modified FaME programme?

      Secondary research questions:

        1. What is the long term effect of a multisensory balance rehabilitation programme vs. the
           modified FaME on all outcome measure scores and falls rate?

        2. Is there a relationship between baseline cognitive function, vestibular function and
           intervention outcome?

        3. Can vestibular dysfunction be effectively screened for in a community setting?

      Study design:

      This study will be a single blinded randomised control study to investigate the effect of the
      multisensory balance rehabilitation programme vs. the modified FaME on falls risk, balance
      confidence and quality of life in older adults who fall or are at risk of falling. This study
      will have two arms provided within a community-based setting. This study will compare
      intervention outcome between participants receiving the modified FaME falls rehabilitation
      programme and those receiving multisensory balance rehabilitation exercises.
    
  