
    
      Hip fractures are the cause of substantial morbidity and mortality in elderly people. Nine
      months after hip fracture, patients still have a poorer quality of life compared to control
      subjects matched for age and sex.

      After a hip fracture, many patients fail to return to their homes and their previous state of
      mobility. Acute hospital costs generated by this condition are substantial, although the
      costs in rehabilitation and special care in long-term community are even greater.

      Patients with hip fracture are most likely to be frail elderly, and they are usually
      malnourished when the fracture occurs. Moreover, physiological aging is accompanied by
      functional losses and changes in the various organs and systems, including the
      musculoskeletal system, in which there is a progressive reduction of muscle mass, called
      sarcopenia. Approximately 30% of muscle mass is lost between the fifth and eighth decades of
      life and the percentage of muscle loss can reach 15% per decade after 70 years of age. Having
      established a correlation between the loss of muscle mass and loss of strength, sarcopenia
      has been associated with a risk of functional disability twice in men and thrice in women.

      Hydroxymethylbutyrate (HMB) is a leucine metabolite produced in small quantities (0.3-0.4
      g/d). Leucine effects on muscle metabolism appear to be due, in part, to HMB. In vitro
      experiments have observed that HMB attenuates proteolysis processes through the inhibition of
      various catabolic pathways and could stimulate protein synthesis. There are some evidences
      that administration of HMB in the elderly results in increases in muscle strength and
      functionality enhancements, compared to a control group.

      In elderly people, low levels of vitamin D have been associated, among others, to decreased
      muscle strength, falls and fractures. The elderly have an increased risk of developing
      vitamin D deficiency due to less sun exposure, a decrease in the absorption and changes in
      the metabolism of this vitamin. Because muscle weakness is a clinical feature of vitamin D
      deficiency, it has been postulated that its deficiency could precipitate and increase muscle
      weakness and functional decline in older people.

      Therefore, the study raises the possibility that an intervention consisting of a high
      protein, high calorie oral nutritional supplement enriched with HMB and vitamin D is more
      effective than a standard high protein, high calorie oral nutritional supplement in improving
      muscle strength.
    
  