
    
      DAR-901 whole cell booster vaccine to prevent TB infection in adolescents ("DAR-PIA")

      This is a Phase II, 3-injection, randomized, controlled trial of DAR-901 to be conducted in
      13-15 year old adolescents in Tanzania previously immunized with BCG. DAR-901 is a whole cell
      inactivated non-tuberculous mycobacterial vaccine manufactured from the Master Cell Bank of
      SRL-172 that was used in the successful Phase III DarDar Trial in Tanzania. The goals are to
      establish the safety and efficacy of DAR-901 in preventing infection with TB. The 1 mg dose
      was selected during the current Phase I dose-escalation trial of DAR-901 in the US being
      conducted by Dartmouth and Aeras. The 1 mg dose corresponds to the dose of SRL 172 used in
      the DarDar Trial.

      All subjects will be screened by the T-spot® IGRA (Oxford Immunotec, Oxford, England) for
      evidence of TB infection. All screened subjects will have a structured interview to identify
      risk factors for TB infection (=positive IGRA). IGRA-positive subjects will be referred for
      further evaluation and will not be entered in the immunization phase of the trial.

      It is estimated that 1000 adolescents will need to be screened to identify a total of 650
      IGRA-negative adolescents in the immunization phase of the trial. Subjects will be and
      randomized 1:1 to DAR-901 or saline control at 0, 2 and 4 months. Doses will be administered
      by intradermal (ID) injection in the deltoid area. IGRA testing will be repeated before dose
      2, at 14 months, and again at 24 months.

      This three year study began in the first quarter of 2016 in Dar es Salaam, is funded by
      GHIT-Japan and will be directed by Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth (PI, F. von Reyn)
      with collaborators at Muhimbili University of Health and Allied Sciences (MUHAS) in Tanzania
      and Tokyo Medical and Dental University in Japan.
    
  