
    
      This study is designed to collect information on the current level of symptoms and ability to
      breathe, treatment and outcomes of patients with 1) Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease
      (COPD), or 2) in current or former smokers with respiratory symptoms but preserved pulmonary
      function or 3) in current or former smokers with respiratory symptoms and preserved ratio
      with impaired spirometry. This information will be used by the researchers to better
      understand the impact of COPD on patients. It will also help the researchers study the
      current recommendations for treatment of COPD.

      Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) represents a growing public health problem and
      is now the third leading cause of death in the United States. The risk of exacerbations,
      hospitalizations and death in patients with COPD tends to increase with increasing severity
      of airflow limitation. However, the correlation between forced expiratory volume in 1 second
      (FEV1), symptoms, and health-related quality of life is weak. The shortcomings of using
      airflow limitation alone to assess the clinical severity of COPD led the Global Initiative
      for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD) committee to develop a potentially more
      clinically meaningful approach to assess the impact of COPD on the patient. The GOLD
      committee has subsequently proposed a model for pharmacologic therapy of patients with stable
      COPD (i.e. those not currently experiencing a COPD exacerbation) according to GOLD risk
      group. The therapeutic recommendations proposed by GOLD are widely cited as a strategy for
      selecting therapy even though this model is predominantly based on expert opinion.

      This study will acquire data in a community-based cohort in which patients with COPD or
      current or former smokers with respiratory symptoms will be classified into GOLD risk groups
      A-D at enrollment and followed longitudinally. This study will assess the frequency of change
      in GOLD risk group during 5 years of follow-up, look at the use of COPD medications this
      cohort and how provider-selected therapy for COPD compares to GOLD-recommended pharmacologic
      therapy thus addressing a critical knowledge gap in the scientific community.
    
  