
    
      Protocol Design: This protocol is designed to perform collection of human specimens, such as
      blood, mucosal secretions, skin swabs, skin biopsy, or body fluids to support research
      studies. These samples will be used by researchers in their work on the development of
      vaccines, to study the correlates of immunity related to infectious diseases and in
      laboratory work related to the development and/or validation of immunological assays.
      Standard phlebotomy and apheresis procedures will be utilized to safely obtain necessary
      quantities of blood and cells.

      Objectives: Obtain human biological specimens such as blood (via phlebotomy), plasma or PBMC
      samples (via apheresis), mucosal secretions, skin swabs, body fluids or skin biopsy to
      support medical research.

      Study Population: Adults ages 18 years and older.

      Protocol Plan: Subjects, including healthy volunteers and infectious disease patients who
      consent to participate in this study, will undergo standard medical procedures to obtain
      biological specimens for research purposes only. The signed informed consent is valid for one
      year; at least once per year, the subject must re-consent and eligibility should be
      re-confirmed.

      Study Duration: Individual subjects may donate samples as often as permitted by their
      institution s guidelines. The IRB-approved protocol will remain open and undergo annual
      continuing review by the IRB as long as there continues to be a need for human biological
      specimens for research studies.

      Endpoints: There is no analysis plan for this protocol. This protocol will be conducted in
      accordance with Good Clinical Practices for human research solely for the purpose of
      obtaining samples for research laboratories. Samples will be identified only by subject
      identification number. Subject data, such as demographic information, aspects of medical
      history, laboratory parameters, recent immunizations or medications, HLA type, genetic tests
      and other medical information may be provided (identified by study number, but not subject
      name) to researchers if needed to support the objectives of the laboratory research.
    
  