
    
      COVID-19 is a condition caused by a coronavirus (called SARS-CoV-2) that was first identified
      in late 2019. In 2020, the virus has spread to many countries around the world and neither a
      vaccine against the virus or specific treatment for COVID-19 has yet been developed. Recent
      theory showed that the severe respiratory manifestations could be due to iron toxicity which
      cause intense inflammation in the alveoli and hence the ground glass appearance that was seen
      in ragdiology imaging

      Objective :

      To evaluate the efficacy of using Desferal injections for prevention of ARDS in moderate
      cases with fever , chest tightness and relevant chest images

      Randomisation:

      Participants are randomly allocated to either standard care or standard care plus Desferal
      injection. Randomization will be done through computer generated list by principal
      investigator. Allocation will be determined by block randomisation, stratified by hospital.
      This will be carried out by an independent statistician, prior to the trial commencement,
      using Stata (StataCorp, College Station, TX, USA) to generate the allocation sequence.
      Allocations will be concealed within sequentially numbered, sealed opaque envelopes, prepared
      by two research assistants who are independent of the trial Blinding This study will be
      single blind. Doctors will not be blinded to intervention allocation due to lack of
      feasibility

      Sample size:

      Two hundred participants randomized into two groups each 100 individuals. The trial will
      begin as a 1:1 randomised trial Intervention Model Parallel assignment Desferal group An
      initial dose of 1000 mg should be administered at a rate NOT TO EXCEED 15 mg/kg/hr. This may
      be followed by 500 mg over 4 hours for two doses. Depending upon the clinical response,
      subsequent doses of 500 mg may be administered over 4-12 hours. The total amount administered
      should not exceed 6000 mg in 24 hours

      Placebo group Will receive glucose 5% over 4 hrs infusion

      Standard care :- including clexan 40, antibiotics, corticosteroids ( as anti-inflammatory
      agent) and hydroxychloroquine
    
  