
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine whether immune checkpoint blockade using pembrolizumab eliminates persistent
      (on two computed tomography [CT] scans at least 3 months apart with no evidence of shrinkage
      or regression) high-risk indeterminate pulmonary nodules (IPNs) (estimated risk of being
      diagnosed with lung cancer within 2-4 years >= 15% for patients with no history of lung
      cancer or > 10% for patients with history of stage I-II non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC)
      who complete surgery and standard adjuvant chemotherapy if indicated) at 6 months after
      treatment.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether immune checkpoint blockade using pembrolizumab decreases the
      incidence of lung cancers confirmed by histology (biopsy or resection).

      II. To determine whether immune checkpoint blockade using pembrolizumab prolongs cancer free
      survival (disease free survival [DFS]) compared with observation in patients with high-risk
      IPNs.

      III. To determine whether immune checkpoint blockade using pembrolizumab prolongs lung
      cancer-specific survival compared with observation in patients with high-risk IPNs.

      IV. To determine whether immune checkpoint blockade using pembrolizumab prolongs overall
      survival (OS) compared with observation in patients with high-risk IPNs.

      V. To assess the safety and tolerability of pembrolizumab in patients with high-risk IPNs.

      VI. To assess quality of life patient reported outcomes in patients treated with
      pembrolizumab compared with patients under observation.

      VII. To determine whether immune checkpoint blockade using pembrolizumab decreases the solid
      component of high-risk IPNs.

      VIII. To assess the health-related quality of life (QoL) on subjects enrolled in the study.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To explore the radiographic (including radiomic features) evolution of high-risk IPNs with
      and without treatment of pembrolizumab and to assess their association with risks of risk of
      lung cancer as well as their association with clinical benefit/toxicities in patients treated
      with pembrolizumab.

      II. To explore the germline deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) profile and genomic evolution of
      circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) of patients with high-risk IPNs and assess their association
      with risks of risk of lung cancer as well as their association with clinical
      benefit/toxicities in patients treated with pembrolizumab.

      III. To explore the T cell receptor (TCR) repertoire evolution of patients with high-risk
      IPNs and assess their association with risks of risks of lung cancer as well as their
      association with clinical benefit/toxicities in patients treated with pembrolizumab.

      IV. To explore the evolution of serum soluble factors, such as IFN-gamma and interferon
      inducible factors (such as CXCL9 and CXCL10), IL-12, TNFalpha, IL-10, TGF-beta, VEGF, IL-6,
      IL-8, IL-17, IL-18, C-reactive protein etc. and assess their association with risks of risks
      of lung cancer as well as their association with clinical benefit/toxicities in patients
      treated with pembrolizumab.

      V. To explore the evolution of immunophenotyping or characterization of the immune cell
      subsets in the periphery, including, but not limited to, T cells, B cells, natural killer
      [NK] cells, or subpopulations of the aforementioned immune cell types and assess their
      association with risks of risks of lung cancer as well as their association with clinical
      benefit/toxicities in patients treated with pembrolizumab.

      VI. To explore the evolution of microbiome and assess their association with risks of lung
      cancer as well as their association with clinical benefit/toxicities in patients treated with
      pembrolizumab.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive standard of care.

      ARM B: Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Cycles
      repeat every 3 weeks for up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      After conclusion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, at 1.5, 3, and 6
      months, and then every 12 weeks thereafter.
    
  