
    
      Docetaxel is a drug that was designed to help kill cancer cells. Imatinib mesylate is a drug
      designed to block cancer cells from growing and dividing. Hormonal treatment with Lupron
      (leuprolide) or Zoladex (goserelin acetate) is used to lower testosterone levels in the body
      because prostate cancer cells need testosterone to survive. All patients will have their
      prostate gland removed after treatment with these drugs.

      Before treatment starts, you will be asked questions about your medical history and have a
      complete physical examination. You will have blood drawn (2 tablespoons) for routine blood
      tests. You will be asked questions about any medications you are currently taking and have
      taken in the past. You will have an electrocardiogram (ECG - a test that measures electrical
      activity of the heart). As part of your standard care for prostate cancer, you will also have
      a computed tomography (CT) scan (or magnetic resonance imaging ((MRI)) scan) of the abdomen
      and pelvis along with a bone scan (x-rays of the bones) to see if the prostate cancer has
      moved to other parts of your body.

      For this study, you will receive hormone injections to lower the levels of testosterone in
      the blood. You will also take imatinib mesylate capsules by mouth and receive treatment with
      docetaxel by vein to help kill the cancer cells before surgery.

      You will receive hormone therapy with either leuprolide or goserelin acetate injections,
      whichever your doctor feels will give you the most benefit. The hormone injections will be
      given every other month or every 3 months. During treatment with the hormones, you will also
      take an anti-androgen drug called Casodex (bicalutamide) by mouth for up to 2 weeks. This
      drug is being used to help decrease the risks of developing side effects due to the hormone
      injections (this is the standard of care with hormone treatments). You will take imatinib
      mesylate capsules every day for 6 weeks starting with the hormone treatments. You will also
      receive treatment with docetaxel. Docetaxel injections are given by vein over 60 minutes once
      a week for 4 weeks in a row. This will be followed by 2 weeks with no docetaxel. This 6 week
      period is considered a course of treatment. You will have up to 3 courses of treatment (18
      weeks) with docetaxel. After this treatment is complete, you will have prostate surgery
      within 4 weeks or when you have fully recovered from treatment.

      During treatment, your general health will be monitored and you will have physical exams and
      blood tests (about 1-2 tablespoons) often to make sure that you are tolerating the treatment
      safely. If the disease gets worse or you experience intolerable side effects, you will be
      taken off the study and your doctor will discuss other treatment options with you.

      Before surgery, you will be given a general anesthetic. An incision (cut) will be made in
      your abdomen (lower stomach area) and your prostate gland and lymph nodes in the pelvis will
      be removed. Before the procedure, the risks will be explained to you and you will need to
      sign a separate consent form.

      After surgery, you will have check-up visits every 3 months for 1 year, then every 6 months
      for the rest of your life. At these visits, you will have a physical exam and around 1-2
      tablespoons of blood collected for routine lab tests. If your doctor feels it is necessary,
      you may also have CT scans, bone scans, and/or x-rays. These tests are being done to check if
      the cancer has come back. If the cancer comes back, you will be removed from the study and
      your doctor will discuss treatment options with you.

      This is an investigational study. The leuprolide or goserelin acetate injections,
      bicalutamide tablets, imatinib mesylate capsules, and docetaxel injections are all FDA
      approved and are commercially available. Up to 36 participants will take part in this study.
      All will be enrolled at UT MD Anderson Cancer Center.
    
  