
    
      Preliminary studies have shown a reduced risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD) in people consuming
      increased amounts of fish in their diets. Many of the health benefits of fish are attributed
      to the abundance of omega 3 fatty acids. Docosahexaenoic Acid (DHA) is the most abundant
      omega 3 fatty acid in the brain. Data from several animal models supports the hypothesis that
      DHA may be an effective treatment for AD by means of anti-amyloid, antioxidant, and
      neuroprotectant mechanisms.

      In this study, 400 individuals with mild to moderate AD will participate at approximately 53
      study sites throughout the US for 18 months. Participants will be randomized so that 60% will
      receive approximately 2 grams of DHA, divided into 4 capsules, 2 capsules taken twice a day,
      while 40% receive an identical placebo.

      Potential participants will go to their study site for a screening visit, where eligibility
      is determined, and if accepted, for a baseline visit where cognitive status, behavioral
      status, functional status, and global severity of dementia will be assessed. Vital signs and
      biomarker labs will also be obtained. Subsequent visits will occur every three months for
      medication checks and, every 6 months, further assessments, physical exams, and labs.

      Some participants will also take part in MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) and/or CSF
      (cerebrospinal fluid) sub-studies. For the MRI sub-study, scans will be done prior to
      beginning the study medication, and again after 18 months. Likewise, for the CSF sub-study, a
      lumbar puncture will be done prior to beginning the study medication, and again after 18
      months.

      Enrollment is restricted to individuals who consume no more than 200 mg of DHA per day, which
      is almost 300% of the average daily intake in an American diet. Individuals who take fish oil
      or omega 3 fatty acid supplements are also not eligible. Each visit will include completion
      of a very brief food frequency questionnaire to monitor dietary DHA levels.
    
  