
    
      This study will investigate the use of cross education (ie. strength-training the uninjured
      limb) as part of the recovery and return to function for skeletally mature, adult patients as
      measured by the Oxford Shoulder Score after proximal humerus fracture and answer the
      question:

      does the use of a strength-training programme for the non-injured limb affect return to
      function in adult patients with proximal humerus fractures?

      Proximal humerus fractures (break to the top part of the upper arm bone) are common,
      accounting for 4-6% of all fractures in the older population and almost one-fifth of all
      fractures sustained after a fall from a standing height in patients with osteoporosis. These
      fractures can functionally impair the upper limb and so impact on overall quality of life.
      Some studies show that a number of previously fit and independent patients may not return to
      independent activity following a proximal humerus fracture and may even be at increased risk
      for sustaining a subsequent fractured hip/neck of femur. If new rehabilitation approaches can
      help improve the level of function achieved the morbidity and quality of life of these
      patients could potentially be improved.

      The ageing population of the United Kingdom means the number of patients sustaining these
      fractures will increase and so increase the cost to the National Health Service and the risk
      of morbidity/mortality/disability/poor health-related quality of life. Treatment needs to
      address range of movement (ROM) and muscle strength as well as restoration of function and
      access to the community as quickly as possible. Effective, timely and cost-efficient
      management of these patients must be found.

      Patients with proximal humerus fractures generally undergo a period of wearing a sling to
      immobilise the limb/stop them from moving it- especially those being managed without an
      operation. Different orthopaedic and physiotherapy teams across the UK use different periods
      of immobilisation, start rehabilitation at different times after injury and use different
      rehabilitation methods. Only a few randomised controlled trials (RCTs) exist looking into
      when to start physiotherapy and exactly what physiotherapy to do. Studies are needed to
      develop treatment and rehabilitation protocols to deliver the best and most cost-effective
      patient care possible.

      Wearing a sling/immobilisation of a limb for as little as one week can cause significant
      muscle wastage resulting in loss of strength and loss of function. Studies have shown that
      there is up to 60% reduction in strength after 5-6 weeks immobilisation. This early decline
      in strength could be due to fewer nerve signals being sent from the brain to the inactive
      muscles. It has been suggested that this could be prevented by strength-training the
      uninjured limb, known as "cross-education". The exact mechanisms by which it works are still
      unknown but it is thought that using cross-education could help maintain messages sent from
      the brain and so minimise changes in muscle and facilitating quicker recovery. The body works
      reciprocally in many ways, for example swinging the opposite arm (to the stepping leg) whilst
      walking. Many studies have already been done that show an improvement/maintenance of strength
      of an immobilised limb after strength-training the opposite limb but these studies have
      looked at uninjured patients or at those with lower limb injuries. Research into using the
      principle of cross-education with upper limb injuries is needed before it can be applied in
      practice routinely to patients.

      The patient will be asked some questions by the Specialist Physiotherapist or Doctor during
      their fracture clinic appointment to see whether they are eligible to take part in the study.
      If eligible they will have be provided with a written information sheet and the clinician
      will explain the study and answer any questions they may have.

      Patients will receive a phone call from the primary researcher 24-48 hours after being
      provided with the study information to answer any further questions they may have and to
      gauge interest in participation in the trial. If they are keen to be involved the primary
      researcher will arrange for them to come into the Physiotherapy department to sign a written
      consent form. At this appointment (which will take place in a clinical office within the
      department) the primary researcher will then use a computer programme (called Minim) to
      allocate them into one of the two study groups. If they are allocated into the experimental
      group the primary researcher will teach them their strengthening exercises for their
      uninjured limb, and will then arrange their first follow up physiotherapy appointment for
      within the next 2-3 weeks. Patients allocated to the control group (standard rehabilitation)
      will be booked their first physiotherapy appointment after signing their consent form. The
      patient will also be asked to complete some questionnaires about their current level of
      function/pain/etc.- these are completed by all patients suffering this particular injury
      regardless of participation in the study.

      All participants will have ongoing physiotherapy treatment at as many appointments as are
      deemed necessary in agreement with themselves and the treating physiotherapist to return to
      their required level of function. Those in the experimental group will receive a
      strength-training regime for they uninjured limb in addition to usual rehabilitation for the
      injured limb. Those in the control group will receive usual rehabilitation for the injured
      limb. All participants will be required to complete further questionnaires at 6 and 12 weeks
      after the initial questionnaires were completed (as is the case for all patients receiving
      physiotherapy at this Trust).
    
  