
    
      Background

      Health anxiety by proxy is a newly described phenomenon, where the parent has persistent and
      distressing fears that his or her child may suffer from a serious disease that is being
      overlooked. These intrusive thoughts may lead to excessive attention directed towards their
      child's body and a tendency to interpret natural bodily sensations as abnormal. As a
      consequence, parents with health anxiety by proxy may repetitively perform bodily inspections
      of their child or have medicial examinations conducted (1, 2). As a possible consequence of
      this parental behavior, the child may be at risk of developing similar maladaptive illness
      behaviors, illness perceptions and illness worries(3).

      Research on parents suffering from health anxiety has found evidence of health anxiety
      symptoms being transmitted from parent to child (4, 5) indicating that the parent's response
      to the child's health complaints (6) and how the parent copes with own symptoms may influence
      the health attitudes and behaviors of the child(7-10). This risk may be especially high if
      the parent suffers from health anxiety by proxy because the child is exposed to a particular
      preoccupation with and fear of illness and symptoms. For these reasons health anxiety by
      proxy is an important but neglected clinical phenomenon. Therefore, it is important to
      develop and test treatment targeting health anxiety by proxy.

      Internet-based treatment is a relatively new approach that compares favourably with
      face-to-face treatment (15, 16). The Research Clinic for Functional Disorders and
      Psychosomatics (Research Clinic), Aarhus University Hospital (AUH) has recently developed an
      internet-based treatment program (iACT) for health anxiety based on principles from
      Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT)(17). This treatment has shown promising results (14,
      18) and is used as a template for the development of specialised treatment for parents with
      health anxiety by proxy. The treatment is called iACT-by proxy and is targeting parents'
      maladaptive anxiety-driven behaviour towards their child with focus on exposure therapy in
      the context of ACT principles.

      The aim of the study is to test the feasibility and possible effect of the iACT- by proxy
      treatment program for health anxiety by proxy using a single-case experimental design.

      Hypotheses

        -  Patients will report a significant decrease in selected self-report measures of health
           anxiety by proxy answered every other day when comparing the baseline period to the
           interven-tion period.

        -  Patient self-report measures of health anxiety by proxy, emotional distress, and illness
           perception and catastrophizing when the child has symptoms will have decreased after
           intervention.

      Criteria for success of feasibility

        -  The treatment modules will be well received by the patients regarding format, length,
           content and contact to the therapist as measured by patient self-report on selected
           questions and with semi-structured interviews.

        -  Patients will log in to the modules on a weekly basis and will complete at least 6 out
           of 8 modules in the treatment. A module is complete when all text has been read in the
           module and corresponding exercises have been performed.

        -  Self-reported negative effects of participating are low.

      Method

      Participants and recruitment

      The patients apply for participation in the project through the webpage www.helbredsangst.dk
      using NemID. On the webpage the patient will find information about health anxiety by proxy
      and the research project.

      When logging in the participant is met with written information about participation and a
      following statement of consent giving permission to the health professionals in the project
      to directly collect health information from the patient record and use questionnaire data for
      research purposes in anonymised form. NemID is accepted as a digital signature by the Data
      Protection Agency. After the statement of consent, the participant is redirected to a
      questionnaire about physical and psychological symptoms, and personal background information.
      If the questionnaire is complete and the consent is signed the participant is self-referred.
      The participant will be invited to a video-assessment through e-boks.

      Assessment

      All participants are assessed using a shorter standardised diagnostic interview based on SCAN
      (Schedules for Clinical Assessment in Neuropsychiatry (21)) and supplemented with assessment
      of health anxiety by proxy using the HAPYS. The passed information from the patient record
      concerning the patients' somatic and psychiatric health information is necessary
      supplementary information for conducting a thorough assessment.

      The interview is conducted using an encrypted link for a video-service hosted by the Central
      Denmark Region (rooms.rm.dk) which comply with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).
      At the beginning of the interview, the health-professional ensures that the interview will be
      uninterrupted. The participant can have lay representative present during the interview if
      preferred.

      Informed consent

      All participants receive written and verbal information about the project. The participants
      receive the written information at self-referral. Verbal information is given by the
      health-professional performing the diagnostic assessment at the Research Clinic, AUH. They
      sign two consents; one when they complete the self-referral before the diagnostic interview,
      which gives the responsible investigators direct access to collect information from the
      electronic patient record for the purpose of using the participant's health information; and
      one consent when entering the research project after the diagnostic assessment.

      Signing the final consent the participants enters the project, gives permission to publish
      the research data, and gives permission to being contacted during the study period. In order
      to uphold the treatment responsibility, the participant provides a phone number of a relative
      in case of suicide suspicion. The system allows the participant to log out and log in again
      at a later time providing the participant with the opportunity to reflect before signing the
      consent. If the consent is not signed within two weeks after the interview the participant
      will be excluded from the study.

      Design

      The single-case experimental study will be designed with multiple baselines comparing the
      individuals' baseline level of health anxiety by proxy with the level of health anxiety by
      proxy during and following participation in the treatment (19, 22). In a multiple baseline
      design, the participants have different baseline lengths but the same intervention and
      follow-up period. The baseline and intervention period serves as two study conditions, a
      control (baseline) and a treatment condition (intervention) with N equally spaced measurement
      occasions(19). The base-line length is randomly assigned to the participants and serves as
      each participants' own control-condition. This makes it possible to have a small number of
      participants. If the intervention shows effect a change in the anxiety level will be detected
      during the intervention period.

      Measurements

      All measures are self-report measures obtained through the secure web-based software platform
      for data collection REDCap (Research Electronic Data Capture)(23, 24) hosted at Aarhus
      University.

      Assessment

        -  Short version of Schedules for Clinical Assessment in Neuropsychiatry (20, 21)

        -  The Health Anxiety by Proxy Scale (HAPYS) (Ingeman et al., submitted)

      Primary outcome

      The target measures of health anxiety by proxy are answered though a link in a SMS to the
      participants every other day from start of baseline to end of follow-up. The order of the
      items will be random each day. The target measures contain items of core characteristics of
      health anxiety by proxy which have been selected from the HAPYS based on the following:

      Secondary outcome

      Standardised self-report questionnaires will be answered four times during the study period
      (before baseline, right before treatment entry (end of baseline), end of treatment, and at
      4-weeks follow-up.

      Feasibility outcome

      Participants are asked to provide feedback on format, length and content of the treatment
      program as well as on the contact to the therapist after each treatment-module and in a
      semi-structured phone-interview with the Ph.D.-student after treatment end.

      Intervention

      The treatment is an eight-week therapist-supported internet-based program based on written
      psychoeducation, audio-files, behavioural exposure exercises, homework and videos distributed
      in eight short modules.

      Data analysis

      Analysis will be divided into primary outcome and secondary outcome. The primary outcome will
      be analysed using visual analysis of plotting data and observing if the measures decreases at
      time of intervention entry (19). Further, using a Bayesian analysis of clinically significant
      change will quantify the evidence for the size and presence of an intervention effect (35,
      36). The secondary outcome is analysed by determining Jacobsen's Reliable Change Index and
      from this determine that the change seen is not at result of measurement error and whether it
      is clinically significant(19, 37). The online free-text-answers and the interview on
      formalities and contact to therapist will be explored using thematic analysis focusing on all
      participant-experiences.

      Funding

      The Ph.D.-student and the Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry has initiated the
      research project in collaboration with the Research Clinic, AUH and received funding from
      numerous funds.

      Ethics

      The project is conducted in accordance to the rules in the Helsinki-Declaration. The project
      is registered under the Central Denmark Region's records of research projects (Den interne
      fortegnelse over forskningsprojekter ved Region Midt; 1-16-02-921-17).

      There is no previous research data suggesting that internet-based treatment for health
      anxiety, anxiety or depression are associated with any form of risk (12, 14-16, 18).

      Data protection

      All information concerning the participants is protected by the data protection act and the
      data protection regulation. All personal data including name, telephone number and social
      security number is encrypted. The questionnaires are not personally identifiable, but have a
      random ID-number. The participants provide written informed consent to publish data in a
      single-case format where each participant's data is reported separately, but anonymized.

      The platform hosting the treatment program was developed and programmed at the Research
      Clinic for Functional Disorders and Psychosomatics. All access to the server goes through an
      encrypted SSL-connection, and data pooling is being logged with IP and user-ID. NemID is used
      to log in to the platform. Access to the questionnaire data is only granted to researchers in
      the project and the data will be kept anonymously after project-end.

      Project group

      The project is conducted at the Research Clinic in collaboration with the Department of Child
      and Adolescent Psychiatry, AUH.

      The project group consist of Katrine Ingeman Beck, psychologist (PhD student)1,2, Charlotte
      Ulrikka Rask, MD, professor, PhD1,2 (Main supervisor); Lisbeth Frostholm, head psychologist,
      associate professor, PhD3,2 (Co-supervisor); Kristi Wright, psychologist, associate
      professor, PhD4 (Co-supervisor); Ditte Hoffmann Jensen, psychologist, PhD3 (Co-supervisor).

        1. Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, AUH, Psychiatry, Aarhus, Denmark.

        2. Department of Clinical Medicine, Aarhus University, Denmark

        3. The Research Clinic, AUH, Aarhus, Denmark.

        4. Department of Psychology, Faculty of Arts, University of Regina, Canada.
    
  