
    
      Exercise induced laryngeal obstruction (EILO) is a common cause of exertional breathing
      problems in young individuals, caused by paradoxical inspiratory adduction of laryngeal
      structures, and diagnosed by continuous visualization of the larynx during high intensity
      exercise.

      Studies indicate that EILO responds positively to treatment interventions; however, the
      investigators lack randomized controlled studies to confirm this (10-15). This study aims to
      provide evidence-based information on interventions commonly applied to treat EILO.
      Background: Exercise induced laryngeal obstruction (EILO) is a common cause of exertional
      breathing problems in young individuals, caused by paradoxical inspiratory adduction of
      laryngeal structures, and diagnosed by continuous visualization of the larynx during high
      intensity exercise. Empirical data suggest that EILO consists of different subtypes that
      require different therapeutic approaches. However, currently applied treatment schemes do not
      rest on randomized controlled trials. This study aims to provide evidence-based information
      on treatment schemes commonly applied in patients with EILO.

      Methods: Consenting patients consecutively diagnosed with EILO at Haukeland University
      Hospital will be randomized into four different conservative treatment arms, selected on the
      basis of promising reports from non-randomized studies: (A) standardized information and
      breathing advice only (IBA), (B) IBA plus inspiratory muscle training, (C) IBA plus speech
      therapy, and (D) IBA plus provision of both inspiratory muscle training and speech therapy.
      Differential effects in predefined EILO subtypes will be addressed. Patients failing the
      conservative approach and otherwise qualifying for surgical treatment by current department
      policy will be considered for randomization into (E) standard or (F) minimal laser
      supraglottoplasty, and a "wait-and-see" control group. Power calculations will be based on
      the main outcomes, laryngeal adduction during peak exercise, rated by a validated scoring
      system before and after the interventions.

      Discussion: The study will provide evidence-based information on the treatment of EILO,
      listed as a priority in a recent statement issued by the European Respiratory Society,
      requested by clinicians and researchers engaged in this area, and relevant to 5-7% of young
      people.
    
  