
    
      Prospective, investigator blinded, randomized controlled trial with two parallel arms. 100
      participants will be randomized to one of two groups. Ratio 1:1. Baseline data consists of a
      physical examination, anal ultrasound and a thorough medical history including age, duration
      of complaints, fecal incontinence specific symptoms and known risk factors for fecal
      incontinence.

      Group 1 will receive standard information and guidance and care by a specialized nurse. The
      treatment consists of advice about diet and fiber supplements and information about
      optimizing bowel emptying and use of antidiarrheal medication if appropriate. In addition the
      participants will receive six individual treatments of 30 minutes by a physiotherapist. This
      treatments will consist of massage of the back and neck. The participants will get no
      instructions on pelvic floor muscle exercises.

      Group 2 will receive the same information and guidance by a specialist nurse as group 1. In
      addition they will receive six individual treatments of 45 minutes by a physiotherapist
      specialized in incontinence problems and pelvic floor disorders. The participants will get
      instructions in the anatomy and function of the pelvic floor muscles and instructions on how
      to do a correct pelvic floor muscle contraction. The pelvic floor muscle exercises will be
      taught both by verbal instructions and by vaginal and anal palpation. For each session by the
      physiotherapist, the participants will get a physiotherapeutic examination of the pelvic
      floor muscles by a vaginal and rectal examination. The pelvic floor muscle and the external
      anal sphincter strength will be measured according to the Modified Oxford Score (ranging
      0-5). Endurance of sub-maximal contractions will be determined. The function of pelvic floor
      muscle will also be measured with intra-anal EMG biofeedback. Biofeedback will be used to
      give the participant visual and auditory feedback on a correct pelvic floor muscle
      contraction to enhance the participants awareness, strength and endurance of a correct pelvic
      floor muscle contraction. Biofeedback will also be used in sitting and standing position to
      assess the pelvic floor muscle function in those positions. According to the findings of the
      physiotherapeutic examinations there will be prepared an individual adapted pelvic floor
      muscle training program. The program consists of 3 sets of 10 contractions sustained up till
      10 seconds and 2 sets of 3 contractions sustained up till 30 seconds. 1 minute rest between
      each set. The participants will also be instructed in how to contract the pelvic floor in
      response to anal urgency and in situations with increased intra abdominal pressure. The
      participants will be encouraged to perform the training program on a daily basis and will be
      instructed in filling out a training dairy. The diary will be used as a motivational tool and
      to quantify the amount of training. The individual training program will be adjusted, based
      on the findings from the examinations, and participants will be instructed to perform the
      exercises in different positions and during movements e.g. transfers, lifting, walking,
      coughing.

      The treatments in both groups will be distributed over 16 weeks, with treatment in week
      0,2,5,8,12 and 16.

      Note 15. februar 2016:

      Due to logistical reasons, we failed to perform the 12 months follow-up in the first 15
      patients, which is why we decided to change the follow-up from 12 months to 36 months. This
      will enable us to perform a long-term outcome assessment for all included patients. This
      change does not affect the pre-specified primary endpoint.

      In order to achieve as high respond rate as possible we decided to restrict the follow-up
      measurement to the questionnaires: Patient Global Impression of Improvement Scale (PGI-I
      scale), Fecal Incontinence Severity Index (FISI), St. Marks Incontinence Score (Vaizey) and
      Fecal Incontinence Quality of Life Scale (FIQL). Questions about further treatment for fecal
      incontinence since completion of the study and the amount of current pelvic floor muscle
      exercise will be added.

      We thus decided to omit anal manometry, rectal capacity measurement and diaries from the 36
      months follow-up measurements.
    
  