
    
      This is a randomized, single center, single-blind controlled study in up to 36 healthy
      volunteers. Each subject will be dosed at four application sites, 7 by 7 cm in size, located
      n the distal and proximal anterior medial thigh areas. At two sites, subjects will receive
      15-minute treatments of a LC-CTL (1%, 0.3%, 0.1%, 0.003% or 0.001% w/w). At the remaining two
      sites, subjects will receive 15-minute treatments of NGX-1998 (10% w/w) and a control liquid
      (CTL-V (0%)). The volume applied at each application site is estimated to be 7 mcl per cm2
      and hence the total volume of approximately 300 mcl of LC-CTL (all concentrations), NGX-1998
      (10% w/w) and CTL-V (0%) applied at each site application will be sufficient to evenly wet
      the surface.

      The top or bottom section of each application site will be pre-treated with lidocaine 2.5% /
      prilocaine 2.5% topical anesthetic cream. These sections are also the sections where the skin
      punch biopsies will be taken. The biopsy will be obtained from these sections as it is
      anticipated that subsequent clinical trials in patients will use pre-treatment with a topical
      anesthetic. However, only the toop or bottom sections will be pre-treated with this topical
      anesthetic so that pre-treatment with the topical anesthetic cream does not interfere with
      tolerability assessments.

      The pharmacodynamic effects of nerve fiber density and function will be evaluated by
      immunohistochemical staining of biopsied tissue from the treatment area. Skin punch biopsies
      at all four application sites will be obtained to evaluate ENFD at 7 days post-application.

      Safety and tolerability will be evaluated by continuous monitoring of adverse events (AEs0
      and periodic assessments of clinical laboratory parameters, vital signs, physical
      examinations, dermal assessments, and pain associated with treatment.
    
  