
    
      A descriptive, comparative cross-sectional study will be conducted. Participants will
      attended the Physical Therapy Laboratory at the Federal University of Health Sciences of
      Porto Alegre in a single assessment session. This study was approved by the university's
      Research Ethics Committee (protocol 925.402) and, prior to data collection, all participants
      will read and sign a consent form.

      The experimental group will be composed of a convenience sample of patients from Porto Alegre
      (RS, Brazil) who were experiencing unilateral hip osteoarthritis and were submitted to THA in
      referral hospitals at least five months previously to data collection. Medical record
      information will be obtained from computerized hospital systems and potential participants
      will be invited by telephone to take part in the study. The control group will be composed of
      asymptomatic individuals from the community.

      Participants will be considered eligible for the study if: they are at least 50 years old;
      have not undergone previous surgery and/or injection of corticosteroids to lower limb joints;
      have no clinical signs of osteoarthritis in other lower limbs joints; and experienced no
      disabling neurological or cardiovascular conditions. Individuals who have developed
      complications (infections, deep vein thrombosis and/or dislocation of the prosthetic
      component) during the postoperative period will be excluded.

      Level of hip pain will be assessed using a 10-cm visual analog scale. It will be assessed in
      two stages: before (pre) and after completion of data collection (post-evaluation).
      Functional capacity will be assessed using the Timed Up and Go test and the Harris Hip Score
      questionnaire. To perform the Timed Up and Go test, subjects will be instructed to stand up
      from an armless chair and walk 3m, at their usual speed, to a mark drawn on the floor, then
      turn around, return to the chair and sit. The test will firstly be demonstrated by the
      evaluator and then performed by the participant twice, however only the second performance
      will be timed. Harris Hip Score is a hip joint assessment instrument; its score ranges from 0
      to 100 points, consisting of pain, function, deformity and range of motion domains. The
      Harris Hip Score results will be classified according to the score, where: lower than 70
      points is bad; between 70-79 is normal; between 80-89 is good; and, between 90-100 is
      excellent. Active range of motion measures will be performed in both hips by a single
      examiner using a fleximeter (FL6010 model, Sanny, Brazil). The protocol is adapted from the
      instrument manual, so that movements are assessed in the following positions: hip flexion,
      lying in supine and with knee flexed; hip extension, abduction and adduction, in standing
      position; and hip internal and external rotation, with the patient sitting on the edge of the
      table, with hip and knee flexed at 90º [21]. Movements will be interrupted if the second
      evaluator observes any compensation at the pelvis and/or trunk. The order of evaluation
      (affected or unaffected limb first) for fleximetry and dynamometry will be randomized using a
      mobile application (Randomizers - www.random.org). Hip muscles will be assessed isometrically
      using a BiodexTM Multi Joint System 4 Pro isokinetic dynamometer (Biodex Medical Systems, New
      York, USA). Equipment calibration will be performed according to the instructions in the
      manufacturer's manual. The chair is going to be set with 0° of inclination and the greater
      trochanter will be used as reference for alignment of the lower limb rotation axis.
      Participants' position is going to be maintained using stabilizing braces around the trunk,
      pelvis and contralateral limb. Patients position will took into account the postoperative
      limitations of THA and will be based on previous literature. Both hip flexors and extensors
      will be evaluated with the patient in a supine position, the tested limb in 45° of hip
      flexion and the contralateral limb in extension (image 1). Resistance platform will be set
      ~3cm above the upper limit of the patella. Both hip abductors and adductors assessments are
      going to be performed in side lying (image 2), the tested limb placed in 15° of hip abduction
      with the resistance platform lateral to the thigh, as the contralateral limb remained in
      flexion. Each muscle group evaluation will be preceded by an explanation of the test, as well
      as submaximal muscle contractions for familiarization and warm-up. Three attempts of 5s
      duration will be performed for each muscle group, with a 90s interval between each.
      Participants will be stimulated to exert their maximum strength during each attempt through
      verbal encouragement by the examiner.
    
  