
    
      The subject recruitment will be performed within the Neuro-Urology outpatient clinic at the
      Balgrist University Hospital and in collaboration with the Departments of Neurology, Urology
      and Gynecology at the University Hospital Zürich.

      The following subject groups will be recruited: 1) healthy controls (n=22), Non-neurogenic
      overactive bladder (NNOAB) patients (n=20), multiple sclerosis (MS) patients with OAB (n=15),
      MS patients without OAB (n=15), spinal cord injury (SCI) patients with neurogenic detrusor
      overactivity (n=24).

      After inclusion, all subjects and patients will undergo one to two functional magnetic
      resonance imaging (fMRI) sessions. NNOAB patients might undergo an additional fMRI session
      after receiving overactive bladder (OAB) treatment (such as antimuscarinics, intradetrusor
      injections of botulinum toxin type A). Spinal cord injury (SCI) patients with neurogenic
      detrusor overactivity will undergo an additional fMRI session 5-7 weeks after intradetrusor
      injections of botulinum toxin type A.

      High-resolution anatomical images and functional blood-oxygen-level-dependent (BOLD)-signal
      sensitive images will be acquired. In addition to the fMRI, diffusion tensor imaging (DTI)
      sequences will be recorded after the anatomical scans to provide information about the
      structural supraspinal connectivity.

      Study endpoints are changes of the BOLD signal in regard to location and intensity,
      structural and functional connectivity (FC) between previously described supraspinal centers
      involved in LUT control, and statistical differences of changes in BOLD signals, structural
      and functional connectivity between patients and healthy controls.

      All acquired fMRI data will be transferred to an off-line workstation running BrainVoyager QX
      or Statistical Parametric Mapping (SPM) Version 8. The functional data will be pre-processed
      for motion correction, spatial smoothing, linear trend removal, and temporal high-pass
      filtering. With both programs statistical analysis and graphical presentation of the results
      can be performed.

      The DTI records will be evaluated with SPM8, BrainVoyager QX or other programs like
      Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging of the Brain (FMRIB) Software Library (FSL) and
      DTI-Studio. To estimate FC we will use SPM8 or the brain connectivity toolbox. Both softwares
      allow the estimation of rest- and task-related connectivity on single subject and group level
      with corrected statistical threshold.

      Overall, 96 subjects for the main study are estimated to be sufficient to demonstrate
      significant differences between groups.
    
  