
    
      Participants affected by parotid gland neoplasms are evaluated by an ear, nose and throat
      surgeon in our hospital, who defines the indication to surgical removal.

      Preoperative management includes:

        -  Clinical Evaluation: participant's history and physical examination are collected.
           Participants are asked for the presence of pain, facial nerve weakness, fixation to skin
           and surrounding tissues, trismus, skin ulceration, lymphadenopathy, numbness, B
           symptoms.

        -  FNAC: it is always performed under US guidance in our Department of Radiology, and
           subsequently analyzed by a cytopathologist in our Department of Pathology. The same
           sampling technique is always employed. After skin disinfection, a 23-gauge needle
           attached to a syringe is inserted into the lesion and moved inside it to obtain enough
           cytological material. The material is subsequently expelled onto a glass slide, and the
           smear is prepared between two glass slides and fixed. The procedure is repeated two to
           three times to reduce the probability of nondiagnostic results.

        -  mp-MRI: MRI scans are conducted using a 1.5-T imager (Philips Health-care, DA Best, The
           Netherlands) with a head and neck array coil. The MRI study protocol consists of
           localizer sequences in transversal, sagittal and coronal planes followed by two axial T2
           weighted images: a T2 Turbo Spin-Echo (repetition time -TR-: 4465, echo time -TE-: 80,
           section thickness: 3mm, intersection gap: 0.3mm) centered on parotid glands and a T2 MV
           sequence for lymph nodes identification (TR: 3000, TE: 83, section thickness: 4mm,
           intersection gap: 0.4mm). Then axial T1 weighted images are obtained (TR: 571, TE: 16,
           section thickness: 3 mm, intersection gap: 0.3mm). Coronal T1, T2 and STIR images are
           subsequently obtained. Thereafter, DWI is performed by using a multisection spin-echo
           singleshot echoplanar sequence in the transverse plane (TR: 2800, TE: 160, 20 - 25cm
           field of view, 92 x 90 matrix, 3mm section thickness). Sensitizing diffusion gradients
           are applied sequentially in the x, y, and z directions with b values of 0, 500, and 1000
           sec/mm2. ADC maps are generated. After detecting the mass in the morphological images,
           The Radiologist identifies corresponding slice position for a T1 weighted FLASH sequence
           (TR: 30, TE: 4.6) in the transversal plane, used for DCEI. Each patient receives
           intravenous contrast injection (weight-adapted dosage, 0.1ml Gadolinium per Kilogram
           body weight) with a flow rate of 2ml/second using a power injector, followed by a 20ml
           saline flush. The contrast agent application and the T1-weighted FLASH sequence are
           started simultaneously. MR images are sequentially obtained at 5sec intervals for
           360sec. After DCEI, postcontrast T1 weighted spin echo images are obtained, with the
           parameters similar to those of the pre-contrast imaging. A region of interest (ROI) for
           signal intensity measurement is drawn manually avoiding the vessels and necrotic or
           cystic portions of the tumors. Thereafter, the Radiologist plots the average signal
           intensity within the ROI against time, and a Time Intensity Curve (TIC) is constructed,
           using a dedicated software (Philips Intellispace Portal). The ROI can be identified with
           an adequate accuracy only for tumors with a minimum diameter of 1cm; therefore for
           smaller lesions a mp-MRI analysis is not possible. TICs are constructed as follows: Time
           to peak (Tpeak) is manually positioned by the Radiologist in the first value of the
           curve in which the signal intensity (SI) reached the 90% of the difference between the
           maximum (SImax) and the starting (SIpre) signals: Tpeak > 0.9 (SImax - SIpre) + SIpre.
           Washout Ratio (WR) is calculated at 300sec (SIend) and expressed as a percentage, using
           the following equation: WR = [(SImax - SIend) / (SImax - SIpre)] x 100 (%). TICs are
           defined as follows: Type A: Tpeak > 120sec (gradual enhancement, ascending plateau);
           Type B: Tpeak ≤ 120sec and WR ≥ 30% (early enhancement, early washout); Type C: Tpeak ≤
           120sec and WR < 30% (early enhancement, late washout); Type D: flat curve (vacillation
           of the curve around the low signal level may be observed due to imaging artifacts).

      Interpretation of preoperative management findings aims to label each case as "benign" or
      "malignant", and is performed as follows:

        -  Clinical Evaluation: malignancy is suspected if any of pain, facial nerve weakness,
           fixation to skin and surrounding tissues, trismus, skin ulceration, lymphadenopathy,
           numbness, B symptoms is present.

        -  FNAC results were classified as: "benign" if a specific histologically benign diagnosis
           was made, if the report stated "no evidence of malignancy", or if only benign diagnoses
           were listed in the differential; "malignant" if a specific histologically malignant
           diagnosis was made, if malignant cells were identified, if the report stated "suspicious
           for malignancy" or "suspicious for lymphoproliferative disorder". The decision to
           consider as malignant also reports stating "suspicious for" comes from the observation
           that surgeons would manage these lesions as malignant anyway; "indeterminate" if,
           despite the presence of a cytologically adequate sample, the pathologist was not able to
           define the benign or malignant nature of the lesion; "nondiagnostic" if the pathological
           sample was insufficient or did not contain enough meaningful material.

        -  Conventional MRI results are classified as "malignant" if: presence of infiltration of
           surrounding non-glandular structures (including the facial nerve) is identified;
           presence of suspect metastatic lymph nodes is identified; the tumor is characterized by
           low signal on T2-weighted images and displays ill-defined borders. All other cases were
           classified as "benign".

        -  Multiparametric MRI results are recorded, and interpreted according to a stepwise
           approach. The first step of mp-MRI interpretation is the evaluation of conventional MRI
           findings. If the tumor presented features undoubtedly indicating a malignant origin
           (infiltration of contiguous non-glandular structures - including the facial nerve - or
           evidence of lymph node metastases), the lesion is immediately labeled as "malignant" at
           mp-MRI. The third category used to define malignant nature at conventional MRI
           evaluation, such as low signal on T2-weighted images and ill-defined borders is not
           considered as undoubtedly indicating malignancy, and further steps of mp-MRI evaluation
           are performed. After conventional MRI evaluation, advanced MRI techniques are used. The
           second step includes DWI with ADC maps generation and measurement. Depending on the ADC
           value, three main categories are identified: 1. tumors with extremely low ADC value (<
           0.6 x 10^-3 mm2/sec); 2. tumors with low or intermediate ADC value (≥ 0.6 x 10^-3
           mm2/sec and ≤ 1.4 x 10^-3 mm2/sec);

        -  tumors with high ADC value (> 1.4 x 10^-3 mm2/sec). The third step is the construction
           of a TIC using DCEI. Findings obtained with both DWI and DCEI are combined and
           interpreted as follows: A. high ADC value (> 1.4 x 10^-3 mm2/sec) and TIC type A, B (not
           plausible) or C are most often suggestive of a Pleomorphic Adenoma (PA), but also of
           myoepithelioma. Due to the rarity of myoepithelioma and to the fact that its surgical
           treatment is essentially the same of PA, this eventuality is not considered. TIC type B
           is not considered a plausible possibility, as this finding is very rarely reported in
           PAs. In such cases, a hemorrhagic complication after a recently performed FNAC in a
           Warthin Tumor (WT) should be considered. Tumors in this category are labeled as
           "benign", with suspected histology of PA; B. high ADC value (> 1.4 x 10^-3 mm2/sec) and
           TIC type D can be referred to cystic lesions. Cysts are characterized by very high ADC
           values, being composed of fluid or mucinous content. Tumors in this category are labeled
           as "benign", with suspected histology of cystic lesion; C. low or intermediate ADC value
           (≥ 0.6 x 10^-3 mm2/sec and ≤ 1.4 x 10^-3 mm2/sec) and TIC type A or C are typical of
           malignant epithelial tumors, but also of some atypical adenomas (cellular adenomas,
           basal cell adenomas). In an attempt to reduce the number of false negative results,
           tumors in this category are labeled as "malignant". No specific tumor histology can be
           suspected, due to the large overlap of findings and the high number of parotid gland
           malignant histotypes; D. low or intermediate ADC value (≥ 0.6 x 10^-3 mm2/sec and ≤ 1.4
           x 10^-3 mm2/sec) and TIC type B are typical of WTs. Tumors in this category are labeled
           as "benign", with suspected histology of WT; low or intermediate ADC value (≥ 0.6 x
           10^-3 mm2/sec and ≤ 1.4 x 10-3^mm2/sec) and TIC type D are not plausible, as TIC type D
           is typical of cysts, which are characterized by very high ADC values. In such cases, one
           should consider the possibility of repositioning the ROI, as this finding may be related
           to positioning of the ROI in a necrotic or cystic portion (therefore not informative) of
           a parotid tumors; E. extremely low ADC value (< 0.6 x 10^-3 mm2/sec) and TIC type A (not
           plausible), B or C are suggestive of parotid gland lymphomas. Tumors in this category
           are labeled as "malignant", with suspected histology of lymphoma; F. extremely low ADC
           value (< 0.6 x 10^-3 mm2/sec) and TIC type D are suggestive of lipomas. Lipomas display
           typical very low ADC values. Tumors in this category are labeled as "benign", with
           suspected histology of lipoma; G. mp-MRI IS considered "indeterminate" if the exam is
           unable to reliably measure ADC or construct a TIC, due to a very recently performed FNAC
           (less than two weeks) with reported complications (clinical evidence of infection or
           conventional MRI evidence of intralesional hemorrhage), or intense movement artifacts.

      Study power analysis:

      The number of participants to be treated is decided taking into account the paired design of
      the study, to detect any difference in the percentage of success (intended as the capability
      of the diagnostic test to be diagnostic and to correctly identify malignant tumors) between
      the two tests (FNAC and mp-MRI), assuming a percentage of participants for whom mp-MRI has
      success while FNAC does not of 20%, a percentage of participants for whom FNAC has success
      while mp-MRI does not of 5%, a power of 80% and an alfa error of 5%. These percentage
      strictly depend on the expected rate of non success due to indeterminate or nondiagnostic
      results of the tests. Therefore, we defined to be 100 participants the number to be treated.

      Statistical analysis:

      Number of indeterminate and nondiagnostic results, sensitivity, specificity, positive
      predictive value, negative predictive value and accuracy of Clinical Evaluation, FNAC,
      conventional MRI and mp-MRI will be reported. The comparison between success of respectively
      FNAC and mp-MRI will be investigated with the McNemar test. SPSS software (IBM Corporate, US)
      will be used. P will be considered to be significant if < 0.05.
    
  