
    
      Admitting a very elderly patient to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) is one of the most
      difficult clinical challenges in medicine. There are few data to help guide clinicians in
      this area: estimates of the benefits of ICU admission, especially in the very elderly, are
      sparse. Rates of ICU admission of very elderly thus vary widely by hospitals.

      The ICE-CUB1 (PHRC AOR 03 035) project has studied the ICU admission decision process of
      patients over 80 arriving in Emergency Departments (ED) with conditions that potentially
      warrant ICU admission and their outcome six months after ED visit. Overall rate of patients
      deemed eligible for ICU admission was of 12% (Garrouste et al. Crit Care Med 2009) but ranged
      from 5% to 38% across the participating centers. This variability persisted after adjustment
      for patients' characteristics (MOR 2.25, 1.60-3.58; hospital-related variance 18%). The
      analysis also revealed that high functional status prior to ICU visit, good nutritional
      status as assessed by an emergency physician and the absence of cancer were of good prognosis
      for outcome six months after ED visit. Only 23% of patients visiting the ED with a
      life-threatening condition and all positive prognostic factors mentioned above were admitted
      to an ICU in the ICE-CUB1 study.

      Hypothesis Elderly patients visiting the ED with a life-threatening condition, high
      functional status prior to ICU visit, good nutritional status as assessed by an emergency
      physician and no cancer will potentially benefit from ICU care and should thus be admitted.

      Main objective Determine whether a strategy consisting of recommendations of ICU admission of
      all patients over 75 visiting the ED with a life threatening condition, no cancer, good
      functional and nutritional status prior to ED visit decreases the mortality of these patients
      six months after ED visit.

      Secondary objective : Assess the impact of the strategy on:

        -  In-hospital mortality

        -  Rate of ICU admission

        -  Place of living and quality of life six months after ED visit

      Primary outcome :Mortality six months after ED visit Secondary outcomes

        -  In-hospital mortality

        -  ICU admission

        -  Change in functional status six months after ED visit

        -  institutionalization

        -  Quality of life six months after ED visit

      Type of study Cluster stratified randomized controlled trial. Stratification criteria are
      existence of an acute geriatric ward, capacity of the emergency department and location of
      the hospital (in or out Paris area)
    
  