
    
      1. Aim: to evaluate two 24-week double-task (aerobic and cognitive) square-stepping
           exercise programs for older adults (OAs) at risk of cognitive decline - one program with
           and another without caregiver participation - and to compare these with an
           aerobic-balance-stretching exercise program (control group). 255 OAs (85 per group)
           affiliated with the Mexican Institute of Social Security (IMSS) between 60 and 65 years
           of age with self-reported cognitive concerns will participate. They will be stratified
           by education level and randomly allocated to the groups.

        2. Study design: A double-blind randomized clinical trial entitled "Mind and Movement:
           Towards the Cognitive Health of Older Adults" will be conducted. The study will include
           two intervention groups and one control group: (1) a double-task exercise program with a
           squared mat led by a coach (a health professional) for 24 weeks (T1-GR); (2) the same
           exercise program led by a coach (a health professional) for 12 weeks and then led by
           caregivers of older adults for another 12 weeks (T2-GR); and (3) a control group of an
           aerobic-balance-stretching exercise program led by a coach for 24 weeks (C-GR).

        3. Study hypothesis:

           The investigators hypothesize that T1 and T2 double-task exercise trainings will show
           more significant improvements in older adults than the control aerobic training with
           regards to (i) general cognitive function; (ii) specific cognitive functions (executive
           function, processing speed, verbal learning and memory, and verbal fluency); (iii) usual
           walking and dual-task gait; (iv) blood pressure; (v) carotid intima-media thickness;
           (vi) carotid arterial compliance; (vii) older adults' health-related quality of life;
           and (viii) caregiver burden.

        4. Sample Size: It was calculated using the formula suggested by Zong (2009)32 for
           continuous outcome variable and non-inferiority design (2 [Z 1-α+Z 1-β/ δ] * S2). The
           investigators considered α <0.05, a power of 80%, and the assumptions to δ0 (a
           clinically acceptable margin) and S2(polled standard deviations of both comparison
           groups): General cognitive function=0.20(0.05), Mental flexibility (EF) part
           A=0.13(0.03) and B=0.37(0.37), Processing speed=0.06(0.02), Verbal learning=0.63(0.32)
           and memory=0.16(0.08), Verbal fluency words by category= 0.54 (0.14) and by letter=0.66
           (0.17), Walking speed (cm/s)=0.23(0.06), Walking length(cm)=0.86(0.22), Systolic blood
           pressure(mmHg)=0.27(0.06); Diastolic blood pressure(mmHg)=0.79(0.40), Carotid
           intima-media thickness(mm)=0.20(0.05).Subjective burden on informal caregivers=0.53,
           Patient health-related quality of life (SF-36) Mental score=4.0(1.0) and Physical
           score=4.0(2.0). The maximum required sample size, assuming a possible 20% drop-out rate,
           is 85 participants per group.

        5. Intervention implementation:

           The study will be conducted at IMSS Epidemiology and Health Services Research Unit
           facilities in Mexico City.

           The T1-GR will consist of 60-minute training sessions delivered three days a week during
           a 24-week period. Each session will be guided by a health professional with a nursing
           background previously certified to coach SSE trainings by the Institute of
           Square-Stepping Exercise in Mie, Japan (Chief Tomohiro Okura and Overseas Director
           Professor Ryosuke Shigematsu).

           In the case of T2-GR, older adults and their caregivers will participate in the same SSE
           program led by a coach for 12 weeks; older adults will then be asked to continue SSE at
           home under the supervision and with the active participation of their caregivers for
           another 12 weeks. They will be asked to practice SSE for 60 minutes, three times a week,
           and to reach a ≥65% heart rate increase. In the field of sports, the people who perform
           the above-mentioned activities are called "pacers," and they supervise physical activity
           through active accompaniment of older adults.

        6. Compliance and adverse events monitoring A monitoring system will be developed to
           perform long-distance monitoring of compliance with physical activity. It will include
           three components: i) the system that will collect the information from a chipset
           connected to the SSE mats (e.g., time of exercise, velocity); ii) the system that will
           transmit and store the data on the study computer; iii) the system for supervision and
           follow-up, which will allow connecting with participants through different electronic
           devices, such as mobile phones and e-mails.

           The monitoring system will be an important strategy to avoid missing data, drop-out
           rates and low program adherence.

           In addition, the investigators will monitor study adverse events through direct
           observations of the study participants during the exercise sessions, monitoring system,
           and 12-, 24-, and 54-week evaluations.

           The investigators will register number, type (e.g., dizziness, pain, fatigue, muscle
           strains, falls, or injuries), and severity of adverse events during the exercise
           sessions and outside the hours of the exercise sessions but during the intervention
           period. The severity of events will be categorized as follows: mild (do not affect
           activities of daily living); moderate (have moderate effect on activities of daily
           living); and severe (requires hospitalization, or results in persistent or significant
           disability or results in some life-threatening, or other medically important condition).
           RSA and ABD will review all adverse events on a weekly basis. They will report all
           moderate and severe adverse events to the IMSS Ethics Committee and stop the study if
           the adverse events data demonstrate any hazard of the intervention.

        7. Motivation strategies The monitoring system will be an important strategy to avoid
           drop-outs and low program adherence. It will be complemented by motivation phone calls
           to those participants who fail to attend the group sessions or to perform home-based SES
           activities.

           Moreover, the study will include 10-15 minute group discussions to explore
           health-related topics, such as the benefits of healthy lifestyles (e.g., physical
           activity, nutrition) to maintaining cardiovascular and brain health or to exchange
           experiences on past events. The discussions will precede exercise training sessions.

        8. Evaluations The investigators will conduct four evaluations during the study: the
           baseline evaluation and 12-week, 24-week, and 52-week evaluations. The study outcome
           variables will be measured at each evaluation, while the covariates will be collected
           only at the beginning of the study. The investigators will also measure the
           participants' adherence to the programs, defined as 80% or higher compliance with the
           assigned exercise training regimen. Finally, the investigators will document the reasons
           for dropouts and poor adherence. Previously trained health professionals with a medical
           specialty in geriatrics will perform these evaluations.

           The study covariates will cover Participant demographic and clinical characteristics:
           age (years from birth); biological sex (male or female); formal educational attainment
           (years); current employment status (retired, employed, volunteer, unpaid worker,
           unemployed); marital status (married, widowed, divorced, single, other); and current
           living situation (living alone, living with a spouse, living with or without children);
           self-reported comorbidities relevant to this study (e.g., vascular risk factors,
           orthopedic conditions, etc.); and self-reported baseline physical activity defined as i)
           ideal (≥150 minutes per week of moderate-intensity activity or ≥75 minutes per week of
           vigorous-intensity activity, or an equivalent combination); ii) moderate/intermediate
           (≤149 minutes per week of moderate-intensity activity or ≤74 minutes per week of
           vigorous or intense activity, or an equivalent combination); and iii) poor (without any
           moderate or intense physical activity).

           Caregivers will be asked the following: age, biological sex, formal educational
           attainment, current employment status, marital status, relation to the patient, and
           self-reported baseline physical activity, as previously defined; availability of social
           support networks; and presence of animal companions at home. Social support will be
           measured using the Household and Family Support Networks subsection (part 5) of the
           World Health Organization Study on Global AGEing and Adult Health.

        9. Data Management and confidentiality Data entry will be conducted by trained staff. Data
           quality will be assessed before statistical analysis (eg, range checks for data values).

           Only members of the study team will have access to the study information and all
           information that will be collected from participants will be kept private to ensure
           confidentiality. The consent forms with participant signatures will be stored in a
           locked location only accessible by the principal investigator (PI). All electronic data
           will be stored on the PI laptop and a back-up hard drive which will be password
           protected. Any handwritten information such as field notes or other related research
           materials will be stored and secured in a locked cabinet when not in use. Data will be
           erased and destroyed after 5 years, as per IMSS Ethics and Research Committee
           guidelines. Only deidentified data will be used for reporting, publication, and
           dissemination of findings.

       10. Statistical Analysis First, the investigators will perform a descriptive analysis of the
           older adults' and caregivers' characteristics at each evaluation and evaluate the
           distribution of quantitative variables using the Kilmogorov-Smirnov normality test.
           Variables that have normal distribution will be analyzed using means and standard
           deviations, variables with non-normal distribution will be presented using medians and
           25th and 75th percentiles, and categorical variables will be analyzed by using
           frequencies and percentages. Second, for each evaluation the investigators will compare
           study variables between T1-GR and C-GR and between T2-GR and C-GR. The comparison
           between these groups will be performed using Student's t-test (for normally distributed
           continuous variables), Mann Whitney-U test (for continuous variables that are not
           normally distributed), or Chi-square test (for categorical variables), as appropriate.
           The difference between baseline and post-intervention evaluations for each group will be
           measured using the Student's paired t-test or Mann-Whitney U test when the distribution
           is non-normal. The effect of the intervention on the outcome variables will be assessed
           by estimating the differences-in-differences (D-in-D) treatment effects using a D-in-D
           estimator.46 If the investigators identify statistically significant differences in
           participants' baseline characteristics and adherence to the exercise regimens among the
           studied groups, the model will adjust the results of the D-in-D treatment effects by
           these covariates using a generalized linear regression model (GLM), where Yi= ß0+
           ß1Xi+ß2X+ ß3X +ßjCov +ei; in this regression equation, ß1 represents the mean difference
           within each group, β2 the mean change after the intervention, β3 the difference in mean
           change between the two groups (e.g., T1-GR and C-GR), ßjCov the covariates that were
           different between the study groups, and ei= the standard error. This model considers the
           correlation among repeated observations of the same subject and allows a more precise
           estimate to be obtained. The investigators will conduct a model for each outcome
           variables. P-values < 0.05 will be interpreted as statistically significant. The
           analyses will be performed using the software Stata 14.0 (Stata Corp, College Station,
           TX, USA).
    
  