
    
      In 2011, the United Nations defined happiness as a "fundamental human goal" and invited
      Member States to pursue measures that enhance the happiness of their citizens. The majority
      of people across the globe agree that happiness is an important goal. In accordance with this
      global goal to be happy, the psychological literature abounds with interventions to combat
      problems that may prevent people from being happy-from obesity to depression and physical
      pain. However, happiness is not simply the absence of problems. Yet, interventions to help
      people attain and maintain higher levels of happiness are rare. Accordingly, in a previous
      study, the investigators designed and evaluated the efficacy of a theoretically-grounded,
      evidence-based randomized controlled trial for enhancing happiness and well-being. In the
      present study, it is the goal to assess the efficacy of modifications made to the original
      program, and compare the program to a self-help comparison group. All participants in the
      study will complete weekly questionnaires, as well as the same battery of online assessments
      at baseline, the end of the study, and 3-months following the study. The investigators will
      be examining if changes seen from baseline to the end of the interventions are maintained
      through a maintenance intervention in both arms for 3 months following the primary
      intervention.

      It is expect that participants actively completing the in-person ENHANCE program will report
      greater increase in their overall levels of happiness/well-being at the end of the 12-week
      program compared to participants in the MBSR self-help group. It is predicted that there will
      be a downstream effect on happiness for all participants' mental and physical health,
      cognitive function, social relationships, and other positive outcomes, but that this effect
      will be greater for participants in the active in-person ENHANCE group. The insights gained
      from this research could be used in future intervention research towards promoting health,
      achievement, citizenship, and better relationships.
    
  