
    
      As there are over 15.000 patients in Poland on continuous tacrolimus (TAC) therapy, the
      identification and validation of more sensitive and specific biomarkers is of utmost
      importance. The investigators propose a multiple step assessment of TAC therapeutic drug
      monitoring (TDM) in kidney and liver recipients. A role of genetic profiling on drug
      concentration and clinical effects will also be addressed. The project will significantly
      contribute to understanding tacrolimus pharmacokinetics and body response to drug exposure.
      Moreover, the proposed project is the first attempt to integrate both different TDM measure
      methods and patient genetics in a rigorous, prospective study with the assessment of the
      clinical over- and underexposure TAC effects. It is expected to provide an argument for
      implementation of even more personalized, predictable immunosuppressive therapy.

      The investigators hypothesize that:

        1. There is a correlation of free TAC level with drug toxicity on one hand, and graft
           rejection and underimmunosuppression despite target whole blood concentration on the
           other.

        2. CYP3A5 expressors and non-expressors will present different levels of TAC in both whole
           blood C0 and free TAC C0 as well as different effectiveness and toxicity profiles.

        3. The concentration of free TAC is related to changes in the concentration of blood
           components, thus it is possible to derive the equation for calculating free TAC fraction
           as a useful tool for the drug dosage adjustment.

      Study design:

      The group: 110 consecutive adult kidney or liver transplant on TAC-based immunosuppression,
      who declare to attend the local outpatient clinic for at least one year. Another exclusion
      criteria are HBV, HCV and HIV infection, neurological disordesr, intake of drugs affecting
      TAC metabolism.

      Objectives: A primary objective of this study is to look for a correlation between unbound
      TAC level in an ultrafiltrate with symptoms of drug toxicity, and graft rejection episodes.
      Also, a complex comparison of different methods of determination of TAC concentration in
      whole blood, plasma and ultrafiltrate is planned. Secondary aim of the study is to calculate
      free fraction of TAC from hematocrit level, albumin concentration and routine whole blood TAC
      C0 to predict dose adjustment more accurately. The generated equation will be plot against
      CYP3A polymorphisms. The benefit of genotyping before administration of TAC for dose
      prediction will be evaluated.

      Database and endpoints: a Case Report Form (CRF) was designed. Primary endpoints are:
      treatment failure, 12-month overall patient and graft survival. Secondary end points are side
      effects of tacrolimus toxicity: kidney graft function, liver graft function, new-onset
      diabetes mellitus after transplantation or worsening of former diabetes control, new arterial
      hypertension or worsening of former hypertension control, metabolic disorders (dyslipidemia,
      hypomagesemia, hypokalemia), neurotoxicity (especially post-transplant tremors), digestive
      disorders, cardiovascular events, infections and neoplasms' occurrence.

      TAC measure: free TAC in ultrafiltrate, plasma and whole blood C0 will be measured (day: 3,
      5, 7, 14, 360).

      Genotyping: CYP3A4 and CYP3A5 polymorphisms will be recorded. Study duration: The study is
      scheduled for 3 years: 1-1.5 years for collection of samples, 1 year of follow-up after
      transplantation, 0.5 year for analysis and publication of the results.

      Efficacy variables: Standard monitoring of blood and urine laboratory parameters in de novo
      renal or liver transplant recipients during first year after transplantation, neurological
      examination including The Essential Tremor Rating Assessment Scale (TETRAS), whole blood TAC
      trough level (C0), plasma TAC concentration, free TAC concentration in plasma ultrafiltrate,
      TAC daily dose.
    
  