
    
      Tranexamic acid (TXA), a drug that stops bleeding, is the only drug treatment that improves
      survival in adults with serious bleeding after injuries. However, TXA has not been used
      routinely in children with traumatic bleeding because no studies have appropriately evaluated
      TXA for injured children. Such a study has the potential for significant impact in improving
      the lives of injured children and their families, if found to be successful. The long-term
      objective is to evaluate the benefits and risks of TXA in severely injured children. This
      will be achieved by ultimately conducting two large-scale, multicenter, randomized controlled
      trials of TXA use in severely injured children. One trial will evaluate TXA in children with
      severe injuries to the body ("torso injuries", i.e., to the abdomen and chest) and the second
      trial will evaluate TXA in children with moderate-to-severe traumatic brain injuries (TBIs).
      However, conducting a clinical trial in critically ill children is challenging due to lower
      disease frequency and complex parent consent/child assent procedures. The investigators will
      conduct a pilot study, designed similarly to the full-scale trials but with much smaller
      patient enrollment, to assess the feasibility of, and fill crucial information gaps for the
      two subsequent large-scale clinical trials. Injured children will be randomized to one of
      three study arms: two different TXA doses or placebo. The specific aim of the proposed pilot
      study is to demonstrate the ability to efficiently identify and enroll children with
      hemorrhagic torso injuries or TBIs into a multicenter, randomized controlled pilot study
      evaluating these two doses of TXA and placebo. The pilot study will enroll 40 children who
      meet inclusion and exclusion criteria at 4 participating sites. To demonstrate the ability to
      collect outcome measures, the investigators will collect the identical anticipated outcome
      measures for the subsequent clinical trials: total blood products transfused over the initial
      48 hours of care (torso injury trial), and intracranial hemorrhage progression in first 24
      hours and neurocognitive function at 6 months after randomization (TBI trial). The
      investigators will also collect safety outcomes, specifically venothromboembolic events
      (i.e., blot clots in the blood vessels) and seizures within the initial 24 hours of study
      drug. Additional objectives of this pilot study are to: evaluate the ability to efficiently
      screen, identify, consent, randomize, and initiate the study intervention within 3 hours of
      injury, assess protocol adherence and variability of care in enrolled patients, and identify
      operational efficiencies with the potential to enhance the success of the subsequent trials.
    
  