
    
      CIPA patient do have very low or undetectable levels of norepinephrine in plasma and also
      have significant cognitive and behavioral problems. The aim of this project is to increase NE
      levels in brain and evaluate if this increase improve cognitive cognition or behavior.

      Both drugs from the study have never been used in CIPA patients before, it is therefore very
      important to evaluate safety and tolerability of L-DOPS and carbidopa in this population.

      Even if NE levels are very low in plasma of CIPA subjects, it is not know if NE levels are
      also low in central nervous system. It is very likely that this is also the case, however,
      levels of NE in brain will be checked in one CIPA subject as a prof of concept.

      Study overview: Patients with CIPA will be screened and enrolled (visit 1) into part 1 of the
      pilot trial. Safety parameters including, adverse events, blood chemistries for renal and
      liver function testing, 12 lead electrocardiogram, temperature, weight and blood pressure
      (supine, seated and standing), non-verbal intelligence and behavior test, 24 hour urinary
      catecholamine excretion and plasma dopamine levels will be measured at baseline.

      The patients will enter an open-label dose titration phase (visit 2a,b,c,d,e,f) during which
      adverse events will be continuously monitored. After reaching a dose the 100 mg/day dose,
      patients will be questioned about adverse events and have their blood pressure (supine,
      sitting and standing) measured. If no adverse events or abnormalities are detected patients
      will continue the dose titration. Safety assessments will be repeated and safety bloods
      obtained when the patient reaches the maximum tolerated dose.

      After completion of the dose titration, patients who are able to tolerate L-DOPS will enter
      into a second open-label dose titration phase where carbidopa will be titrated (visit
      3a,b,c,d,e,f). A period of two weeks will be allowed to washout the L-DOPS before starting
      with the carbidopa titration.

      Carbidopa have been previously used in clinical studies in children, young adults and adults
      in our group and no adverse effects have been reported. There is no reason to think that
      carbidopa may be unsafe in CIPA patients, however, the aim of these titration step is to
      check safety and tolerability of the drug in this population. Subjects will receive a dose of
      100 mg/day and will be questioned about adverse events and have their blood pressure (supine,
      sitting and standing) measured. If no adverse events or abnormalities are detected patients
      will continue the dose titration. In the following steps, the doses of carbidopa will be
      increased 100 mg daily up to a total of 600 mg/day. Safety assessments will be repeated and
      safety bloods obtained when the patient reaches a total daily dose of 600 mg/day.

      In the final phase of the titration, both L-DOPS and carbidopa will be administered (visit
      4a,b,c,d,e). The starting dose of L-DOPS will be the maximum tolerated dose during the L-DOPS
      titration step. The dose of carbidopa that will be administered with L-DOPS will be the
      maximum tolerated dose. L-DOPS will be increase in 100 mg/day up to 600 mg/day, unless any
      adverse affect is observed and then the titration will stop at that dose of L-DOPS. The dose
      of carbidopa will be the maximum tolerated during the titration and will not be increased.

      After reaching the maximum L-DOPS/carbidopa tolerated dose, patients will be questioned about
      adverse events with the medication and have their blood pressure (supine, sitting and
      standing) measured. After the safety evaluation if no adverse events or abnormalities are
      observed in the patients will continue with the study. A period of two weeks will be allowed
      to washout the L-DOPS/carbidopa before starting with placebo-controlled double-blind cross
      over phase.

      Patients who successfully complete titration will proceed to the randomized placebo control
      phase. Before proceeding to this part, researcher will review of safety data from the
      titration. Patients will be randomized in a double-blind fashion, to receive either
      L-DOPS/carbidopa or matching placebo. Patients will take the medication for 4 weeks.

      After 4 weeks, 24 urinary catecholamine excretion, plasma dopamine levels, behavior scores,
      safety parameters and adverse events will be measured (visit 5), before patients are crossed
      over (visit 6). A similar dose withdrawal scheme will be implemented to prevent adverse
      effects from acute withdrawal. Patients will be followed for a further 4-weeks. After
      completion of the cross over period, patients will undergo final evaluation (visit 7) during
      which safety and efficacy measures will be repeated. To conclude the study, 2 weeks after
      completing the pilot-trial, patients will receive a follow up phone call to monitor any
      adverse events.

      All necessary safety information will be reported to the FDA in accordance with 312.32 IND
      safety reports as outlined in Title 21 Food and Drugs.
    
  