
    
      The randomized control trial (RCT) component will test the efficacy of GPS, an HIV prevention
      intervention for HIV+ men who have sex with men (MSM). The present study is intended to be a
      rigorous evaluation, with the ultimate aim of testing the scale-up of the GPS program using a
      Phase IV effectiveness trial, per standard procedures for evaluating health interventions.
      The study hypothesis is that the study intervention will result in reduced prevalence of
      unprotected anal intercourse (UAI) acts among HIV+ MSM at 6-month follow-up with partners who
      are negative or of unknown HIV status. The secondary hypotheses are that the intervention
      will result in (1) reduced prevalence of UAI at 6-months follow-up with partners who are
      HIV+, and (2) a reduction in the number of sexual partners.

      This is a 2-site, 2-arm, randomized controlled trial that will randomize 180 participants to
      either a 8 session group motivational interviewing intervention (GPS) starting within 2 weeks
      after randomization, or to a wait-list control group. For ethical reasons, participants
      randomized to the control group will have the option to attend a GPS session after a 6-month
      wait period. Participants will complete 8 sessions of a small-group sexual health
      intervention to reduce sexual risk behaviour. Assessments will be conducted prior to the
      8-session group, at the completion of the sessions and at 3-month and 6-month follow up
      post-intervention. The wait-list control group will complete 3- and 6-month follow-up
      assessments during their waiting period as well as after completing their GPS session. The 6
      month follow-up assessment during their waiting period will be considered to be the baseline
      measure for their GPS session. Participants in both groups will complete interviews at the
      end of the 8 sessions and at the 6-month follow up.

      GPS takes the form of a small counseling group, since this is one of the most common
      intervention forms for similar populations. Participants will be organized into 15 groups per
      arm of approximately 6 participants, each of which will be led by 2 facilitators who are HIV+
      MSM. This study builds upon a one-armed open-label Canadian Institutes for Health Research
      (CIHR)-funded grant that demonstrated that GPS is feasible to administer and appears to
      result in significant risk reduction. The study also showed that GPS results in promising
      reductions in UAI, thus forming a solid foundation for moving toward an RCT. In preliminary
      GPS data (n=25), we found a reduction in UAI from 88% at baseline to 60% at 3-month
      follow-up. More importantly for HIV prevention, we found a reduction in UAI with partners of
      HIV-negative or unknown HIV status from 56% at baseline to 36% at 6 month follow-up.
      Participants reported high satisfaction with the GPS program and our initial study site has
      found GPS to be highly feasible in their community organization.

      The proposed study will provide data on the efficacy of a motivational interviewing
      behavioural intervention for HIV+ MSM. Although research among primarily American samples
      documents moderate effect sizes for HIV prevention interventions among MSM, none have found a
      significant effect of an HIV prevention intervention for HIV+ MSM in Canada, nor have any
      studies examined the effect of a small-group based intervention using HIV+ MSM peers who are
      trained to administer motivational interviewing for HIV+ MSM. Armed with the data from the
      present study demonstrating the efficacy of the intervention, we will design and implement
      the next stage of the research program, which will be a Phase IV study to examine the
      effectiveness of the intervention in Toronto, Vancouver, and at least 2 other sites serving
      HIV+ MSM in Canada.

      The intervention should result in a decreased likelihood of having risky sex versus being on
      a waitlist. Previous data from formative research with this same intervention indicates
      promising findings that indicate a decreased prevalence of risky sex amongst GPS
      participants.
    
  