
    
      Cholera is an important public health problem worldwide, remaining endemic in most of the
      developing world at the same time causing outbreaks in areas where lapses in sanitation
      occur.

      A monovalent (anti-O1) oral killed cholera vaccine with a B-subunit was developed by
      Professor Jan Holmgren in Sweden and is now licensed to a pharmaceutical company in the
      United Kingdom. The technology for this vaccine was transferred to Vietnamese scientists at
      the National Institute of Hygiene and Epidemiology in Hanoi in the mid-1980s.

      The Vietnamese developed a bivalent vaccine, with killed 0139 cells and without the
      B-subunit. Since licensure, more than 9 million doses have been given without any report of
      serious adverse events.

      The vaccine has been reformulated in order to internationalize the vaccine. Phase II trials
      of this vaccine in Son La, Vietnam and Kolkata, India have found the vaccine to be safe with
      no serious adverse reactions associated with the vaccine. A phase III study of the
      reformulated vaccine is ongoing in Kolkata, India.

      The youngest person the vaccine has been administered to was a 1 year old. Previous studies
      with the B-subunit containing killed whole cell vaccine was found to be safe among infants as
      young as 6 months eliciting significant vibriocidal responses among 53% of vaccinees.
      However, no data is available regarding the use of the bivalent whole cell killed oral
      vaccine in infants.

      Due to the higher risk of cholera among infants, the possibility of introducing cholera
      vaccine as part of the expanded programme on immunization (EPI) needs to be investigated.

      Data regarding the safety and immunogenicity of the reformulated bivalent killed whole cell
      vaccine among infants needs to be gathered in order to pave the way for the possible use of
      this vaccine in cholera-endemic areas where infants and children are most at risk.
      Furthermore, there is no data regarding the concomitant use of this vaccine with other EPI
      vaccines given to young infants such as Diphtheria-Tetanus-whole cell Pertussis (DTwP), Oral
      Polio Vaccine (OPV) Hepatitis B and Measles vaccines. It would be important to determine if
      interference exists between the killed whole cell vaccine and other antigens included in the
      regular EPI schedule. Providing the killed whole cell vaccine in the context of the EPI will
      make it easier to introduce cholera vaccines in areas which are cholera-endemic.
    
  