
    
      Host immunity is critical to the development and progression of tumor. PD-1 is the
      co-inhibitory receptor in many immunity cells while PD-L1, the ligands for PD-1, is expressed
      in tumor cell and is associated with prognosis. Previous studies have shown that
      anti-PD-1/PD-L1 antibody had durable responses in patients with advanced malignant tumors
      such as melanoma, renal cell cancer, lung cancer and esophagus cancer. SHR-1316 (Hengrui
      Medicine, China), anti-PD-L1 antibody, could induce the elevated secretion of interferon
      (IFN)-α and showed significant tumor-suppression effect in vivo. The phase III clinical trial
      on the SHR-1316 versus placebo combines with carboplatin and etoposide in the patients with
      small cell lung cancer is currently being studied (SHR-1316-III-301).

      Esophagus cancer usually has a poor prognosis and esophagus squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) is
      the main histological type in China. Combination with operation and neoadjuvant therapy
      including radiotherapy or/and chemotherapy is considered the standard therapy for local
      advanced esophagus cancer. However, no studies focused on the neoadjuvant immunotherapy in
      resectable esophagus have been reported.

      Therefore, the investigators will conduct a prospective, single-arm study to evaluate the
      safety and feasibility of neoadjuvant therapy with anti-PD-L1 antibody (SHR-1316, Hengrui
      Medicine) in patients with resectable ESCC. The primary objectives included the tumor
      regression grade, adverse event, safety of operation, complications and 30-day mortality. Our
      study will also explore the relation of tumor immune milieu, circulating immune cells,
      soluble factors, circulating tumor cell in the patients. Data from our study will provide the
      basis for further prospective clinical trials (Phase III). Finally, the investigators aim to
      discover the biomarkers of response and toxicity to allow patients with ESCC derive more
      benefit from immunotherapy and minimize the risk of toxicity.
    
  