
    
      Coronary heart disease (CHD) is one of the United Kingdom's (UK) biggest killers. In the UK
      alone 175,000 myocardial infarctions are recorded annually. While these numbers are
      significant advances in preventative therapy and medical treatment have contributed to an
      overall reduction in mortality in the UK. As such there is a growing need for effective
      secondary prevention. To lower the financial burden on the National Health Service (NHS),
      cardiac rehabilitation (CR) facilitates a systematic and multidisciplinary approach to
      secondary prevention aimed to improve functional capacity and health-related quality of life,
      lower rehospitalisation rates and reduce all-cause and cardiovascular mortality with exercise
      training being the cornerstones.

      A 2016 Cochrane review found benefits of exercise-based CR for patients with coronary artery
      disease. Both cardiovascular mortality and hospital readmissions were reduced, when compared
      with a no-exercise control. However, in contrast to previous systematic reviews and
      meta-analyses, there was no significant reduction in risk of reinfarction or all-cause
      mortality. Further a recent systematic review and meta-analysis (2018) found no differences
      in outcomes between exercise-based CR and a no-exercise control at their longest follow-up
      period for: all-cause mortality or cardiovascular mortality. The authors also found a small
      reduction in hospital admissions of borderline statistical significance. One possible answer
      to the above findings is the under dosage of exercise intensity and duration in UK CR. A
      recent multicentre study of routine UK-based CR (current clinical practice) indicated that
      the 'exercise dose' within outpatient UK CR may be insufficient to meaningfully improve
      cardiorespiratory fitness (CRF) when compared with international programmes. Given the
      prognostic relevance of improving CRF and that exercise and physical activity has a
      'dose-response' relationship with cardiovascular disease risk, these findings may explain why
      UK CR programmes do not appear to improve patient survival.

      UK-based guidelines advocate a percentage range-based method for prescribing exercise
      intensity. However, there are a number of limitations of this method. The investigators and
      others have recently shown that prescribing exercise intensity using percentage heart rate
      reserve (%HRR) can lead to patients receiving different exercise training doses from what
      would be historically viewed as the same exercise training intervention. Prescribing exercise
      based on %HRR ignores the important role that metabolic perturbations play in stimulating
      physiological adaptation in response to exercise training. The ventilatory anaerobic
      threshold (VAT) is an important objective metabolic threshold that indicates when
      incrementally greater contributions from anaerobic metabolism are required to sustain further
      increases in workload. The VAT has been proposed as a minimum exercise training intensity
      that must be exceeded in order to improve aerobic fitness. Compelling data has shown that the
      occurrence of the VAT is patient-specific, and can occur at different percentage of a
      patient's HRR. Basing an exercise training programme on estimated, or even directly measured
      %HRR could therefore result in heart rate training zones being set either above, or below the
      VAT. Patients who are prescribed the 'same' exercise training programme based on %HRR could
      be exposed to different metabolic stimuli and therefore a different exercise training dose.
      This may explain why some patients appear to 'respond' to a treatment, whilst others may be
      classified as "non-responders." Prescribing exercise that can improve CRF for patients
      attending CR is essential, and greater consideration for how exercise is prescribed in a
      community-based setting is required.

      Given the VAT is a significant threshold, with evidence reporting it to be a superior method,
      comparisons to the %HRR method are limited in clinical populations. As such the primary focus
      of the study is to compare the effectiveness of a threshold-based model (ventilatory
      threshold) versus a relative percent model (%HRR) for improving cardiorespiratory fitness in
      patient attending Phase IV community based cardiac rehabilitation.
    
  