
    
      One in five deaths in Canada is linked to smoking. It kills up to 50% of its users and over 7
      million people each year. Smoking is also a risk factor for several harmful health
      consequences that affect the quality of life of those who smoke. It also results in
      substantial economic costs to society.

      Newfoundland and Labrador (NL) has the highest smoking prevalence of Canadian provinces;
      approximately 18.5% of Newfoundlanders smoke on a daily or occasional basis compared to the
      national average of 13.0%. The Conference Board of Canada reported this year that smoking
      costs the local NL economy approximately $135 million per year in direct healthcare costs and
      $53 million in indirect costs, for a total of $188 million.

      According to the CAN-ADAPTT Smoking Cessation Clinical Practice Guideline, several intensive
      counseling interventions are the most effective for smoking cessation. Offering a combination
      of counseling and pharmacotherapy increases the likelihood that a person will try to quit by
      40-60%. Using this evidence, Memorial University's School of Pharmacy recently established a
      smoking cessation program at the Medication Therapy Services (MTS) Clinic. The program
      involves in-depth pharmacist consultation, which includes pharmacotherapy and multiple
      follow-up counseling sessions.

      The investigators propose to test the effectiveness of an intensive and abbreviated smoking
      cessation program (SCP) delivered by trained pharmacists at the MTS Clinic. They hope that
      findings from this study will inform stakeholders of the value of the program and of the
      pharmacists' role. If the program is determined to be effective it could be instrumental in
      applying smoking cessation programs in community pharmacies across the province, including
      rural and remote locations.

      To date there are only a small number of studies that use the randomized, controlled trial
      design to evaluate the effectiveness of pharmacist delivered interventions. In addition, data
      is lacking on the perspective of and satisfaction with smoking cessation services from the
      eyes of someone who participates in the program. Therefore, this study proposes to execute a
      randomized control trial to determine the effectiveness of a pharmacist-led smoking cessation
      program. Cost-effectiveness and a qualitative assessment of participant's journey to quit
      smoking will also be assessed.
    
  