
    
      Breast surgery is one of the most painful post-operative surgery. This surgery is well known
      to induce postoperative chronic pain. The paravertebral block, because of its efficacy and
      less invasive nature than epidural analgesia, is quickly becoming the reference technique for
      pain management of major breast surgery.

      Peripheral regional anesthesia for the breast surgery appeared in the past few years. Among
      these techniques are the PEC block, Serratus block and more recently the pecto-intercostal
      fascial plane block (PIF block).

      Currently in our hospital in every day's practice, we made an association of the serratus
      block and the PIF block, which allows for a complete block of both the laterals branches of
      intercostal nerves (with the serratus block) and of anterior branches of intercostal nerves
      (with the PIF block). Therefore, this association of blocks may lead to a complete analgesia
      of the breast, while the serratus block alone only allows for an analgesia of the lateral
      part of the breast.

      This technique was described by Fajardo et al. They evoked the possibility of the association
      serratus and PIF blocks and described this technique with a patient, but to our knowledge no
      evaluation of the efficacy of this procedure was made.

      The objective of your study is to analyze this technique through a collection form that
      evaluates the satisfaction and post-operative morphine consumption of women receiving this
      association of blocks before a general anesthesia for a unilateral mastectomy with
      homolateral total lymphadenectomy.

      This is a purely observational study that assesses our current practice in this type of
      surgery.

      we already included a patient series but the clinical trial registration was made to late to
      do it correctly. To obtain a correct prospective clinicaltrials registration completion we
      have to begin a new series of inclusion.
    
  