
    
      While the majority of subjects with advanced ovarian cancer will respond well to the initial
      chemotherapy regimen of taxol/platinum, these responses are generally of limited duration.
      Even women who have a surgically defined complete response to initial chemotherapy have >50%
      recurrence rate in Stage III disease. Once ovarian cancer has recurred it is rare that cure
      is possible, therefore, there is a critical need to define new therapeutic strategies in the
      treatment of ovarian cancer. Consolidation chemotherapy is one possible strategy. The
      strategy behind consolidation chemotherapy institutes second-line chemotherapy immediately
      following a clinical response but before evidence of recurrence. This strategy has gained
      popularity with many oncologists, secondary to the results of GOG 178, a large study by the
      Southwest Oncology Group and the Gynecologic Oncology Group. GOG 178 set out to explore both
      efficacy and patient tolerability in the consolidation setting. Moreover, the objective of
      the GOG 178 study was to compare two different durations of consolidation treatment using
      taxol consolidation in clinically NED ovarian cancer subjects following primary chemotherapy
      of carbo/taxol. The results of GOG178 suggested that a longer course (12 vs. 3 cycles of
      paclitaxel) gave subjects a longer median progression-free survival (28 vs. 21 months). This
      trial was closed early due to a statistically improved PFS in subjects receiving 12-month
      regimen of paclitaxel versus the 3 month regimen. Unfortunately, we will never definitively
      learn if this improved PFS translates to improved survival for ovarian cancer patients. A
      limitation of this regimen is the cumulative and sometimes irreversible side effect of
      neuropathy. Doxil has been selected in this consolidation trial due to documented success in
      second- line setting with ovarian cancer subjects without long term negative sequelae such as
      neuropathy The anthracycline antibiotic doxorubicin has a broad spectrum of antineoplastic
      action and a correspondingly widespread degree of clinical use. In addition to its role in
      the treatment of ovarian cancer, doxorubicin is indicated in the treatment of Hodgkin's
      disease and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, hepatocellular and gastric carcinoma, small cell cancer
      of the lung, soft tissue and bone sarcomas, as well as cancer of the breast, bladder, and
      thyroid. Unfortunately, toxicity limits the therapeutic activity of doxorubicin and may
      preclude adequate dosing.

      The conventional formulation of the drug is rapidly cleared from the bloodstream and has a
      very large volume of distribution, which may contribute to the drug's toxicity. High
      cumulative doses of doxorubicin generally must be avoided because of the potential for
      cardiotoxicity, while individual doses are often limited by myelosuppression. Alopecia
      typically develops and persists throughout treatment. Severe acute nausea and vomiting,
      stomatitis, and esophagitis are additional adverse effects of doxorubicin that may
      necessitate dose-reduction or discontinuation of the drug. A doxorubicin formulation with
      improved tolerability might increase the drug's therapeutic ratio and thus enhance its
      efficacy.

      Liposomal encapsulation of doxorubicin may reduce both the nonspecific drug delivery to
      normal tissues as well as the high peak plasma levels of free drug responsible for its
      toxicity. At the same time, a liposomal formulation may deliver doxorubicin to tumors with
      improved specificity. Doxil is a doxorubicin formulation in which the drug is encapsulated in
      liposomes (Stealthâ liposomes) that escape instant recognition and uptake by the mononuclear
      phagocyte system. As a result, the formulation has a long circulation time, and the liposomes
      can eventually become extravasated through the abnormally permeable vessels characteristic of
      many tumors. Once concentrated in tumors the liposomes of Doxil can deliver high levels of
      doxorubicin to malignant cells, without affecting normal tissue.1

      Doxil is approved by the FDA for use in subjects with ovarian cancer whose disease has
      progressed or recurred after platinum-based chemotherapy and in subjects with HIV Kaposi's
      Sarcoma. Doxil established efficacy as a single agent in recurrent ovarian cancer as a result
      of three open-label, single-arm clinical studies of 176 subjects with metastatic ovarian
      cancer. Subjects in these studies received Doxil at 50mg/m2 infused over one hour every 3 or
      4 weeks for 3-6 cycles or longer in the absence of dose-limiting toxicity or progression of
      disease. Doxil has been used for several years as a 2nd line chemotherapy agent. In the
      randomized Phase III study of subjects with recurrent ovarian cancer by Gordon et al, there
      was an 18% reduction in the risk of death for subjects treated with Doxil (median survival
      62.7weeks) compared to topotecan (median survival 59.7 weeks). In platinum sensitive subjects
      (who recurred after more than six months), the reduction in risk of death was even more
      dramatic, a 30% reduction was noted in the subjects who received Doxil (median survival 107.9
      weeks) versus topotecan (median survival 70.1 weeks). In this trial Doxil 50mg/m2 was
      administered every 28 days, resulting in 23.4% of the subjects with grade 3 or 4 hand foot
      syndrome (HFS). 4 Management of this side effect included increasing the dosage interval
      and/or decreasing the dose by 25%. Today, Doxil 40mg/m2 every 28 days is commonly used for
      treatment of recurrent ovarian cancer. Rose et al reported their results from a retrospective
      review noting the 40mg/m2 dose every 28 days minimizes toxicity without sacrificing
      efficacy.6

      Experience has taught us this toxicity can be minimized with patient education focusing on
      alteration of activities in the day preceding and 3-5 days follow drug administration. Other
      side effects such as bone marrow suppression, alopecia, nausea, vomiting, and fatigue are
      minimal. There have been several small trials using weekly and bi-weekly Doxil® in cancer
      patients, including breast, gastric, pancreatic and colon cancer, in an attempt to reduce the
      incidence of hand foot syndrome with encouraging results

      This study will evaluate the efficacy of Doxil in clinically NED ovarian cancer subjects
      following standard platinum/taxane based therapy. Applying every two-week dosing of Doxil
      20mg/m2 as this is expected to minimize the most problematic side effect, HFS.
    
  