
    
      Lichen sclerosus (LS) is a chronic cutaneous disorder affecting approximately one in seventy
      women. Presenting symptoms may include intense pruritis, pain, burning, and severe
      dyspareunia. The typical lesions of LS are white plaques and papules, often with areas of
      echymosis, excoriation, and ulceration. Often, LS causes destruction of the vulva
      architecture. In addition, 4-6% percent of women with LS will develop vulvar carcinoma. The
      histopathologic changes of LS are distinctive and make biopsy a very useful diagnostic tool.
      While there is no known cure for LS, the current gold standard treatment is ultra-potent
      corticosteroids. When properly administered, topical ultra-potent corticosteroids help to
      resolve the symptoms of pruritis and burning and can prevent further vulvar scarring. In
      addition, proper treatment reverses the underlying histopathologic changes of LS, and
      preliminary data shows that the risk of malignant transformation also declines. Although
      treatment with topical corticosteroids is effective, topical corticosteroids have serious
      local and systemic side effects, including dermal thinning, skin atrophy, superimposed fungal
      infections, rebound dermatitis, and adrenal insufficiency.

      Pimecrolimus cream 1% (Elidel®, Novartis Pharmaceutical) is a topical calcineurin inhibitor
      that binds to macrophilin-12 and inhibits cytokine synthesis by T lymphocytes. Elidel has
      been approved by the FDA for the treatment of mild to moderate atopic dermatitis. In theory,
      as Elidel inhibits T lymphocytes, it should effectively treat lichen sclerosus. In addition,
      as Elidel does not inhibit keratinocytes, or affect collagen synthesis, it does not cause
      dermal atrophy. Therefore, Elidel may be an effective and safer alternative treatment for LS.
      This study is designed to compare the effectiveness and safety of Elidel 1% cream versus an
      ultra-potent corticosteroid (clobetasol 0.05% cream) for the treatment for vulvar LS.
    
  