
    
      Purpose:

      To compare the effectiveness of 36 wks versus 48 wks pegintron plus ribavirin treatment for
      HCV patients without RVR, but with undetectable HCV RNA at wk 8.

      Study Design:

      This is a multi-site, prospective, open label, randomized, pilot trial. Approximately 60 HCV
      Genotype 1 patients who fail to achieve RVR at wk 4 but achieve undetectable HCV RNA at wk 8
      (<50 IU/ml) will be recruited into 2 arms(30 in each arm). Patients must receive pegylated
      IFN-α2b at 1.5 μg/kg of body weight/week and ribavirin 800~1400 mg/day for 12 wks before
      entering this study.

      Study Duration:

      The estimated recruitment period is 12 months; the follow-up duration is 72 weeks (longest
      treatment period plus 6 month- f/u period); the total study duration (FPE->LPLV) is estimated
      to be 2.5 years

      Statistical Analysis and Sample Size Justification:

      A. The study is not primarily designed for hypothesis testing; thus the sample size
      calculation is not based on the primary objective, Approximately 60 subjects (30 in each arm)
      will be recruited into this study B. For descriptive statistics, the continuous variables
      will be expressed as mean ± standard deviation, and the categorical variables will be
      performed the number of cases and the corresponding percentages.

      The primary analysis will focus on the efficacy response to the shortened HCV treatment
      course (36 wks) compared with standard course (48 wks). The between-group difference for
      efficacy endpoint will be assessed by the difference in the percentage of virologic responder
      after 24 wks of HCV treatment. For univariate analyses, comparisons of independent samples
      (shortened vs. standard course) will be assessed with Student's t test. The comparisons of
      categorical variables will be assessed using the chi-square test. Regarding the multivariate
      analysis, the proportion of patients achieving virologic responder will be compared among
      groups using a logistic regression analysis with terms of potential confounding factors. The
      OR estimates will be derived from the logistic regression model and the corresponding 95% CIs
      will be used to quantify the each effect of treatment course length and confounding factors.

      All randomized patients who take at least one dose of HCV regimen will be included in safety
      assessment. Fisher's exact test will be used to compare between-group incidences of AEs. For
      patients with any clinical AEs, treatment related AEs, serious AEs, or discontinuations
      because of AEs, the data among groups will be provided as well. Statistical significance will
      be determined at the 0.05 level for all tests.
    
  