
    
      Patients with hemianopic field loss may be unaware of objects in their blind (non-seeing)
      hemi-field and often experience difficulties with hazards, such as walking into obstacles on
      the side of the field loss. Prism glasses that provide field of view expansion may be helpful
      in detecting hazards on the blind side. In this clinical trial, two types of high power prism
      glasses will be evaluated. A new design of prisms, Multi-Periscopic Prisms (MPP), will be
      compared to commercially-available permanent Fresnel peripheral prism (FPP) glasses. The
      extent to which the prismatic devices improve detection of hazards on the side of the field
      loss and are helpful when walking will be evaluated.

      Participants will try each type of prism glasses at home for 4 weeks in counterbalanced order
      with a washout period between. Prism glasses will be fitted by Low Vision Practitioners at
      vision rehabilitation clinics. Participants will attend in-office study visits before and
      after wearing each type of prism glasses. At the in-office visits they will complete a test
      that involves detecting pedestrian hazards in a video simulating a walk through a busy
      shopping mall (virtual reality, VR, walking simulator test). In addition, they may be asked
      to complete questionnaires to record their experiences of using the prism glasses.

      After wearing the second pair of prism glasses, participants will be asked to complete a
      questionnaire comparing the two types of prism glasses and to select their preferred type. A
      clinical decision will be made as to whether the participant should continue to use either
      the first or second pair of prism glasses (e.g. if a participant finds one pair of prism
      glasses helpful for obstacle avoidance when walking). For participants who continue with the
      prism glasses, telephone follow-up interviews will be conducted after about 6 and 12 months.
    
  