
    
      For two decades, the Milan Criteria (MC) have represented the cornerstone in the selection of
      patients with hepatocellular cancer (HCC) as candidates for liver transplantation (LT). Since
      then, several Western and Eastern centres have tried to overcome MC stringency with the aim
      to expand the number of potentially transplantable patients without increasing the risk of
      post-LT tumour recurrence. Recently, variables correlated with HCC biology have been
      introduced to capture its aggressiveness and suitability for LT. Among the most commonly
      proposed, we can cite the alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) and the radiological response after
      neo-adjuvant loco-regional treatments (LRT). The effort to combine HCC morphology and biology
      is now emerging as the more promising approach for further refining the selection process of
      HCC candidates. The recently proposed prognostic indexes Metroticket 2.0,
      Time-Radiological-response-Alpha-fetoprotein-INflammation (TRAIN), Model Of Recurrence After
      Liver transplant (MORAL) and French AFP-model represent the most promising results of such
      planned endeavours.

      With the intent to be clinically useful, a prognostic system must achieve not only the most
      common performance metrics, such as discrimination and calibration, but also an adequate
      coverage of the population in which it would be applied. It can be argued that a prognostic
      system based only on criteria available at the moment of LT could not satisfy such a
      pre-requisite when the entire population of HCC patients waiting in the list for LT is taken
      into account, considering an intention-to-treat (ITT) point of view. In this sense, only the
      TRAIN system developed an ITT analysis, whereas the remaining were all based on
      pre-transplant information. The second quality that a clinically useful prognostic system
      should have is its immediacy. Thus, it should be based on commonly available information, not
      requiring additional analyses or exams if not justified by a substantial improvement in
      accuracy. Last but not least, a prognostic system should also provide for an individual
      prediction in addition to risk-stratification, with the intent to offer personalized
      prognostication for each different patient. To date, only the Metroticket 2.0 fulfils these
      two last requisites. A final important quality of the Metroticket 2.0 is that it applied a
      competing-risk analysis able to clean up the HCC-related cause of death from other
      non-tumour-related causes.

      On this background, we developed the present study with multiple aims: 1) to refine available
      models which would be able to cover the fate of HCC candidates from an ITT point of view; 2)
      to develop such an approach on cohorts coming from both Eastern and Western countries; 3) to
      maintain simplicity of use; 4) to provide individual prognostication taking into account
      different causes of death, through a competing-risk model; 5) to provide an external
      validation on cohorts coming from both Eastern and Western countries. All these aims converge
      at providing a comprehensive and useful assessment suitable for both candidates selection and
      allocation priority.
    
  