
    
      The candidemia is the 3rd cause of sepsis in intensive care unit and a serious problem
      because the high mortality remains (> 50%) despite the new treatments by echinocandins.

      A single positive blood culture is sufficient for diagnosis, but the sensitivity of blood
      cultures is only 50 to 70 percent. Clinical signs are unspecific and do not guide the
      diagnosis. If treatment started early, 12 hours after the 1st positive blood culture
      collection the mortality is 10%. Recently, the incidence of candidemia in intensive care unit
      has increased in France as in other countries as. From these different elements (frequency,
      mortality, early diagnosis, little specific clinical signs), it is easy to understand the
      approach that has prevailed for many years, which is to define the profile of the patients at
      risk of candidemia in intensive care unit. Currently, there are several predictive factors of
      occurrence of a candidemia in intensive care unit. They are represented by the index of
      colonization, very high risk factors (FTHR) and Candida score (CS).

      Predictive factors of occurrence of candidemia have led to the concept of preemptive or
      empirical treatment, the aim is to being avoid the occurrence of candidemia.

      However, the ability of these factors to predict the occurrence of a candidemia is not
      satisfactory, explaining in part the mortality rate.

      In the light of current knowledge, including the predictive factors of occurrence of
      candidemia in intensive care patients, a better selection of patients likely to develop
      candidemia remains to this day, a crucial issue. Several teams have been interested in the
      evaluation of various bio-markers, including the (1,3) - β - D-glucan (BDG), to optimize
      decision-making in intensive care patients at risk of candidemia in front of:

        -  the increased frequency of candidemia,

        -  poorly discriminating predictive factors,

        -  no specific clinical signs,

        -  the low sensitivity of blood culture,

        -  and the impact of early treatment.

      To clarify the role of BDG as a predictive factor of candidemia, all patients hospitalized in
      intensive care unit, meeting the criteria for inclusion and exclusion, will be followed, from
      day 4 of hospitalization or from the beginning of antifungal treatment between the admission
      in intensive care unit and day 4, until the exit of intensive care unit or until day30 of
      hospitalization in intensive care unit.

      The dosage of BDG and blood cultures will be performed on day 4 of hospitalization or before
      the beginning of antifungal treatment between the admission in intensive care unit and the
      4th day, then 3 times a week, until day 30.

      A before the beginning of antifungal treatment between the admission to intensive care unit
      and the 4th day of hospitalization, then twice a week, maximum until day30.
    
  