
    
      1. Literature basis Acute lung injury (ALI) and its more serious form, acute respiratory
      distress syndrome (ARDS), is a clinical syndrome characterized by respiratory distress and
      progressive hypoxemia. It is caused by a variety of extrapulmonary and extrapulmonary factors
      other than cardiogenic, resulting in pulmonary capillary barrier damage, pulmonary
      inflammatory cell infiltration, diffuse alveolar and interstitial edema. Although some
      progress has been made in the diagnosis, treatment and pathogenesis of ARDS, due to its
      numerous pathogenic factors and complex pathogenesis, there is still a lack of effective
      treatment measures and effective drug treatment in traditional clinical practice. The
      mortality rate of ALI / ARDS is still as high as 40%, which seriously affects the prognosis
      of critically ill patients. In the past two decades, the clinical and biological
      heterogeneity of the syndrome has been gradually recognized. Through the secondary processing
      of the previous large-scale clinical trial data of ARDS, it is found that the two types (i.e.
      two sub phenotype) models are the best for the classification of ARDS. These two phenotypes
      have different natural history, clinical characteristics, biomarkers and clinical results.

      The pathogenesis of ARDS includes a variety of epithelial cells, macrophages and so on.
      However, neutrophils have been reported to be the core driver of this inflammatory state. At
      the same time, neutrophils in blood and alveoli of ARDS patients were significantly different
      from that of healthy controls, and neutrophil apoptosis was significantly delayed.
      Transcriptome analysis showed that the number of neutrophils involved in apoptosis in ARDS
      patients was significantly lower than that in healthy controls. Therefore, it is of great
      significance to study the mechanism of neutrophil apoptosis delay in patients with ARDS /
      Ali, and to seek effective treatment methods to improve neutrophil apoptosis delay. In the
      past, neutrophils have been considered as functional cells in the end-stage, but recent
      studies have shown that there are different types of neutrophils in inflammation: neutrophils
      with traditional lobulated nuclei, neutrophils with banded nuclei, and CD62Ldim neutrophils
      with a large number of nuclear lobes that inhibit T cells.

      In our previous studies, we have successfully obtained a new amino acid derivative of
      ocotillol type-ginsenoside, which may have pharmacological activities of ocotillol type
      ginsenoside and glycine, and have potential effects on improving the delay of neutrophil
      apoptosis in ARDS, and have potential new drug development potential for the treatment of
      ARDS.

      2. The experimental steps are as follows:

        1. Peripheral blood samples were collected from healthy adults and patients with ARDS for
           inflammatory markers;

        2. Neutrophils were isolated from peripheral blood of healthy adults and patients with
           ARDS;

        3. Flow cytometry was used to detect the proportion of neutrophil subtypes;

        4. The apoptosis of neutrophils in peripheral blood was detected by flow cytometry after
           the neutrophils were cultured in vitro for 20 hours;

        5. The neutrophils in peripheral blood of patients with ARDS were incubated with different
           doses of ginsenoside glycine derivatives (20,50,100 UM) for 20 h, and the apoptosis rate
           was 28 H.

        6. Bax, Mcl-1 and cleaved caspase-3 were detected by Western blot.

        7. High throughput PCR and mapp-4 were used to detect the expression of apoptosis related
           genes in akg38k pathway.

        8. Metabonomics analysis: peripheral blood of ARDS patients was collected for metabonomics
           analysis.

      3. Research methods

        1. Diagnostic criteria: the diagnostic criteria of ARDS refer to Berlin standard in 2012.

        2. Inclusive criteria: (1) 70 ≥ age ≥ 18 years old; (2) diagnosis of acute lung injury
           within 48 hours (Berlin diagnostic criteria for acute lung injury)

        3. Exclusion criteria: (1) age > 70 years old or age < 18 years old; (2) discharge or death
           within 48 hours after admission; (3) pregnancy or puerperium.

      4. Test procedure

        1. Methods: the ICU patients who met the inclusion criteria were selected

        2. Informed consent process: sign informed consent after communicating with patients or
           legal representatives

      5. The beginning and end of the experiment The informed consent was signed from January 2020.

      6. Data security and monitoring plan The patient's medical records (study medical records /
      CRF, test forms, etc.) will be kept completely in the hospital. The doctor will record the
      results of laboratory tests and other examinations in his medical record. The researchers,
      the ethics committee and the drug administration will be allowed access to his medical
      records. No public report on the results of the study will reveal the individual identity of
      the patient. We will make every effort to protect patient information to the extent permitted
      by law. According to medical research ethics, except for personal privacy information,
      experimental data will be available for public inquiry and sharing, and the query and sharing
      will be limited to the electronic database based on the network to ensure that no personal
      privacy information will be disclosed.

      7. Abide by ethical principles and relevant laws and regulations Whether or not to
      participate in the study depends entirely on the wishes of patients and their legal
      representatives. Patients and their families may refuse to participate in the study or
      withdraw from the study at any time during the course of the study. This will not affect the
      relationship between the patient and his doctor, nor will it affect the loss of medical or
      other benefits for the patient.

      8. Statistical analysis plan SPSS15.0 software was used for statistical analysis. The
      measurement data were expressed as mean ± standard deviation, t test or nonparametric test
      was used for comparison between groups, chi square test was used for counting data, and
      linear correlation analysis was used for the relationship between variables, P < 0.05 was
      considered as statistically significant.
    
  