
    
      Background: Low mobility, defined as being limited to bed or chair, is common during acute
      hospitalization. The candidate's work has demonstrated low mobility to be associated with
      adverse outcomes including functional decline, need for new nursing home admission, and death
      even after controlling for illness severity and comorbidity. Objective: Using a Phase II
      trial design, the impact and safety of a hospital walking program for older patients during
      acute general medical hospitalization will be evaluated.

      Project Design: 100 patients, age 65 years admitted to the medical wards at the Birmingham
      VAMC will be recruited within 48 hours of hospitalization and followed for 14 days after
      enrollment or until discharge, which ever comes first. Exclusion criteria will include: (1)
      Delirious based on positive Confusion Assessment Method (CAM); (2) Mini Mental State
      Examination Score < 17; (3) Patient on isolation; (4) Inability to ambulate 2 weeks prior to
      admission; (5) Having a medical diagnosis deemed by the primary physician to be a
      contraindication to ambulation; (6) patient with an imminently terminal illness; and (7)
      Non-English speaking. Participants will be randomized to either usual care (UC) or to a
      hospital walking program (WP), which includes twice daily walks with assistance, provision of
      necessary ambulatory devices, and a behavioral intervention strategy designed to encourage
      out of bed activity. Throughout hospitalization, the WP and UC veterans will wear on the
      ipsilateral thigh and ankle wireless monitors that measure horizontal and vertical
      orientation with respect to gravity. Previously validated by the candidate to assess levels
      of mobility during hospitalization, the output will be used to calculate the length of time
      patients spent lying, sitting, and standing or walking, using pre-defined criteria. Other
      daily measures will include orthostatic blood pressure, functional assessments, and
      assessment of falls and symptoms over the previous 24-hours. The primary outcome measure is
      time out of bed as measured by the wireless monitors. Importantly, our goal is to assess not
      only the amount of mobility that occurred as a result of the hospital walking program but
      that which occurred beyond the intervention. In our previous VA-funded study, patients spent
      an average of 17.1% or 4.1 hours out of bed per 24-hour period of time (s.d. 2.9). Our goal
      is to increase this by 50% or 2 hours to an average of 6.1 hours. This results in an effect
      size of 0.69 standard deviation units. A sample size of 45 per group provides 90% power to
      detect this 2-hour difference in the amount of time patients spend out of bed at the = .05
      level.

      Significance: at present there is a paucity of data regarding the impact or safety of a
      hospital walking program for general medical patients. Results of this study will enable
      researchers to determine the safety and efficacy of the walking program for older veterans
      during hospitalization and will provide information regarding effect size for a definitive
      intervention trial.
    
  