
    
      In order to enroll in this trial, you must also be enrolled in Protocol 2003-0424. The study
      procedures and tests that are part of this study are the same procedures and tests that are
      part of Protocol 2003-0424. Even though a procedure or test is described in both this consent
      and the consent for Protocol 2003-0424, you will only have the described procedure or test
      done once. For example, both this study and Protocol 2003-0424 require a complete physical
      exam before beginning treatment. In this case, you will only have one physical exam that will
      count for both studies.

      Celecoxib is a drug that slows the production of chemicals in the body that cause
      inflammation. Celecoxib works by interfering with the action of the chemical cyclooxygenase,
      a chemical that is involved in inflammation. It is believed that the product of chemicals
      that cause inflammation may be involved in cancer development.

      Before treatment starts, you will have a complete physical exam, including measurement of
      height, weight, blood pressure, and vital signs. You will have blood samples drawn for
      routine blood tests (about 3 teaspoons) and for research purposes (about 4 teaspoons) . Women
      who are able to have children must have a negative pregnancy test (blood or urine). You will
      also have a chest x-ray and a CT scan of your chest.

      You will also have a bronchoscopy (tissue sample from the lung) at the beginning of this
      study for lab analysis. For this procedure, you will be given drugs to relax. Then, a local
      anesthetic will be sprayed in your nose and throat to numb those areas. A slim, flexible tube
      with a light will be placed through your nose or mouth and into your lungs. Tweezers will be
      fed through the tube to collect lung tissue (biopsy) samples from 6 different places in your
      lungs. During the bronchoscopy procedure, a complete inspection of the airways will be
      performed. Any suspicious areas that are seen under the white-light and autofluorescence
      bronchoscopy will be identified and more biopsies and brushings will be performed to evaluate
      whether any pre-cancerous tissue is present. You will also have a bronchial brushing next to
      each biopsy site. In a bronchial brushing, a small brush is fed through the tube into your
      lungs and a sample of lung tissue is gently scraped off. When the biopsies and brushings are
      done, you will have a bronchial lavage (bronchial washing). In the bronchial lavage, a small
      amount of water (about 4 tablespoons) is sprayed into your lungs and then suctioned out
      through the tube. This fluid is used to collect additional tissue and mucous samples. In
      addition, a sputum (saliva) sample will be taken and the inside of your cheek will be scraped
      (buccal sample).

      If you have had HNSCC, you will also have a laryngoscopy. In a laryngoscopy, a lighted tube
      is placed down your throat and the larynx is checked. The back of your throat will be sprayed
      with an anesthetic before this procedure to make the procedure more comfortable.

      In this study you will be randomly assigned (as in the toss of a coin) to one of two groups.
      Participants in one group will receive celecoxib. Participants in the other group will
      receive no treatment. Current standard practice for individuals who have had therapy for
      early stage NSCLC or HNSCC is follow-up (no treatment). You have a 2 to 1 chance of being
      assigned to the treatment group. That means that 2 out of every 3 participants in this study
      will be assigned to the treatment group.

      If you are assigned to the treatment group you will take celecoxib by mouth in two divided
      doses at least 8 hours apart every day. Your study doctor will tell you exactly how many
      pills you should take each day. You will take celecoxib for up to 12 months. You will be
      taken off study if intolerable side effects occur or if the disease comes back.

      If you are assigned to the treatment (celecoxib) group, you will have a physical exam by a
      physician or nurse at months 3, 6, and 12 for the first year of treatment. If you are
      assigned to the "no treatment" group, the nurse will contact you by phone every 3 months for
      the first year on this study to see how you are doing and you will have a physical exam by
      either a physician or a nurse every 6 months. During the first year, all participants will
      have blood samples taken at each clinic visit for routine blood tests (about 3 teaspoons) and
      for research purposes (about 4 teaspoons). In addition, all participants will have a chest
      x-ray and chest CT at months 6 and 12. All participants will also have a bronchoscopy and
      provide sputum, saliva, and buccal smear samples at 12 months. If you have been treated for
      HNSCC, you will have a laryngoscopy at 12 months.

      After the first year, you will be followed for a minimum of 2 more years and a maximum of 6
      years. You will have physical exams at 24 and 36 months. You will have blood draws (about 3
      teaspoons for routine tests and 4 teaspoons for research purposes), a chest x-ray and a chest
      CT at 18, 24, 30 and 36 months. After 36 months, you will have a physical exam by a physician
      or nurse every 6 months for up to 6 years. Every 12 months the physical exam will be done by
      a physician. The other physical exams will be done by a nurse. You will have blood drawn for
      routine tests (about 3 teaspoons) and research purposes (about 4 teaspoons) every 12 months.

      This research study includes two bronchoscopies done one year apart. These bronchoscopies are
      being done primarily for research purposes and are unlikely to provide information useful in
      your individual treatment. These bronchoscopies do have risks associated with them. These
      risks are described in section 4 of this informed consent document.

      Recent research on early stage NSCLC indicates that adjuvant chemotherapy after surgery
      increases the length of time a person may survive and the length of time before cancer
      recurs. However, this adjuvant chemotherapy also has side effects that can be severe and in
      rare cases fatal. If you have had surgery for NSCLC and wish to receive adjuvant
      chemotherapy, you may only enroll in this study and Protocol 2003-0424 after you have
      completed the adjuvant chemotherapy.

      As part of this study you will provide samples of your lung tissue, saliva, blood, and
      scrapings from the inside of your cheek. Fluid and mucous collected during the bronchoscopies
      will also collected. These samples will be studied by scientists to learn about genes and
      proteins in people who have been treated for early NSCLC or HNSCC. The samples will also be
      used to grow cells and cultures that will be used to test chemotherapy drugs. These cells and
      cultures will also be used to learn about genes and proteins.

      This is an investigational study. Celecoxib is a commonly used drug that is approved by the
      FDA for treatment of arthritis, colon polyps, and pain. The use of celecoxib to help prevent
      cancer is approved by the FDA for research only. A total of up to 70 individuals will take
      part in this multicenter study. Up to 50 will be enrolled at UT MD Anderson Cancer Center.
    
  