
    
      Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a severely disabling disorder resulting in the
      deterioration of daily function and lowering quality of life. The lifetime prevalence of
      depression is 10-15%, and the annual prevalence of MDD in the United States is approximately
      7%. The World Health Organization has reported that MDD is expected to be the top disease in
      terms of global burden by 2030. Fifty percent of patients with depressive disorder have a
      chronic disease course, and 20% of such patients have insufficient responses to treatment
      despite the use of antidepressant medication. In addition, although antidepressants have been
      shown to be effective, residual symptoms may continue by stopping the medication early due to
      inconvenient side effects of the medication. Sixty percent of patients with depressive
      disorder have poorer executive function. Patients with depressive disorder are continuously
      affected by deficits in social functioning, such as interpersonal relationships and job
      adaptation, even if some of their symptoms are improved by medication. Therefore, various
      additional treatments other than antidepressant treatment have been tried to improve residual
      depressive symptoms and the remission rate.

      Brain waves have been used to measure brain activity and previous studies have reported that
      different brain waves reflect different brain states, including moods. Neurofeedback is a
      type of electroencephalography (EEG) training that allows individuals to change the levels of
      particular types of brain waves displayed on a computer by operational conditioning. EEG
      studies showed that the neurofeedback is capable of generating long term changes in the
      spectral EEG topography, while neuroimaging studies represented the neuroplastic effects from
      neurofeedback treatment. Neurofeedback is an alternative approach that aims to help
      individuals alter brain activation without introducing electrical or magnetic activity, or
      pharmacological compounds into the brain, hence preventing the brain from becoming dependent
      on outside influences for better functioning. It is noninvasive method and there's no report
      of even minor side effects.

      Neurofeedback may be considered a new augmentation treatment for patients with
      treatment-resistant depression (TRD), even after the use of antidepressants. Some studies
      have reported improvements in both depressive symptoms and executive function following
      neurofeedback treatment. A recent article insisted that neurofeedback treatment for
      depression as having "revealed promising effects in recent clinical trials". However, most
      such studies have been case reports or uncontrolled studies, and the mechanism underlying the
      treatment effects of neurofeedback are still unclear. In addition, there has been no study of
      neurofeedback on depressive symptoms and functional recovery in patients with TRD.

      Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) acts on certain neurons of the central nervous
      system and the peripheral nervous system. It helps support the survival of existing neurons
      and encourages the growth and differentiation of new neurons and synapses. Previous studies
      have suggested the presence of an etiological link between the development of depression and
      BDNF. However, no studies have examined the association between neurofeedback and changes in
      BDNF level.

      The purpose of this pilot study was to evaluate the effects of neurofeedback as an
      augmentation treatment on depressive symptoms and functional recovery in patients with TRD.
      The investigators also aimed to identify the usefulness of BDNF as a biomarker for
      neurofeedback by examining changes in the BDNF level before vs. after treatment in the
      neurofeedback treatment and medication-only (treatment as usual, TAU) groups.
    
  