
    
      Due to limited data available on the safety and immune response to live attenuated influenza
      vaccine (LAIV) in breast-feeding women and the lack of information on the induction of
      immunoglobulin (Ig) A and IgG against influenza virus in breast milk, this study compares the
      safety in mothers and their infants and immunogenicity in mothers of standard dose
      inactivated trivalent influenza vaccine (TIV) and LAIV when administered between 28-120 days
      of delivery in breastfeeding women. This is a multi-site, randomized, double-blinded trial in
      240 post-partum breastfeeding women, 18-49 years of age and their infants. Once enrolled, a
      blood sample and a breast milk sample will be collected. Nasal swabs will be obtained and
      targeted physical examinations (TPE) will be conducted from mother and infant, if indicated.
      Each subject will receive either a single intramuscular (IM) 0.5 milliliter (mL) dose of TIV
      and 0.2 mL of placebo administered intranasally, or 0.2 mL intranasal dose of LAIV and 0.5 mL
      of placebo administered IM. All subjects will maintain a memory aid recording oral
      temperature, and systemic and local adverse events (AEs) for 8 days after study products have
      been administered. Approximately day 2 and 8 all subjects will return to the clinic for
      collection of breast milk samples and nasal swabs (mother and infant) and the memory aid will
      be reviewed. Approximately Day 28 after vaccination, all subjects will return to the clinic
      for breast milk and a blood sampling. During the time between vaccination and the day 28
      visit, if mother or infant has an influenza-like illness (ILI), a clinic visit may be
      required within 72 hours of illness onset. The clinic visit will be required for any illness
      that meets the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's definition of an ILI for the
      mother. Investigator discretion will discern if an illness in the infant requires an ILI
      visit. Any respiratory or gastrointestinal (GI) serious adverse event (SAE) in the infant
      will also require a clinic visit. If the mother has an ILI, nasal swabs will be collected on
      her, and samples from the infant (if possible). If the infant has an ILI, nasal swabs will be
      collected on both the mother and infant. At approximately Day 42 after vaccination, all
      subjects will have a phone call for assessment of any medically attended GI or respiratory
      illness in the infant from Day 29-42. Approximately 6 months after vaccination all subjects
      will have a phone call for assessment of any SAEs in the subject or the infant since Day 42.
      SAE data and new onset chronic medical conditions in the mother will be collected from Day
      0-180. At all study visits, subjects will be asked about acute, temporary breast diseases
      (mastitis, abscesses) and any changes in breastfeeding, i.e., interruption and if so, how
      long (in weeks). Subjects will report information on current breast milk consumption by
      infant. Unsolicited non-serious AE data will be captured Day 0-28. Respiratory and GI AEs
      will be captured for the infant from Day 28-42. SAE data will be captured from Day 0-180 for
      both mother and infant. Blood samples will be tested for hemagglutination inhibition (HAI),
      IgG, and IgA as measured by enzyme linked-immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Breast milk samples
      will be assayed for IgA and IgG antibodies by ELISA. Breast milk and nasal swabs will also be
      tested for LAIV. Parent protocol to sub-study 11-0048.
    
  