
    
      Background: Influenza continues to pose an imminent threat to public health through seasonal
      epidemics and occasion pandemics with significant impact on morbidity and mortality.
      Increasing attention has also been paid in recent years to the potential benefit of
      immunomodulatory effect of macrolide antibiotics in the management of influenza virus
      infection.

      Aims: To study the immunomodulatory effects of a short course of clarithromycin in naturally
      occurring influenza virus infection.

      Design and subjects: The study is a double-blind, randomised controlled trial. One hundred
      adults aged 18-60 years will be recruited when they present with symptoms of acute
      respiratory infection within 48 hours of symptoms onset to university health clinics, and
      being tested positive with a QuickVue/Sofia (Quidel Corp., San Diego, CA) rapid influenza
      test. Consented patients tested positive with the rapid test will receive their clinical
      consultation and prescriptions as indicated as usual, and being randomised to receive either
      clarithromycin (250mg) or placebo (in a ratio of 1:1) taken twice daily orally for three
      days. Blood specimen, nasal and throat swabs will be collected on the same day (day 1). They
      will be followed-up on day 4, day 7 and day 10 for further collection of nasal and throat
      swabs, and serum samples. A symptom diary will be kept by each participant for 10 days for
      monitoring the clinical course of the infection.

      Study instruments: QuickVue/Sofia (Quidel Corp., San Diego, CA) rapid influenza test, symptom
      diary, blood specimen, nasal and throat swabs.

      Interventions: Intervention group: clarithromycin; placebo group: placebo in identical
      packaging.

      Main outcome measures: The primary outcomes of the study will compare the duration of
      illness, viral shedding, patterns of plasma cytokine/chemokine and antimicrobial resistance
      pattern of respiratory bacterial carriage between patients who were randomised to
      clarithromycin or placebo.

      Analysis: Intention to treat.

      Potential significance: This will be the first placebo-controlled RCT to investigate the
      immunomodulatory effect of macrolide antibiotics in the management of influenza virus
      infection, in terms of its impact on the duration of illness, viral shedding, patterns of
      plasma cytokine/chemokine and antimicrobial resistance pattern of respiratory bacterial
      carriage. Findings from this study will have important contribution to our understanding on
      the potential immunomodulatory effect of macrolides, and help to inform the appropriate
      clinical management approach, and the potential
    
  