
    
      The entire patient population will receive the following treatment:

        -  Niraparib 200 mg/day: day -49 to day -21;

        -  Dostarlimab 500 mg iv: day -49 and day -28; At day -21, clinical evaluation will be
           performed and the patient will be directed to surgery with exclusion from the study in
           case of progressive disease. Radiological assessment will be performed according to the
           physician's judgement.

      If no clinical evidence of disease progression, the following schedule will be carried out:

        -  Niraparib 200 mg/day day -21 to day -7

        -  Dostarlimab 500 mg iv: day -7

        -  Clinical and radiological evaluation with Diffusion Weighted Imaging Magnetic Resonance
           Imaging (DWI MRI) of the disease at day -1 (± 3 days);

        -  Surgery (original margin) day 0 (± 3 days, within 72 hours from radiological
           assessment); Following surgery, patients included in the study will undergo standard
           postoperative (chemo)radiotherapy according to pathologic report.

      Furthermore, the following schedule will be carried out, in a period comprised between 2 and
      6 weeks after the end of radiation therapy:

        -  Maintenance Niraparib, 200 mg/day for 6 months

        -  Maintenance Dostarlimab, 500 mg iv q3W for the first four cycles and 1000 mg iv Q6W
           thereafter for 3 months.

      Before starting this adjuvant treatment phase, inclusion and exclusion criteria of the
      protocol should be re-assessed and every patient should meet these criteria.

      Then the patient will start the follow up period, consisting in clinical visits every 3
      months for the first year and every 4 months for the second year, then every year. After this
      period, the patient will be followed according to clinical practice in each site.

      In each follow up, clinical evaluation with fiberendoscopic assessment will be carried out;
      moreover, radiological imaging with MRI will be performed every other visit. CT scan of
      abdomen and thorax or PET/CT will be requested at 12 and 24 months after treatment end. In
      any case, radiological exams will be requested in case of any doubts of recurrence or late
      toxicity.
    
  