
    
      Lung cancer is by far the leading cause of cancer death in the United States. More people die
      annually of lung cancer than of colon, breast, and prostate cancers combined. Worldwide it is
      already the leading cause of cancer death among males, and with smoking rates substantially
      higher in developing countries relative to the United States the worldwide burden of lung
      cancer is projected to increase considerably in the future.

      For lung cancer, as for many cancers, early diagnosis allowing for full resection offers the
      greatest chance for long-term survival, but unfortunately these individuals currently
      constitute only a minority of the lung-cancer population. Screening technologies that allow
      for the earliest detection of lung cancer would therefore have tremendous potential to
      substantially improve outcomes. Recently, and for the first time, a screening test for lung
      cancer of high risk individuals has been recommended by the US Preventive Services Task
      Force, as well as others, for the reduction of lung cancer mortality. This recommendation was
      based primarily on the results of the National Lung Screening Trial (NLST) that randomized
      over 53,000 individuals considered at high risk for lung cancer to 3 annual screenings with
      either low-dose CT (LDCT) or a chest x-ray and then followed for a median of 6.5 years. In
      this study LDCT scanning was associated with a statistically significant 20% relative
      decrease in lung cancer mortality, and a smaller, but still significant 6.7% decrease in
      overall mortality. Despite these encouraging results of LDCT, as a screening tool it has
      substantial limitations. Beyond the costs, inconvenience and radiation exposure associated
      with LDCT, its performance characteristics are far from optimal. For example, nearly a
      quarter of the LDCT population had a positive screening test, with the vast majority - 96.4%
      - proving to be false-positive. With a positive predictive value of <4% LDCT screening will
      lead to a great number of unnecessary diagnostic procedures as well as substantial anxiety in
      the screened population and their family.

      Breath analytics is a new and very promising tool for diagnosing lung cancer, as well as
      multiple other conditions. Previous studies identified that dog's heightened olfactory senses
      were able to detect cancer in an individual's breath with an accuracy of nearly 100%. Since
      then attempts have been made to mimic canine capabilities with "electronic noses" to detect
      and quantitate the nearly 3000 compounds, many in the parts per billion or even parts per
      trillion ranges, in exhaled breath. Early studies of these technologies support great
      potential as a diagnostic and screening tool. As a screening tool it could be ideal as it is
      noninvasive, painless and free of any undesirable side effects. In addition, new advances in
      nanotechnology have allowed these extremely sensitive detection technologies to be
      miniaturized to the point that they can be linked to a smartphone, providing future
      possibilities to almost continuously surveil individuals for the development of lung cancer
      and other life-threatening conditions. This study is concerned with comparing the
      concentrations of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) in the breath of lung cancer patients
      (cases) and lung-cancer-free individuals (controls).
    
  