
    
      Perioperative hypothermia is one of the complications of surgical interventions in total or
      regional anaesthesia. It is defined as a drop in body core temperature under 36°C. It occurs
      as a result of combination of anaesthesia, effecting of central thermoregulation control,
      environment temperature (i.e. operating theatre) and unsufficient isolation combined with
      patient's unability to actively warm up. As the body temperature drop in patients under
      anaesthesia is very frequent, body temperature checks became part of surgical patients care
      optimalisation. Furthermore, it is associated with complications, such as higher incidency of
      surgical wound infection, elongated healing process, longer time spent in a hospital, cardiac
      complications, elongated effect of most of anaesthetics, immunity and blood clotting
      disorders. Hypothermia elongates the initial phase of coagulation and results in thrombocytes
      malfunction. Normothermia reduces blood loss.

      This prospective observative study has two parts. In the first one, investigators will
      evaluate the perioperative management of temperature in paediatric patients in Department of
      children anaesthesia and intensive care, University hospital Brno, Czech republic, where is
      intended to involve 1,000 patients. In the second phase, the patients who, based on the first
      phase of the study, would be the most prone to perioperative hypothermia, will be examined
      for any change of coagulation parameters related to the hypothermia. Investigators intend to
      involve 100 consecutive patients of the original group. The examined parameters are standard
      coagulation tests, EXTEM, FIBTEM tests obtained from a rotational thromboelastometry, or
      other ROTEM test related to the particular pathology. Investigators will use a standardized
      method of fluid management to affect dilutional coagulopathy.

      Standard perioperative patient's monitoring - temperature sensor monitoring of body
      temperature, ECG, noninvasive blood pressure, oxygen saturation, EtCO2

      Temperature management:

      - the anaesthetist decides if some warming tools are needed and notes the used ones, which
      involve: warmed infusion, heating blanked, air warming system, infusion pipe heater,
      increasing of temperature in the operating theatre, covering the patient or another method of
      temperature management

      Monitored parameters in the first phase:

        -  body temperature before the intervention (measured in the office previously), operating
           theatre's temperature at the beginning of anaesthesia

        -  body temperature during the intervention including the way of measuring, marked each 15
           minutes

        -  body temperature at the end of the entire intervention, including signs of the patient's
           heat discomfort

        -  body temperature during resting time in the after-surgery resting room

      Monitored parameters in the second phase:

        -  monitored parameters in the first phase + following:

        -  blood sampling for standard coagulation tests (following initial of general anaesthesia)
           + EXTEM, FIBTEM, NATEM. In case of any pathology found here, more relevant test are run.
           The test is analysed by anaesthetist or ICU doctor, where the ROTEM machine is.

        -  blood sampling for standard coagulation tests (prior to the end of the surgical
           intervention) + EXTEM, FIBTEM, NATEM. In case of any pathology found here, more relevant
           test are run. The test is analysed by anaesthetist or ICU doctor, where the ROTEM
           machine is.

        -  if body temperature is below 34°C, two sets of ROTEM tests are run: one at patient's
           body temperature, following by another one at a standard temperature (37°C).

      Statistic evaluation:

        -  demographic - age, sex, type of surgery, duration of surgery, type of anaesthesia

        -  changes of core temperature during the perioperative care and influence of used warming
           tools, side effects of changes of core temperature

        -  laboratory tests - standard coagulation tests and ROTEM - EXTEM, FIBTEM, NATEM test
    
  