
    
      Falls are the most commonly reported patient safety incident with 240,000 recorded in NHS
      hospitals in England each year. The national mean rate of falls per 1000 occupied bed day
      (OBDs) is 6.6. The rate of harm per 1000 OBD is 0.19. The head of nursing at UHCW is
      responsible for quality and safety in nursing and recognises that falls are a problem at
      UHCW. Consequently she plans to implement an intervention (an educational programme for ward
      staff) to reduce the potential harm caused by falls, and wishes to know whether the
      intervention is effective. For logistical reasons it is not possible to introduce the
      intervention to all wards at the same time, so it is necessary to roll the intervention out
      across clusters of wards over time. These clusters will be the unit of study. Human Subjects
      Protection Review will be exempt as the intervention is taking place at ward level, not the
      patient level. The hypothesis is that fall rates will tend to decline after the intervention
      is introduced. Standards for prevention of falls have been published by the Healthcare
      Quality Improvement Partnership (Royal College of Physicians. National Audit of Inpatient
      Falls: audit report 2015. London: RCP, 2015). The intervention will consist of education to
      improve compliance with these standards.

      NIHR CLAHRC West Midlands were approached to conduct an independent evaluation. However, the
      service imperative does not permit any delay in implementation of the intervention. Although
      the intervention must not be delayed, it cannot be implemented simultaneously across all
      hospital wards; it must be rolled out incrementally. The unit of roll-out is a cluster of
      wards. There are nine clusters of wards:

      Cluster A:

        -  Ward 40 - Gerontology - Age

        -  Ward 20 - Gerontology

        -  Ward 21 - Gerontology

      Cluster B:

        -  Ward 41 - Stroke

        -  Ward 42 - Neurology

        -  Ward 43 - Neurosurgery

      Cluster C:

        -  Ward 30 - Respiratory

        -  Ward 31 - Medical ward

        -  Ward 34 - Clinical Haemotology

        -  Ward 35 - Oncology

      Cluster D:

        -  Ward 50 - Renal

        -  Ward 52 - Orthopaedics

        -  Ward 53 - Orthopaedics

      Cluster E:

        -  Ward 10 - Cardiology

        -  Ward 11 - Cardiothoracic Surgery

      Cluster F:

        -  Cedar Ward - Orthopaedics

        -  Hoskyn Ward

        -  Mulberry Ward

        -  Oak Ward - Rehab

      Cluster G:

        -  Ward 32 - Head & Neck

        -  Ward 33 - Surgery

        -  Ward 33 - Gastro

        -  Ward 33 - Urology

      Cluster H:

        -  Ward 21 - Short-stay - Gen Surgery

        -  Ward 22 - ECU

        -  Ward 22 - Surgical Assessment Unit

        -  Ward 22A - Vascular Surgery

        -  Ward 23 - Gynaecology Suite

      Cluster I:

        -  Ward 12/CDU - AMU1

        -  Ward 3 (AMU3)

        -  Ward 12 - Observation / Assessment Unit (ED)

        -  Ward 1

        -  AMU 2

      The phased introduction across wards evokes the possibility of step wedge cluster RCT
      (Hemming, et al. BMJ. 2015; 350:h391). However, clusters A and B must proceed first, and
      clusters H and I must proceed last as these are wards with very short stay. Five clusters (C
      to G) are therefore available for randomisation. Once clusters have been randomised to a
      given order, there are no foreseeable reasons to change the order. Accordingly, a list of the
      five eligible clusters was sent to the CLAHRC WM Director on 17/01/17 and were randomised
      independently (by Dr Mark Slater at the Dept of Physics, University of Birmingham) using
      Microsoft Excel (each cluster was assigned a random number, the numbers were then sorted from
      smallest to largest), as below:

      E - F - G - C - D.

      The primary outcome is fall rates, and we hypothesise that fall rates will decrease over the
      intervention period. Fall rates per 1000 bed days per month range from 0 to 34.48. Fall rates
      will be collated monthly over a one year period to provide a median of approximately six
      months pre- and six months post-intervention data points. The data will be expressed as falls
      per 1000 OBDs and will be harvested from the routine data system. The senior nurse on duty
      has a statutory requirement to collect data on falls and enter them on the hospital computer
      system. We will record the date at which the intervention team start working with a new
      cluster. The rate at which the intervention will be rolled out is uncertain at this stage.

      For analysis, the raw data from the system will be sent to Dr Karla Hemming at the University
      of Birmingham for statistical analysis, including adjustment for calendar time. Primary
      analysis will be restricted to the five randomised clusters, and secondary analysis will
      include the four non-randomised clusters. The evaluation will take account of correlation
      within clusters and auto-correlation over time.
    
  