
    
      The ketogenic diet has been in continuous use since 1921 for children and adult with
      medically-refractory epilepsy. One of the major unanswered questions is whether it would be
      as effective for children with new-onset epilepsy. Although logically, this would be the
      case, it remains to be shown in clinical trials. Additionally, it is much easier to take a
      medication than to change dietary habits and there is doubt whether families would truly wish
      to try dietary therapy first (or stay on dietary therapy if not effective for a 6 month trial
      period).

      There is limited published evidence supporting the use of the ketogenic diet as a first-line
      therapy for infantile spasms, myoclonic astatic epilepsy, and in some situations where a
      family member had success and the family wishes to start it first. However, these are
      relatively rare conditions. The emergence of the modified Atkins diet as an outpatient,
      quickly-initiated, non-fasting approach since 2003 has changed the concept of dietary therapy
      towards a much less restrictive, potentially emergent therapy. In this way, using dietary
      therapy could potentially be started before medications for a willing family.

      The use of dietary therapy (including the modified Atkins diet) for childhood absence
      epilepsy goes back decades, but was recently profiled in a review article from the
      investigators' group. In this publication, 17 studies were identified, and 69% of 133
      children with refractory childhood absence epilepsy had a >50% seizure reduction and 34% were
      seizure-free. At the investigators' center, 21 children as of 2011 had been treated with
      dietary therapy with 19% seizure-freedom. The question of whether results would be similar
      (or better) for children with new-onset absence epilepsy was unanswered.

      The standard treatments for childhood absence epilepsy (ethosuximide, valproate, lamotrigine)
      are effective in ~50% of children by 16-20 weeks. However, side effects exist and include
      stomach upset, inattention, mood disturbance, rash, liver function test abnormalities, and
      fatigue. Families at times do ask about avoiding treatment completely, especially as this
      epilepsy usually resolves in puberty and convulsions only occur in 20% (most children have
      brief staring spells only). In addition, families do also ask about "nonpharmacologic"
      treatment, but to date the investigators have not recommended it due to lack of data.

      This study will have 20 children in each arm (diet and drug) with ability to crossover.
      Parents with a child with new-onset absence epilepsy will choose between the two therapies.
      Visits will be at baseline, 1 month and 3 months. EEG, labs and clinic visits will be paid by
      the parent's insurance (not free).
    
  