
    
      Analgo-sedation is standard procedure in anesthesiology practice and is often given for
      diagnostic and procedural intervention in the setting of daily hospital. Institution of
      sedation and maintaining spontaneous breathing are main characteristics of analgo-sedation.
      Preservation of adequate patient oxygenation is set up by continuous administration of
      sedative anesthetic infusion which contributes to hemodynamic stability and by administration
      of oxygen. Patient oxygenation is implemented prior to analgo-sedation (preoxygenation),
      during analgo-sedation (periprocedural oxygenation) and during awakening from analgo-sedation
      (postprocedural oxygenation) usually via nasal cannula with application of low-flow (2-6
      L/min) up to 40% of inspired fraction of oxygen (LFNO: low-flow nasal oxygenation, FiO2:
      inspiratory fraction of oxygen). Despite oxygenation administered, intravenously applied
      analgo-sedation yields to risk of transitory apnea accompanied by hypoxemia, hypoxia,
      hypercapnia and hemodynamic insufficiency. Anesthesia risk is classified as ASA
      classification by American Society of Anesthesiologist Physical Status Classification System:
      ASA I includes healthy patients without systemic disease, ASA II patients who have mild
      systemic disease without functional organ limitations and ASA III patients with one or more
      organ function insufficiency.

      High-flow heated and humidified oxygenation (HFNO) delivered via soft, specially designed,
      nasal cannula is successfully used for preoxygenation of patient with predicted difficulty in
      ensuring airway patency. Unlike LFNO, HFNO is characterized by high flow of heated and
      humidified oxygen-air mixture (20-70 L/min) up to 100% FiO2. HFNO prolongs adequate
      oxygenation time in patients during retrograde endoscopic cholangiopancreatography. Also,
      HFNO could be alternative for noninvasive ventilation of patients with acute hypoxemic
      respiratory failure. According to previously mentioned statements, LFNO has significant
      limitations. Main characteristic of HFNO as innovative technique is supporting patients'
      spontaneous inspiration effort through high-flow of heated and humidified oxygen-air mixture.
      Higher inspiratory fraction of oxygen, positive end-expiratory pressure, decreasing of
      pharyngeal airway dead space and decreasing of airway resistance lead to improved maintaining
      of oxygenation combined with better patients' tolerance.

      AIM of this study is to compare effect of HFNO and LFNO during standardized procedure of
      intravenous analgo-sedation on periprocedural oxygenation maintenance in normal weight
      patients of ASA I, II and III status.

      Investigators hypothesized that application of HFNO compared to LFNO, in patients with
      preserved spontaneous breathing during procedural analgo-sedation, contributes to maintaining
      adequate oxygenation, consequently adding to greater peri-procedural circulatory and
      respiratory stability of these patients. Investigators expect that HFNO will ensure reduced
      bradypnoea intervals (frequency of breathing, FoB 1/min), longer maintenance of adequate
      oxygenation, shorter intervals of desaturation (SpO2 ≤ 92%), reducing hypercapnia (PaCO2 ≥ 6
      kPa) and less airway - opening maneuvers performed by attending anesthesiologist (Aom). These
      will prevent partial respiratory insufficiency detected by low SpO2 or low PaO2 ≤ 11kPa
      accompanied by normal or low PaCO2 ≤ 6 kPa, and global respiratory insufficiency detected by
      decreased SpO2 ≤ 92% and PaO2 ≤ 11kPa with increased PaCO2 ≥ 6 kPa.

      Investigators plan to conduct prospective, parallel group, randomized controlled clinical
      trial. Trial will be managed according to principles of Declaration of Helsinki for
      scientific clinical research and will be planned and guided according to CONSORT guidelines
      (Consolidated Standards of Reporting Trials). The trial has been approved by hospital's Ethic
      Committee.

      The source of information are going to be 126 adult patients scheduled for colonoscopy under
      analgo-sedation in the setting of daily outpatient gastroenterology ambulance. Eligible
      participants will be interviewed and examined ambulatory by anesthesiologist together with
      evaluation of ASA status, difficulty of airway management and body mass index (BMI). After
      initial examination inclusive and exclusive criteria will be distinguished. Eligible
      participants who give their written consent of participation will be included in this study.
      After that, participants will be assigned to equal ASA I, II or III risk class group. Each
      group will be randomized to intervention (HFNO) and control (LFNO) subgroup by random numbers
      generator. Randomization will be used until we reach adequate number of participants in every
      group.

      Interventions: intervention subgroups participants will be oxygenated via nasal cannula using
      high flow (40 L/min) of humidified and heated oxygen in air mixture (FiO2 40%). HFNO will be
      applied by oxygenator (AirVO™2, Fisher and Paykell, New Zealand, Technomedika Croatia d.o.o.)
      during procedural analgo-sedation for colonoscopy with maintained spontaneous breathing. In
      control subgroups, LFNO will be applied via nasal catheter (Bauerfeind d.o.o, Zagreb,
      Croatia) using standard low flow oxygen - 5 L/min, FiO2 40%. In both groups concentration of
      oxygen delivered depends on oxygen flow which is regulated by standard flow-regulator
      (flowmeter). Oxygen is delivered through pipelines from central hospital gas supply or from
      portable cylinder gas supply.

      Anesthesia procedure will be uniformed for all participants. Integrated noninvasive
      monitoring of vital functions will be set: EKG - (heart rate/min), SpO2 (%), blood pressure
      (mmHg), respiratory rate (number of breaths/min) (Compact 7; Medical Econet GmbH, Germany).

      Every participant will have established intravenous infusion of 250 ml NaCl 0.9% through
      intravenous cannula regulated by continuous flow (Extension set/CONTROL-A-FLO Regulator 19"
      Male Luer Lock Adapter, Baxter/Agmar d.o.o. United States of America/Croatia).

      Arterial cannula (REF30401, 20 G - 1,10 mm x 45 mm 49 ml, atraumatic needle tip, Medbar LTD,
      Izmir, Turkey) will be placed in radial artery in a previously anesthetized area with local
      anesthetic (EMLA).

      Oxygenation (HFNO or LFNO) will be administrated in continuity until patients' awakening. It
      will be started 3 minutes before starting analgo-sedation (preoxygenation), continued during
      analgo-sedation and procedure of colonoscopy (perioperative oxygenation) and up to five
      minutes after colonoscopy and until patient is awake (postprocedural oxygenation).

      Intravenous analgo-sedation will be started through continuous infusions of propofol and
      fentanyl. Induction of sedation will be guided by TCI (Target control Infusion) (B. Braun
      Melsungen, Germany) with initial target propofol concentration of 6 micrograms/minute.
      Expected time of induction with this concentration is 60-120 seconds. This target
      concentration allows hemodynamic and respiratory stability. Required analgesia will be
      simultaneously applied through slow continuous infusion in dose of 0.05 mcg/kg/min in order
      to preserve spontaneous breathing. Slow infusion will be applied through perfusor (B.Braun,
      Melsungen, Germany). Analgo-sedation will be discontinued immediately after end of the
      procedure.

      Control of nasopharyngeal airway passage during procedure is achieved by using oropharyngeal
      airway, if necessary. Oropharyngeal airway (Airway; Vigon-Medicpro d.o.o.) will be inserted
      after achieving moderate sedation, and only if base of tongue is closing airway by dropping
      on posterior pharyngeal wall. Every manipulation of patients' airway by anesthesiologist will
      be documented (insertion of airway, jaw thrust maneuver).

      Sampling: one milliliter of arterial blood will be collected as three consecutive samples
      from arterial cannula before, during and after analgo-sedation. Sample of arterial blood will
      be drawn from left radial or cubital artery.

      Measurements: measurement of oxygenation will be done using two methods: indirect
      (noninvasive) method using pulse oxymeter (Compact 7, Medical ECONET GmbH, Germany) and
      direct (invasive) method from obtained arterial blood sample. Measurement of SpO2 and drawing
      arterial blood sample will be done simultaneously. Direct measurements of SpO2 and PaO2 will
      be measured in intervals of time. SpO2 will be measured on the left-hand index finger. Data
      will be uniformly collected through indirect - noninvasive (SpO2, heart rate, blood pressure,
      respiratory rate) and direct - invasive (arterial blood gas analysis - pH, PaO2, PaCO2, SaO2)
      measurements

      Possible biases and confounding variables could be caused by hypothermia of participant, by
      sphygmomanometer cuff pressure on the same arm where blood samples are drawn and by prolonged
      time of arterial blood analysis. These difficulties can be bypassed by: adjustment of room
      temperature where analgo-sedation is performed, blood pressure measuring on opposite arm from
      where samples of blood are taken and by arterial blood gas analysis without delay.

      Basic data analyses will be performed by statistician. Sample size is determined by statistic
      computing web program: http://www.stat.ubc.ca/~rollin/stats/ssize used statistic test
      Inference for Proportions: Comparing Two Independent Samples. Assessment of sample size is
      computed for two independent samples with assumption of clinically significant difference in
      patients' oxygenation: ≤11 and ≥14.4 kPa with delta 4.4. Statistical significance of
      difference will be inferred with 5% α-error, 50% β-error and study power 0.80. Calculated
      size of sample is: 21 participant pro subgroup (total of 126 participants).

      Investigators expect no changes to methods after trial commencement. All potential unwanted
      events which may happen during analgo-sedation and colonoscopy that could cause deviation
      from this trial's protocol will be reason for exclusion of participant from this trial. If
      circumstances change, anesthesiologist responsible for application of anesthesia will carry
      out procedure in way which is in patients' best interest.
    
  