
    
      Significance of Research Question/Purpose: Youth violence is an emergent nationwide public
      health issue. Almost two-thirds of public schools across America report one or more violent
      incidents on their campus annually. In 2014, approximately 850,000 non-fatal victimizations
      occurred among 12-18 year-old students; this includes 486,400 assaults and serious violent
      victimizations. About 22% of children in the U.S. reported being bullied at school in 2011,
      and one in 10 students report being threatened or injured with a weapon on school property in
      the past year.

      Racial/ethnic minority youth are at increased risk for school violence. African American,
      Latino, and American Indian youth report higher rates of in-school physical fighting, weapon
      carrying, and gang presence compared to white youth. The highest rates of severe violence are
      reported in urban high schools with high minority enrollment, and large samples and reviews
      indicate Black and Latino youth engage in more bullying than other racial groups.

      Accumulation of adverse child experiences (ACEs), or childhood traumas such as abuse,
      neglect, household dysfunction, and racial discrimination, place children at high risk for
      violent behaviors. Multiple ACEs are more prevalent among American Indian (40%), Hispanic
      (31%) and black children (33%) compared with white children (21%). ACEs have acute and
      cumulative detrimental impacts on the physiological, cognitive, behavioral and psychological
      health of children, and children with increased ACEs are more likely to engage in violent
      behaviors at school.

      For example, the Olweus Anti-bullying Program, which was shown to be effective in Norway yet
      ineffective among Washington's racial/ethnic minority students, is implemented widely. A
      number of gaps in addressing risks for youth violence remain. Many programs are limited to
      didactic instruction in the classroom, or solely target children with significant behavioral
      concerns. Systems-based approaches are the most promising sustainable models because they
      capitalize on infrastructures and services offered at school. This study will evaluate a
      systems-based model, Link for Equity. Link is combines Trauma-Informed Care (TIC) and
      psychological first aid in a culturally sensitive manner. Link for Equity offers cultural
      humility training that specifically targets racial/ethnic microaggressions to prevent racial
      discrimination in discipline referrals of racial and ethnic minority students.

      The aims are to:

      Aim 1: Adapt, implement, and measure the effect of Link for Equity on school violence
      disparities.

      Aim 2: Measure the effect of Link for Equity on racial discrimination by teachers (2a), and
      assess if teachers' racial discrimination mediates the effect of Link for Equity on school
      violence (2b).

      Aim 3: Explore connectedness and stress mechanisms through which Link for Equity impacts
      school violence disparities.
    
  