
    
      Spinal cord compression is often treated with surgery followed by radiation in small doses
      every day for a number of days. When a patient cannot or will not have surgery, radiation is
      given daily. With increased accuracy and precision, higher doses of radiation can be given in
      a single session. Giving a higher dose in a single session may increase the chance that the
      tumor will stop growing into the spinal canal and will prevent spinal cord injury. This study
      will also help to identify the tolerance of the spinal cord to radiation in a single session.

      Spine Stereotactic Radiosurgery:

      You will lie in the mold that was made for you for 45-120 minutes while you receive your
      radiation treatment.

      Follow-up Visits:

      You will have follow-up visits at Months 3 (+/-2 weeks ), 6 (+/-4 weeks), 9 (+/-4 weeks), 12
      (+/-8 weeks), 18 (+/-8 weeks), and 24 (+/-8 weeks) and then every 6 months after that. At
      each follow-up visit:

        -  Your medical history will be recorded, including usage of steroids.

        -  You will have a neurological exam.

        -  You will complete the 3 questionnaires about health, symptoms you may be having, and
           about pain.

        -  You will have an MRI of the spine.

      If you are unable to return for follow-up clinic visits, you will be called and asked about
      your medical history, and you will complete the 3 questionnaires about your health, symptoms
      you may be having, and about pain. This call should take about 20 minutes.

      Length of Study:

      Your treatment will last 1 day. You will continue having follow-up visits or phone calls for
      as long as possible.

      This is an investigational study. SSRS is FDA approved. The use of SSRS to treat metastatic
      epidural spinal cord compression is investigational.

      Up to 36 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  