
    
      Blepharospasm is a dystonia described by sustained, forced, involuntary closure of both
      eyelids, caused by muscle contraction. Hemifacial spasm occurs on one side of the face and
      can result in complete closure of one eye, and spasms across the cheek, face and neck.
      Hemifacial spasm, as its name implies, is unilateral, whereas blepharospasm always affects
      both eyes. Blepharospasm and hemifacial spasm are debilitating conditions, which carry the
      risk of functional blindness and can lead to appearance concerns, social embarrassment and
      isolation, depression and poor quality of life.[1-3]

      Botulinum toxin is the treatment used in standard care to stop spasms, but results in a
      fluctuating pattern of relief and aggravation[4] and hence patients return for repeated
      injections. A recent systematic review indicated that the patient reported benefits of
      botulinum toxin in blepharospasm ranged from no improvement to 96% of patients reporting a
      significant relief in symptoms.[5] Evidence for the duration of benefit provided by repeated
      treatment is was also markedly inconsistant.[5] Although the definition of benefit did differ
      between studies in this review, research cannot explain such inconsistencies. Despite this a
      standardised treatment regimen, of injections on average 3 times a year, is currently used
      across all patients at Moorfields Eye Hospital and is typical throughout the UK. This may
      mean that some people are left experiencing debilitating symptoms until their next scheduled
      appointment and some are being seen too often, hence alternative models of care need to be
      considered.

      Patient-centred care is at the forefront of the NHS,[6;7] reflecting the shift away from the
      paternalistic model of healthcare. Patients are now encouraged to take a more active role in
      knowing and managing their health, and this is especially important in conditions such as
      dystonia where the reality of living with the condition is demanding. As a result patient-led
      healthcare services are becoming increasingly more common and have the potential to address
      the inconsistencies found in the current botulinum toxin treatment regimen.

      Research studies trialling patient-initiated services, where the patient rather than
      healthcare professional initiates treatment and care, have shown promise. These services
      provide patients with information on when and how to access services, rather than having
      regular scheduled appointments. A systematic review conducted by Whear et al[8] synthesised
      the evidence for this model of care across three conditions: irritable bowel disease, breast
      cancer and rheumatoid arthritis. Overall, there were few differences in psychological or
      health-related quality of life between those initiating their own outpatient follow-up
      appointments compared to standard care, despite in many cases patients having less contact
      with healthcare professionals. Patient and clinician satisfaction were also significantly
      greater in the patient-initiated services compared to regular appointment scheduling. Since
      this systematic review members of the research team have led on the development and
      evaluation of a patient-initiated follow-up service for patients with arthritis. Using a
      mixed methods study design the service was found to reduce healthcare utilisation in a RCT,
      without compromising clinical or psychosocial well-being, and was found to be acceptable to
      patients in the embedded qualitative study.[9]

      Adopting a patient-led model of care could reduce discomfort and disability in patients with
      a short-term response to botulinum toxin and reduce unnecessary hospital visits and treatment
      for patients with a longer-term response. There is currently one patient-initiated, nurse-led
      botulinum toxin clinic running in the UK for patients with blepharospasm or hemifacial
      spasm,[10] but is yet to be evaluated in comparison to usual care. Due to the variable nature
      of treatment response blepharospasm and hemifacial spasm are appropriate conditions in which
      to evaluate a service of this nature. This study therefore, provides a unique opportunity to
      empower patients with dystonia to take control of their treatment and optimise the effects of
      botulinum toxin, by allowing them to seek treatment when they feel it is necessary rather
      than it being dictated by the clinical team, within the context of a methodologically robust
      evaluative.
    
  