
    
      Indoleamine 2,3 dioxygenase-1 (IDO1) is a target of cancer immunotherapy. Epacadostat
      (INCB24360) is an oral IDO1 inhibitor. IDO1 activation blocks T-cell activation, enhances
      T-cell apoptosis and promotes the differentiation of naïve T cells to regulatory T cells
      (Tregs). Preclinical findings suggest that IDO1 is critical for cancers to evade immune
      surveillance and can be exploited for cancer immunotherapy.

      Sirolimus is an oral Mammalian Target Of Rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitor. Protein Kinase B mTOR
      pathway has been considered one of major signaling cascade downstream of receptor kinases in
      human cells. Its activation in human cancer cells prompted scientists to develop its
      inhibitors.

      Preclinical findings found that sirolimus can enhance activity of anti-Programmed Death-1
      (PD-1) antibody by suppressing Programmed Death Ligand-1 (PD-L1) expression in human lung
      cancer models. Sirolimus is also known to suppress function of Tregs which contribute to
      immune evasion in cancer.

      Other research groups also reported that autophagy is essential for Thymus cell/lymphocyte
      (T-cell) -mediated apoptosis which can be enhanced by AKT/mTOR/Phosphoinositide 3-kinase
      (PI3K) inhibitors. These studies indicate that autophagy is essential for T-cell mediated
      apoptosis signaling. Because autophagy is at least partially down-regulated by mTOR, mTOR
      inhibitors such as sirolimus can be used to pharmacologically induce autophagy. Overall,
      these findings suggest that activation of mTOR and resultant suppression of autophagy play a
      critical role in resistance of IDO1 inhibitor.

      There is a clear unmet need for patients with advanced NSCLC whose median survival is
      approximately one year. Those who progressed on both standard first-line chemotherapy and
      second line anti-PD-1 inhibitor do not have any standard therapeutic option. Novel
      therapeutic strategy needs to develop for this population.

      The IDO1 inhibitor epacadostat is currently being investigated in clinical trials in
      combination with various agents. However, these existing studies do not consider that mTOR
      and/or autophagy are key mechanisms of its resistance despite the abovementioned background
      information. The purpose of this phase I study is to test the combination of sirolimus with
      the IDO1 inhibitor in order to overcome potential resistance mechanisms associated with the
      use of IDO1.
    
  