
    
      Patients will undergo a VLE exam with and without IRIS per the standard of care. All patients
      regardless of the study participation in this study would receive VLE with and without IRIS
      clinically. They will be randomized into VLE without IRIS first vs VLE with IRIS first. The
      BUDDY Randomization System, provided for use by the Northwell Health Biostatistics Unit, will
      be used for this. Randomization will be stratified based on prior diagnosis of dysplasia. The
      order in which the patient is randomized to will be recorded on the case report form. There
      will be concealed allocation as the study coordinator performing the randomization will not
      know the order of the next allocation.

      Both VLE and IRIS imaging are being performed as standard of care. However, randomization of
      the order allows for comparison of the two. Regions of interest (ROI) will be recorded using
      a full scan and recorded on the case report form. The time to identification of ROIs will
      also be recorded. Each group will then cross over such that the VLE without IRIS group will
      then have IRIS turned on. ROI will then be recorded for each group based on full scans. A
      consensus ROI will be recorded based on the two exams. Only one ROI per centimeter will be
      allowed to avoid overlapping of laser marks. In addition, VLE without IRIS and IRIS marks
      within 75 frames of each other or 2 hours (on a clock face orientation) will be considered
      the same target.

      Laser marking will then be performed. A double laser mark will be applied to all IRIS ROIs. A
      single laser mark will be applied to VLE ROIs. Targeted biopsies will be taken of all laser
      marks and placed in separate biopsy jars. Biopsies will be taken in between the laser marks
      for double laser marked areas. For single laser marks, biopsies will be taken on either side
      of the laser mark. Resection of visible lesions will then occur per standard of care (if
      present) followed by random biopsies of the segment. Random biopsies are pinch biopsies every
      1 cm the length of the Barrett's in a 4 quadrant fashion per gastrointestinal society
      guidelines. There are no additional research biopsies being performed outside this study. The
      targeted biopsies are based on the VLE features that are suspicious for dysplasia and thus
      standard of care. The other biopsies being performed here are random biopsies which are also
      being performed for standard of care. Biopsied samples will be stored per standard of care
      procedures per the pathology department. They will not be stored for future research
      purposes.

      Following each procedure, the physician will be asked a series of Likert Scale questions to
      assess the utility of IRIS in that procedure, including how it impacts their confidence in
      image interpretation, their ability to assimilate data more easily and quickly, and their
      overall perception of the technology.

      Although, the VLE with IRIS and VLE without IRIS are being performed as standard of care, all
      adverse events will be recorded and reported to the IRB.

      All data will be entered into a central encrypted REDCap database.

      Expert pathologists who specialize in gastrointestinal pathology will read the histology. A
      second gastrointestinal pathologist will confirm any histologic diagnosis of dysplasia. This
      is the standard of care at Northwell Health and academic medical centers per gastrointestinal
      society guidelines.

      All procedures (upper endoscopy, volumetric laser endomicroscopy, and IRIS enhanced VLE) will
      be performed as standard of care. The prospective data collection and initial randomization
      will be the research component. All data collected will be de-identified before being
      transferred into a database. This will be kept in a safe place that is only accessible to the
      research team.
    
  