
    
      Throughout the UK, paediatric transport services are responsible for the stabilisation and
      transport of critically unwell children. This involves moving children from district general
      hospitals to receive specialist care in tertiary centres and moving children between tertiary
      and quaternary centres in order to provide the appropriate level of specialist care.

      Critically unwell children often require infusions of essential, life-saving medications
      during episodes of transport. Disruption of these infusions can be destabilising and even
      life-threatening. Examples of essential infusions include the use of prostin in
      duct-dependent congenital heart disease, vasoactive/inotropic medications in shock and
      sedation and muscle relaxants to ensure comfortable, safe transfer.

      Critically unwell patients often require support in the form of inotropes/vasopressors to
      support cardiac contractility and alter vascular tone and are commonly used in the treatment
      of shock. Physiological response to vasoactive/inotropic drugs is rapid and measurable in
      terms of cardiovascular status through observing changes in heart rate, blood pressure and
      oxygenation of peripheral tissues (pulse oximetry). As such these medications offer the
      potential to observe whether syringe driver delivery variations as mediated through the
      effect of g-forces exert measurable physiological instability in transported patients.

      G-Forces Pilot is a prospective, observational, case-control, feasibility study investigating
      the effect of G-forces as measured by an accelerometer against physiological parameters of
      heart rate, invasive blood pressure measurement and oxygen saturations in vivo during
      episodes of transport. The study aims to understand the relationship between the physics of
      transport on physiological parameters and to assess whether syringe driver delivery
      (previously demonstrated to be affected by G-forces in-vitro), is responsible for
      physiological variations in transported patients requiring vasoactive/inotropic infusions.

      The investigators propose to examine this relationship by obtaining and analysing data on
      physiological parameters in patients during episodes of transport to assess:

      (i) Whether G-forces experienced by being in a moving ambulance affect the stability of
      patient physiological parameters.

      (ii) How variations in syringe driver delivery mediated through the effects of G-Forces
      affect patients in transit as evidenced through instability in physiological parameters
      whilst receiving vasoactive/inotropic infusions.

      This will be examined by the comparison of a control and study group. The control group will
      consist of patients with full monitoring (including an arterial line), without
      vasoactive/inotropic support. The study group will consist of patients with full monitoring
      (including an arterial line) receiving vasoactive/inotropic support through a syringe driver.
      Data analysis will assess the strength of correlation between patient observations and
      experienced g-forces recorded during the episode of transport to answer the study question.
    
  