
    
      Nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC), a human malignancy derived from the nasopharyngeal epithelial
      cells, is occurring highly frequently in Taiwan. Of note, the average ages of NPC individuals
      are usually ten years younger than those of patients with other head and neck cancers.
      Clinically, this early onset and high incidence of metastasis in NPC may contribute to its
      poor prognosis. Fortunately, NPC is usually radio-and chemo-therapy sensitive during the
      early stage. So, the more we understand NPC pathogenesis, the more efficient detection
      methods would be developed for NPC early diagnosis and prognosis.

      Four unique characteristics have been reported for NPC: geographic preference, heavy
      infiltration of lymphocytes, high incidence of metastasis and association with Epstein-Barr
      virus (EBV). According to our hypothesis that both cellular changes and viral factors are
      crucial for NPC development, four major long-term study goals have been carried out in our
      lab: (1) identification and characterization of the cellular and viral factors that are
      involved in NPC formation, (2) elucidation of potencies of these molecules as clinical
      diagnosis and prognosis markers of NPC, (3) investigation of the molecular and biological
      linkage between EBV infection and NPC development and (4) establishment of a drug-screening
      system for NPC chemotherapy.

      Based on our assumption that both cellular genes and viral factors are involved in NPC
      carcinogenesis, the following genes are chosen as the major study targets in this five-year
      grant. Firstly, to asses the alteration of cellular gene expression, we choose three cytokine
      genes 【interleukin (IL)-1, IL-7 and IL-13】, three inhibitors of apoptosis proteins (IAP)
      genes (survivin, HIAP-1, and HIAP-2), two specific cellular genes (osteoblast-specific
      factor-2 and polymeric immunoglobulin receptor) and one tumor suppressor gene (tumor
      susceptibility gene TSG101) in our proposal. All these genes exhibit special expression
      profiles in NPC biopsies in our preliminary study. So, the regulation and effect of these
      genes in epithelial cells would be the study focus. Secondly, two EBV viral genes, Zta and
      LMP2A, the former encoded immediately early lytic product and the later encoded latent
      membrane protein, are selected for this study. In our previous grant, we found that Zta can
      up-regulate TKT (trk-related tyrosine kinase) and matrix metalloproteinases (MMP)-1 which is
      a down-stream effector of TKT. Therefore we will extend the study on how Zta and LMP2A
      regulate and influence anti-apoptotic network and metastasis progression. Based on our
      preliminary data, this proposal is highly approachable and the results may provide valuable
      information for NPC diagnosis, prognosis and treatment.
    
  