
    
      Spasmodic dysphonia (SD) is an isolated focal laryngeal dystonia characterized by selective
      impairment of voluntary voice control during speech production. Despite well-characterized
      clinical features of SD, its causes and pathophysiology remain unclear. Consequently, the
      absence of objective biomarkers of SD leads to diagnostic inaccuracies, while the lack of
      understanding of neural and molecular targets of SD pathophysiology hinders the development
      of novel therapeutic opportunities for SD patients. The objective of this application is to
      identify imaging and genetic biomarkers of SD development and manifestation. The central
      hypothesis is that functional and structural brain abnormalities, shaped, in part, by
      underlying causative genetic factors, exhibit disorder-characteristic features, which can be
      used as diagnostic and predictive SD biomarkers. The rationale for the proposed studies is
      that identification of SD neural and genetic biomarkers would have direct clinical impact by
      establishing enhanced criteria for accurate differential diagnosis, screening of potential
      persons at-risk, and evaluation of mechanism-based novel pharmacological and/or surgical
      therapies for these patients. Using a comprehensive approach of multi-modal neuroimaging,
      machine learning algorithms, and next-generation DNA sequencing, the central hypothesis will
      be tested by pursuing three specific aims: (1) Identify and validate SD phenotype- and
      genotype-specific neural markers; (2) Establish endophenotypic markers of SD development; and
      (3) Identify SD gene(s) and their association with neural markers of SD susceptibility. This
      research is innovative, because it uses a cross-disciplinary approach as a tool for discovery
      of the mediating neural mechanisms that bridge the gap between the DNA sequence and SD
      pathophysiology. The proposed research is significant because it is expected to advance and
      expand the understanding of the mechanistic aspects of brain alterations, identify neural
      markers and discover SD gene mutations. Ultimately, the results of these studies are expected
      to establish new knowledge, which will be critical for enhancement of SD clinical management
      and identification of novel approaches to new treatment options in these patients.
    
  