
    
      This is a single-arm non-randomized pilot study. Staff at Chelsea and Westminster NHS
      Foundation Trust will be recruited via the placement of posters in staff only areas such as
      staff rooms and via the daily communications that the Trust use. Those who meet all of the
      inclusion criteria and none of the exclusion criteria will be approached for participation in
      the study. The participants will be asked to listen to a series of musical genres, selected
      in random order, whilst lying on a standard hospital bed for comfort. This will take place in
      a private clinical room to minimise disturbance and any variation in heart rate caused by
      external stressors. The participants will have an ECG recording performed by attachment of
      adhesive surface lead electrodes to the chest and arms. This will be continuous throughout
      the protocol. They will also have a continuous non-invasive blood pressure recording using
      equipment that is in routine clinical practice (Finapress BP) and respiration monitored via a
      respiration belt. They will also be asked to wear a small lightweight sensor that gives
      readings of heart rate and blood pressure at 2 minute intervals.

      After a period of approximately 10 minutes of ECG recording without music (control period), a
      series of pieces of music will be played whilst the ECG recordings continue. Each piece of
      music will last for no more than 5 minutes, 3 will be selected by the investigators and one
      will be pre-chosen by the participant prior to their attendance. The order in which these
      pieces will be played will be chosen at random. There will be a 3 minute recovery time in
      between each piece of music. The same pieces of music will then be played back to the
      participant but this time the music will subtly change tempo in reaction to the patient's
      heart rate. This is achieved by the ECG feeding data into the computer playing the music,
      whereupon the data is processed by Max MSP software and used to control the playback speed in
      Ableton Live. The algorithm for change is a linear one: the higher a patient's heart rate is
      in relation to a desired bpm target, the more the music will slow down. (There will be a
      limit to the extent of the tempo adjustment, in order to prevent any noticeable distortion to
      the music.)

      The tempo of the music is controlled by computer. The ECG recording will feed into the
      computer where the software alters the tempo of the music based on the real-time heart rate
      feedback. The hypothesis is that by altering the tempo of the music the investigators will
      see changes in the heart rate of the participant. These changes will then feedback to the
      software which will continue to alter the tempo accordingly with the aim to achieve a degree
      of heart rate control and see less heart rate variation and less high heart rates. It should
      take around one hour to complete all the study procedures.
    
  