
    
      Objective:

      To develop and demonstrate the feasibility and effectiveness of a multifactorial,
      community-based falls prevention program of screening, risk modification, and progressive
      physical therapy that targets vulnerable elderly Singaporeans at high-risk of falls.

      Methodology:

      This two-year, multi-center, two-arm, parallel group, randomized controlled trial will be
      divided into three phases: (1) pre-study, (2) intervention, and (3) analysis.

      During the pre-study phase, overseas experts will train local physiotherapists and community
      health workers on how to administer and deliver the falls prevention program. Engaging
      hospital-based physiotherapists to deliver the home-based assessments and exercise programs
      will maximize the likelihood of long-term sustainability of the intervention program. In
      addition, manuals will be developed for physiotherapists to guide the evaluation risk factor
      assessments, home environment assessments, appropriate referrals to different health care
      providers, and selection of exercise programs that will be progressive, challenging and of
      optimal intensity and durations. Manuals for risk factor assessments will be shared with the
      blinded assessors.

      The intervention phase will be divided into two phases: a three-month "Active Intervention
      Phase" and a six-month "Maintenance Phase." In the beginning of the active intervention
      phase, the participants in the intervention group will receive a detailed falls risk
      assessment at the baseline assessment by a physiotherapist. The risk factors that will be
      assessed are the following:

        1. Poor vision: Referral to ophthalmologist for correction

        2. Polypharmacy: Referral to AIC for management of medications if use of five or more
           medications

        3. Environmental Hazards: Caregiver education and suitable recommendations according to the
           CDC guidelines to modify risk such as removal of rugs, change to safer footwear, use of
           non-slip bath mats, additional lighting at night.

        4. Deficiencies in gait, balance or mobility: Physiotherapist-supervised program of gait
           training, balance and strengthening exercises In the analysis phase, the collected data
           will be analyzed. The primary outcome measure of the study is the number of fallers over
           the entire study period. The number of falls will be captured by a falls prevention
           diary maintained by (or for) each participant.

      Procedures:

      The elderly seen at ED for a fall or fall-related injury will be screened for participation
      of the study. Once the consent is taken, all study participants will be given an assessment
      by a physiotherapist at baseline which assesses sociodemographic characteristics, functional
      status measured by the Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB), two-minute walk test,
      history of falls, cognitive impairment measured by the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA),
      quality of life (EQ-5D-5L and EQ-VAS), health care utilization, and medical history
      (polypharmacy, orthostatic vital signs, and self-reporting eyesight and hearing).

      At the end of baseline assessment, the participants will be assigned either a control or the
      intervention group. Before the start of the exercise sessions, the participants in the
      intervention group will. Need to complete Physical Activity Readiness Questionnaire (PAR-Q)
      and a medical evaluation by a physician to ensure that the participants are fit for physical
      activity. Based on the SPPB score at baseline assessment, participants will be categorized as
      either high-risk (SPPB<6) or low-to-moderate-risk (SPPB>6) for falls. High-risk patients will
      be given an individualized PT-supervised program of physical therapy that specifically
      targets impairments that interfere with engaging in exercise in group setting. The goal of
      the tailored physical therapy sessions is to modify impairments and transition these patients
      to an evidence-based exercise program. Low-to-moderate-risk patients will be directly
      enrolled into an evidence-based group exercise program. The group exercise programs will be
      offered as one-hour sessions, twice weekly over the intervention period. At the end of the
      active intervention phase, these participants will transition to a maintenance phase in which
      they will be encouraged to continue with the exercise on their own and will also be referred
      to the Health Promotion Board's STEP program.

      The participants will be asked at the end of the active intervention phase (three months from
      the date of randomization) and at the end of the study period (nine months from the date of
      randomization) about their functional status, history of falls, cognitive impairment, quality
      of life, health care utilization, and medical history by the blinded assessors. Recurrent
      falls incidence will be monitored by participants' self-reporting monthly falls diary as well
      as monthly phone calls conducted by the study coordinator during the entire study period.
    
  