
    
      The prospective, randomized and double-blind clinical trial will be performed at the Federal
      Hospital of Bonsucesso (HFB), Rio de Janeiro, RJ.

      The Informed Consent Form (TCLE) will be presented and signed, on an outpatient basis, by
      each of the volunteer participants, who will be guided about the risks and benefits of the
      research, according to resolution CNS 466/12. A total of 100 female patients, aged between 18
      and 60 years, ASA I and II, submitted to elective laparoscopic cholecystectomies, were
      randomly assigned to two groups: Group P (GP) will receive palonosetron 75 mcg and the other
      Group F GF), you will receive fosaprepitanto 150 mg. Palonosetron and fosaprepitanto are not
      standard medications in HFB. Both will be purchased and will be in the possession of the
      principal investigator, who undertakes to obey the current norms of the hospital institution
      and ensure the quality, storage and adequate stability of medications.

      Patients will not receive preanesthetic medication. They will be monitored in the operating
      room with noninvasive blood pressure, electrocardioscopy, pulse oximetry, capnography,
      capnometry and bispectral index (BIS).

      Patients will have a cannulated peripheral vein, be pre-oxygenated with oxygen at 100% for 5
      minutes and anesthetic induction will be performed with intravenous administration (e.v.) of
      fentanyl 3 mcg / kg; lidocaine 1.5 mg / kg and propofol 2 mg / kg. Tracheal intubation will
      be facilitated after 3 minutes of administration of rocuronium 0.6 mg / kg e.v. After
      induction of anesthesia, the antiemetics, depending on the group studied, will be
      administered e.v. in solution containing 100 ml of 0.9% strength.

      Maintenance of anesthesia will be with sevoflurane 2 L / min in 50% oxygen / air, with its
      concentration adjusted to maintain BIS between 40-60. Remifentanil 0.05 mcg / kg / min at 0.2
      mcg / kg / min via e.v. may be given intraoperatively if the heart rate or blood pressure
      rises by more than 20% of the baseline values. Additional doses of rocuronium may also be
      given as needed. Patients will receive paracoxib 40 mg, dipyrone 50 mg / kg and ranitidine 50
      mg e.v. after tracheal intubation. The surgical wound will be infiltrated with 20 ml of 0.5%
      ropivacaine before the sutures. The neuromuscular blockade will be reversed with neostigmine
      0.04 mg / kg and atropine 0.02 mg / kg per e.v. Morphine 0.03 mg / kg e.v. will be given at
      the end of the surgery. The inflation of the pneumoperitoneum with CO2 (carbon dioxide), will
      have as limit abdominal pressure of 15 mmHg.

      A physician not participating in the research will be aware of which antiemetic has been
      administered and will be responsible for the postoperative prescription of the patients. Both
      groups will have metoclopramide 10 mg e.v. as rescue medication for PONV.

      For the purpose of the study, nausea will be defined as an unpleasant and involuntary
      sensation of vomiting, without the expulsion of stomach contents, and vomiting as expulsion
      of the stomach contents.

      The patients will be visited by the research team 2, 6, 24 and 48 h after the end of the
      surgery, being questioned about the frequency and intensity of PONV, as well as other adverse
      effects. Researchers will not have access to prescription and medical records within the
      first 48 hours postoperatively.

      After the last clinical evaluation, the researchers will analyze the prescription and note
      the use of morphine and rescue metoclopramide. They will also answer a question about the
      degree of satisfaction with the anti-emetic therapy used and will have 3 "Unsatisfied,
      satisfied or very satisfied" response options. Regarding the total cost of antiemetic
      therapy, it will be based on the ANVISA (National Health Surveillance Agency) table.
    
  