
    
      -  Meng Kun found that Joint application of Chuankezhi can enhance the number of CD4 cells
           and reduce side-effects of HAART compared with HAART alone. in order to verify the
           long-term efficacy of combination therapy, they carried out an clinical observations of
           three cases of patients who received combination therapy for over a period of 3 years,
           through the observation of three cases of patients, they found that CD3+CD4+T lymphocyte
           count were significantly increased and HIV-RNA viral load were below 50copies for
           long-term, and without the occurrence of drug resistance. And the patient's symptoms and
           signs have also been significantly improved.

        -  Duan Cheng Yu analyses 334 cases of AIDS patients' clinical symptoms, signs and
           Karnofsky score, and CD3+CD4+ T lymphocyte count before and after treatment. The
           patients all take "kang ai bao sheng" capsules for 3 months. The results showed that 334
           cases of patients receiving traditional Chinese and western medicine treatment shows
           improvement in symptoms and signs, increase in CD3+CD4+ T lymphocyte count. They
           proposed that combination of traditional Chinese and western medicine can improve
           symptoms, enhance immunity function and improve the quality of life of AIDS patients.

        -  In order to observe the effect of combination of TCM and HAART on HIV/AIDS patients,
           ZHANG Ai-min divided 63 cases of AIDS into 3 groups. 20 cases received TCM treatment and
           22 cases received combination of TCM and HAART, 21 cases received western medicine. The
           patients' symptoms, signs, Karnofsky score points, CD3+CD4+T lymphocyte counts and
           HIV-RNA viral load were recorded and compare the difference between the 3 groups. The
           results showed that combination treatment can more effectively improve the immune
           function of HIV/AIDS patients, reduce HIV-RNA viral load, and improve the patients'
           symptoms, signs and the quality of life.

        -  Immunity 1 (Fuzheng 1) is composed of herbs which have tonic and detoxific function. The
           long-term clinical application has proved the safety and effect. It can improve the
           symptoms and signs in AIDS patients with the effective rate of 70% and can significantly
           improve the quality of life. It can also improve and stabilize immune function and
           inhibit viral replication. The basis study have shown that Immunity 1 (Fuzheng 1) can
           inhibit viral replication from multi-target, multi-link, enhance immune function,
           increase the secretion of IL-2, IFN-γ, participate in immune regulation effect, enhance
           NK cell activity, promote CD3+CD4+T cell proliferation and increase macrophage
           phagocytes capacity.

        -  Through the clinical trials, we are going to evaluate the efficacy and safety of
           combination of TCM and HAART on immune reconstitution of HIV/AIDS patients.
    
  