
    
      Infertility has plagued more than 10% of the world's couples of childbearing age, of which
      male factors account for half. There are many causes of male infertility, including
      infection, genital malformations, immune dysfunction, varicocele, erectile dysfunction, drug
      side effect and chromosomal abnormality. Microdeletion of Azoospermia factor (AZF) in the
      long arm of the Y chromosome is one of the main genetic factors leading to dyszoospermia. The
      incidence of AZF microdeletions is 2%~19.4% among male infertile patients in Asia, which is
      related to the inclusion criteria, STS site selection, population and genetic background.

      At present, there are large numbers of studies on AZF microdeletions in male infertility, and
      provide rich information on male infertility. However, as the main means of detection is
      multiplex PCR-capillary electrophoresis method, which usually detects sequence-tagged
      sites(STS) such as AZFa-sY84，sY86，AZFb-sY127，sY134，AZFc- sY1191, sY1291, sY1189,sY254 and
      sY255, information on other loci is still lacking.

      In addition, the shortcomings of this method include false positive and false negative
      results caused by fuzzy electrophoresis strip or pollution and the presence of high
      repetition and a large number of palindrome in complex AZF region. Because some
      microdeletions can't be detected it is difficult to make an accurate judgement on the
      fertility of the patients.

      This study will use Multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification and NGS method to
      improve the detection rate of AZF microdeletion, and analyze the microdeletion data and the
      patient's fertility results, so as to improve genetic counseling. A total of 5000 male
      infertility patients will be enrolled. At least 1000 parents and 1000 normal fertile men will
      be asked to donate their peripheral blood for DNA.

      In addition, in patients with azoospermia or severe oligozoospermia, the overall deletion
      rate of AZF is about 8.77% (1.75%-24.70%), so there are other unknown genetic factors leading
      to azoospermia or severe oligozoospermia. This study will also try to make a preliminary
      study of these factors.
    
  