
    
      Ischemic mitral regurgitation (IMR) is a common complication of myocardial infarction, with a
      reported prevalence of 13-59%. Approximately one-third of these patients have at least
      moderate MR .

      The mechanism of IMR is complex and multifactorial.IMR results from the distortion and
      remodeling of the left ventricle after myocardial infarction ,where the papillary muscles are
      displaced away from the annular plane. Coupled with annular flattening, enlargement, and
      decreased contraction, this spatial deformation exerts traction on the chordae tendineae,
      leading to mal-coaptation of the structurally normal mitral valve and subsequently to
      secondary MR. Furthermore, the MR-related left ventricular(LV) volume overload promotes LV
      remodeling, resulting in exacerbation of the MR (MR begets more MR) . Two patterns of leaflet
      tethering have been reported in secondary MR: asymmetric tethering and symmetric tethering.
      Asymmetric tethering occurs with regional LV remodeling, resulting in displacement of the
      posterior papillary muscle in a lateral direction. Symmetric tethering generally results from
      global LV remodeling, resulting in apical tethering of both the anterior and posterior
      papillary muscles.

      Most studies show that severe IMR is not usually improved by revascularization alone and that
      residual MR is associated with an increased mortality risk. It is generally accepted that
      severe IMR should be corrected at the time of Coronary artery bypass grafting(CABG).

      Surgical correction of moderate IMR at the time of coronary revascularization is still an
      unresolved controversy.CABG alone did reduce MR at follow-up; nevertheless, CABG alone cannot
      be sufficient to eliminate MR in all cases , Adding mitral valve annuloplasty to CABG may
      eliminate MR immediately after surgery; however, recurrent MR did occur after CABG plus
      mitral valve annuloplasty, and no benefit for long-term survival was observed. There was also
      a tendency toward higher morbidity and mortality in CABG plus mitral valve procedure as
      compared with CABG alone in high-risk patients with moderate IMR. The latest American
      Association for Thoracic Surgery (AATS)guidelines suggested that for moderate IMR, mitral
      valve repair with an undersized complete rigid ring annuloplasty "may be considered" during
      CABG surgery, but not necessarily "preferred" over revascularization alone.Therefore ,the
      benefits of adding mitral valve procedure to CABG for treating moderate IMR have not been
      clearly established.

      This study is aiming to determine the short term morbidity in patients undergoing CABG alone
      and comparing them with patients undergoing concomitant MV repair by assessment of morbidity
      and mortality in both groups postoperatively .
    
  