
    
      Presently oxygen is titrated against saturation (SpO2) by manual adjustment. Automated or
      servo-control systems have been developed that result in tighter control of SpO2 and more
      time spent in the intended target range. These systems are already in clinical use. Automated
      systems produce quite large fluctuations in fraction of inspired oxygen (FiO2) in order to
      keep SpO2 in range. It is possible that this could result in short periods of high or low
      oxygen tension (PO2) that are undetectable using saturation monitoring. Studies to date have
      examined the effects of manual and automated (servo) oxygen targeting on SpO2 but not on
      transcutaneous oxygen tension (TcPO2).

      There is a need to determine the achieved SpO2 and TcPO2 distributions associated with the
      use of manual and automated control as a first step in planning trials comparing these
      approaches over many weeks. When this is measured over a small number of hours it is not
      anticipated that this would have an influence on clinical outcome.

      This study is a prospective, single centre, randomised crossover trial of automated (servo)
      control versus manual oxygen titration. Each infant will act as their own control. Infants
      born at less than 29 weeks gestation, greater than 48 hour of age and receiving supplementary
      oxygen will be eligible for inclusion.

      The study will be undertaken in the Neonatal Unit at the Simpson Centre for Reproductive
      Health at the Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh.

      Total study time is 12 hours for each infant. Infants will be randomised to commence on
      either automated (servo) control or manual mode. SpO2 (range 90-95%) will be continuously
      monitored as per normal standard of care. A second pulse oximetry probe will be place for
      servo control input.

      Additional monitoring will be carried out as shown below:

        1. TcPO2 monitoring

        2. FiO2 monitoring

        3. Heart rate monitoring (used to validate SpO2 readings)

        4. Arterial gas sampling (only if conducted by the direct care team as part of the routine
           care of the infant; no extra blood samples will be taken as part of the study)

      In manual mode, all oxygen adjustments will be made by clinical/nursing staff. In automated
      mode, oxygen will be adjusted by the respiratory support device.

      In automated mode (servo control), oxygen adjustments will be made by one of two devices
      (depending on the clinical requirements of the baby) - the IntellO2 device (IntellO2,
      Vapotherm) or Leoni plus CLAC (Closed-Loop Automated oxygen Control) ventilator (Leoni plus,
      Löwenstein Medical).

      SpO2 and TcPO2 readings will be downloaded directly from the multiparameter patient monitor.
      SpO2 will be measured using a Phillips MX500 multiparameter monitor. TcPO2 will be measured
      using a SenTec Digital Monitoring System with OxiVent sensor. TcPO2 is calculated by dynamic
      fluorescence quenching which measures oxygen molecules present in the vicinity of a
      fluorescent dye incorporated within the sensor surface. The sensor is operated at a constant
      temperature of 43 degrees Celsius. Control of sensor temperature and application duration are
      designed to meet all applicable standards and this monitoring device is used routinely in
      many neonatal units.
    
  