
    
      Objective:

      Experiments in this protocol employ fMRI to address the interactions of nicotine with such
      cognitive processes as working memory, attention, and the executive functions of inhibitory
      control, conceptual reasoning and attention switching, in addition to reward and temporal
      error reward processing. The effects of nicotine on these cognitive processes will also be
      assessed outside the MRI scanner. Assessments of genetic variants will be done with the
      hypothesis that these will account for some inter-individual differences in the brain imaging
      data.

      Study Population:

      The study population will consist of adult (18-50 y.o.) non-treatment seeking smokers and age
      and gender matched non-smoking control subjects. The control subjects will provide normative
      data on cognitive task performance and corresponding neural activation, as well as providing
      control for any time effects (e.g. practice effect on repeated cognitive task performance).
      Smokers will smoke at least 10 cigarettes per day for a period of 1 year. Both smokers and
      controls will be suitable for fMRI scanning. Subjects may not be dependent on any other drug
      except nicotine or caffeine.

      Design:

      In a within subjects design, experienced smokers will perform cognitive tasks involving
      memory encoding and consolidation, selective/divided and sustained attention, as well as
      reward and temporal error reward processing two hours following single blind application of a
      nicotine patch (21 mg/24 hr) and during a separate session on a different day, following
      application of a placebo patch. The tasks will be performed during fMRI scanning. Not all of
      the tasks will be done at the same time, rather, groups of tasks are run in series as task
      sets: Task set A: Selective/divided attention task and Intention/ attention task; Task set B:
      The SARAT (Spatial Attentional Resource Allocation task) which is designed to enable
      dissociation of top-down and stimulus driven processes of visuospatial selective attention as
      well as the CEFER task which is a measure of central executive function task which isolates
      the allocation of attentional resources within working memory; Task set C: Monetary Incentive
      Delay and Temporal Delay Error processing tasks; Task set D: Affective Forecasting and Loss
      Aversion task. Control subjects will do the tasks during scanning without a patch. Blood will
      be drawn from all participants for analysis of genetic variants and for smokers, plasma
      nicotine and cotinine will be measured.

      Outcome:

      We will determine the acute effects of nicotine on attentional and other cognitive mechanisms
      and how emotional processes such as the anticipation and receipt of reward affects the
      neuronal activation properties of acute nicotine administration in experienced smokers. In
      addition, we will determine whether genetic polymorphisms predict BOLD response during
      cognitive tasks pertinent to nicotine addiction. Plasma nicotine and cotinine will be
      included as a factor in analyses of nicotine-induced effects on fMRI signal to take account
      of potentially large inter-individual variability in circulating nicotine concentrations.
    
  