
    
      Temperature control in comatose survivors of cardiac arrest, is a critical aspect of these
      patients' care. In this context, mild temperature reduction for 24 hours post cardiac arrest
      has been shown to improve neurological outcomes.

      Hypothermia is commonly induced using a combination of internal and external cooling
      modalities. Internal cooling modalities include intravenous administration of cold
      crystalloids and intravascular cooling catheters. External or body surface cooling can be
      achieved using cooling blankets, adhesive pads, and ice packs. Each of these methods however,
      has its limitations.

      Administration of intravenous refrigerated crystalloid (4°C) boluses is a simple, effective
      and widely available method of hypothermia induction. Lack of precise temperature control and
      the potential for pulmonary edema however, make this modality unsuitable for the maintenance
      phase of hypothermia. Surface cooling methods, such as cooling blankets and ice packs, often
      cause shivering, skin breakdown, and in obese patients may be ineffective. Intravascular
      cooling catheters require the time of a physician for insertion and bear the potential risks
      of line infection and deep venous thrombosis. Searching for a temperature control device that
      overcomes the limitations, inefficiencies and inconveniences of existing modalities is
      therefore strongly desired.

      The ideal temperature control modality should be effective, predictable and easy to use. An
      esophageal cooling device has recently become available which in theory may, may possess some
      of these attributes. To date, there have been no published studies examining this device's
      efficacy. In addition, no study has documented any adverse events during it's use, or
      evaluated it's ease-of-use at the bedside.

      This is a prospective, interventional study aiming to assess the effectiveness of the
      Esophageal Cooling Device (ECD) as a temperature control modality in comatose survivors of
      cardiac arrest (the E-Chill trial). In addition, observed adverse events during ECD use,
      ease-of-use, nurse satisfaction and patient outcomes will be examined.
    
  