
    
      Participants will come to the Cardiovascular Dynamics Laboratory at Kent State University for
      4 separate visits. On the first visit, participants will undergo an orientation and decide if
      they want to sign the informed consent. If they decide to consent, they will be assigned
      randomly to either upper- or lower-body group, and fill out Physical Activity Readiness
      Questionnaire (PAR-Q) and Health Participant Questionnaire then be measured for height,
      weight, body composition (7-sites skin fold), arterial occlusion pressure (determine the
      pressure that occlude blood flow using a doppler device on brachial or femoral artery, and a
      13-cm nylon cuff at the proximal end of right arm or right leg then inflate the cuff to 50
      mmHg and increases by 1 mmHg per second until the doppler device cannot detect blood flow)
      and 1 RM which they will move maximum amount of weight 1 time through a full range of motion
      on the chess press and latissimus dorsi pulldown or knee extension and knee flexion. A
      certified strength and conditioning specialist will adjust the form, spot the lifts, and
      provide feedback if needed. The second visit consists of 1-repetition maximum verification
      that participants will be measured 1-repetition maximum on the chess press and latissimus
      dorsi pulldown or knee extension and knee flexion again to ensure their maximal strength. For
      the third and fourth visits, the participants will come to the Cardiovascular Dynamics
      Laboratory to have their responses to either acute upper- or lower-body resistance exercise
      with and without BFR quantified. Participants will arrive at the laboratory having avoided
      caffeine, alcohol, and strenuous exercise for 24 hours, and at least 3 hours without food
      before data collection. Participants will have their hemodynamics and vascular function
      measured before and after either acute upper- or lower-body resistance exercise with or
      without BFR. Hemodynamic measurements will include pulse wave analysis (PWA) using a
      SphygmoCor (AtCor Medical, Sydney, Australia) device. Heart rate and blood pressure will be
      monitored using 3 leads electrocardiograph (ECG) and on the middle finger of the right hand,
      respectively. A 5-minute ECG will be collected, and participants will be breathing with a
      metronome at the rate of 12 breaths/minute. PWA provides information about aortic and
      brachial systolic and diastolic BP, as well as measures of wave reflection that give insight
      into central arterial modulation such as augmentation pressure and the augmentation index. BP
      will be measured twice separated by 1 minute by an oscillometric device. After that the
      investigators will assess vascular function via pulse wave velocity. During PWA measurements,
      there will be cuffs on right arm and right leg, and a tonometer will be placed on the carotid
      artery on the neck. Peripheral arterial mechanics will be measured by strain gauge
      plethysmography (EC-6; DE Hokanson Inc., Bellevue, WA, USA) on the forearm close to the elbow
      in order to determine forearm blood flow and vasodilatory capacity (peak blood flow). There
      will be cuffs on the upper left arm and on the left wrist. The wrist Cuff will be inflated to
      220 mmHg 1 minute prior to data collection and throughout. The Upper arm cuff will be
      inflated to 50 mmHg to occlude venous flow for measurement of arterial flow. Ninety seconds
      of measurement of flow will occur. Once this is completed, the cuff on the upper arm will be
      inflated to 220 mmHg for 5 minutes to occlude blood flow. After that, the pressure in the
      cuff will be released and measurements of blood flow will be taken for the next 3 minutes
      with the wrist cuff will be inflated to 220 mmHg 1 minute prior to data collection and
      throughout. The upper-(chess press and latissimus dorsi pulldown) and lower-body (knee
      extension and knee flexion) resistance exercise with BFR will consists of 4 sets of 30, 15,
      15, and 15 repetitions at 30% 1 RM with 30 seconds rest between sets and 2 minutes rest
      between exercises. The upper- and lower-body resistance exercise without BFR will consists of
      4 sets of 8 repetitions at 70% 1 RM with 60 seconds rest between sets and 2 minutes rest
      between exercises. Participants' arms or legs will be wrapped using elastic cuffs at the most
      proximal limbs. At 40% of arterial occlusion pressure will be used to induce BFR. Three
      minutes warm up and three minutes cool down on the cycle ergometer will be given before and
      after resistance exercise. Immediately after completion of the acute bouts of resistance
      exercise, the investigators will assess PWA and ECG at 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, and 60 minutes
      post exercise, and BF at 20 and 60 minutes post exercise.
    
  