
    
      Individuals with late-life depression (LLD) experience high levels of disability, mortality,
      and poor responses to antidepressants. The MRI hallmark of 'vascular depression' in this
      population is significant ischemic white matter lesion (WML) severity, a finding associated
      with poor antidepressant outcomes. Despite observations of diffuse white matter disease in
      LLD, we propose in our "disconnection hypothesis" that focal damage to fiber tracts
      negatively affects the function of connected regions, resultantly contributing to cognitive
      deficits and clinical symptoms such as depression severity and negativity bias. Focal WMLs
      may also reduce the likelihood of an antidepressant response when the specific antidepressant
      used acts on neurotransmitter systems projecting through the damaged fiber tract. This
      implies that the effect of tract damage on clinical response may differ between drugs with
      different mechanism of action.

      We propose that the cingulum bundle (CB) and uncinate fasciculus (UF) are key tracts in LLD
      as they are components of cognitive, affective and default mode networks and contain
      monoamine neurotransmitter projections. Supporting our model, past work implicates CB and UF
      deficits in LLD and our new pilot data associates tract damage with poor antidepressant
      response.

      In a cohort of up to 130 depressed elders we will test our central hypotheses: a) focal CB
      and UF WMLs disrupt connectivity and function of connected regions and contribute to
      cognitive deficits and affective symptoms; and b) antidepressants acting on neurotransmitter
      systems projecting through these tracts will be less effective.

      Overall Study Design: After obtaining informed consent, we will assess for eligibility.
      Individuals who meet eligibility criteria will complete neuropsychological testing and a
      one-hour magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Subjects will then be randomized in a 2:1 ratio to
      receive either blinded escitalopram or identical placebo. After 8 weeks of study drug, they
      will be assessed for remission. Those whose depression has remitted will end their study
      participation. Those who remain symptomatic will be transitioned to open-label bupropion for
      8 weeks, after which their participation will end. We will work with participants on plans
      for clinical care after the study and will offer two additional visits to facilitate that
      transition.

      Specific Aim 1: To characterize the effect of cingulum bundle (CB) and uncinate fasciculus
      (UF) WMLs on tract connectivity, function of connected regions, and the cognitive and
      affective presentation of LLD.

      Hypothesis 1: Greater CB WML volume is associated with a) reduced resting-state connectivity
      of frontal, temporal, and cingulate regions and b) deficits in attention, memory and
      processing speed.

      Hypothesis 2: Greater UF WML volume is associated with a) reduced resting state functional
      connectivity between frontocingulate and medial temporal regions, and b) greater depression
      severity and negativity bias.

      Exploratory Hypothesis: Greater CB WML volume is associated with failure of anterior and
      posterior default mode network nodes to deactivate during attentional components of the fMRI
      task. Greater UF WML volume is associated with greater medial temporal reactivity during the
      functional MRI task.

      Specific Aim 2: To determine whether deficits in tract structural / functional connectivity
      predict nonremission to antidepressant treatments and if these relationships vary based on
      antidepressant mechanism of action.

      Hypothesis 3: Nonremission to escitalopram will be predicted by: a) greater WML volume in the
      CB and UF, and b) reduced resting functional connectivity between structures connected by the
      CB and UF. Greater WML severity and reduced functional connectivity in these tracts will not
      significantly predict response to placebo.

      Hypothesis 4: Nonremission to bupropion will be predicted by a) greater WML volume in the UF
      but not CB, and b) reduced resting functional connectivity deficits between structures
      connected by the UF but not CB.

      Exploratory Aims: Expl. Aim 1) To determine if specific cognitive measures may serve as
      markers of focal tract WML damage. Expl. Aim 2) To use whole-brain multimodal imaging
      approaches to examine how connectivity differences in other brain regions may also predict
      nonremission to antidepressants.
    
  