
    
      A multicenter, observational, non-post-marketing (non-PMS), ambispective (retrospective and
      prospective from the registry opening) study which will enroll patients with breast cancer in
      any of these three situations:

        1. Patients with gestational breast cancer, defined as breast cancer diagnosed during
           pregnancy, breastfeeding or up to a year after delivery.

        2. Patients who become pregnant after a breast cancer diagnosis.

        3. Patients with breast cancer who have followed any fertility preservation technique prior
           to the start of breast cancer treatment.

      It is estimated a minimum recruitment period of approximately 3 years from the study
      activation. The study will remain open as long as possible in order to collect as much
      information as possible. GEICAM will actively search for funding for this.

      Patients may also be concurrently enrolled in an interventional clinical trial. This
      observational registry study of pregnancy and breast cancer that collects significant data
      obtained from standard clinical practice, regarding the clinical characteristics of patients
      with breast cancer in any of the three situations described above. These data will allow the
      performance of both descriptive and exploratory analyses in order to evaluate the
      associations between different breast cancer subtypes and risk factors observed.

      Finally, this study will collect high quality molecular data derived from the analysis of
      biological samples (paraffin-embedded tumor and peripheral blood samples) to reach a better
      understanding of the biological mechanisms involved in breast cancer in relation to
      pregnancy.

      No treatment regimen will be protocol specified. This is an observational study in which
      clinical decisions concerning the optimum management strategy for a particular patient are
      taken independently of and/or prior to, any decision by the physician to invite a patient to
      participate in the study. The treating physician will make all treatment decisions according
      to his/her regular clinical practice independent of this study.
    
  