
    
      To appreciate the volemia of a patient is a frequent problem in hospital in various
      situations: renal insufficiency, dyspnea, dysnatremia, etc. The aging of the population, the
      chronicity of pathologies, overweight among other causes can make it difficult to assess the
      volume of the disease by the clinic alone. The consequences of a poor evaluation are delayed
      management and possible iatrogeny.

      New discrimination markers have emerged to help the clinician such as "brain natriuretic
      peptide (BNP)" in dyspnea, and especially transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) assessing
      filling pressures with a high potency. discrimination. In current practice the TTE has
      unequal accessibility, and requires trained practitioners. It is difficult to have an TTE
      performed for all patients where the question arises.

      Just as an assessment of the initial volemia is often necessary, there are few objective
      monitoring criteria. One can quote the variation of the weight or the evolution of certain
      biological parameters but none is completely specific.

      A new marker has been described for a few years: jugular ultrasound. Better accessibility
      (requires only a probe of 7-9Hz, possibly 5Hz), it can indeed be performed by any
      practitioner in less than a minute. The jugular distension is a reflection of cardiac
      pre-load and can be correctly estimated by ultrasound. It has been shown that cardiac
      decompensated patients have dilated jugular veins compared to a reference population. A low
      cohort also demonstrated the presence of jugular ultrasound distension in the absence of
      clinical distension.

      In a US study, 119 patients admitted to the emergency department for dyspnea had a
      sensitivity of 99% for a specificity of 59% for trans-jugular ultrasound in cardiogenic
      edema.

      However, many applications remain to be explored, and the repeated use of jugular ultrasound
      in the same patient has never been studied. The accessibility of the measure could make it an
      excellent monitoring tool.

      As a clinical situation, the investigators chose a well standardized and studied situation
      such as blood transfusion that can bridge the preload measured by invasive measures and
      measured by jugular ultrasound. This situation is complicated in patients in 1 to 5.7% of the
      situations of secondary pulmonary overload.
    
  