
    
      Despite targeting to optimize fasting blood glucose and lowering HbA1c level, postprandial
      hyperglycemia needs to be highlighted in the management of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus (T2D).
      Postprandial hyperglycemia is the rapid and significant rise in blood glucose level above 7.8
      mmol/L 2 hour after meal ingestion. It is strongly associated with oxidative stress and a
      risk factor for cardiovascular disease (CVD).

      In Malaysia, the glycemic control is poor, and patients with T2D commonly experiencing
      persistent hyperglycemia (12.7 mmol/L), which is the highest concentration in South East Asia
      region. Nonetheless, a low glycemic index (GI) meal has been reported to reduce postprandial
      glycemia and insulin concentration in patients with T2D but the metabolite responsiveness
      following low GI meal is not studied yet. The study of the postprandial state is imperative
      as it reveals multiple aspects of metabolic health that would not be apparent from solely
      studying the fasting parameters.

      Hence, the objective of this study is to determine the postprandial metabolomic effects of
      low and high GI meals in patients with T2D using the NMR-based metabolomics approach. Then,
      the postprandial metabolic response and metabolomic profiles before and after the 14 days
      chronic feeding trial intervention will be determined and compared. The calculated sample
      size was 24 patients with T2D and 24 healthy individuals. The study design for meal challenge
      test (MCT) is a single-blinded, randomized crossover trial with 1-week washout period;
      whereas a case-control design will be used to compare metabolomic profiles of patients with
      T2D and healthy individuals.

      The MCT model is designed to be high GI (63) and low GI (46) with similar caloric value.
      During the test day, participants are required to consume the meal within 15 minutes and the
      blood sample will be taken at the following time points: 0min (fasting), 30, 60, 120, 180 and
      240 min. Meanwhile, the urine sample will also be collected at 0, 60 and 240 min accordingly.

      The blood sample will be analyzed for blood glucose, insulin, GLP-1, and metabolites; while
      the urine sample will be analyzed for metabolites. The findings of this study are able to
      provide fundamental data on metabolic responsiveness of T2D patients following specific
      meal-plan tailored to Malaysian meal pattern using NMR-based metabolomics approach. Besides,
      this study is able to establish a local baseline data of postprandial metabolite profiles of
      patients with T2D following a specific meal plan. At the same time, this study contributes
      insight to improve diabetes meal-plan that is friendly to postprandial metabolic
      perturbations.
    
  