
    
      Obesity is a major health problem affecting over 1.7 billion people. Obesity is defined as
      excess body weight due to abnormal or excessive fat accumulation that presents a risk to
      health. A crude popular measure of obesity is the body mass index (BMI), a person's weight
      (in kilograms) divided by the square of his or her height (in meters). A person with a BMI of
      30 or more is generally considered obese. A person with a BMI equal to or more than 25 is
      considered overweight.

      Obesity is a major risk factor for a number of chronic diseases, including diabetes mellitus,
      cardiovascular diseases and cancer. It is associated with significant co-morbid conditions
      and reduced life expectancy. Since 1997, obesity has been officially recognized by the World
      Health Organization as a global epidemic.

      Bariatric surgery has been shown to be the most successful approach in managing morbid
      obesity that can achieve and sustain great weight loss for a long period.

      Common strategies of bariatric surgery are: mechanical obstacles to food ingestion,
      nutrient-excluded segments and malabsorption, which are a potential cause for complications
      and should better be avoided from a strictly physiological prospect. Also, such procedures
      necessitate lifelong medical supervision with the supplementation of vitamins and nutrients.
      Moreover, they are frequently associated with dysphagia and vomiting as a result of
      anatomical restrictions.

      Laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy (LSG) was initially established as the first stage of a two
      stage bariatric approach. It is now used as a primary bariatric procedure because of
      documented excellent weight loss and an acceptable risk of complication. Advantages include
      the avoidance of implantable material, maintenance of gastrointestinal continuity, avoidance
      of malabsorption, and convertibility to other operations. However, The major disadvantage of
      LSG is the severity of the major postoperative complications like bleeding and staple-line
      leakage. Staple-line disruption is the most life-threatening complication after LSG, Leaks
      after sleeve gastrectomy (SG) mostly occur because of the creation of a high internal
      pressure pouch.

      Our understanding of digestive physiology is now changing and the interacting neuroendocrine
      signals that control hunger, satiety, and energy expenditure are better understood now. The
      role of GI tract in satiety is a sum of a mechanical sensation of a full stomach, rapidly
      confirmed by neuroendocrine signals that recognize whether the ingested was indeed nutritive.
      In terms of meal termination, the most important of these postprandial neuroendocrine signals
      are an elevation of satiety gut hormones in the blood, such as Glucagon-Like peptide 1
      (GLP-1) and Peptide Tyrosine Tyrosine (PYY) and a reduction of ghrelin, an orexigenic hormone
      mainly produced by neuroendocrine cells mostly located in the gastric fundus. Recent
      physiological knowledge allows the design of bariatric procedures that aim at neuroendocrine
      changes instead of mechanical restriction and malabsorption.

      "Santoro" have recently reported his long-term data regarding sleeve gastrectomy with transit
      bipartition (SG þ TB), which is a similar operation to duodenal switch (DS) but without
      complete exclusion of duodenum in order to minimize nutritional complications. The goal of
      this operation was to benefit the patients by counterbalancing the harmful effects of the
      modern diet. Without exclusions and with a simple surgical procedure, SG þ TB amplifies the
      nutritive stimulation of the distal gut whereas simultaneously diminishing the exposure of
      the proximal bowel to nutrients without completely deactivating duodenum and jejunum.

      A Modification of Santoro's operation was first reported as a case report by Mui in 2013,
      then as a Case series on 68 patients by Greco and Tacchino in 2014 by performing a loop
      rather than Roux-en-Y bipartition reconstruction, which came to be known as (Single
      Anastomosis Sleeve Ileal "SASI") bypass.

      That procedure has the advantage of maintaining the natural pathway through the duodenum
      where a small percentage of food passes, and is associated with minimal post-operative
      nutritional complications, and allows for full visualization of the biliary system during
      endoscopy. Moreover, it's suggested that the incidence of leakage and gastroesophageal reflux
      after sleeve gastrectomy is significantly reduced by the gastroileal bypass due to the
      decrease in stomach pouch pressure.

      This study aims to evaluate SASI bypass as a mode of functional restrictive therapeutic
      option for morbidly obese patients, versus LSG.
    
  