
    
      Implantable central venous catheters (CVC) are crucial for cancer patients. They provide
      central venous access for chemotherapy and high-concentration nutrition support. However,
      several potential CVC-related complications may develop and severely interfere with the
      patients' cancer treatment and can be life-threatening in some occasions.

      Thrombotic events occurred in around 20% of cancer patients with implantable CVCs. Such
      events included intraluminal thrombosis and catheter-related venous thrombosis. Catheter
      removal was usually necessary to resolve these conditions. Treatment delays are inevitable
      for these patients. Besides, these thrombotic complications were associated with
      catheter-related infection, which could be highly dangerous for cancer patients.

      Risk factors associated with these thrombotic events included the hypercoagulable state of
      the patients, the cancer types, the catheter types, and the placement of the catheter tips in
      the superior vena cava. Some single-arm studies found that CVC inserted from the left
      subclavian veins led to more CVC-related thrombosis than those inserted from the right
      subclavian vein. However, for most right-handed patients, to place these implantable CVCs on
      the right side is inconvenient for daily life because vigorous exercise was then impossible.
      Besides, these single-arm studies could not well control the other potentially interfering
      factors, such as the operators, catheter location and cancer types.

      Therefore, we plan a randomized observational study to explore whether the side of
      implantable CVCs was actually associated with the complication rates. Cancer patients who
      need implantable CVCs will be randomized to have the catheters implanted either in the left
      subclavian vein or the right subclavian. Patients who had breast cancer, mediastinal mass
      with the diameter > 6 cm, ECOG performance score >2, or those who were not able to receive a
      standing P-A view chest X-ray will be excluded. Patients who had other reasons that prevented
      the randomization will also be excluded. The catheter-related complications will be actively
      reported by the patients. We will also enforce the records of complications by chart reviews
      and regular telephone contacts.

      With the study, we can demonstrate whether a left-sided CVC and a right-sided CVC are
      different in complication rates. The result should be very useful in clinical practice.
    
  