
    
      Published research studies have shown not only that approximately half of Emergency Medical
      Services (EMS) providers show signs of severe fatigue before traffic collision, but also that
      drowsy or tired EMS providers are significantly more often injured at work. Among the
      circumstances and factors contributing to the collisions, including environmental, road or
      equipment factors, the real causes of the collisions remain unclear, but might be
      investigated through interviews with participating drivers. The aim is to increase the
      protection of patients, employees and the organization by collect data in both qualitative
      and quantitative ways and to identify factors and measurable variables that might lead to
      strengthen healthy driving habits under the blue lights. The factors associated with
      ambulance accidents are not similar to those of the general driving population. The in-depth
      analysis of the whole problem aims not only to clarify the causes of collisions, but
      especially to create prevention steps so that such situations occur as little as possible.

      The methodology will use the so-called mixed design - a combination of in-depth interviews
      with participating members of collisions (employees, or patient / relative), data from the
      road-scans and qualitative data including measurable variables.

      A video-analysis of the collision will be performed. All data will be recorded anonymously -
      each participant in the accident will receive a special number for coding, under which they
      will appear. Data will be presented both in descriptive statistics and after statistical
      analysis (chi square test for independence and Fischer's exact test at the level of
      significance = 0.05).

      In terms of qualitative data, in-depth interviews and their coding will be performed using
      grounded theory (based on Strauss and Corbin methodology). The aim is to gain the same view
      of events and their actions as the members of the group.

      The sample of participants depends on collision rate, which was 50 incidents in the year 2020
      (expecting approx. 100 cases in 2 years).
    
  