
    
      The overall objective of the Genetics-InFormatics Trial (GIFT) of Warfarin to Prevent DVT is
      to elucidate novel strategies to improve the safety and effectiveness of warfarin therapy.
      With this study we directly respond to Health and Human Services (HHS) priorities to advance
      the field of personalized medicine and to prevent venous thromboembolic (VTE) disease. In
      2007, the Honorable Mike Leavitt, Secretary of HHS, announced the Personalized Health Care
      Initiative and wrote that a key goal was, "… to use our personal genetic information to
      tailor treatments more effectively to each patient."(1) Recently, President Obama and Francis
      Collins (Director of the NIH) have made precision medicine a national priority.(2)
      Previously, the Acting Surgeon General issued a Call to Action to reduce the number of cases
      of VTE in the United States.(3) To facilitate precision dosing strategies for VTE prevention,
      we have made publically available a non-profit, web application, www.WarfarinDosing.org. A
      public version of www.WarfarinDosing.org estimates warfarin doses for the initial 5 days of
      warfarin therapy. The version being evaluated in GIFT provides doses for the initial 11 days
      of warfarin therapy.

      Aim 1: To determine how pharmacogenetic-based warfarin therapy affects the safety and
      effectiveness of warfarin therapy. The intensity of anticoagulant therapy is measured by the
      International Normalized Ratio (INR). During initiation, the INR often falls outside the
      therapeutic range. INRs that are too low predispose patients to VTE while supratherapeutic
      INR values increase risk of bleeding.(4, 5) Previously, the FDA approved the label change of
      warfarin/Coumadin™ to recommend considering lower initial doses in patients known to have
      certain polymorphisms in genes affecting warfarin metabolism and sensitivity.(6) However,
      whether this strategy improves the safety and effectiveness of warfarin therapy in general is
      unknown. In particular, how this strategy affects subgroups with and without the genetic
      variants of interest is also unknown.

      Hypothesis 1: Pharmacogenetic therapy decreases the composite risk of a non-fatal VTE,
      non-fatal major hemorrhage, death, or INR ≥ 4.0 in all patients, and/or in the subgroup of
      patients whose pharmacogenetic and clinical predicted therapeutic maintenance doses differ by
      > 1.0 mg/day. Based on our meta-analysis of prior trials(7), we anticipate 80% power to
      simultaneously detect a 32% relative risk reduction in the composite outcome for

      Aim 1 (as measured by a chi-square test). In the clinical arm, based on preliminary data, we
      anticipate that the rate of the composite outcome will be 15.7% in the clinical arm and 10.7%
      in the pharmacogenetic arm. We obtained these estimates because they average a rate of 13.2%,
      which is the rate of the composite outcome for Aim 1 observed from the initial 775 GIFT
      participants. The power was calculated using a two-sided alpha of 0.05 for a test of
      proportions, a drop-out rate of 2%, and a partitioned (two-sided) alpha with 0.044 allocated
      to the whole population and 0.01 to the high-risk subgroup. Because of correlation between
      these two subgroups, using these alphas preserves an overall type 1 error rate of 0.05.

      Aim 2: To determine whether warfarin therapy with a target INR of 1.8 is non-inferior to
      therapy with a target INR of 2.5 at preventing VTE or death in orthopedic patients. One
      randomized trial (PREVENT) found that a target INR value of 1.5-2.0 prevented 64% of VTE
      recurrence.(8) Although that trial excluded orthopedic patients, such an approach has been
      endorsed by the American Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons (AAOS). On page 15 of the 2007 AAOS
      guidelines (9) they offer the following recommendation for VTE prophylaxis around the time of
      joint replacement: "Warfarin, with an INR goal of ≤ 2.0, starting either the night before or
      the night after surgery, for 2-6 weeks." However, the AAOS grade the overall evidence for VTE
      prophylaxis in this population as low (level III). The AAOS guidelines conflict with the
      prior American College of Chest Physician (ACCP) guidelines,(10) which recommend, as one of
      their (Grade 1A) options (page 338 S), using an "…adjusted-dose vitamin K antagonist (INR
      target, 2.5; range 2.0 to 3.0)." Because lower target INR values may reduce the risk of
      hemorrhage and simplify warfarin management(8) we propose to test the following:

      Hypothesis 2: For prevention of non-fatal VTE or death, a target INR of 1.8 will be
      non-inferior to a higher target INR (2.5). Using a non-inferiority margin of 3% absolute risk
      reduction in non-fatal VTE or death and an estimated composite rate of 5.56% (based on
      preliminary GIFT data), we will have 83% power to detect the non-inferiority of a target INR
      of 1.8 in 1600 patients.
    
  