
    
      Background:

      T cells modified with lentiviral chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) gene have been studied in
      different clinical settings. Recent successes suggest that increased costimulatory signaling
      in the CAR design is critical for long term efficacy. Activation of T cell response from
      large tumor burden may induce a severe response. To increase safety, a novel design using an
      inducible caspase 9 fusion gene has been incorporated in the CAR gene. A 4th generation CAR
      lentiviral vector (4SCAR) carrying T cell costimulatory signals for CD28/CD27 plus an
      inducible apoptotic caspase 9 gene has been established. The study aims to evaluate the
      activities of a new CAR gene-modified T cells targeting CD19-positive tumors based on a
      CD19-specific single chain gene constructed 4SCAR (4SCAR19).

      Objective:

      To evaluate safety and efficacy of administrating 4SCAR19 T cells to patients with CD19
      positive B cell malignancies following a cyclophosphamide/fludarabine based conditioning
      regimen.

      Eligibility:

      Patients older than 6-month-old with CD19 positive B cells malignancies that have recurred
      after or refractory to standard therapy and is deemed incurable using standard treatment.

      Design:

      Participants will be screened based on cancer cell phenotype analyzed using flow cytometry or
      immunohistochemical staining methods.

      Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) will be obtained through apheresis, and T cells
      will be activated and modified to express the 4SCAR19 gene.

      On Day -5 to -7, PBMC will be activated and enriched for T cells, which will be followed by
      4SCAR19 lentiviral transduction. The total cell preparation time is approximately 5-7 days.

      Participants will receive a preparative conditioning regimen comprising
      cyclophosphamide/fludarabine to prepare their immune system to accommodate the modified CAR T
      cells. The preparative regimen will be based on patient immune condition and consistent with
      standard chemotherapy conditioning regimen.

      Participants will receive an infusion of the modified 4SCAR19 T cells and closely followed up
      for treatment-related responses.

      Participants will be continuously monitored for CAR T cells and clinical responses at present
      timeline.
    
  