
    
      During the transplantation process, the kidney graft is exposed to numerous events which may
      in turn lead to function deteriorations. In particular, factors related with brain death,
      like hemodynamic instability and systemic release of cytokines, cold preservation upon
      harvesting, and reperfusion injury accumulate in harm conveying a pro-inflammatory state to
      the graft before transplantation. Early graft dysfunction has long-term consequences. Renal
      transplants with delayed graft function and acute rejection have a greater incidence of
      chronic dysfunction. Allorecognition is induced when the host immune system detects
      alloantigens in the context of danger signals. Reducing danger signals through medical donor
      management may therefore have a considerable impact on the transplantation outcomes.

      In a case control study from the Transplantation Center of Mannheim, Germany, donor use of
      both dopamine and noradrenaline during intensive care before organ retrieval was associated
      with less acute rejection episodes after transplantation and resulted in superior long-term
      graft survival. Donor employment of catecholamines remained predictive of an improved graft
      survival probability even after controlling for various confounding factors like age, gender,
      cold ischemia, HLA matching and immunosuppressive medication. This observation has been
      confirmed by a larger retrospective cohort study based on the Eurotransplant registry,
      including 2404 kidney transplants performed at 47 renal transplantation centers in 1993. The
      salutary effect on the graft function rate at 4 years exhibited a dose-response relationship
      and compared in quantitative terms with prospective HLA matching on class I or II antigens.
      Besides these long-term benefits, donor preconditioning with dopamine is associated with
      improvements of immediate graft function after kidney transplantation. Donor dopamine was
      associated with less requirement of hemodialysis and more rapid recovery of graft function
      posttransplant in a single centre study involving 254 consecutive renal transplant
      recipients.

      Implementing dopamine as a therapeutic tool in the management of cadaver kidney donors may
      have a major impact on both immediate graft function and long-term graft survival without
      adverse side effects for the recipients.
    
  