
    
      A single arm Phase 2 trial with the study drug temozolomide (temodar) for newly diagnosed
      glioblastoma in elderly patients (defined as greater than or equal to 70 years old).
      Temozolomide will be administered orally (a capsule) at approximately the same time daily
      (bedtime) for 42 days on and then 14 days off; cycles may be repeated every 56 days. Complete
      blood counts will be obtained bi-weekly, evaluations monthly and MRI's every 2 months after a
      cycle of therapy.

      Procedures prior to initial study treatment (<14 Days) are: Neurological/Oncological History,
      Neurological Examination, Height, Weight, and Body Surface Area, Performance Status, Quality
      Of Life FACT-BR, Labs, MGMT tissue analysis, and Cranial CT/MRI with and without contrast
      (all disease found at staging must be followed using the same modality used at Pre-treatment.
      Tumor assessments are to be repeated every 56 days thereafter until progression). The same
      procedures are repeated on Day 1 of each treatment cycle with the addition of an adverse
      event assessment.

      Patients may continue on therapy unless one of the following occurs:

        -  Documented or clinical progressive disease at any time

        -  Unacceptable toxicity

        -  Treatment delay of > 2 weeks for any reason

        -  Study data or other data indicate that the study treatment is not beneficial for the
           patients; defined as at least one response in the first 12 patients within each tumor
           histology strata

        -  Non-compliance by the patient with protocol requirements (follow-up, treatment,
           administration of disallowed therapy)

        -  Changes in medical status of the patient such that the patient no longer meets
           eligibility requirements (leptomeningeal spread, change in mental competency) or the
           investigator believes that patient safety will be compromised.

        -  Patient withdrawal of consent for treatment

        -  Occurrence of one toxic death

      Patients with CR, PR, or stable disease (SD) will be treated for a minimum of 3 cycles [6
      months] or until disease progression. For patients responding to treatment, continuation of
      therapy beyond 3 cycles is at the discretion of the investigator. Response parameters will
      include the MacDonald criteria for evaluating brain tumors. Response is measured by a
      reduction in tumor size.

      After cessation of protocol therapy, patients will continue to be followed for survival at
      2-month intervals for up to three years from start of treatment. And the off study procedures
      for patients are performance status, Quality Of Life FACT-BR, MGMT tissue analysis, and
      cranial CT/MRI with and without contrast.
    
  