
    
      Endoscopic procedure and criteria for adenoma diagnosis

        -  The endoscopic diagnostic criteria to distinguish between adenoma and non-adenoma were
           adopted from the previous studies by Uchiyama Y et al. in 2006. A real time adenoma
           diagnosis was made by the two independent endoscopists (BI and RP) who are experienced
           in dNBI and pCLE readings. Before entering into the study, they have experienced in
           reviewing the images obtained by dNBI and pCLE and published the related results
           elsewhere.

        -  During the study period, all 26 patients underwent the procedure under conscious
           sedation with intravenous midazolam and meperidine. Ten milligrams of hyoscine was given
           before the procedure to decrease intestinal peristalsis. At the beginning of the
           procedure, the first endoscopist (BI) used an end-viewing HWE attached with an
           endoscopic cap to examine the 1st and 2nd part of duodenum. The cap was used to
           facilitate a proper enface view of the ampulla and surrounding area. All applicable
           ampullary and non-ampullary (duodenal) polyps that larger than 1 millimeter would be
           recruited in this study. Then dNBI mode was switched on for a real-time diagnosis by the
           first endoscopist (BI). Subsequently, the second endoscopist (RP) who blinded to the NBI
           reading would be called from another room to perform pCLE examination. Two and a half
           milliliters of 10% fluorescein (Novartis Pharmaceutical Corporation, Bangkok, Thailand)
           was injected during pCLE evaluation. When there were more than one non-ampulary lesions,
           the first endoscopist only navigated the lesions to study under pCLE to the second
           endoscopist without telling the result of dNBI reading. Then, the matched polypectomy or
           biopsy was performed by the second endoscopist. The duration of the entire procedure and
           all complications related to the procedures were recorded.

      Histological assessment - All polypectomy and biopsy specimens were immersed in formalin and
      sent for histological examination. The specimens were stained with hematoxylin and eosin
      (H&E) and reviewed by an experienced GI pathologist (NW) blinded to the endoscopic diagnosis.
      The definite diagnosis was based on the Vienna classification for differentiation between
      adenoma and non-adenoma.

      Statistical Analysis

      -By using histology as the gold standard, the diagnostic values of dNBI and pCLE for
      ampullary and non-ampullary polyp interpretation were assessed for sensitivity, specificity,
      positive predictive value (PPV), negative predictive value (NPV), and accuracy. According to
      PIVI recommendation for colonic adenoma diagnosis20, we used the 90% NPV readings as our cut
      off. For numerical variables, the results were expressed as a mean ± SD, whereas other
      quantitative variables are expressed as percentages. SPSS version 17.0 (SPSS (Thailand) Co.,
      Ltd., Bangkok, Thailand) for Windows systems was used for statistical analysis.
    
  