
    
      Introduction:

      The concept of retinal photocoagulation was introduced by Meyer-Schwickerath for treatment of
      diabetic retinopathy in the 50s (1, 6). The first successfully used laser was the arc xenon
      laser (polychromatic, inefficient, and hard to handle). Then the ruby and argon laser
      appeared (with mayor improvements in design and management). The modern era of
      photocoagulation as we know it began in the late 70s.

      With these available technologies, the focal photocoagulation, the panretinal
      photocoagulation and the grid photocoagulation were developed. Witch proved effective for the
      treatment of severe non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy, proliferative diabetic
      retinopathy in different multicenter studies (ETDRS, DRS) (1.6).

      Patients usually receive from 1200 to 1500 laser shots in 2 to 4 sessions lasting from 10 to
      20 minutes, during 2 to 4 weeks. The procedure can be time consuming, tedious and painful.

      Until now little has changed in the overall design of lasers of 30 years ago. The differences
      are the introduction of fibre optics and air-based cooling systems. These innovations do not
      have any impact on the way in which the treatment or the success.

      Early efforts to improve photocoagulation included complex recognition systems and eye
      tracking to try to manage a fully automated process. That required a preview image of the
      retina. Attempts were also made to determine the appropriate dose of energy for getting the
      job done. The complexity of these systems prevented their clinical use (1).

      The PASCAL is a system of semiautomatic pattern laser, which allows much faster processing,
      accuracy and control of treatment by a doctor at all times. The difference with the regular
      laser systems is that PASCAL manages a dual frequency Nd: YAG that works at a wavelength of
      532nm, which is capable of firing a single shot from up to 56 shots in pre patterns (1x1, 2
      x2, 3x3, 4x4, 5x5). By using time exposures of between 10 and 20 ms, you can make multiple
      shots at the same time that a shot with conventional laser is done (100 ms). These short
      pulses allow energy laser focus better in the tissues, produces less pain, Reduce the heat
      delivered to the choroid, and less diffusion of heat with the subsequent less damage to
      surrounding tissues (1).

      The first study was published in the Retina 2006, by Blumenkanz, Palanker, Marcelino, et al.
      In which describe their use in rabbit's retinas. In which compared the effect of a number of
      pulses of different durations and powers. They applied exposition of 10, 20, 50 and 100 ms.
      The study found that at lower exposure time is required energy of 2 to 3 times more to
      produce the same effect, but the pulse had less energy. As they increased the exposure time,
      les power was needed, but the pulsed had also more energy. As the energy increased the shots
      was less homogeneous, less localized and changes in the final size (110-170micm) (1).

      ERG: It reflects the activity of the retina in "mass". In studies of the effect of
      photocoagulation on the activity of the retina, it have typically been used the amplitude of
      them a and b wave as criteria of tissue destruction. But there is no consistency among the
      various studies that have already reported variations of 10 to 95% in the amplitude
      (especially in wave b) due to the variability in the length of effective ablation of the
      retina. Others suggest that a wave to be smaller than the b, showing an injury in the primary
      layer of photoreceptors. Others say that the decline was equal in both waves. But something
      we all conclude is that the response in the ERG is reduced more than expected based in the
      coagulated area. But when it is higher, the fall in the ERG is more than what was expected
      (60% of destruction = 80% decrease of ERG). An average photocoagulation destroys about 40% of
      the retina approximately (5).

      The destruction of the peripheral retina decreases the ERG response, besides laser affect
      regions of adjacent tissue, causing deterioration in the transmission of signals from the
      photoreceptors in the proximal retina. What explains the previous reports of large decrease
      in amplitude on the basis of the area coagulated (2). The laser energy is absorbed by the RPE
      cells, and the adjacent layer of photoreceptors. What also produces external injury to the
      retina so you can also observe an increase in the implicit time (3).

      A few years ago changing arc xenon to argon marked a difference in the amount of burned
      retina and decrease in the implicit time and amplitudes of the waves (5).

      Macular Edema: Is recognized as a potential adverse effect of panretinal photocoagulation.
      Witch may transitory or permanent decrease the visual acuity of the patient. Approximately
      60% of photocoagulated patients show an increase in the foveal thickness. Despite the fact
      that it has been said that a change of the self-distribution of blood flow is responsible for
      this increase in the thickness, today it is believed that these changes are due to post-laser
      inflammation. Despite that it is performed outside of the vascular arches; it is generally
      formed by those within.

      The inflammation factors, in addition to the direct effect that is exercised on intracellular
      unions have shown themselves capable of producing a change in the barrier mediated
      leukocytes. These factors are produced in the peripheral region to the photocoagulated area.
      The laser stimulates the production of adhesion molecules in the area around the shot and in
      the non photocoagulated area, which produces bearings and recruitment of leukocytes,
      secondary accumulation in the posterior pole and subsequent alteration of the hemato-retinal
      barrier (7).
    
  