
    
      In the United States, over 2.2 million people are incarcerated. While these numbers are
      alarming, even more distressing is the rapid growth in the number of mentally ill individuals
      caught in this system. Within any given year, approximately 73% of females and 55% of males
      in jail will experience a mental health problem. This results in the criminal justice system
      serving as a de facto mental health treatment facility for hundreds of thousands of
      individuals, despite constrained funding and a paucity of qualified providers and
      interventions. More than one in five jails have no access to mental health services.

      There is strong evidence that technology-enabled interventions for the treatment of mood
      disorders are efficacious and cost effective. Technology-enabled mental health care has many
      strengths, including the ability to deliver treatment reliably, increase privacy for those
      seeking services, and provide a scalable evidence-based intervention at a lower cost than
      traditional face-to-face services.

      Edovo has previously developed secure tablet hardware, protected networks and a learning
      management system that deliver static content in the areas of academic, job skill, and life
      skill programming to those incarcerated. The aim of this project is to develop and
      demonstrate the feasibility of a dynamic intervention for the treatment of inmates with mood
      disorders utilizing the Edovo system. A user centered design approach will be used to modify
      existing evidence-based, technology-enabled mood interventions to be appropriate for the
      incarcerated population. Software will be modified to run the intervention on the existing
      Edovo system. The resulting intervention will be tested in a sample of inmates for an initial
      clinical signal. The development of such a technology would help correctional facilities more
      effectively meet their treatment requirements and rehabilitation goals.
    
  