
    
      Gallbladder disease continues to be a major healthcare problem in the United States with more
      than 750,000 cholecystectomies being performed each year. In the last decade, the proportion
      of elective cholecystectomies performed for chronic acalculous cholecystitis has more than
      doubled. During this same time, obesity has reached epidemic proportions. In addition,
      obesity-induced visceral steatosis is known to cause a local inflammatory process resulting
      in organ dysfunction, with nonalcoholic steatohepatitis being a well established example of
      this phenomenon. Previous data from our lab also have shown that both congenital and
      diet-induced obesity result in cholecystosteatosis, an increase in gallbladder wall fats
      accompanied by altered gallbladder motility and absorption. This phenomenon also has been
      documented in humans, with patients with chronic acalculous and/or calculous cholecystitis
      having increased gallbladder fat than nondiseased controls.

      Ezetimibe is a drug which inhibits the absorption of both dietary and biliary cholesterol in
      the small intestine. Ezetimibe has been approved for use in humans to lower serum
      cholesterol. Moreover, ezetimibe has been shown to ameliorate hepatic steatosis and
      cholesterol gallstone formation in animal models. Previous data from our lab have documented
      that ezetimibe lowers serum cholesterol, prevents biliary crystals and ameliorates
      cholecystosteatosis in lean mice fed a high fat diet. However, the influence of ezetimibe on
      gallbladder motility, absorption and accumulation of toxic fats, metabolites, cytokines and
      chemokines, cholecystosteatosis, have not been studied in humans. Therefore, the aims of this
      study are 1) to determine if ezetimibe normalizes resting and residual volume in patients
      with chronic acalculous cholecystitis, 2) to determine if ezetimibe normalizes gallbladder
      ion flux in patients with chronic acalculous cholecystitis and 3) to determine if ezetimibe
      normalizes gallbladder absorption/secretion modulators as well as gallbladder fat, cytokines
      and chemkines.

      Subjects with typical biliary pain and or ejection fraction less than 30% on a HIDA scan will
      be identified. Patients will then be randomized with one group given ezetimibe and the other
      group given placebo. All subjects will have gallbladder ultrasound studies to determine
      volume before and after a standardized fatty meal both before starting ezetimibe or placebo
      and after 4 weeks. A cholecystectomy will then be performed. In addition, pieces of the
      gallbladder taken at cholecystectomy will be analyzed for ion flux, as well as
      absorption/secretion modulators and accumulation of toxic fats, metabolites, cytokines and
      chemokines.
    
  