
    
      MyMeds (Managing Your Medication for Education and Daily Support) is an innovative care
      improvement program that embeds pharmacists into 27 University of California, Los Angeles
      (UCLA) primary care practices with the goals of (1) simplifying and reconciling medication
      regimens; (2) identifying strategies to improve adherence; and (3) reducing patient costs
      with generic substitutions and drug assistance programs. This program targets complex older
      adults and adults with poorly-controlled diabetes of all ages, and has reached more than
      7,000 patients since its implementation in 2012. In an evaluation of over 700 older adults
      (≥65 years-old) who received a MyMeds consultation, investigators showed that the program
      reduced hospitalizations. In another evaluation that included adults of all ages,
      investigators showed that MyMeds reduced emergency department use (21%), systolic blood
      pressure (4 mmHg), and HbA1c (0.8%). However, a major underused resource in efforts to
      improve the health of complex adults targeted by MyMeds is their social network. Social
      networks are cost-free and highly influential social relationships and interactions that
      influence behavior and conversely are influenced by a patient's behavior. Patients spend
      vastly more time interacting within their social networks than they do interacting with
      healthcare providers, and patients often share health information with supportive members of
      their social network. These interactions, which are often substantial in quantity, could be
      designed to beneficially influence a patient's ability to create and sustain healthy behavior
      change. Medication nonadherence, in particular, increases morbidity, mortality, and
      healthcare costs in patients with chronic disease, but the private (rather than public)
      nature of taking medications limits the exposure of medication nonadherence to influence from
      the social network. An appropriately designed social network intervention can shift the
      dynamic, and MyMeds is an ideal setting for this type of intervention because it has robust
      infrastructure for identifying eligible patients, enrolling them in a pilot study, and
      measuring outcomes.

      In this pilot study, investigators, in partnership with RCMAR mentorship team and the MyMeds
      program, will enroll patients from MyMeds with diabetes, atherosclerotic cardiovascular
      disease, or congestive heart failure with poor medication adherence (medication adherence
      percentage<80% for statin or antihypertensive therapy) who report having a least one loved
      one or friend (e.g., spouse) whom they consider to be invested in their health, and with whom
      they would be willing to share focused medical information about medication adherence in the
      form of text messages. Participants will be randomized into either a private feedback arm or
      social network arm. In the private feedback arm, participants will only receive private
      consultations from a pharmacist regarding their medication adherence rates. In the social
      network arm, participants and their chosen loved one or friend will receive bi-weekly
      feedback text messages regarding the participant's medication adherence. Investigators will
      evaluate the effects of this social network intervention on medication adherence and examine
      the program's acceptability among study participants. This proposal is innovative because it
      leverages social networks-largely unused in medical care-for health improvement.
    
  