
    
      Blood stream infection (BSI) is defined as the identification of a culprit pathogen in the
      blood culture sample of a participant. As such, and once contaminants are excluded, BSI is
      the only cause of sepsis where the presence of an infection and the pathogen are known with
      certainty. This makes BSI the perfect model of infection to study the effects of the
      micro-organism on the participant, and the effects of the antibiotics and other treatments on
      survival. There is an increasing trend in antimicrobial resistance rates among microorganisms
      that are associated with nosocomial infections treated in ICU. However, infectious diseases
      physicians from Turkey do not know contemporary epidemiological data of hospital-acquired BSI
      treated in ICU in Turkey.

      This study 'Epidemiology and Determinants of Outcomes of Hospital-Acquired Blood Stream
      Infections in the Intensive Care in Turkey' is a multi-center prospective observational
      cohort study that will include patients with hospital-acquired blood stream infections
      (HA-BSI) treated in ICUs in Turkey. This study will present unknown current epidemiology of
      HA-BSI in Turkey. Furthermore, It will provide very important data about 28-day mortality
      rates of HA-BSI treated in ICU. The primary outcomes of this study can be accounted as
      following: (i)determinants of outcomes of HA-BSI, (ii) the effects of the source of infection
      on outcomes, (iii) the effects of microorganism on these outcomes, (iv) the effects of
      antimicrobial therapy and of source control on investigated outcomes. In this study,
      participant specific and organizational factors will be explored and the determinants of
      management of HA-BSI in ICUs will be described.

      There will be no intervention in this study. The data of participants will be obtained from
      hospital database and recorded into electronic case report forms anonymously.
    
  