
    
      Hemospan is a novel hemoglobin-based oxygen carrier developed to perfuse and oxygenate tissue
      at risk for ischemia and hypoxia. As a result of its molecular size and oxygen binding
      characteristics, Hemospan selectively off-loads oxygen in tissues predisposed to low oxygen
      tension. Preclinical evidence suggests that Hemospan provides rapid and effective plasma
      expansion and tissue perfusion, and that the properties of Hemospan target oxygen release in
      the microcirculation.

      Spinal anesthesia is the preferred choice for hip arthroplasty procedures in elderly
      patients, but is associated with a functional hypovolemia due to loss of vascular tone that
      frequently causes acute hypotensive episodes. Hypotension represents a surrogate marker of
      hypovolemia that may be further exacerbated by surgical bleeding, which can result in
      decreased cardiac output, insufficient perfusion and inadequate tissue oxygenation. Ischemia
      resulting from hypotension can adversely affect vital organ function and may result in
      complications and postoperative morbidity. As the population ages and more patients become
      candidates for orthopedic reconstruction or joint replacement surgery, the number of patients
      at risk is increasing. The ideal IV solution for treating hypovolemia-associated hypotension
      and improving hemodynamic stability would be an effective plasma expander that promotes
      tissue perfusion and delivers oxygen to ischemic or marginally hypoxic tissue.

      Preclinical animal studies have shown that Hemospan may be well-suited to this application
      and may even be better than blood in some situations. Data from Sangart's Phase II orthopedic
      surgery study (No. 6055), published recently by Olofsson et al. (Anesthesiology 2006;
      105(6):1153-63) support the safety and potential benefit of Hemospan for preventing and
      treating hypotension in orthopedic surgery patients undergoing hip replacement surgery under
      spinal anesthesia.
    
  