
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine, by a standard approach, the frequency of different FAB subtypes in children
           with primary myelodysplastic syndromes.

        -  Determine the frequency of cytogenetic and molecular abnormalities in these patients.

        -  Determine the survival of patients treated with allogeneic stem cell transplantation
           with or without induction chemotherapy.

        -  Determine the rate of complete remission in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Determine the event-free survival of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Determine the relapse rate, morbidity, and mortality of patients treated with these
           regimens.

        -  Determine different subsets of patients who benefit from these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to FAB subtype
      (refractory anemia (RA) or RA with ringed sideroblasts (RARS) vs RA with excess blasts (RAEB)
      vs RAEB in transformation (RAEB-t) vs juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia (JMML)).

      Patients undergo complete medical and physical examination. Patients are screened for the
      following aberrations: -7, +8, +21, t(8;21), t(15;17), and inv(16). Smears of peripheral
      blood and bone marrow, as well as bone marrow biopsies and all cytogenetic and molecular
      studies performed on blood or bone marrow, are evaluated by a panel of international experts.

      Patients with progressive RA or RARS undergo allogeneic stem cell transplantation (ASCT)
      according to EWOG-MDS SCT studies. Patients with stable RA or RARS wait for an optimal donor
      before undergoing ASCT. Patients with RAEB with fewer than 15% bone marrow blasts undergo
      ASCT. Patients with RAEB with at least 15% bone marrow blasts and patients with RAEB-t with
      fewer than 30% bone marrow blasts receive standard acute myeloid leukemia (AML) induction
      therapy and then undergo ASCT. Patients with RAEB-t with at least 30% bone marrow blasts are
      considered for standard AML induction therapy.

      Patients with advanced JMML undergo evaluation for splenectomy and receive chemotherapy with
      mercaptopurine and cytarabine every 3-4 weeks (for 1-4 doses). Patients then undergo ASCT.

      Patients are followed every 6 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Not specified
    
  