
    
      Hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection is one of the most important causes of illness and death
      among people living with HIV/AIDS. Over 200,000 people in the Unites States, including 37,000
      in California, are co-infected with HIV and HCV. In the past, people who had both HIV and HCV
      often died from AIDS before HCV could cause serious problems. However, with improvements in
      HIV/AIDS care and treatment, more co-infected people are living longer and thus developing
      complications from their HCV, including liver scarring (called cirrhosis) and death. HCV
      infection can also make HIV medications more toxic to the liver, limiting HIV treatment
      options. Treatment for chronic (or long-term) HCV infection has improved in recent years, but
      people with HIV are still about half as likely to clear their chronic HCV infection with
      treatment as HIV-negative individuals. Also, HCV treatment can be very toxic and may have
      serious side effects for patients, particularly those with HIV.

      Recent research suggests that treatment started within the first few months after getting HCV
      infection (called "acute infection") can result in high treatment response rates for people
      who do not have HIV. It is not known whether similarly high treatment response rates can also
      be seen in people with HIV. It has also been shown that each individual's response to the
      early phases of HCV treatment can predict his or her ability to clear HCV infection after the
      end of treatment. This study will look at whether it is possible to follow each person's own
      HCV viral load over time as a measure of treatment success and to tailor each individual's
      treatment to his or her own response. This idea is called "kinetically guided therapy" and is
      a new way of individualizing treatment regimen to produce high treatment success rates while
      minimizing the amount of potentially toxic medications that an individual might not need.

      In this pilot study, 20 HIV-infected individuals with acute HCV infection will be treated
      with HCV therapy for 24 weeks. Because HIV co-infection decreases treatment success in
      chronic HCV infection, treatment will be started with the strong combination of
      pegylated-interferon plus ribavirin. However, this protocol will monitor each individual's
      HCV viral load during the first 12 weeks of treatment and will stop the ribavirin at week 12
      if the individual has a good early response and might not need to continue both medications.
      Using this approach, pegylated interferon will be given for the full 24 weeks of treatment,
      but ribavirin will be continued for either 12 or 24 weeks, depending on each individual's
      early response to therapy. The primary endpoint for this study is the percentage of people
      who have a sustained virologic response to the study treatment. The side effects of treatment
      will also be measured in order to determine the overall risks and benefits of this approach
      to treatment.
    
  