
    
      Background: The number of students aged 6-21 years with an educational classification of
      autism spectrum disorder (ASD) in the United States grew by about 19 times over a 19-year
      period-from 29,076 in 1995-6 to 545,198 in 2014-2015 (IDEA Data Center, 2018). Meeting the
      needs of this growing population of students is a significant concern for schools (Bowen,
      2014). Investigators have described as many as 27 efficacious intervention strategies for
      teaching new skills to children with ASD (Wong et al., 2015). However, these strategies are
      only rarely implemented in schools. In a survey of 185 teachers across the state of Georgia
      working with at least one student with ASD, fewer than 5% reported using an evidence-based
      intervention (Hess, Morrier, Heflin, & Ivey, 2008). The infrequent use of the wide range of
      evidence-based strategies that could improve outcomes for students with ASD is concerning and
      may at least partially explain why students with ASD receive large amounts of special
      education services (Brookman-Frazee et al., 2009) yet often continue to require extensive
      supports as adults (Howlin et al., 2004).

      Objectives: The purpose of this project is to test the efficacy of the Modular Approach for
      Autism Programs in Schools (MAAPS). The Modular Approach for Autism Programs in Schools
      (MAAPS) is an individualized, comprehensive modular intervention system integrating
      evidence-based strategies to address core and associated features of autism spectrum
      disorders (ASD) to enhance the success of elementary students with ASD in schools.

      Specific Aims: The primary aim is to evaluate whether, compared to services as usual, MAAPS
      improves teacher outcomes and subsequent student educational outcomes. The investigators also
      intend to explore the feasibility and acceptability of MAAPS, costs associated with MAAPS,
      and analyze any potential modifiers of intervention effects and the implementation process.

      Design: 60 schools will be randomized to either MAAPS or waitlist control. 120
      teacher-student dyads will be enrolled from these 60 schools. Schools will be recruited from
      three sites: May Institute, University of South Florida, and University of Rochester. Student
      outcome measures assess overall school functioning, improvements in teacher-nominated target
      behaviors, core and associated features of ASD. Teacher outcome measures assess feasibility,
      acceptability, and usability of MAAPS and teacher implementation fidelity.
    
  