
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the phase II dose of the combination liposome-encapsulated
      daunorubicin-cytarabine (CPX-351) plus gemtuzumab ozogamicin (GO) by means of estimating
      maximum tolerated dose (MTD) in participants with relapsed acute myeloid leukemia (AML).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the remission rate (complete remission plus complete remission with incomplete
      hematologic recovery) of participants in the MTD cohort who receive CPX-351 plus GO.

      II. To evaluate CPX-351 plus GO as a bridge to allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell
      transplantation (HSCT) in participants with relapsed AML.

      III. To estimate the duration of remission. IV. To evaluate for toxicity by means of Common
      Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.03.

      V. To evaluate for the development of veno-occlusive disease at any point during the study in
      participants treated with CPX-351 plus GO.

      VI. To evaluate time to return of normal hematopoiesis after induction therapy. VII. To
      evaluate 30- and 60-day survival.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate if there is a difference in remission rate based on CD33 splicing single
      nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) genotype (CC, TC, or TT) in participants receiving CPX-351 plus
      GO.

      II. To evaluate the impact that leukemia cell multidrug resistance activity have on achieving
      remission after treatment with CPX-351 plus GO.

      III. To evaluate the possible associations of participant constitutional genotype, leukemia
      genotype, and response to therapy.

      IV. To evaluate the possible associations of participant ribonucleic acid (RNA) expression,
      leukemia RNA expression, and response to therapy.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of gemtuzumab ozogamicin when given in combination
      with liposome-encapsulated daunorubicin-cytarabine.

      INDUCTION: Patients receive liposome-encapsulated daunorubicin-cytarabine intravenously (IV)
      over 90 minutes on days 1, 3, and 5, and gemtuzumab ozogamicin IV over 2 hours on day 7 in
      the first cohort of study participants, days 4 and 7 in the second cohort of study
      participants, or days 1, 4, and 7 in the third cohort of study participants, in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. The dose expansion cohort will receive the
      above treatment schedule that is determined to be the maximum tolerated dose.

      CONSOLIDATION: Patients who achieve complete remission (CR)/CR with incomplete hematologic
      recovery (CRi) receive consolidation therapy at the discretion of the treating physician
      and/or proceed to allogeneic HSCT.
    
  