
    
      Background and Rationale:

      Adherence to an effective antiretroviral (ARV) regimen is the most important determinant of
      treatment success in patients receiving ARV. It is now well established that virological
      suppression on highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) requires strict adherence to
      prescribed dosing schedules. It is essential to reach and maintain therapeutic levels of
      these drugs, and strict adherence is particularly crucial for preventing the development of
      drug-resistant viral strains. If therapeutic drugs levels are suboptimal and the virus is
      able to replicate, this has important individual and public health implications.

      Indirect evidence also suggests that the use of HAART by HIV-infected individuals decreases
      sexual transmission of HIV. Specifically, ARV treatment decreases serum and genital fluid HIV
      viral load. It has become evident that the availability of HAART may paradoxically increase
      sexual practices that lead to HIV transmission. This has been seen in several developed
      countries where the introduction of HAART coincided with increasing sexual risk behaviour and
      sexually transmitted infections. Thus far there has been very little evidence showing these
      trends in developing countries.

      Despite the high burden on HIV in developing countries compared with developed countries,
      considerably more evidence is available in the latter regarding adherence and risk behaviour.
      Studies to ascertain the correlation between these two factors are important as new
      interventions may be established to ensure that improved health and economic outcomes will
      follow. Understanding which patients have increased risk behaviours, or are at risk for
      non-adherence enables identification of patients who are important targets for interventional
      strategies to optimise HIV treatment programmes.

      Adherence and risk behaviour:

      Apart from the beneficial clinical effects of HAART, treatment advances may have unintended
      effects on sexual behaviour. Evidence suggests that since HAART became available, the
      prevalence of unprotected sex and the incidence of sexually transmitted infections including
      HIV have increased, mostly among men who have sex with men (MSM). Some HIV positive persons
      receiving HAART, especially those with a undetectable viral load, may feel protected from
      transmitting HIV sexually. Recent evidence does suggest that an undetectable viral load may
      reduce the level of infectiousness of HIV positive persons receiving HAART.

      As this information moves into the public domain it may influence peoples beliefs about HIV
      transmission and lessen concern about engaging in unsafe sex. People who hold these beliefs
      are more likely than their counterparts to engage in unprotected sex.

      HIV positive patients who engage in high-risk behaviours linked to HIV spread are as likely
      to be receiving HAART as those at low risk for disease transmission, but those who engage in
      high-risk behaviours have much lower rates of medication adherence and thus much higher viral
      loads. This suggests a strong behavioural basis for transmission of drug resistant HIV, and
      parallels recent increases in all sexually transmitted infections. Given that taking HAART
      and having an undetectable viral load do not eliminate the possibility of transmitting HIV,
      it is important to examine whether the use of HAART and beliefs about HAART are associated
      with sexual risk taking.

      Definitions:

      Risk behavior is defined as behavior which may result in transmission of HIV

      Study subjects:

      Subjects will be asked to complete a questionnaire which will contain questions on adherence
      and risk behaviour.At the completion of data collection an analysis will be made accordingly.
      Approximately 700 patients in HIV-NAT 006 who provide consent will be enrolled.

      Inclusion criteria are:

        -  Age ≥ 18 years

        -  HIV seropositive.

        -  On continuous HAART for at least 6 months

        -  Signed written informed consent

      Methods:

      Cross sectional survey of adherence and behavior in subjects enrolled in the HIVNAT 006 long
      term follow up cohort.

      Patients enrolled in HIVNAT 006 are normally required to attend regular 6 monthly follow up
      appointments. Over the coming months 700 subjects who give consent will be asked to complete
      an anonymous self-administered questionnaire at their next clinic visit. Completion of the
      questionnaire will be facilitated by people living with HIV/AIDS (PLHA) who will be trained
      by HIVNAT.

      The questionnaire will comprise the following categories:

        1. Demographics

        2. Medication adherence

        3. Factors affecting adherence (risk behaviour)

      Furthermore the following will be extracted from the HIVNAT database:

        -  CDC disease stage over the previous 12 months and at current consult

        -  CD4 over the previous 12 months and at current consult

        -  VL over the previous 12 months and at current consult

        -  ARV regimen and changes in regimen

        -  Opportunistic infections
    
  