
    
      Regular physical activity improves physical and mental health and reduces the risk of heart
      disease, stroke, cancer, diabetes, dementia, obesity and premature death from any cause
      (Department of Health & Prevention., 2004). Unfortunately the majority of adults are not
      active enough to reap these benefits (Chaudhury & Roth, 2006). Specific psychological
      techniques can be used to overcome the known barriers to increased activity. People who are
      inactive can be identified in primary care through the use of standard risk tools. Similarly,
      standard risk tools can identify people at high risk of stroke, heart disease and diabetes,
      and people at risk from dementia are identified by a diagnosis of mild cognitive impairment.
      Combining these clinical indicators can identify people who are inactive and at highest risk
      who may therefore benefit most from activity interventions. These high risk patients can be
      offered physical activity programmes that are designed to increase longterm adherence.
      Aerobic dance is an activity that combines physical, social and cognitive stimulation and
      allows easily adjusted intensity levels to meet individual needs. Engagement in an activity
      program also provides opportunities to offer advice on healthy nutrition and associated meal
      preparation skills. Information technology can be used to increase activity participation.
      Video materials can be produced to guide activity participation at home, thereby increasing
      overall activity participation.

      TRIAL DESIGN The investigators plan a longitudinal study where participants will be followed
      up for a total of 24 weeks. Outcome measures will be collected at three time points that
      separates two phases. Phase 1 consists of the group based weekly intervention plus access to
      online material and Phase 2 consists of only access to the online material. The time points
      are: baseline (Time 0), 12 weeks post intervention (Time 1) and 24 weeks post intervention
      (Time 2). Outcomes measured at time 1 will be used to determine the effects of Phase 1
      immediately following participation, and measure at 24 weeks (Time 2) to determine the
      outcomes 12 weeks after the end of the group based intervention intervention and therefore
      the longer term effects with support from online material only. Participants will therefore
      serve as their own controls during Phase 2 for comparison with Phase 1. In other words the
      investigators will compare the results for each participant following Phase 1 with their
      results following Phase 2 to determine the effects of removing the group facilitation.
    
  