
    
      Objective

      The current proposal investigates behavioral, psychophysiological, and social processes that
      may help explain biases and disparate outcomes in pain. Health disparities, or health
      outcomes that adversely affect disadvantaged populations, are pervasive and apparent in many
      diseases and symptoms, including pain. Pain is the number one reason individuals seek medical
      treatment. Health disparities in pain encompass both differences in pain experience and
      treatment for pain. For instance, research indicates that Black individuals report increased
      pain and have reduced pain tolerance relative to White individuals yet doctors are less
      likely to treat minority patients pain and underestimate their pain experience. This project
      aims to address this systemic discrepancy by focusing on interpersonal processes that may
      contribute to these disparities, including socially-relevant responses to pain (i.e. pain
      expression) and pain assessment (e.g. visual attention). The proposed research aims to
      determine whether the study of pain expressions and their assessment can yield insights on
      how social factors shape pain and its treatment. Further, we test the efficacy of potential
      interventions designed to improve accuracy and reduce biases in pain assessment. If
      successful, this work will form the foundation of a new research program that will link the
      field of pain research with the field of social neuroscience, and forge new insights on the
      critical problem of health disparities in pain.

      Study population

      We will accrue up to 600 total healthy volunteers to target 212 completers

      Design

      Our overall aim is to understand how social factors influence the assessment and management
      of pain, and to gain insight into psychosocial processes that may underlie health disparities
      in pain. We propose a series of studies designed to test these links. First, we will measure
      pain perception and physiological responses to painful stimuli in a diverse group of
      individuals to test for sociocultural and biological influences on pain and pain-related
      responses. In subsequent studies, new participants ("perceivers") will view images of these
      initial participants ("targets") and will provide estimates of targets' pain experience. We
      will measure a) whether perceivers can accurately estimate targets' pain experience; b)
      whether accuracy differs as a function of similarity between target and perceiver (ingroup vs
      outgroup); and c) whether individuals can improve accuracy through feedback.

      Outcome measures

      Primary outcome measures for all experiments will be decisions about pain (experienced by
      self or other) measured with visual analogue scales, reaction time, and/or categorical
      judgments (pain/no pain). We will also measure physiological responses (e.g., facial muscle
      response, skin conductance, pupil dilation) as secondary outcome measures. We will test
      whether pain and pain-related responses varies as a function of sociocultural/demographic
      factors (e.g. race, ethnicity, gender) and whether accuracy in assessing others pain is
      influenced by group similarity (i.e. ingroup vs. outgroup) and training (e.g.
      performance-related feedback).
    
  