
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Identify cancer patients who are low-risk inpatients and meet criteria for early
           discharge (i.e., symptomatic improvement and temperature ≤ 37.8°C) after receiving oral
           antibiotics for febrile neutropenia.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, prospective, multicenter study. Patients are stratified by
      disease type (lymphoma vs solid tumor), duration of registration (< 48 hours vs > 48 hours),
      and participating center.

      Patients receive oral amoxicillin-clavulanate potassium 3 times daily and oral ciprofloxacin
      twice daily on admission to the hospital. Treatment continues for 7 days in the absence of
      clinical deterioration or unacceptable toxicity. Patients are assessed as inpatients after ≥
      24 and up to 72 hours after the first antibiotic dose. Patients showing clear response (i.e.,
      symptomatic improvement irrespective of neutrophil recovery, temperature ≤ 37.8 C for 24
      hours) and who continue to meet study eligibility criteria are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

        -  Arm I (early discharge): Patients are discharged home and instructed to remain in daily
           contact with hospital staff to report temperature and symptoms until completion of oral
           antibiotic regimen.

        -  Arm II (standard management): Patients continue their antibiotic course in hospital and
           are discharged according to local guidelines and the following additional criteria:
           subjective improvement, afebrile (≤ 37°C for 24 hours), and absolute neutrophil count ≥
           500/mm³ and rising.

      Patients in both arms complete a daily diary documenting daily temperature readings,
      symptoms, and toxicities. Patients also complete a Health Questionnaire and a Cancer Worries
      Inventory Booklet at baseline, in the hospital immediately after randomization, and at
      completion of oral antibiotics or resolution of neutropenic febrile episode.

      Peer Reviewed and Funded or Endorsed by Cancer Research UK

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 400 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  