
    
      This is an observational (study in which patients/participants are observed) and multicentre
      (at multiple sites) study. This is one-country arm of a multinational study. This study
      consists of 2 years of retrospective (a study in which the patients are identified and then
      documented backward in time and 2 years of prospective (a study in which the patients are
      identified and then followed forward in time for the outcome of the study) study periods
      during which medication utilization review will be done, determining medication usage
      patterns and outcomes associated with the use of risperidone long acting, in clinical
      practice. Usage of risperidone according to label was recommended during the study. The
      planned recruitment period will be 6 months. Retrospective observation will be 2 years for
      hospitalization history and at least 1 year for medication usage. Total duration of
      prospective observation for each patient with a complete follow-up will be 24 months. Data
      collection during the follow up period will be scheduled every 3 months ± 2 weeks. In
      addition, this study is proposed in Belgium to satisfy the demand from Belgian Reimbursement
      Authorities to collect clinical data on the impact of risperidone long acting on treatment
      compliance, number of hospitalizations and potential prevention of relapses. Also, this data
      will provide documentation on switch from oral to parenteral treatment. Data will be pooled
      from different physicians and/or countries. The objectives of this study are: collect
      clinical outcome data at the request of the Belgian Reimbursement Authorities; prospectively
      assess medication usage patterns to document clinical efficacy and long-term treatment
      outcomes of risperidone long acting, in a naturalistic setting; collect retrospective data,
      to compare with risperidone long acting; document reasons for initiating risperidone; collect
      data on switch of treatment to risperidone long acting.
    
  