
    
      Gulf War Illness (GWI) veterans had heart rate and blood pressure measured lying down, and
      then for 5 minutes standing up. Before exercise, all GWI had normal changes of 10 to 15 beats
      per minute upon standing up. Then they had submaximal bicycle exercise stress tests. Rayhan
      et al. (2013) discovered that two thirds of the subjects had the same, unchanged response of
      about 10 to 15 beats per minute upon standing both before and after exercise. These were
      termed the Stress Test Original Phantom Perception (STOPP) phenotype. In contrast, one third
      of GWI veterans were found to have normal postural changes before exercise, but all the
      stress tests they had larger changes in heart rate of over 30 beats per minute. They were
      termed the Stress Test Activated Reversible Tachycardia (START) phenotype.

      The importance of the START phenotype was indicated by finding that they had brain stem
      atrophy by MRI voxel based morphometry, reduced brain blood flow and activation during a
      cognitive task performed in the fMRI scanner, and differences in biomarkers compared to STOPP
      and sedentary control subjects.

      This study was designed to use the identical exercise protocol to verify or refute the
      presence of START and STOPP phenotypes in GWI.

      The incremental change in heart rate between recumbent and standing (Delta HR) was determined
      by having subjects lie quietly at rest. Heart rate and blood pressure was measured at 1
      minute intervals. The average recumbent heart rate was determined. Then subjects stood up
      without assistance. Beginning 1 minute after standing up, heart rate was measured at 1 minute
      intervals for 5 minutes. Delta HR was found by subtracting each of the 5 standing
      measurements minus the average recumbent heart rate. If a subject had 2 or more Delta HR
      measurements of 30 beats per minute or greater while standing, they were called Stress Test
      Activated Reversible Tachycardia (START).

      The threshold of 30 beats per minute for Delta HR was based on the criteria for Postural
      Orthostatic Tachycardia Syndrome (POTS). However, START subjects had normal Delta HR of 10 to
      15 before exercise, and so did not have POTS. This was a key finding of the original study
      that we plan to verify in this study.

      Study Design:

      Pre-exercise recumbent and standing heart rate measurements and m Magnetic resonance imaging
      (MRI).

      Exercise: Submaximal bicycle exercise stress test. Subjects were monitored while sitting on
      the bike for 5 minutes. Cycling started with a gradual increase in resistance to increase
      heart rate to 70% of maximum predicted heart rate (pHR = 220-Age). Cycling continued at
      70%pHR for 25 minutes or until the subject wanted to stop. After 25 minutes, the exercise
      level was increased gradually to reach 85%pHR equivalent to a cardiac stress test. After
      stopping, heart rate was measured for 5 more minutes while sitting.

      Post-Exercise: Recumbent and standing heart rate measurements were performed approximately 3,
      8, 24 and 36 hours after exercise. Specific times could not be scheduled because of the
      timing of MRI scans and other procedures.

      Outcome measure: DeltaHR was the difference between standing heart rates minus average
      recumbent heart rate. Changes in DeltaHR were measured for up to 48 hr after exercise.

      START definition: DeltaHR of 30 more greater at 2 or more time points in the 48 hr after
      submaximal exercise.
    
  