
    
      Objective:

      The long term goal is to improve health, well-being and quality of life in the frail
      long-term care (LTC) elderly population by reducing fractures. The short term goal is to
      demonstrate efficacy of the non-bisphosphonate denosumab to improve bone mineral density
      (BMD), a necessary (but not sufficient) pre-condition of a large fracture reduction trial.
      The investigators propose to conduct a 2-year, randomized, double-blind, calcium-vitamin D
      controlled trial to test the efficacy and predictability of the antiresorptive RANK ligand
      inhibitor, denosumab (60 mg), among a cohort of 212 institutionalized, under-served, frail
      men and women ≥65 years old in LTC.

      Specific Aims:

      Aim 1: To evaluate efficacy of denosumab in improving/maintaining bone mineral density. The
      investigators will measure conventional hip and spine bone mineral density (BMD).

      Primary Hypothesis: After 2 years, women and men on denosumab will have greater hip and spine
      BMD increases.

      Zoledronic Acid Infusion Safety Treatment and Follow-up Extension:

      After the trial was started, case reports suggested a potential increase in fracture risk
      with disuse. A post hoc analysis that combined the pivotal denosumab trial and extension
      trial data suggested there was an increase in multiple vertebral fractures when patients
      discontinued therapy. Following discontinuation of denosumab/placebo, all patients will be
      offered treatment with 1 dose of intravenous zoledronic acid 5 mg. For those consenting to
      receive end of study treatment, the zoledronic acid will be given at month 27 for an
      individual patient.

      Zoledronic Acid Safety Infusion Extension Specific Aims:

      Aim 1: To evaluate maintenance of bone mineral density (BMD). Zoledronic acid will be
      administered intravenously at 9 months post-denosumab (month 27) and assess BMD by DXA at
      months 33 and 39 (6 months and 12 months after zoledronic acid infusion).

      Primary Hypothesis: Zoledronic acid will prevent BMD loss at the spine and hip following
      denosumab discontinuation.
    
  