
    
      The incidence of coronary heart disease(CHD) in type II diabetes is currently at least 20% in
      subjects 65 years and older. Numerous data suggest that hyperglycemia may be an independent
      risk factor for macrovascular complications. Diabetic painful neuropathy (DPN) affects 5-50%
      of patients with diabetes and is exacerbated by poor glycemic control. DPN is characterized
      by acute functional abnormalities in nerve fibers followed by chronic nerve fiber loss and
      blunted nerve fiber regeneration. Symptoms include tingling and burning sensations in the
      calves, ankles and feet. Pharmacological treatment of diabetic autonomic neuropathy (DAN) and
      DPN include tricyclic antidepressants, which are cardiotoxic and have a low efficacy rate.
      The ADA recommends the utilization of diet and exercise as the primary means of glycemic
      control, and therefore of DPN. Because of the increased levels of extremity pain, patients
      with DPN are less likely to include exercise as a part of their health regimen. Diabetic
      autonomic neuropathy (DAN) commonly complicates diabetes and has been invoked as a cause of
      sudden death in diabetic patients. The excess cardiac mortality in diabetics appears to be
      augmented by the presence of DAN in patients with advanced deficits in sympathetic
      cardiovascular enervation which may augment cardiac arrhythmogenesis. An bio-energy modality
      known as Reiki is an energy manipulation technique similar to Therapeutic Touch, a hands-on
      modality familiar in nursing for the relief of chronic pain, as well as accelerate healing in
      full thickness dermal wounds. The study approach is to apply Reiki to patients with DPN +/-
      DAN in a semi-double blind, randomized, crossover study to ascertain if glycemic control and
      cardiac autonomic function are improved in these patients. Outcome measures will include
      HBA1c values, the McGill-Melzack Pain Questionnaire, and a quality of life questionnaire.
      Participants will also be tested as to their ability to tolerate exercise by a 6 minute walk
      test. This study will help elucidate whether an bio-energy technique can reduce pain levels,
      improve glycemic control by increasing exercise tolerance and improve cardiac autonomic
      function, both major contributors to CHD mortality.
    
  