
    
      The patients are not allowed to eat after midnight. Routine premedication is given with
      paracetamol and oxynorm/oxycontin. Thrombosis and antibiotic prophylaxis is given according
      to surgical department.

      The weight of the patient is notices on the morning of surgery (day 0).

      The patient arrives in the morning to the preoperative area. A urinary analysis is taken for
      urinary colour, creatinine, specific weight, osmolality, microalbuminuria and electrolytes.
      For 30 patients a volume kinetic analysis of 5 ml/kg infusion of acetated Ringers solution is
      undertaken between 6.30 and 8.00 am on the morning of surgery. During 15 minutes 5 ml/kg
      acetated Ringers solution is infused intravenously. Hb is continuously measured noninvasively
      by Masimo Radical 7 pulse oximeter (MasimoHb) and invasively with maximum 13 samples a 4 ml
      during 80 minutes (0, 10, 15, 25, 40, 50, 60 and 70 min. Double samples at start and 60 min.
      The volume kinetic part of the study is finished after 70 min when the patient urinates and
      the volume is measured.

      The patient is taken to the operating theatre and MasimoHb, NT-proBNP, Troponin T hs,
      pl-lactate, PI och PVI (stable value during 5 min) is registered before anaesthesia. Avoid
      having blood pressure cuff and pulse oximeter for PVI analysis on the same arm. Aim at PI > 1
      to get a reliable registration of PVI, otherwise try another finger.

      Anaesthesia: Epidural anaesthesia according to clinical praxis (activated after the first
      volume optimisation and kept activated during surgery) and anaesthesia according to clinical
      practise. The ventilation during anaesthesia is maintained using volume controlled mode,
      tidal volume 7 ml/kg (ideal weight, using the formula: men 50 + 0.91(height in centimetre
      -152.4); women 45.5 + 0.91(height in centimetre -152.4)), PEEP 5 - 10 cmH2O, respiratory rate
      to achieve normocapnia. Tidal volume and PEEP is maintained during surgery. The Doppler sond
      is placed after anaesthesia induction and after that the gastric sond is placed.

      During induction of anaesthesia an amount of u to 500 ml colloid solution as well as
      intermittently ephedrine in small doses of 2.5 - 10 mg can be given for circulatory
      stability.

      Antibiotics are given according to clinical practice.

      Preoperative fluid regimen:

      Grupp OD:

      Basic infusion: Buffered glucose 2.5% 1000 ml 2 ml/kg/h. The first volume optimization of
      stroke volume (SV) takes place after anaesthesia induction and a stable baseline of
      measurement is achieved. Note SV (mean value during 1 min), Flow time corrected (FTC),
      MasimoHb and PVI (mean value during 1 min). The PVI value is only visualised to the research
      nurse and not to the attending anaesthesiologist. Administer 3 ml/kg (actual weight) maximum
      250 ml hydroxyethyl starch during 5 minutes. Wait for 5 minutes. Note SV, FTC, MasimoHb and
      PVI. If SV increases more than 10 % a new colloid bolus is given. This is repeated in cycles
      until SV not increases > 10%, or DO2i > 600 ml/min/m2. For every cycle SV, FTC, MasimoHb and
      PVI are noted. The first optimization is undertaken before start of surgery.

      SV, FTC, MasimoHb and PVI are followed during surgery. If SV is reduced > 10% from the value
      after the last bolus dose a new volume optimization is repeated as described above.

      If more than 30 ml/kg hydroxyethyl starch 60 mg/ml is given, colloid solution is changed to
      albumin 4% or plasma. Bolus doses of albumin 4% and plasma are also 3 ml/kg with a maximum of
      250 ml.

      Beside infusion of colloids, acetated Ringers solution 0-1000 ml can be given according to
      the decision from the attending anaesthesiologist.

      Blood loss is replaced ml by ml with colloid until Hb 90 g/l (100 if the patient has an
      ischemic heart disease or any other condition at the discretion from the attending
      anaesthesiologist). Thereafter replacement is given1:1 using SAG and colloid/albumin/plasma.
      If blood loss exceeds half the blood volume replacement is given only using SAG/plasma.
      Thrombocytes are given according to clinical practice.

      Any use of inotropic and vasoactive drugs is documented.

      At the end of surgery pl-lactate and Hb is measured invasively and non-invasively (HB).
      Estimated blood loss is registered.

      Grupp PVI:

      Basic infusion: Buffered glucose 2.5% 1000 ml 2 ml/kg/h.

      The first volume optimization of stroke volume (SV) takes place after anaesthesia induction
      and a stable baseline of measurement is achieved. Note PVI ( mean value during 1 min),
      MasimoHb, SV (mean value during 1 min) and Flow time corrected (FTC). Data from the
      oesophagus doppler is only visualised to the research nurse and not to the attending
      anaesthesiologist. Administer 3 ml/kg (actual weight) maximum 250 ml hydroxyethyl starch
      during 5 minutes. Wait for 5 minutes. Note SV, FTC, MasimoHb and PVI. If PVI is >10 % and
      reduced give a new colloid bolus. For every cycle SV, FTC, MasimoHb and PVI are noted. The
      first optimization is undertaken before start of surgery.

      If PVI >10 % the volume optimization is repeated as described above. If more than 30 ml/kg
      hydroxyethyl starch 60 mg/ml is given, colloid solution is changed to albumin 4% or plasma.
      Bolus doses of albumin 4% and plasma are also 3 ml/kg with a maximum of 250 ml.

      Beside infusion of colloids, acetated Ringers solution 0-1000 ml can be given according to
      the decision from the attending anaesthesiologist.

      Blood loss is replaced ml by ml with colloid until Hb 90 g/l (100 if the patient has an
      ischemic heart disease or any other condition at the discretion from the attending
      anaesthesiologist). Thereafter replacement is given1:1 using SAG and colloid/albumin/plasma.
      If blood loss exceeds half the blood volume replacement is given only using SAG/plasma.
      Thrombocytes are given according to clinical practice.

      Any use of inotropic and vasoactive drugs is documented.

      At the end of surgery pl-lactate and Hb is measured invasively and non invasively (HB).
      Estimated blood loss is registered.

      Both groups: If the patients' perioperative course demands that the anaesthesiologists in
      charge deviate from the study protocol the reason for this is registered in the CRF.

      All patients have a urinary bladder catheter or cystofix as decided by the surgeon. The
      temperature of the patient is measured. Hot air blanked is used to prevent hypothermia.

      Post-operatively after 12-24 hours and 36-48 hours pl-NT-proBNP and pl-troponinThs are
      measured.

      The patients weight is registered the morning on the day after surgery (day 1).

      Date for end of hospital stay is registered.

      A blinded team registers postoperative complications on the 3d day after surgery according to
      a preset protocol. The record is also reviewed retrospectively to document all complications
      during the first 30 days after surgery.

      For patients 1-75 Doppler and PVI are recorded simultaneously to allow analysis of
      concordance between PVI and Doppler as guide to fluid optimization. Also biochemical analyses
      of cardiac enzymes as part of the study are undertaken in patients 1-75. For patients 1-150
      the outcome measure postoperative complications is registered.
    
  