
    
      Genome wide association studies (GWAS) have identified over 1000 disease associated SNPs,
      including many related to cardiovascular disease (CVD). Associations have been found for most
      traditional risk factors including lipids, blood pressure /hypertension, weight/body mass
      index, smoking behavior, and diabetes. Importantly, GWAS have also identified susceptibility
      variants for coronary heart disease/ myocardial infarction (CHD/MI), many of which are
      independent of traditional risk factors and thus cannot currently be assessed by surrogate
      measures. The first, and so far the strongest, of these signals was found in the 9p21.3 locus
      and are associated with a 20-40% increase in the relative risk of coronary heart disease
      among Caucasian and East Asian populations. Like most of the associations identified to date,
      the function of the non-coding 9p21.3 chromosomal region remains unclear. These markers
      predict disease and can modesty improve reclassification indices. For instance, in a very
      recent example, 13 SNPs previously identified in GWAS as associated with CHD/MI were
      incorporated into a multilocus model to estimate the association of a genetic risk score with
      incident CHD/MI in several large prospective studies. Even after adjusting for family history
      and traditional risk factors, individuals in the top quintile were at 1.66 times increased
      risk compared with those at the bottom quintile 36. There was a significant improvement in
      reclassification of intermediate risk patients. The use of these markers has not yet been
      shown to outperform models including traditional risk factors and family history. This
      shortcoming is probably because the vast majority of heritable risk remains undiscovered. The
      basis for this heritability gap remains unclear but is the focus of intense investigation.
      Despite the heritability gap, it is still possible that the use of known genetic risk factors
      may improve patient outcomes. For instance, genetic testing can improve patient adherence and
      risk factor reduction for Mendelian forms of coronary disease like familial
      hypercholesterolemia (FH). However, for "garden variety" coronary disease, there has never
      been a clinical trial that indicates that using genetic markers improves outcomes. There are
      strong signals from the NIH, the US Preventive Services Task Force and other independent
      prevention centers that genetic screening will be highly scrutinized until such trials exist.
      Currently, both the Evaluation of Genomic Applications in Practice and Prevention (EGAPP)
      Working Group and the ACC/AHA Taskforce on Practice Guidelines recommend against genetic
      testing for coronary disease 39,40 because there is no clinical trial data supporting their
      use. Despite these recommendations, and lack of efficacy data, there are huge financial
      pressures to increase genetic testing by "direct-to-consumer" companies. In this context,
      there is a perfect opportunity to develop well-designed clinical trials to test these
      variants.
    
  