
    
      Introduction Subacromial impingement of the rotator cuff between the anterior [1] or lateral
      acromion [2] and the superior humeral head is a common disorder. This condition arises when
      the subacromial space height is too narrow during active elevation or scaption of the arm
      above shoulder level due to an abnormal hooked shape or large lateral extension of the
      acromion.

      In severe cases of impingement syndrome, an arthroscopic acromioplasty surgery is usually
      performed to resect the different area of the acromion causing damage to the subacromial
      structures. The exact location and the amount of bone to be resected is generally left to the
      unique appreciation of the orthopedic surgeon during surgery. To improve the precision of
      this resection, surgeons could greatly benefit from a surgical planning solution that aims at
      providing precise information about the surgical procedure. Moreover, since subacromial
      impingements are the result of a dynamic mechanism, an effective planning solution should
      analyze both the morphological joint's structures and its dynamic behavior during shoulder
      movements to fully apprehend the patient joint's condition.

      Computer-assisted planning solution "ArthroPlanner" for acromioplasty is nowadays available.
      The solution allows to perform standard morphological bony measurements, as well as 3D
      simulations of the patient's joint during everyday shoulder activities. The software computes
      the precise bone resection (location and amount) based on detected subacromial impingements
      during motion.

      The goal of this study was thus to compare clinical and radiological results of superior
      rotator cuff repair with or without computer-assisted planning. The hypothesis was that
      preoperative planning of acromioplasty would allowed more accurate bone resection, would
      decrease postoperative impingements and consequently improved postoperative range of motion
      and tendon healing.

      Methods

      We reconstruct the bones of the patient's shoulder joint (scapula and humerus from the
      humeral head to the mid-shaft) from a CT image using Mimics software (Materialise NV, Leuven,
      Belgium). The bones are then imported into ArthroPlanner software and the following steps are
      performed:

      First, generic bone models are produced using a template fitting approach that deforms a bone
      template with an optimized topology (one for the scapula and one for humerus) to the
      reconstructed bone. This allows us in the next steps to exploit anatomical correspondences
      and to automatize landmarks and points selection on the mesh.

      Second, biomechanical parameters are computed to permit motion description of the
      glenohumeral joint. The glenohumeral joint center is automatically calculated by a sphere
      fitting technique [3] that fits a sphere to the humeral head using the points of the proximal
      humerus model. Bone coordinate systems are established for the scapula and humerus. based on
      the definitions suggested by the International Society of Biomechanics [4] using anatomical
      landmarks defined on the bone models. Missing landmarks such as the lateral and medial
      epicondyles are identified on the CT image.

      Third, morphological measurements are performed to analyze individual shoulder anatomy. The
      Critical Shoulder Angle [5] and the β angle [6] are calculated, as they are criteria
      associated with rotator cuff tears. The angles are computed in 3D based on bony landmarks and
      can be, if necessary, interactively adjusted by the user by manipulating 3D handles in the
      viewer.

      Fourth, motion is applied at each time step to the humerus model with real-time evaluation of
      impingement. The minimum humero-acromial distance that is typically used for the evaluation
      of subacromial impingement is measured [7]. This distance is calculated in millimeters based
      on the simulated bones models positions. A color scale is also used to map the variations of
      distance on the scapula surface (red color = minimum distance, other colors = areas of
      increased distance). Given the thickness of the potential impinged tissues, subacromial
      impingement is considered when the computed humero-acromial distance is < 6 mm, as suggested
      in the literature [7]. To test a wide variability of realistic movements, a motion database
      of daily activities (e.g., cross arm, comb hair) is used in addition to standard kinematic
      sequences (e.g., elevation, scaption).

      Finally, the acromial resection plan is defined based on the 3D simulation results. A color
      map is used to represent areas where impingements occurred between the acromion and humerus
      (Fig. 1D). The red color denotes the area with the smallest humero-acromial distance computed
      over the different motion simulations.

      The results at each step of the planning procedure are carefully validated by the user before
      continuing to the next ones. At the end of the planning, a PDF report is generated that
      contains patient's information and the measurements performed. The bones and the simulation
      data are also exported to be used in a simple 3D viewer (Fig. 2) dedicated to the surgeon.
      With this viewer, the surgeon is able to play all simulations, observe impingements
      dynamically and review the resection plan.
    
  