
    
      The aim of this study is to evaluate whether the presence of ECG monitoring has an impact on
      the resuscitative steps of NRP providers.

      Participants will be invited to the mother-child simulation center at CHU Sainte-Justine for
      a 60 minute simulation session during which they will complete two neonatal resuscitation
      scenarios (one of pulseless VT and the other of PEA). They will be randomized to either
      having access or not to ECG monitoring during the resuscitations.

      Investigators will plan to have participant teams perform the second scenario two weeks after
      the first scenario. This will be to hopefully mitigate repetition bias, as both scenarios
      will involve a pulseless newborn.

        1. Resuscitation team and equipment Participants will be invited to be part of a
           three-person resuscitation team (physician or nurse practitioner, respiratory therapist
           and nurse) to complete the scenarios. A high-fidelity manikin will be utilized in all
           scenarios (Laerdal © Sim NewB). All necessary equipment as per NRP guidelines for
           neonatal resuscitation will be present at the bedside for the team to use.

        2. Simulation scenarios In each group, the participants will be asked to proceed with the
           resuscitation of a newborn in the delivery room. Two different rhythms were chosen to
           see if changes seen with one abnormal appearing rhythm (ventricular tachycardia) can be
           replicated with a second normal appearing rhythm (PEA). Both of these rhythms cannot be
           considered normal as the newborn is pulseless.

           For the VT scenario, the newborn will be born in pulseless VT, with a pulse reading of
           120 on the ECG monitor. There will have been an uneventful delivery. Participants will
           be expected to perform defibrillation, endotracheal intubation, chest compressions,
           umbilical venous catheter placement and intravenous epinephrine. Once the epinephrine is
           administered, the manikin will have a palpable pulse of 100, which will end the
           scenario.

           For the PEA scenario, the newborn will have a history of volume loss secondary to
           placenta previa. Because of the prolonged in utero asphyxia, the baby will be born in
           PEA arrest, with a heart rate display on the monitor of 80-90. In this scenario,
           resuscitative steps will include positive pressure ventilation, endotracheal intubation,
           chest compressions, umbilical venous catheter placement and intravenous epinephrine.
           Once the epinephrine is administered, the manikin will have a palpable pulse of 100,
           which will end the scenario.

        3. Video recording of scenarios In order to be precise about time measurements, the
           investigators will record the resuscitations with the help of a video camera. The camera
           shot will only include the newborn manikin and the resuscitation team's hands. These
           recordings will not provide any identification data and will be for the sole purpose
           collecting data for this study. The video will be analyzed by the principal investigator
           and deleted in accordance with IRB guidelines.

      The following data below will be collected. Please note that all time measurements will be
      from the start of the scenario.

        -  Time to pulse checks

        -  Time to application of ECG electrodes (for relevant scenarios)

        -  Number of subsequent pulse checks after application of ECG electrodes

        -  Method of pulse check (auscultation, palpation of the umbilical cord or brachial pulse)

        -  Time to start of chest compressions

        -  Time to administration of epinephrine

      A questionnaire for each participant will collect the following data prior to the
      simulations: occupation, number of years of training in neonatology, number of years of
      experience in neonatology, last NRP course and approximate number of resuscitations in past
      year.
    
  