
    
      Induction Chemotherapy TPF induction chemotherapy will be administered as published from the
      TAX 323 phase III trial. Specifically, each cycle will consist of docetaxel at a dose of 75
      mg per square meter, administered as a 1-hour infusion on day 1, followed by cisplatin at a
      dose of 75 mg per square meter, administered as a 1-hour infusion on day 1, and fluorouracil
      at a dose of 750 mg per square meter per day, administered by continuous infusion on days 1
      to 5. Induction chemotherapy will be given every 3 weeks for three cycles, unless there is
      distant disease progression, unacceptable toxic effects, or withdrawal of consent by the
      patient. All patients will be required to have a continuous venous access device such as a
      PICC line or Infusaport type device. This is standard of care for continuous infusion
      fluorouracil. Response assessment by examination, contrast-enhanced CT imaging and whole body
      PET-CT will be performed after the third treatment cycle. Radiotherapy or chemoradiotherapy
      will commence within 3-4 weeks from the conclusion of the induction program.

      Selection for Radiation Alone vs. Chemoradiotherapy For CR/PR patients with CR at primary
      site following induction chemotherapy, locoregional therapy will be risk-adjusted according
      to baseline tumor stage/characteristics. Local therapy will be 1) radiotherapy as a single
      modality for Tx (T1-2), T0-1 or exophytic T2, N0-2a disease, or will be 2) concomitant
      chemoradiotherapy for Tx (T3), endophytic T2, T3, N2b-c disease. Patients with PR at primary
      site will receive concurrent chemotherapy and reduced dose radiation.

      All SD/PD patients will receive concurrent chemotherapy and full dose radiation. Patients
      catalogued with disease progression on the basis of new distant metastatic disease spread
      (DM) during induction chemotherapy will be taken off protocol for consideration of palliative
      therapy.

      Concurrent Chemotherapy Concurrent chemotherapy will consist of cisplatin given at 35 mg/m2
      weekly for six cycles OR carboplatin given at AUC 1.5 weekly for six cycles. Concurrent
      chemotherapy will start during the first week of radiation treatment. Selection of either
      schedule will be left to the discretion of the attending medical oncologist. Concurrent
      chemotherapy will be held for a platelet count of <100,000 or an absolute neutrophil count of
      < 1000 per cubic mm.

      IMRT doses Primary Target (residual gross disease): 66 Gy called CTV1 (2.2 Gy/fraction in 30
      fractions).

      Intermediate-Risk Target: 57 Gy called CTV2 (1.9 Gy/fraction in 30 fractions). Prophylactic
      Target Coverage: 54 Gy called CTV3 (1.8 Gy/fraction in 30 fractions).

      IMRT planning Treatment planning CT scans will be required to define target volumes. The
      treatment planning CT scan should be acquired with the patient in the same position and
      immobilization device as for treatment. All tissues to be irradiated must be included in the
      CT scan. MRI or whole body PET/CT scans may be included to assist in definition of target
      volumes, especially when primary or retropharyngeal nodal disease extends near the base of
      skull. The immobilization device should include neck and shoulder immobilization. GTV, CTVs,
      PTVs, and normal tissues must be outlined on all CT slices in which these structures exist.

      Primary Target CTV1: All regions of GTV-R in PR patients will receive 66 Gy in 30 fractions,
      with no attempt to cover remainder of initial GTV. There will be no CTV1 in CR patients.

      Intermediate-Risk Target CTV2: This volume encompasses all initial primary and nodal GTV
      volumes, regions adjacent to GTV (e.g. contralateral base of tongue), as well as complete
      anatomic coverage of involved cervical neck levels. This will receive 57 Gy in 30 fractions.

      Prophylactic Target Coverage CTV3: This volume covers all uninvolved at-risk nodal basins.
      This will receive 54 Gy in 30 fractions.

      Low Neck Conventional Field Treatment: Bilateral low neck/supraclavicular fossae will
      initially be treated with a beam-split AP field to 40 Gy in 20 fractions with a 3x3 cm larynx
      block matched at central axis with the inferior edge of IMRT treatment fields. Treatment will
      then continue to 50 Gy with a midline cord block over 5 daily fractions. Cone-down AP mid
      neck boosting to 56 Gy will be administered to low neck CTV2, down to the superior edge of
      the clavicle. Treatment will continue to 64 Gy for low neck CTV1 volumes, respecting brachial
      plexus dose limitations.

      Dose specification The prescription dose is the isodose which encompasses at least 95% of the
      PTV. No more than 20% of any PTV will receive >110% of its prescribed dose. No more than 1%
      of any PTV will receive <93% of its prescribed dose. No more than 1% or 1 cc of the tissue
      outside the PTVs will receive >110% of the dose prescribed to the primary PTV.

      Fractionation and treatment duration Treatment will be delivered once daily, 5 fractions per
      week, over 6 weeks. All targets will be treated simultaneously. Breaks in treatment should be
      minimized. Break in treatment time of more than 5 days will be considered a major variation
      and requires documentation underlying the specific reasons for the treatment break (ex.
      related to study drug and/or chemotherapy and/or RT).

      Functional Quality-of-Life Assessments Clinical Assessment of Treatment-Related Symptoms, and
      Dietary Status: MDASI-HN and MDADI instruments will be self-administered by all study
      subjects at baseline, treatment completion, and at routine post-radiation surveillance
      appointments over the subsequent 24 months. At these time points, nutritional status will
      also be assessed by weight, normalcy of diet score based on the results of the PSS-HN, and
      feeding tube dependence for any amount of nutritional intake (yes/no). The radiation oncology
      research nurse will oversee subject completion of these instruments.

      MD Anderson Dysphagia Inventory (MDADI): The MDADI measures swallowing-related quality of
      life (QOL) in patients with swallowing dysfunction. It evaluates the patient's physical,
      emotional, and functional perceptions of swallowing dysfunction, and has been validated in
      head and neck cancer patients.

      Performance Status Scale for Head and Neck Cancer Patients (PSS-H&N): The PSS-H&N is a
      clinician rated instrument consisting of three subscales: 1) normalcy of diet, 2) public
      eating, and 3) understandability of speech. The radiation oncology research nurse or
      speech-language pathologist will complete the PSS-H&N.

      Modified Barium Swallow (MBS) Study: Patients will undergo MBS testing at baseline, 4-6, 12,
      and 24 months after the completion of ART. Studies will be performed using standard
      radiographic systems with a videofluoroscope focused on the patient's lips anteriorly, the
      posterior pharyngeal wall posteriorly, the hard palate superiorly, and the upper esophageal
      segment inferiorly. The order of bolus presentation will include: two 5-ml Varibar thin
      liquid boluses, two 10-ml Varibar thin liquid boluses, two 20-ml Varibar thin liquid boluses,
      two cup sips of Varibar thin liquid, two pureed/Varibar pudding boluses, two solid boluses
      consisting of ¼ of a shortbread cookie or cracker coated with Varibar pudding, and 2 trials
      of the most difficult consistency in the A-P plane. The following measures will be used to
      quantify MBS findings: (1) Penetration-Aspiration Scale (PAS) - The PAS is a clinician rated
      8-point, ordinal scale used to describe penetration and aspiration events. Scores are
      determined by depth of bolus invasion into the airway and the patient's response; a higher
      score is assumed to be a more severe sign of dysphagia. Intra- and interjudge reliability has
      been established in head and neck cancer patients. (2) Oropharyngeal swallow efficiency -
      (OPSE) is a global measure of swallow function defined as the ratio of the percent swallowed
      into the esophagus divided by oropharyngeal transit time. Thus, a higher OPSE score indicates
      a safer and more efficient oropharyngeal swallow. The continuous score obtained has been
      found to correlate with the degree of oropharyngeal dysphagia in head and neck cancer
      patients. (3) National Institutes of Health Swallowing Safety Scale (NIH-SSS) - The NIH-SSS
      provides a continuous numeric score to quantify swallowing safety using 7 dysphagia symptoms,
      residue, penetration, aspiration, response to aspiration, esophageal entry, regurgitation,
      and multiple swallows. The scale demonstrates high reliability (intra- and interrater
      intraclass correlation coefficient >.95) and validity in dysphagic patients. We are
      concurrently evaluating its utility in patients with head and neck cancer. The speech
      pathologist will complete the PAS, OPSE, and NIH-SSS during analysis of the MBS study.

      Salivary Flow Quantification: For unstimulated resting sialometry, each patient will be
      instructed to first clear the mouth by swallowing. With the head held slightly forward, the
      patient will be instructed not to swallow during the 5-minute collection, but to allow saliva
      to collect in the floor of mouth. The patient will expectorate the accumulated saliva into a
      pre-weighed 100 mL vial after 60 seconds. The patient will repeat this procedure 4 more times
      for a total collection time of 5 minutes. At the end of the 5 minutes, the collection vial
      will be promptly sealed and weighed. For each collection, the actual clock time at the start
      and end of the collection will be recorded as well as the vial weight before and after the
      collection of the sample. Stimulated sialometry will then be performed. Patients will rest
      for 5 minutes prior to collection. The exogenous stimulant will be 20 mL of citric acid
      solution held in the mouth for 1 minute. After the patient expectorates this solution,
      5-minute saliva collection will take place as described above. These measurements will be
      done by the radiation oncology research nurse.
    
  