
    
      Research Question

      There is no difference in patient reported outcome measures between open surgical release and
      platelet rich plasma injection in the treatment of chronic lateral epicondylar tendinopathy
      (Tennis Elbow).

      Aims

        -  To estimate the distribution of patient-reported outcome measures (PROMS) at 6 weeks, 3
           months, 6 months and 1 year

        -  To record any adverse events associated with either treatment

        -  To test the feasibility of the study design in preparation for a larger randomised trial

        -  To collect data that will allow a power calculation for a larger randomised trial

        -  To use the data for a larger grant application

      Objectives

        -  To randomise patients who have failed conservative management of tennis elbow to one of
           two treatment methods: Platelet Rich Plasma or Open Surgical Release

        -  To collect treatment outcome data in the form of a visual analogue scale, Oxford Elbow
           Score and DASH (Disability of Arm, Shoulder and Hand) score

        -  To use the current best guidance and administer leucocyte-rich PRP (L-PRP) under
           ultrasound guidance

        -  To use the data gained from a pilot study to assess the viability of a larger randomised
           control trial

      Research design This pilot study will be conducted as a randomised controlled pilot trial at
      the Royal Devon and Exeter Hospital, UK.

      Patient Selection Patients will be selected from those who attend the outpatient elbow clinic
      at the Royal Devon and Exeter Hospital. All patients will be reviewed by a Consultant
      Orthopaedic Surgeon specialised in Elbow surgery. The inclusion criteria will be any patient
      who has experienced more than 6 months of symptoms from tennis elbow, that include pain on
      the lateral elbow that radiates down the forearm, point tenderness over the origin of the
      extensor muscles or at its close proximity (within 2.5cm) and pain on resisted extension of
      the Wrist. Patients must also have failed conservative treatment (a course of physiotherapy
      and activity modification) and have a baseline elbow pain >3/10 on VAS during resisted elbow
      extension.

      Patients will be excluded: in the presence of a full tendon tear on pre-intervention
      ultrasound, are unfit for surgical intervention, have undergone previous elbow surgery, have
      previously undergone PRP injection therapy, systemic autoimmune rheumatological disease,
      receiving immunosuppressive treatments, received local steroid injection within 3 months of
      randomization or are unable to comply with follow-up.

      Intervention The 2 arms of the trial will include PRP therapy or Open surgical debridement

        -  Platelet Rich Plasma injection

        -  Open Surgical Release (presently standard treatment regimen)

      Both groups of patients will be given an identical physiotherapy programme and followed-up at
      identical timeframes to record the outcomes of the interventions.

      Sample size The present proposal is intended to be a pilot study. As such the intention will
      be to randomise 6 patients to each arm of the trial, 12 patients in total. It has been
      estimated that 1 suitable patient is likely to be seen in the outpatient clinic each week.
      Owing for attrition and patient suitability it is hoped that a 6 month enrolment period will
      yield 12 patients.

      Randomisation The participating patients will be randomised in a 1:1 allocation to open
      surgery or PRP injections. The randomisation will be administered by a central independent
      randomisation service, provided by a medical secretary using a computer-generated
      randomisation sequence and sealed in sequentially numbered envelopes, who is completely
      independent of the trial.

      Outcome scoring Primary outcome measures will be in the form of Patient Reported Outcome
      Measures (PROMS) and Range of Motion (ROM) Primary Outcome: Change in Patient Rated Tennis
      Elbow Evaluation (PRTEE) between pre-intervention and at 3 months post-intervention - patient
      compiled questionnaire based on specific elbow symptoms of Tennis Elbow

      All secondary outcome measures to be completed pre-operatively and at 6 weeks, 3 months, 6
      months and 12 months.

      ● PROMS Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) - Using a linear scale of 10cms length. Assessed through
      change in score over time.

      Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand (quickDASH) - patient compiled questionnaire based
      on subjective assessment of symptoms and abilities to perform activities of daily living over
      the last week.

      Oxford Elbow Score (OES) - patient compiled questionnaire based on specific elbow symptoms
      related activities of daily living over the past 4 weeks.

      Adverse events - peri-procedural, 6 weeks, 3 months, 6 months and 12 months
    
  