
    
      Difficulty in bladder emptying (Voiding dysfunction,VD) is a costly urinary condition that
      leads to urinary tract infections/stones, sepsis, bladder loss, and permanent kidney damage.
      VD can be present in patients with or without neurologic/brain disorders. Currently the only
      available therapies for VD include bladder catheters or intermittent self-catheterization.
      Catheterization is a burden especially in patients with nerve damage, hand skills may be
      limited. The cost and morbid side effects of catheterizations in patients (blood in the
      urine, pain, trauma, strictures, and infections) requires investigators to develop new
      therapies that are beyond the bladder. Such new therapies could target the brain (where
      bladder control is located).

      In this proposal, investigators plan to further characterize the brain regions involved in
      bladder emptying for each patient and ,perform brain modulation, targeting these regions as a
      possible therapy for VD.

      Patients with bladder dysfunction will be divided into two groups: Group 1: patients with VD;
      and Group 2: patients without VD. Specific Aim 1: To evaluate brain pattern in both groups
      and compare them to each other at the time of bladder emptying. Specific Aim 2: To evaluate
      reliability of the nerve fibers in the brain and see whether damage to these fibers is
      related to difficulty emptying the bladder. Specific Aim 3: To perform non-invasive brain
      stimulation on specific regions of the brain responsible for bladder control to improve
      bladder emptying.

      This study is an interventional Study: The investigators have completed a well-powered study
      on twenty-seven female MS patients during their bladder storage phase. Aims 1 and 2 use the
      data from previously completed trial and investigators will perform additional imaging
      analysis on it. Aim 3 is a new and small trial in which investigators planned to modulate the
      regions of the brain that are related to bladder control.

      Approximately 16 study participants will be enrolled at Houston Methodist, and 16 throughout
      the study.
    
  