
    
      Several paths of evidence converge in implicating a role for the cholinergic system in the
      pathophysiology of affective illness. In both unipolar depressed and euthymic bipolar
      subjects, cholinomimetic drugs (i.e., muscarinic agonists, acetylcholinesterase inhibitors)
      exacerbate depressive signs and symptoms such as dysphoria, psychomotor retardation,
      impairment of attention and memory, hypothalamic pituitary adrenal axis hyperactivity and
      sleep EEG abnormalities. In healthy subjects, the acetylcholinesterase inhibitor
      physostigmine elicits a range of depressive symptoms including dysphoria, anergia,
      psychomotor slowing, emotional lability, sleep disturbances, memory and concentration
      impairment, and with higher doses, tearfulness and depression. These effects have been shown
      to reflect stimulation of muscarinic receptors. Cholinomimetics also exacerbate behavioral
      despair in putative animal models of depression. Conversely, the anticholinergic agent
      biperidine improved symptoms of depression in a placebo controlled study. Moreover,
      muscarinic cholinomimetics and a choline rich nutrient, lecithin (phosphatidylcholine) exert
      antimanic effects in bipolar subjects.

      Potentially consistent with these observations, depressed subjects exhibit hypersensitivity
      to cholinomimetic agents. Administration of muscarinic cholinergic agonists, ACh releasing
      agents or acetylcholinesterase inhibitors induce exaggerated effects on REM density and
      latency in depressed subjects than in healthy controls. In addition, both manic and depressed
      bipolar subjects show increased pupillary sensitivity to the muscarinic cholinergic agonist
      pilocarpine relative to controls.

      Despite the data implicating the mAChR receptor system in mood disorders, no direct in vivo
      investigations of the central mAChR have been performed in depressed subjects. A novel PET
      radioligand, [(18)F]FP-TZTP was recently developed by Eckelman as a selective agonist of M(2)
      receptors. Because the M(2) receptor functions predominately as a presynaptic
      release-controlling autoreceptor, decreased distribution volume (V) of this receptor could
      conceivably give rise to increased postsynaptic muscarinic receptor sensitivity.

      This application proposes a pilot PET study of M(2) receptor distribution volume in currently
      depressed subjects with major depressive disorder (n=30), currently depressed subjects with
      bipolar disorder (n=30), and psychiatrically healthy controls (n=30). The proposed pilot
      study will test the central hypothesis that M(2) receptor V is decreased in regions where
      they are primarily located presynaptically in depressed subjects relative to healthy
      controls. The proposed study will advance knowledge regarding the pathophysiology of
      depression.
    
  