
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the complete remission (CR) rate and duration of CR in frail elderly patients
           with diffuse large B-cell or peripheral T-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma treated with
           cyclophosphamide, vincristine, and prednisone.

        -  Determine the time to progression and overall survival of patients treated with this
           regimen.

        -  Determine the severe toxicity rate of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Assess the quality of life of patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV and vincristine IV on day 1 and oral prednisone on days
      1-5. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients with stage I or II non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL), no baseline lactate dehydrogenase
      (LDH) elevation, baseline WHO performance status 0-1, and longest tumor diameter of less than
      5 cm, who achieve partial response (PR) or complete response (CR), receive 1 additional
      course of chemotherapy. Patients then undergo involved-field radiotherapy once daily 5 days a
      week for 3.5-4 weeks.

      Patients with stage I or II NHL, a baseline LDH elevation, and/or baseline WHO performance
      status 2-4, and/or longest tumor diameter of at least 5 cm, who achieve PR or CR, receive 3
      additional courses of chemotherapy. Patients then undergo involved-field radiotherapy once
      daily 5 days a week for 3.5-4 weeks.

      Patients with stage III or IV NHL who achieve CR or PR receive 3 additional courses of
      chemotherapy. Patients then undergo consolidative radiotherapy once daily 5 days a week for
      2.5-3 weeks.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, after the third chemotherapy course, at the end of
      chemotherapy, every 6 months for 3 years, and then annually thereafter.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 3 years, every 6 months for 2 years, and then
      annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 29-56 patients will be accrued for this study within 12-18
      months.
    
  