
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To determine in a phase II trial whether Her2Bi armed ATC infused after ChemoT for
           patients with HER2 0-2+ MBC or locally advanced, unresectable breast cancer would
           improve median PFS by 2 months beyond the median PFS of 2 months estimated from
           published trials in a one stage design.

        -  To determine the overall survival (OS) of patients with HER2 0-2+ MBC and locally
           advanced, unresectable breast cancer who receive aATC infusion after ChemoT.

        -  To confirm the toxicity profile for Her2Bi armed ATC given after ChemoT for patients
           with HER2 0-2+ MBC.

        -  To measure functional and phenotypic changes in immune cell populations (blood and tumor
           sites, if accessible) as a consequence of armed ATC (tumor biopsies done at KCI only).
           Cytokine responses, phenotypic markers of differentiation, and anti-tumor cytotoxicity
           will be examined.

        -  OUTLINE: Patients receive second-line chemotherapy for 4 courses or 4 months. Beginning
           as early as 1.5 weeks and as late as 4 weeks after chemotherapy, the patients will
           receive the first infusion of anti-CD3 x anti-HER2/neu bispecific antibody-armed
           activated T-cells (ATC) IV over 30-60 minutes once a week for 3 weeks. Low dose
           granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor (250 µg/m2/twice per week) will start 3
           days before the first aATC infusion and end with the last dose of aATC. Patients who are
           already on the protocol will be given a choice to add GM-CSF to their treatment regimen
           (after reconsenting) or continue to their treatment without GM-CSF. Patients then
           receive a boost of anti-CD3 x anti-HER2/neu bispecific antibody-armed ATC at 12 weeks
           after the 3rd ATC infusion.

      Blood and tumor tissue samples may be collected periodically for biomarker and other
      analyses.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up periodically for ≥ 2 years.
    
  