
    
      Introduction/Background

      Findings from an ongoing improvement project to improve antibiotic prescribing for children
      and adolescents for three acute respiratory tract infections (ARTIs: upper respiratory tract
      infection, acute bacterial sinusitis, and acute otitis media) among pediatric and family
      medicine clinics revealed performance gaps between the two primary care specialties. An
      improvement project was then set up to address the lower performance by family medicine
      clinics.

      Literature review revealed that, in general, quality improvement feedback was more effective
      if provided to individual clinicians rather than to a group of clinicians, but very limited
      data existed for antibiotic prescribing practices actually comparing individual clinician
      feedback to group (clinic-level) feedback.

      The hypothesis is that individual clinician data feedback is superior to group (clinic-level)
      feedback in improving antibiotic prescribing for ARTIs in children and adolescents by family
      medicine clinicians.

      The aim is to determine if there are significant differences for antibiotic prescribing for
      ARTIs and for broad spectrum antibiotic prescribing percentage between an intervention group
      and a comparator group of family medicine clinics after the intervention starting November
      2015 and ending December 2018.

      Methods

      Design

      A cluster randomized trial was designed for all 98 family medicine clinics within Novant
      Health Medical Group. In August 2015, retrospective review of data from January 1, 2014 was
      conducted by the antimicrobial stewardship team, and the trial was developed. Clusters were a
      subset of clinics identified as under-performing, based on not avoiding antibiotics in at
      least 83% of patients with upper respiratory infection or common cold (URI) (2013 Healthcare
      Effectiveness Data Information Set mean in patients 3 months-18 years of age). Among these 47
      clinics, 6 had recorded < 20 encounters in the 6 months, January-June 2015, for an illness
      diagnosis of URI and were excluded.

      The remaining 39 clinics sites in 26 practices (1 practice had 10 clinic sites and a second
      had 5 sites; all others were single site practices) agreed to participate and were stratified
      by size of clinic (number of clinics or clinicians as very small, small, large, very large).
      Clinics were then block randomized with selection of half of each stratum for two groups - an
      intervention group and a comparator group.

      The Institutional Review Board of Novant Health Presbyterian Medical Center granted a waiver
      of written, informed consent. An email was sent to the lead physicians for the 41 remaining
      clinics detailing the protocol, and all but two clinics agreed to participate.

      Intervention

      All 39 clinics received the same multifaceted intervention with one exception. This
      intervention included:

        1. A one-hour, in-person, educational session, in September-October 2015, with the lead
           clinician, clinic administrator, and stewardship team physicians describing the project
           and clinical guidelines for URI, ABS, and AOM.

        2. A tip sheet detailing how to improve scores (appropriate codes and documentation
           strategies).

        3. An after-visit summary for clinicians to give to patients and parents discussing
           antibiotic use and side effects.

        4. A presentation of summary results for all pediatric and family medicine clinics for the
           3 ARTI metrics to for the six-month period, January-June 2015. Clinic comparison
           performance data were then provided monthly for all 39 clinics

        5. Discussion about a new clinical pathway for acute bacterial sinusitis with a request for
           adoption and implementation.

        6. A request of each practice to:

             1. Discuss the guidelines for the three metrics, the tip sheet, the AVS, and baseline
                performance at the outset.

             2. Adopt and implement the ABS clinical pathway.

             3. Review monthly the performance scores for the three metrics. The exception was the
                intervention group received monthly clinician-specific performance data for the
                three measures, while the comparator group received only clinic-level data. All
                family medicine clinics received composite clinic-level data for all family
                medicine and pediatric clinics so each clinician could view, at the clinic level,
                all other clinics' performances. Clinical decision support was not used.

      Data Collection

      Baseline performance data were collected retrospectively from January 1, 2014-October 31,
      2015. The intervention period was November 1, 2015-December 31, 2017. A post-intervention
      period was from January 1-December 31, 2018, during which time only clinic-level data were
      provided monthly to all 39 clinics.

      Visit-level data included ICD-9 codes and, starting in October 2015, ICD-10 codes associated
      with an encounter (IE) and listed as a visit diagnosis. Antibiotic prescribing was determined
      by medication orders' search in the record associated with the encounter or within 30 days
      prior (if URI diagnosis) or within 60 days prior (if ABS or AOM diagnosis) and 3 days
      subsequent to the encounter. IEs were defined as evaluation and management visits for new
      patients (with codes 99201-99205) and for established patients (with codes 99212-99215).

      Measures

      Using guidelines from the American Academy of Pediatrics and the Infectious Diseases Society
      of America, customized clinical quality measures for the 3 ARTIs were developed and validated
      by selective, manual chart review of electronic health records. These measures represented
      the primary outcomes at cluster level and included as numerator, appropriate care, and
      denominator, IE, for each ARTI.

      A target of ≥ 90% for URI was set using the HEDIS® 2013 90th percentile, and at 80% for ABS
      and AOM, consistent with targets suggested by an outpatient antibiotic use target-setting
      workgroup.

      A secondary outcome was broad-spectrum antibiotic prescribing (BSAP) percentage, determined
      monthly by enumerating all antibiotics given, stratifying by narrow and broad spectrum and
      dividing by the total number of antibiotics prescribed for any condition, not limited to the
      3 ARTIs. For this calculation, patients were excluded if their record showed an allergy to an
      antibiotic listed as narrow or broad spectrum and/or one of the listed antibiotics had been
      given 60 days prior.

      To determine if code shifting occurred or total antibiotic utilization changed after the
      intervention began, the investigators recorded the mean number of encounters per clinic for
      the 3 ARTIs and the total of all IEs and antibiotics prescribed for all patients seen for
      illness in the baseline and intervention periods in both groups.

      Statistical Analysis

      Power will be estimated based on the primary outcomes, baseline-to-intervention period change
      in the proportion of encounters with the appropriate treatment for URI, ABS, and AOM,
      respectively. The numbers of clusters are fixed at 22 for the intervention group and 17 for
      the comparator group. Based on retrospective data from the baseline period, the average
      cluster sizes, i.e., the average numbers of encounters per clinic over 22 months, for URI,
      ABS, and AOM, respectively, are 210.0, 72.6, and 129.2 for the intervention group and 211.0,
      65.5, and 133.6 for the comparator group. This provided > 85% power to detect a study group
      difference in mean baseline-to-intervention period change of 0.4 standard deviations,
      corresponding to a medium effect size, with two-sided alpha = 0.05, for intra-cluster
      correlations (ICCs) ranging between 0.01 and 0.15. The power analysis was performed using
      PASS 15.

      The clinic is the unit of analysis for describing changes in clinical decision making. The
      primary outcomes, i.e., the proportion of relevant encounters with appropriate treatment (for
      URI, ABS, and AOM, respectively) will be recorded for each clinic during the baseline and
      intervention periods.

      To assess the influence of the intervention on clinical decision making, a generalized linear
      mixed model (GLMM) will be analyzed for each outcome using PROC GLIMMIX® in SAS. The response
      variable in the models is y/n, where y = the number of appropriate treatment occurrences and
      n = the total number of relevant encounters, and the response distribution is specified as
      binomial with a logit link. The independent variables are the study group (intervention,
      comparator), time period (baseline, intervention), a study-group-by-time interaction term,
      and clinic size (very small, small, large, and very large) (used as the stratification
      variable in the randomization). The models include a random intercept term for clinic to
      account for relatedness of clinical decisions made in the same clinic. The p-value for the
      interaction term will be used to assess significance between the intervention and comparator
      groups on the baseline-to-intervention period change.

      The overall alpha level is pre-specified at 0.05. To account for multiple testing, Holm's
      Step-Down procedure will be used to adjust p-values, where the family of inferences includes
      those for the three primary outcomes and the secondary outcome, BSAP%. In the case of a
      significant interaction effect, the pre-intervention and post-intervention outcome will be
      compared for the intervention and comparator groups, respectively, using pre-specified
      contrasts generated from the GLMM. Odds ratios, corresponding to these contrasts, will be
      calculated, along with 95% confidence intervals that are Bonferroni-corrected (at the α/2 =
      0.025 level) to further adjust for multiple comparisons. For each outcome variable, the ICC
      will be calculated using the level-2 (i.e. random intercept) variance from the GLMM and a
      level-1 variance component assumed to be π‸2/3 = 3.29 for a logistic random intercept model.

      Analysis of the secondary outcome, BSAP percentage, will be conducted using the steps
      described for the primary outcomes. All analyses will be performed using SAS.
    
  