
    
      Clinic Visits:

      Participants will visit the clinic a total of 11 times from screen to completion of study.
      This will include weekly visits with the nutritionist and 9 visits requiring blood draws (at
      screen and on 2 consecutive visits after each dietary period). At each visit, participants
      will be weighed, waist and hip circumference will be measured and blood pressure will be
      monitored. The total amount of blood collected during the course of the study will be 455 mL.

      Screening visit (SV: 1 hour):

      Recruiters will initially determine eligibility through review of a screening questionnaire
      and a telephone or personal interview. If a potential subject is eligible and interested, an
      orientation package will be mailed that will include written information about the study
      requirements. Interested individuals passing pre-screening will be scheduled for a screening
      blood draw visit to determine final eligibility. At the screening visit (SV), participants
      will give informed consent, review their medical history with a registered nurse, and have
      their blood pressure, weight, height, and waist and hip circumference measured. Thirty ml of
      blood will be drawn for measurement of plasma triglycerides (TG), total-C, LDL-C, HDL-C,
      glucose and thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH). Women of childbearing potential will be given
      a beta-Human Chorionic Gonadotropin (b-hCG) urine pregnancy test. Participants will be
      contacted within 2 weeks to notify them of their eligibility.

      Nutritionist Visits (Initial: 1 hr):

      Participants will meet weekly with a nutritionist to receive counseling including weight
      management and diet review. At these meetings, participants will receive a week's worth of
      frozen entrees and study foods, as well as standardized menus with check lists. During the
      washout period (weeks 6-8; weeks 12-14), subjects will continue to refrain from alcohol but
      will consume their usual home diet for 14 days.

      Post-diet Visits Requiring Blood Draws (A visits: 1.5 hr, B visits: 2.5 hr):

      Participants will visit the clinic on two separate days following completion of each diet to
      provide blood samples. Duplicate sampling reduces biological variability, and hence improves
      the power of the study to detect significant diet-induced changes in measurement. On the
      penultimate day of each diet (visits 1A, 2A, 3A, 4A) a fasting blood draw (45 mL) will be
      taken for plasma measurements (TG, total-C, LDL-C, HDL-C, lipoprotein subfractions, glucose,
      insulin, apolipoproteins AI, AII, B, and CIII, and inflammatory markers). On the last day of
      each dietary period (visits 1B, 2B, 3B, 4B) participants will provide a second fasting blood
      sample (for lipids and lipoproteins as above). Lipoprotein lipase and hepatic lipase
      activities will also be measured in plasma (20mL) collected 15 minutes after intravenous
      heparin (75 units/kg).

      Clinical Procedures:

      Clinical measurements: Blood pressure will be measured 3 times in a sitting position and the
      last 2 values averaged. Anthropometric measurements include height, weight, waist and hip
      circumference, and % body fat by bioimpedance (Tanita scale). Waist circumference is measured
      two times at the iliac crest and hip circumference is measured at the widest point of the
      hips.

      Standard Blood sampling: Using standard blood collection procedures, blood samples will be
      collected from participants after a 12-14 hour fast. The blood will be collected into tubes
      containing the following preservative solution: 3.0 gms EDTA (dipotassium), 1.7 mg P-Pack,
      0.15 gms gentamycin sulfate, 0.15 gms chloramphenicol, 5.96 mls aprotinin (Sigma A-6279), and
      0.30 gms sodium azide all of which are diluted to 20mls with doubly deionized water. Plasma
      is separated by immediate centrifugation at 4°C. Lipid and lipoprotein measurements are
      performed and aliquots of plasma are frozen for future analyses.

      Post-heparin Blood Sampling: A blood sample (20ml) will be drawn 15 minutes after intravenous
      administration of a heparin bolus (75 U/kg, see Risk section for justification) for the
      analysis of plasma lipase activity. Prior to administration, participants will be interviewed
      for family history of clotting disorders or personal contraindications including use of
      anticoagulants, history of bleeding or bruising abnormalities or other diseases, allergies,
      or recent dental work. Following administration, participants will remain in clinic for 2
      hours under observation. They will also be provided with an information sheet regarding
      heparin and the procedure.

      Measurement of endothelial function: Endothelial function will be assessed in the fasting
      state by finger reactive hyperemia peripheral arterial tonometry (RH-PAT, Endo-Pat2000,
      Itamar Medical, Israel) and expressed as RH-PAT index. Participants will rest in a supine
      position in a quiet, temperature-controlled room for 30 min. prior to PAT measurements and
      will abstain from caffeine for 6 hours and from water for 2 hours prior to the test, per
      manufacturer's guidelines.
    
  