
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To compare progression-free survival with intermittent dosing and continuous dosing of
      dabrafenib and trametinib among patients with metastatic BRAF V600E/K mutant melanoma.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the frequency and severity of toxicities of the two dosing schedules.

      II. To compare the frequency and severity of fever >= grade 1 per Common Terminology Criteria
      for Adverse Events (CTCAE) 4.0 of the two dosing schedules.

      III. To compare the response rate (complete and partial response, confirmed and unconfirmed),
      overall survival, and survival after progression between the two dosing schedules on step 2.

      TRANSLATIONAL MEDICINE OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate whether acquired molecular events leading to reactivation of the MAPK pathway
      are more common among patients on the continuous dosing arm than on the intermittent dosing
      arm using circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) (ctDNA).

      II. To assess the prognostic association between baseline biomarkers and early molecular
      events with progression free survival (PFS).

      III. To explore the potential interaction between treatment arm and baseline biomarkers/early
      molecular events with PFS.

      IV. To bank tissue and whole blood in anticipation of future studies to evaluate molecular
      events associated with clinical benefit and disease progression in patients treated with
      continuous versus intermittent dabrafenib and trametinib.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I (CONTINUOUS DOSING): Patients receive dabrafenib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) and
      trametinib PO once daily (QD) on days 1-56. Cycles repeat every 56 days in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II (INTERMITTENT DOSING): Patients receive dabrafenib PO BID and trametinib PO QD on days
      1-7 and 29-56. Cycles repeat every 56 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for 3 years and
      then yearly for 2 years.
    
  