
    
      In Denmark, there are approximately 4400 elective benign hysterectomies annually. In about
      10% of these there will occur a per- or postoperative bleeding complications with increased
      hospital stay, reoperations and prolonged sick leave as a result. The pharmaceutical product
      'Tranexamic acid' has proved to be effective in reducing blood loss in other forms of
      surgery, in trauma patients, and in relation to certain medical conditions. The hypothesis of
      the proposed study is that Tranexamic acid could also reduce the operative bleeding
      associated with hysterectomy on benign indications. Based on the literature and previous
      studies, the objective of the trial is an average bleeding reduction of 25%.

      The clinical trial will be conducted as a randomized, placebo-controlled, double blind
      multicenter trial in gynecological departments several places in Denmark: Nordsjællands
      Hospital, Rigshospitalet, Odense University Hospital and Aarhus University Hospital - Skejby.
      The subjects will be recruited in outpatient clinics of the gynecological departments. During
      the study there will be an ongoing monitoring by external partner. The experiment is approved
      by all relevant bodies. The total period of time in which the trial is planned to last is one
      year commencing 01.02.3013 and ending 28.02.2014. All together the trial will include 314
      participants determined by presumed bleeding reduction, the average bleeding on hysterectomy
      and type 1 error of 0.05 and type 2 error of 0.20. Randomization will be conducted
      electronically and both clinician, patient and data collector we will be blinded. Data for
      the study will partly be collected through registrations to the already well established and
      well functioning Danish Hysterectomy and Hysteroscopy Database. Data used in relation to the
      study will be validated by examining the manual records in conjunction with data extraction.
      The results will be analyzed by univariate and multivariate analyzes and static regression
      analyzes. All final results from the study will be sought published in recognized
      international journals.

      Regarding ethical aspects it is noted that the study is carried out with the highest standard
      of design, and with a proven drug without unexpected side effects or disadvantages. In the
      literature, there seems no evidence to suspect an increased risk of blood clot formation
      using the drug. However, it seems clear that the incidence of complications associated with
      hysterectomy is quite high. It is therefore ethically fully responsible and appropriate to
      carry out the planned study with the desire to ensure the quality and improve hysterectomy,
      surgery.

      The project is supported by funds and receives no commercial support.
    
  