
    
      the investigators will deliver parent-mediated, community-implemented, group intervention for
      parents of young children with autism and disruptive behavior. The intervention is 11-12
      weeks and will take place in community settings such as special education schools and
      community centers.

      Within these meetings parents will be given the skills to understand their child's behavior
      and work to modify those that are clinically disruptive to the child and their environment.

      Groups will be facilitated by student therapists under direct weekly supervision of a Board
      Certified Behavior Analyst (BCBA). Data will be collected before, after, and throughout the
      intervention, primarily by parent-report with one teacher-report measure and two (pre/post)
      filmed parent-child interactions.

      The primary desired outcome is a measurable decrease in the child's disruptive behaviors and
      an increase in their adaptive behaviors. Although the intervention specifically targets
      disruptive behavior, we expect to see consequent improvement in a number of linked domains.
      These represent desired secondary outcomes.

      First, as a result of receiving concrete skills and seeing improvement in their child's
      behavior, as well as due to participation in the group with other families, a reduction in
      parental stress and an increase in their perceived self-efficacy should occur, as well as a
      reduction in the stress of the non-participating parent.

      Second, after the reduction in disruptive behaviors there should be an improvement in autism
      symptomatology. Improvements in behavior will allow the child to benefit more from their
      environments, leading to social and developmental gains.

      In the context of the current study, the impact of the intervention on family accommodation
      is also assessed, hypothesizing that by learning how to analyse and modify behaviors, parents
      are gaining a broader insight into the impact their own behaviors have on that of their
      children.
    
  