
    
      1. Background The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic condition had a catastrophic consequence on the
           healthcare system. In order to contain the death from other diseases, such as cancer,
           the healthcare system still fights a challenging battle focusing the attention on
           COVD-19 without losing sight of other patient care. Routine screening and non urgent
           surgeries reduced to increase capacity for COVID-19 patients complications. Moreover, it
           must take into account the fear for COVID-19 exposure of patients during the routine
           assessments.

           Nevertheless, death related to other causes is not decreased. Standard cancer screening
           is decreased, such as colorectal cancer protocol which dropped by 84.5% through May
           20201. As a consequence, according to London JW et al, the incidence of new cancer
           diagnoses decreased of 65.2%. As matter of fact, the new diagnosis of melanoma dropped
           by 67.1%, as well as the new diagnosis of lung cancer which dropped of 46.8%1 in April
           2020 compared to one year earlier. Furthermore, the number of advanced gastrointestinal
           cancers are supposed to be increased in the surgical community. As conventional wisdom,
           the number of patients with locally advanced or metastatic gastrointestinal, as well as
           patients needing an emergency or a palliative procedure (i.e., stoma, feeding
           jejunostomy, gastroentero anastomosis) seems increased this year compared to 2019. These
           therapeutic delays may influence the long-term survival of these patients. An increased
           rate of related death is expected, rising from 15.5% to 16.6% and 4.8% to 5.3 % for
           colorectal and lung cancer, respectively. This study aims to investigate whether the
           main gastrointestinal cancers was diagnosed in a more advanced stage in 2020 compared to
           2019 as a consequence of Covid-19 pandemic.

        2. Methods This is a multicenter retrospective study that will include patients treated for
           esophageal, gastric, pancreatic and colorectal cancer, from January 2019 to December
           2020 in more than 50 Italian centers. All patients will be included in a
           disease-specific database, which will be sent to each Italian reference center. A
           minimum of 1.000 patient/year is expected to show a significative difference between the
           considered years.
    
  