
    
      Hypothesis: Patients undergoing pre-operative CI simulation will have improved outcomes as
      measured by SL, MD and audiological outcomes.

      The goal of this aim is to demonstrate clinical feasibility and to collect preliminary
      efficacy data for using the pre-operative simulation with active feedback for CI patients.
      This will be achieved by prospectively using the CI simulation system and evaluating both
      technical and clinical audiological outcomes.

      C.4.1 Pre-operative Simulation: Prior to surgery, a simulation with visualization of cochlear
      microstructures will be created for each patient, and the surgeon will conduct iterative
      virtual surgery with active feedback to determine the optimal surgical approach and cochlear
      implant electrode position. Based on the feedback from the simulation platform, the surgeon
      will determine the optimal CI electrode and surgical technique using the virtual simulation
      to plan the actual surgery. Post-implant feedback will be displayed to the surgeon. Once
      parameters (SL, MD, AID) are optimized, a surgical plan will be recorded and used during the
      actual surgical procedure. A surgical plan will consist of the implant type, cochleostomy
      site, and insertion techniques used for optimal placement. This will be added to the patient
      electronic medical record to be referenced immediately prior to surgery. Additionally, the
      simulator will save all performances with the optimized performance being made available for
      review on the simulator at any time (3-dimensional playback).

      C.4.2 Clinical Outcomes: Aided speech perception testing in the CI ear will be administered
      at 6- and 12-months post activation using monosyllabic words (CNC Word test) presented at 60
      dB SPL (A-weighted) as well as sentences (AzBio) in quiet and at +10 signal-to-noise ratio.
      Percent correct will be calculated for each test and will serve as the primary clinical
      outcomes.

      C.4.3 User Evaluation: Simulator evaluation (user interface, usefulness, potential usage in
      future, and overall satisfactory) and feedback/comments from the surgeon about the simulation
      platform will continued to be collected pre and post-operatively to provide insight into
      continued future improvement of the simulation platform.

      C.4.5 Reproducibility and Rigor:

      Statistical Analysis: Demographic information as well as post-op CI location parameters (SL,
      MD, AID), pre/post-op CNC and AzBio scores will be summarized with descriptive statistics:
      mean/SD, median/IQR for continuous variables and count/percentage for categorical data.
      Changes of the CNC /AzBio scores overtime will be analyzed using linear mixed models to
      account for the association of measures from the same patient at different time points, and
      to deal with missing data assuming missing data will occur randomly. Exploratory analysis
      will be conducted to (1) evaluate the association of the CI location parameters with the
      post-op CNC scores; (2) compare the post-op CI location parameters with the CI patients
      without pre-op simulations that are reported in the literature and/or those who have
      undergone CI insertion in this institution (historical controls at OSU).

      Sample Size: For this pilot study, a sample size of 30 patients is proposed to evaluate
      selected feasibility issues, assess the adequacy of instrumentation, and collect preliminary
      efficacy data (along with historical data) for the design of a larger prospective, randomized
      trial. For the improvement of the clinical outcome (CNC) after CI, a sample size of 30
      patients produces a one-sided 90% upper confidence limit of variance <1.5 when the sample
      variance of the improvement of CNC is 1.0. Up to 36 patients will be enrolled to account for
      potential attrition due to various unexpected reasons during the period from the enrollment
      to implant surgery, to 6-month follow-up.
    
  