
    
      In arterial hypertension (AH), a significant proportion of patients, despite the optimal
      medical therapy, do not achieve adequate blood pressure (BP) control (resistant
      hypertension). Renal sympathetic denervation (RDN) is a novel alternative minimally invasive
      therapeutic option for patients with resistant AH. Recent data has shown that RDN with or
      without pulmonary vein isolation (PVI) may also have a positive impact on the management of
      patients with paroxysmal or persistent atrial fibrillation (AF). However, there is no
      randomized study, to date, suggesting that RDN itself (without PVI) reduces the AF
      recurrences, symptoms, and the total burden of the arrhythmia. The purpose of this study
      [Effect of Renal Denervation on Atrial Fibrillation (ERDAF)] is to evaluate the RDN (without
      PVI) in patients with resistant AH and symptomatic paroxysmal or persistent AF in order to
      show if there is benefit in the incidence of AF recurrences, the total AF burden (symptomatic
      and asymptomatic) as well as the BP control. This is a single-center, randomized study in
      which thirty (30) patients with resistant AH and symptomatic paroxysmal or persistent AF will
      be randomized (1:1) after sinus rhythm restoration and implantation of an implantable loop
      recorder (ILR), in either RDN (n=15) or conventional treatment of resistant AH with optimal
      drug therapy (n=15). Patients will be followed-up every three months and for a period of 18
      months after the implantation of the ILR. The first three months after RDN will be excluded
      from our final analysis (blanking period). The primary endpoint will be the change in the
      total AF burden (Total time in AF during the follow-up period). Secondary endpoints will
      include the change in the symptomatic and asymptomatic burden of AF, the time to detect the
      first AF recurrence (symptomatic and/or asymptomatic)-early recurrence of AF after RDN, and
      the change in BP during the follow-up period.
    
  