
    
      A variety of local and regional skin flaps are used for reconstruction of skin defects on the
      face with the intention of full wound closure, healing, and scar minimization. Scarring is an
      unavoidable consequence of wound healing, especially after significant facial reconstruction.
      Fibroblasts migrate to the injurious site where they proliferate and deposit collagen. The
      collagenous proteins serve to fill in the wound defect and allow epithelial cells to
      accumulate and repopulate the skin surface. The collagenous base is subsequently exchanged
      for various types of collagen and is crosslinked. Although scar formation is an important
      component of wound healing, patients develop scars differently based upon location and
      biology of the subject. Excessive scar formation may result from excessive collagen
      production and inadequate collagen remodeling (Gurtner).

      Much effort has focused on minimizing scar formation. Such techniques have included rigorous
      sterilization techniques, smaller, more linear incisions, and incisions that follow normal
      tension lines in the skin to name only a few. However, these techniques have been mostly
      limited to intraoperative or pre-operative measures. And while successful in minimizing scar
      burden, these techniques do not address scar management post operatively.

      Wound healing and scar formation follow complex biological processes dependent on
      inflammatory cells and growth factors. It has been shown in utero that fetal wounds are
      capable of scarless healing during a phase of gestation when wounds heal with a paucity of
      inflammatory cells (Soo, Frantz). This principle was further studied in immune deficient mice
      lacking both macrophages and neutrophils, which are critical to the inflammatory response.
      Within this experiment, both groups of mice (immunodeficient and normal mice) healed the
      wounds, the immunodeficient mice did so in a scarless manner (Mori, Martin). Extrapolating
      this information to current surgical patients, the development of an immunomodulating measure
      is critical to inhibiting and managing scar formation.

      Adipose derived mesenchymal stem cells (ADSCs) have been studied with regard to their role in
      the wound healing and scar formation process and have shown great promise. In experimental
      studies, ADSCs have shown to promote angiogenesis, granulation and reepithelialization of the
      overlying wound (Ebrahimian). Whether directly or indirectly through these processes, the
      ADSCs also improve the appearance of resultant scars by decreasing size, contrast of scar
      color, and improving pliability of the scar (Blanton, Yun). However, it is not to be confused
      that all adipose tissue is equivalent with ADSCs. Rather, ADSCs are a particular line of
      cells found within adipose tissue that have the unique capability of differentiating into a
      variety of types of tissues, from bone to cartilage to further adipose tissue (Zuk). These
      cells are capable of being harvested and cultured from adipose tissue within subjects and
      then subsequently injected into the wound site of interest.

      Fat grafting is a similar but less involved technique that harvests autologous adipose tissue
      but does not use cell culture techniques to isolate ADSCs from other cell lineages. Fat
      grafting has long been used as a technique concurrently with facial reconstruction procedures
      and facial rejuvenation procedures as a "filler" of sorts for facial augmentation as early as
      1893 (Miller). The fat injected into the face serves as a volume expander to correct defects
      related to loss of muscle or bone, such as in micrognathia. Since those initial trials, the
      technique has been widely expanded and honed to provide the best possible contouring. In
      addition to the filler aspects and results of the procedure, the technique has been observed
      to improve skin quality in injection sites, improve pigmentation irregularities, and even
      improve appearance of long standing scars. However, a formal study of fat grafting's
      potential of improved wound healing and minimization of scar formation has never been
      undertaken.

      Although not identical to the process of injection of autologous ADSCs, the process of fat
      grafting has the capabilities of providing some number of ADSCs that were in the adipose
      harvest. Additionally, the process itself has been shown in the past to improve previously
      existing scars and improve the quality of skin overlying injection sites (Coleman).
      Therefore, it is logical to assume that injection of autologous fat will improve wound
      healing and minimize scar formation in patients undergoing the procedure through effects of
      ADSCs within the harvested tissue.

      With the advent of advanced 3-D imaging technology, we are now able to obtain high-quality,
      high-resolution images to document and detail stages of wound healing and scar formation.
      Therefore, we will be able to determine through observer analysis whether the process of fat
      grafting changes the formation and quality of scars over time.
    
  