
    
      The planned study has been designed as a Phase I, double-blind, randomised, multi-centre,
      parallel group study based on information and data available from the administration of
      Trappsol Cyclo via compassionate/named patient use in patients with NPC-1, and data on other
      cyclodextrin products in the scientific literature.

      The study is comprised of a screening phase of up to 4w a treatment phase of 12w and a 4w
      follow-up. The primary objective is to compare the plasma pharmacokinetics of single and
      multiple doses of two different levels of IV Trappsol Cyclo. Secondary objectives include
      investigation of the HP-β-CD effect of different doses of IV Trappsol Cyclo upon serum and
      lymphocytic markers of cholesterol metabolism and evaluation of Trappsol concentrations in
      the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) following IV administration , evaluation of the impact of
      treatment upon measures of neurological function including ataxia, aphasia and saccadic eye
      movements, and the impact of treatment upon behavioral aspects of NPC-1.

      It is planned to recruit a total of 12 patients to the study. Patients will be randomised 1:1
      to one of the two dose levels (1500 mg/kg or 2500 mg/kg; six patients per dose level).
      Treatment will be administered every two weeks by slow IV infusion over 8 to 9 hours at
      different concentrations to achieve the proscribed dose levels. Patients will receive
      treatment for a total of 12 weeks. Patients who withdraw prior to completion of the initial
      pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic assessments will be replaced.

      The design of the proposed study thus enables early assessment of potential biochemical
      markers of response but allows for a sufficient dosing duration to enable the short-term
      effectiveness of Trappsol in NPC to be assessed.

      The maximum dose proposed for this study is below the maximum dose for which long term
      clinical data is available in 2 patients (2800 mg/kg weekly for 3-5 years). Although
      individual clinicians have not always utilized an escalating rate of infusion, the reports of
      infusion related reactions in three patients suggest that this is an appropriate clinical
      strategy to mitigate the risk of such events and is consistent with dosing administration for
      other therapeutic agents. In the proposed study, treatment will be administered less
      frequently than has been undertaken in compassionate use. This longer dosing interval is
      supported by nonclinical data comparing the metabolism of cholesterol in non-human species
      with that in man; although a once weekly dosing interval was initially studied in man based
      on data in the mouse, HP-β-CD cholesterol metabolism/turnover in the mouse is 13-fold higher
      than in man which, in NPC, likely translates into a 13-fold slower accumulation of
      cholesterol in human cells compared with those of the mouse. Therefore, it is theorized that,
      given the slower cholesterol metabolism in humans, the dosing interval could be much less
      frequent in man than in mouse; however, based on what is known about cholesterol metabolism
      in humans and the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic effect of HP-β-CD in the mouse, a
      dosing interval of 2 weeks in man is likely to be well within the therapeutic dosing interval
      and also minimizes the amount of infusions required to be administered.
    
  