
    
      DOXIL pegylated liposomal doxorubicin (PLD) is approved for use in patients with ovarian
      cancer whose disease has progressed or recurred after platinum-based chemotherapy. Data
      suggest that combination therapy of carboplatin plus DOXIL provides superior benefit to
      single agent therapy. Bevacizumab, a vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) inhibitor, is
      approved for use in combination with intravenous 5-fluorouracil-based chemotherapy for the
      treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer and in combination with carboplatin and paclitaxel
      (treatment of non-small cell lung cancer); and with paclitaxel (first line treatment of
      metastatic HER2-negative breast cancer). There are data showing bevacizumab has activity in
      the treatment of ovarian cancer, and it is currently being studied in platinum-sensitive
      relapsed ovarian cancer in combination with carboplatin/gemcitabine. No data exist on the
      efficacy and safety of bevacizumab administered with carboplatin and DOXIL. Based on the
      growing interest of incorporating bevacizumab in to ovarian cancer treatment and the activity
      seen to date, the evaluation of the combination of carboplatin and DOXIL with bevacizumab is
      warranted. This is a single arm (one dosing regimen), multicenter, open label (both the
      patient and the physician know what drug is being given) study in patients with
      platinum-sensitive recurrent ovarian, fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cancers. This
      study will be conducted in multiple sites across the United States. All patients will receive
      DOXIL, carboplatin and bevacizumab by intravenous (IV) infusion for a maximum of ten (10)
      28-day cycles. A disease response assessment will occur after the completion of Cycles 2, 4,
      6, 8 and at the end of treatment. Patients will be followed for six (6) months post-treatment
      for progression-free survival. Disease progression is defined according to Response
      Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST). RECIST is an accepted classification for
      response to treatment with classifications of Complete Response (CR), Partial Response( (PR),
      Progressive Disease (PD) or Stable Disease (SD).The primary objective of this study is to
      evaluate the objective response rate (Complete Response (CR) and Partial Response (PR)) to
      carboplatin and DOXIL treatment in combination with bevacizumab in patients with
      platinum-sensitive recurrent ovarian, fallopian tube and primary peritoneal cancers. The
      secondary objectives are to assess the safety profile of carboplatin and DOXIL in combination
      with bevacizumab as well as the following efficacy endpoints: Duration of response,
      Progression-free Survival, and Time to Progression. Safety will be evaluated using adverse
      events, clinical laboratory tests, and tests for cardiac function after the first 20 patients
      have been entered and received at least 2 cycles of therapy. Overall safety will be
      summarized at study completion. DOXIL (30 mg/m2), and carboplatin (area under the curve (AUC
      5)) will be given on Day 1 of each 28-day cycle. Bevacizumab (10 mg/kg) will be given on days
      1 and 15 of every 28-day cycle. All treatment will be given by intravenous (IV) infusion and
      repeated every 4 weeks for up to 10 cycles.
    
  