
    
      Study 1 procedures are clinical and sociodemographic data collected through interview at
      admission and results of complementary exams performed during hospitalization. Data will be
      collected during the participant's inclusion visit (Day 0,equivalent to the date of hospital
      admission) and subsequently according to in-hospital visits untill discharge moment.

      The team of researchers will have access to the electronic medical record or, as the case, to
      the paper medical record for the collection of data and variables of the study interest, and
      questionnaires with specific questions from participants or family members.

      A visit in 31-60 days will be made, by telephone contact, for the application by a health
      professional of a questionnaire on mental health and verification of the occurrence of death
      or hospital readmission. The mental health questionnaire includes tracking disorders, such
      as: depression, anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorder, suicidal ideation and insomnia
      [questionnaires PHQ-9, GAD-7, Abbreviated PCL-C and Index Severity of Insomnia], in addition
      to a questionnaire on social support [MSPSS]. Patients identified with health disorders over
      the telephone will be referred to specialized care by a psychiatrist. Study 2 - Data from
      information systems drug dispensation (SICLOM -
      http://www.aids.gov.br/pt-br/gestores/sistemas-de-informacao/sistema-de-controle-logistico-de
      medicamentos-siclom), laboratory tests (SISCEL - http :
      //www.aids.gov.br/pt-br/sistema-de-informacao/sistema-de-controle-de-exameslaboratoriais-da-r
      ede-nacional-de-contagem-de), information on mortality (SIM - http://sim.saude.gov.br/) and
      COVID-19 case notification database will be released to the Ministry of Health, with data
      identified with patient name, mother's name and date of birth to enable the linkage process.
      This sensitive data is obtained through specific forms, which include confidentiality clauses
      of the data. All transport and storage of this data, whether by digital physical means (for
      example, CD) or via the web, will be done in encrypted form with a strong algorithm. The
      final database will be de-identified to guarantee the confidentiality of the participants.
    
  