
    
      Social determinants of health are the circumstances in which people are born, live, work and
      age; as well as the systems that are put in place to deal with illness and disability.
      Dramatic differences in health are closely related to degrees of social and economic
      disadvantage. For example, poverty-induced hardships such as food insecurity, utility
      shut-offs and substandard housing all have the potential to negatively impact health. In the
      United States, there exist many laws and policies designed to address such issues. For
      example, the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) seeks to address food
      insecurity by providing a means for financially eligible recipients to access nutritious
      food. When an individual is wrongly denied SNAP benefits, legal remedies are available.
      Access to legal aid, much like access to nutritious food, is often limited by social and
      economic disadvantage. It has been demonstrated that most legal problems experienced by
      low-income individuals remain unresolved, with fewer than one in five being addressed with
      the help of a lawyer.

      A child's health status may be negatively affected when he or she does not receive the
      benefit of laws designed to address such social determinates of health. Unhealthy housing may
      lead to an increased risk of preventable injury or, in the case of dangerous molds, asthma.
      An excessively cold environment brought on by a utility shut-off may also trigger childhood
      asthma, or result in a family's decision to trade-off food for heat. Poor nutrition may
      contribute to any number of deficiencies impacting a child's health. Laws addressing such
      issues include those that require landlords to mitigate dangerous rental housing conditions,
      those that protect access to utilities in certain circumstances, and those that protect
      against unlawful denials of food-benefit programs.

      Medical-legal Partnerships bring health care providers together with lawyers to address
      social and legal needs, such as those described above, which may result in poor health
      outcomes. Such partnerships across the nation provide direct legal advice and assistance to
      patients, create internal systems that improve health care delivery, and promote change at a
      policy level beyond discrete systems. This study has been designed to expand upon the current
      medical-legal partnership concept and mitigate health disparities by creating an innovative
      system that dramatically increases the identification of medical-legal issues in pediatric
      clinics, improves the delivery of appropriate physician counseling and streamlines access to
      legal resources when legal remedies are needed.

      The investigators propose to intelligently insert a medical-legal issue screening tool and
      tailored decision support protocol into the regular health care delivery process of our
      existing computerized clinical decision support system (CDSS), the Child Health Improvement
      through Computer Automation (CHICA) system. In short, a series of screening questions
      regarding common legal issues that have the potential to negatively impact child health will
      be included on a pre-screener form for all patients ≤36 months of age. This form will be
      printed on paper and completed by the presenting caregiver in the waiting room. Answers to
      the questions will then be scanned into the CHICA system prior to the physician encounter and
      analyzed along with previously existing medical record information to generate the content
      for a tailored physician worksheet and handouts. Together, these documents will help guide
      physicians through the process of confirming identified medical-legal issues and providing
      the most appropriate interventions in terms of education and/or referrals to a medical-legal
      expert. This process as a whole will help physicians to accurately identify such issues and
      immediately address them in an appropriate and sensitive way.

      The investigators hypothesize that our innovative use of the CHICA computerized decision
      support system to identify and address medical-legal issues in a consistent, appropriate and
      effective way will help diminish the barriers that physicians often cite when questioned
      about identifying medical-legal issues and taking steps to help address them. For example,
      the investigators anticipate that our utilization of waiting room time to administer the
      initial pre-screener questions will help minimize concerns about time constraints, and
      CHICA's generation of highly-tailored worksheets that direct physicians through the process
      of dealing with positive screens will help address physician concerns about lack of education
      or experience with medical-legal issues.

      To summarize, the investigators intend first to expand and modify the CHICA system to assist
      pediatricians with the identification and management of four common medical-legal problems
      (homelessness, unsafe rental home conditions, inadequate access to necessary utilities and
      food insecurity) that have the potential to adversely impact child health (AIM 1). The
      investigators will then evaluate the effect of the CHICA medical-legal module on the
      identification and mitigation of medical-legal problems in four pediatric practices by
      evaluating rates of medical-legal issue identification via pre/post chart abstraction, and
      evaluating actions taken by physicians and patient caregivers (as reported in caregiver
      interviews) to mitigate identified medical-legal issues (AIM 2). Next, the investigators will
      evaluate physician and patient caregiver satisfaction with the CHICA medical-legal module by
      evaluating physician comfort with medical-legal issue identification and acceptance of the
      CHICA medical-legal module via physician survey, and evaluating patient caregiver perceptions
      (as reported in caregiver interviews) about physicians' handling of medical-legal issues and
      the CHICA medical-legal module process (AIM 3). Lastly, the investigators will evaluate the
      impact of the CHICA medical-legal module on healthcare utilization by comparing the overall
      utilization of Medicaid patients in our intervention population to Medicaid patients in our
      control population over the course of 18 months (AIM 4).
    
  