
    
      Medicines called "bisphosphonates" have been shown to help people with cancer that has spread
      to their bones. Zoledronic acid is a "bisphosphonate". Some bisphosphonates are pills that
      can be swallowed. Other bisphosphonates such as zoledronic acid need to be given by vein (or
      intravenously). Some studies have shown that people with multiple myeloma, breast cancer, and
      prostate cancer that had spread to the bone had less side effects from their bone disease
      when they were treated with bisphosphonates by vein.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as
      in the toss of a coin) to one of two treatment groups. Participants in one group will receive
      standard care with calcium and Vitamin D alone. Participants in the other group will receive
      standard care with calcium and Vitamin D plus zoledronic acid. There is an equal chance of
      being assigned to either group. Both you and your study doctor will know if you are being
      treated with zoledronic acid.

      You will be asked to come to the doctor's clinic 5 times over about 12 months (at the start
      of the study [baseline] and then every 3 months). Each visit should take about 1 hour.
      Participants in the zoledronic acid group will receive an infusion of zoledronic acid by vein
      at baseline and at 6 months into the study. The infusion will last about 30 minutes. This
      infusion procedure may or may not be done at the same time as your already scheduled
      chemotherapy treatment.

      You will take calcium and Vitamin D pills while on study at amounts recommended for
      prevention of osteoporosis.

      You will have a physical exam done at every visit. Various x-rays and/or bone density scans
      will be repeated after 12 months. Your doctor may also want to do additional bone density or
      x-ray scans if you have new symptoms or your symptoms get worse.

      Before each treatment, you will have a blood test (about 1-2 teaspoons of blood) to make sure
      your kidneys are okay before each treatment with zoledronic acid. At each visit. your doctor
      or nurse will ask you how you are feeling and will ask about any medications you are taking
      or any medical problems you have had since your last visit. You will be asked to complete
      questionnaires about how you are feeling at certain visits. These questionnaires are 1 page
      long and should only take a few minutes to complete.

      It is anticipated that your participation in this study will be 12 months. If your cancer
      gets worse, or if your doctor feels that you should be treated with a different medicine, you
      will be taken off of this study and your doctor will talk to you about other medicines that
      may be better for you.

      Participants who received Zoledronic Acid will be contacted regularly to ask about any
      experience of osteonecrosis (bone death), for 10 years from the time they enroll on study.
      They will be interviewed by telephone call every 6 months.

      This is an investigational study. Zoledronic acid is approved by the FDA for the treatment of
      high calcium levels in the blood. Zoledronic acid has not been approved by the FDA for what
      it is being used for in this study. After the treatment ends, you may continue to receive
      zoledronic acid or a similar drug, if your cancer doctor feels that it would help you. About
      72 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  