
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine the impact of pembrolizumab-based therapy on the composition, phenotype, and
      function of tumor-infiltrating immune cells (TIICs) in subjects with advanced renal cell
      carcinoma (RCC) undergoing cytoreductive nephrectomy (CN)/metastasectomy (MET).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the clinical efficacy of preoperative pembrolizumab-based therapy in subjects
      with advanced RCC undergoing CN/MET.

      II. To explore the clinical efficacy of continued pembrolizumab-based therapy following
      CN/MET in subjects with advanced RCC.

      III. To determine the safety and tolerability of pembrolizumab-based therapy in subjects with
      advanced RCC undergoing CN/MET.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To explore the clinical efficacy of preoperative pembrolizumab-based therapy in subjects
      with advanced RCC, by pathologic response. (Clinical) II. To explore the relationship between
      changes in TIICs and clinical efficacy in subjects with advanced RCC treated with
      pembrolizumab-based therapy. (Scientific) III. To characterize changes in the frequency and
      number of circulating T cells induced by pembrolizumab-based therapy in subjects with
      advanced RCC. (Scientific) IV. To determine the impact of pembrolizumab-based therapy on the
      composition and phenotype of the tumor microenvironment (including tumor and stromal cells)
      in subjects with advanced RCC. (Scientific) V. To determine whether locally advanced versus
      metastatic RCC exhibit differences in immune composition or phenotype at baseline and in
      response to pembrolizumab-based therapy. (Scientific) VI. To determine the change in T cell
      repertoire within the tumor and blood induced by pembrolizumab-based therapy in subjects with
      advanced RCC. (Scientific) VII. To explore molecular profiles to identify potentially
      predictive biomarkers for subjects with advanced RCC treated with immunotherapy (Scientific)

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 cohorts.

      COHORT A: Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1.
      Treatment repeats every 21 days for 3 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Within 14-21 days following the end of treatment, patients will
      undergo standard of care CN or MET. Patients with progressive disease (PD) may undergo CN or
      MET per physician discretion. Within 21-42 days after surgery, patients with no disease (R0
      resection) or microscopic disease (R1 resection) receive pembrolizumab IV every 42 days for
      up to 9 cycles (1 year) and patients with macroscopic disease (R2 resection) receive
      pembrolizumab IV every 42 days for up to 18 cycles (2 years) in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity

      COHORT B: Patients receive pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1 and standard of care
      axitinib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-42. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 3
      cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Within 14-21 days
      following the end of treatment, patients undergo standard of care CN or MET. Patients with PD
      may undergo CN or MET per physician discretion. Within 21-42 days after surgery, patients
      with an R0 or R1 resection receive pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1 and axitinib PO
      BID on days 1-42. Treatments repeat every 42 days for up to 9 cycles (1 year) in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with an R2 resection receive
      pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1 and axitinib PO BID on days 1-42. Treatment repeats
      every 42 days for up to 18 cycles (2 years) in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      Follow-up will occur at treatment discontinuation, 30 days post-discontinuation, and then
      every 12 weeks for up to 1 year post-discontinuation. Subjects who discontinue study
      participation due to progressive disease will return for a mandatory safety follow-up visit
      within 30 days of(+7 days) after the final dose of study treatment.
    
  