
    
      Publicly available outcome assessments for transplant programs do not make salient that some
      programs tend to reject many of the hearts they are offered, whereas other programs accept a
      broader range of donor offers. The investigators use empirical studies to test whether
      transplant center performance data (i.e. transplant and waitlist outcome statistics) that
      reflect center donor acceptance rates influence laypersons to evaluate centers with high
      organ decline rates less favorably than centers with low organ decline rates. 125 heart
      transplant clinical personnel will be recruited from International Heart and Lung Society
      (ISHLT) and the Pediatric Heart Transplant Society (PHTS) and randomized to one of two
      different information presentation conditions. Participants will be asked to view the table
      of transplant outcomes corresponding to the condition they were randomized to. Each
      participant is asked to choose the hospital that they would consider to be
      "higher-performing" between two hospitals: one hospital with a non-selective, "accepting"
      strategy (takes all donor heart offers), and one hospital with a more selective,
      "cherrypicking" strategy (tends to reject donor offers that are less than "excellent"
      quality).

      Condition 1 ("baseline" condition): view only combined transplant survival (e.g. transplant
      survival rate not stratified by number and quality of donor hearts accepted at each center)

      Condition 2: view only stratified transplant survival (e.g. transplant survival rate
      stratified into patients who received excellent donor organs and patients who received less
      than optimal donor organs)

      Participants will then be asked to view the table of transplant outcomes corresponding to the
      condition they were randomized to. Each participant is asked to choose the hospital that they
      would consider to be "higher-performing" between two hospitals: one hospital with a
      non-selective, "accepting" strategy (takes all donor heart offers), and one hospital with a
      more selective, "cherry-picking" strategy (tends to reject donor offers that are less than
      "excellent" quality). In order to identify the decision process that underlies this choice
      pattern, the investigators will examine a putative mediator. Specifically, participants will
      be asked to rate the extent to which they considered patients' chances of getting an
      excellent heart, avoiding a less-than-optimal heart, and getting any type of heart when
      making their choice between the two hospitals.
    
  