
    
      I. Study procedures:

        1. Well explain, complete inform and consent documents

        2. A blood test for hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg), anti-hepatitis B surface antibody
           (anti-HBs antibody), anti-hepatitis B core antibody (anti-HBc antibody), anti-HCV and
           RPR will be performed first.

        3. The patients with all negative seromarkers (within 1 month) will be allocated to two
           groups (random blank=4), a standard-dose booster of 20µg and a double-dose booster of
           40µg. For patients receiving 40µg, two 20µg of vaccines are injected at both sides of
           deltoid muscles. The schedules of booster vaccination are the same in two groups, which
           is at 0, 1, 6 months.

        4. To detect and manage possible immediate and severe allergic reaction, patients who
           received vaccination will be observed for 30 minutes after injection.

        5. The solicited adverse effect will be recorded on the diary card if occurred in 7 days
           after each dose of vaccination.

        6. The titer of hepatitis B surface antibody will be examined before booster vaccination,
           at the 4th week, the 24th week, 28th week, 48th week. By comparing the responses in the
           two groups, the effect of different doses of booster vaccination can be evaluated. For
           those HIV-negative individuals at baseline, HIV screening test will be evaluated every 6
           months during the study, at the 24th week, the 48th.

        7. To screen the acquisition of hepatitis B, the anti-HBc antibody and HBsAg will be
           examined at the 48th week

        8. To screen the acquisition of hepatitis C and syphilis, anti-HCV and RPR will be examined
           at the 24th week, the 48th week

        9. The results of the study will be informed by phone or the physician during the follow-up
           care.

       10. The serum/blood samples will be preserved in the research lab of the department of
           internal medicine and kept for 20 years. During this period, the sample will be applied
           or used in other studies after the patients and the Research Ethics Committee both
           agreed.

       11. During the follow-up care, the treatment or record of hospitalization will be recorded
           or reviewed.

       12. The participants will drop out of clinical trial when protocol violation occurred or the
           participant is not willing to continue.
    
  