
    
      Study Design This prospective cohort study will include all consecutive transfused patients
      admitted to the participating PICUs over a one-year period and a control group of matched
      non-transfused patients. The primary objectives will be assessed using the complete cohort of
      transfused and non-transfused patients. Secondary objectives will be studied in transfused
      patients.

      Outcomes The primary outcome measure is TRALI (definite, probable, and delayed TRALI) as
      defined in section. In the non-transfused patients, the definition of Acute Lung Injury will
      be the same as the one used as a criterion for defining TRALI, and the observation period
      will be a similar 72-h period, starting at the same time zero.

      Primary Objectives

        -  Objective #1a: to determine if the transfusion of RBC, plasma or platelets is an
           independent risk factor of TRALI in critically ill children.

        -  Objective #1b: to compare the progression of the respiratory function, in particular the
           SpO2/FiO2 ratio, in transfused and non-transfused PICU patients.

      Secondary Objectives

        -  Objective #2.a : To determine the incidence rate of classic (definite or probable) TRALI
           and of delayed TRALI in transfused PICU patients.

        -  Objective #2.b : To characterize the risk factors of classic (definite or probable)
           TRALI and of delayed TRALI in transfused PICU patients.

        -  Objective #2.c : To compare the progression of respiratory parameters after a 1st
           transfusion in PICU patients with classic TRALI, delayed TRALI, and without TRALI.

        -  Objective #2.d : To compare the outcomes of transfused PICU patients with and without
           classic (definite or probable) TRALI and delayed TRALI.

        -  Objective #2.e : To describe the inflammatory profile of PICU patients with definite,
           probable, and delayed TRALI.
    
  