
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine whether mobilization with etoposide and filgrastim (G-CSF) with or without
           rituximab influences CD34+ cell yield in patients undergoing autologous peripheral blood
           stem cell transplantation for B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

        -  Determine the acute toxicity of rituximab in combination with etoposide and G-CSF for
           peripheral blood stem cell mobilization in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized study.

        -  Stem cell mobilization: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 mobilization arms.

             -  Arm I: Patients receive rituximab IV over 4 hours on days 1, 8, and 15. Patients
                also receive etoposide IV over 4 hours on day 15 and filgrastim (G-CSF)
                subcutaneously (SC) beginning on day 17 and continuing until approximately day 25.
                Patients then undergo apheresis over 5 days or until an adequate amount of stem
                cells are collected. After stem cell collection is completed, patients proceed to
                the preparative regimen.

             -  Arm II: Patients receive etoposide IV over 4 hours on day 1 and G-CSF SC beginning
                on day 3 and continuing until approximately day 11. Patients then undergo apheresis
                over 5 days or until an adequate amount of stem cells are collected. After stem
                cell collection is completed, patients proceed to the preparative regimen.

        -  Preparative regimen: Patients receive oral busulfan once daily on days -8 to -4,
           etoposide IV over 4 hours on day -4, and cyclophosphamide IV over 2 hours on days -3 and
           -2.

        -  Autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation (PBSCT): Patients undergo
           autologous PBSCT on day 0. Beginning on day 5, patients receive G-CSF SC or IV once
           daily until blood counts recover.

      After completion study treatment, patients are followed periodically for 10 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 54 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  