
    
      Given the plethora of literature regarding technical aspects of performing cesarean delivery,
      and given the large number of procedures performed each year and available for prospective
      trials (approximately 700 cesarean deliveries per year at Danbury Hospital), only quality
      level I evidence is broadly considered influential in this area of research. Therefore we
      propose a RCT for incision coverage with dressing versus glue at cesarean delivery.

      On admission to L&D for schedule cesarean section, or on admission to L&D for labor, patients
      will be asked to participate by a Trial Coordinator or the admitting Obstetrics and
      Gynecology resident physician. Patients admitted for labor will be asked to participate given
      the possibility that they may ultimately require cesarean delivery, and because using only
      patients admitted for scheduled cesarean delivery would eliminate urgent and emergent
      cesarean deliveries from the trial, and therefore decrease the generalizability of the trial
      results to general obstetrics practice.

      When consented and the patient undergoes cesarean delivery, the patient's surgeon will decide
      if skin closure will be performed by placement of staples or suture. The circulating nurse in
      the OR will open one of a set of sequentially numbered, opaque sealed envelopes (SNOSE) to
      indicate the patient's allocation for coverage of the incision with a dressing or glue. The
      circulating nurse will then tell the surgeon to which group the patient has been allocated.

      Before closure of the incision, care is taken to ensure hemostasis of the subcutaneous
      tissues and skin edges. If the subcutaneous tissues are > 2 cm thick, this tissue layer
      should be approximated before closure of the skin as is currently a level I evidence-based
      recommendation based on multiple RCTs and promoted by current clinical guidelines. Choice of
      suture material and needle for the running subcuticular closure, or use of staples for
      closure, are per the surgeon's preference.

      If allocated to coverage with dressing, the standard dressing will be applied by a member of
      the surgical team in the standard fashion as follows: The closed incision will be covered
      first with a primary dressing consisting of a nonadherent, composite dressing (Telfa), which
      is covered with a secondary dressing consisting of an Army Battle Dressing (ABD), before
      removal of the sterile surgical drapes. This dressing is then held in place with an adhesive
      fabric tape, currently Mefix tape, which is typically applied by the surgical scrub tech.

      If allocated to coverage with glue, no dressing is placed. After closure of the incision with
      suture or staples, the incision is patted dry under sterile conditions. The incision is then
      covered longitudinally by a member of the surgical team with a thick layer of skin glue
      dispensed from 1 tube of surgical skin glue (2-octyl cyanoacrylate, currently using brand:
      Derma+Flex QS). The glue is then allowed to dry before the sterile surgical drapes are
      removed.

      Staples placed for incision closure are routinely removed on the day of discharge. Sutures
      placed for skin closure are absorbable and are therefore not removed.
    
  