
    
      ^90 Y Ibritumomab tiuxetan and rituximab are both designed to attach to lymphoma cells,
      causing them to die.

      Before you can start treatment on this study, you will have what are called "screening
      tests." These tests will help the doctor decide if you are eligible to take part in this
      study. You will have a physical exam. Your blood (about 2 to 3 teaspoons) and urine will be
      collected for routine tests. You will have a chest x-ray and computerized tomography (CT)
      scans of the neck, chest, abdomen, and pelvis. You will have a bone marrow aspirate and
      biopsy performed. To collect a bone marrow aspirate and biopsy, an area of the hip or chest
      bone is numbed with anesthetic, and a small amount of bone marrow and bone is withdrawn
      through a large needle. Women who are able to have children must have a negative blood
      pregnancy test.

      The study doctors will first make sure that your disease has not spread too much and is not
      too severe to require immediate treatment with chemotherapy before you can begin treatment on
      this study. If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be given
      Benadryl (diphenhydramine) by vein, and you will be given Tylenol (acetaminophen) by mouth
      before each dose of rituximab. This is done to help decrease the risk of developing side
      effects of rituximab. You will then receive 1 dose of rituximab by vein over 6 to 8 hours on
      Day 1 of treatment. After treatment with rituximab, you will then be given a radioactive
      antibody, ^111 In Ibritumomab tiuxetan (this is a radioactive agent that binds to rituximab
      to help with imaging exams), by vein over about 10 minutes. This is so researchers can use a
      special camera to see where the drug is in your body.

      You will have imaging performed (with the special camera) on Day 1 and on either Day 2 or Day
      3. On Day 8, you will receive a second dose of rituximab. This will then be followed by a
      dose ^90 Y Ibritumomab tiuxetan of given by vein over 10 minutes. This completes the
      treatment.

      If you experience intolerable side effects while on this study, you may be removed from this
      study. The study doctor will then offer other treatment options to you.

      For your follow-up, you will have blood (about 2 tablespoons) drawn once a week for the first
      3 months, then every 3 months for 1 year, and then every 4 months for the second year. At
      these visits, you may also have CT scans, x-rays, and bone marrow biopsies and aspirates
      performed, if needed.

      This is an investigational study. ^90 Y Ibritumomab tiuxetan and rituximab have been approved
      by the FDA for the treatment of indolent B-cell lymphoma. Up to 35 patients will take part in
      this multicenter study. Up to 15 will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  