
    
      Functional constipation (FC) is a common condition in childhood, with an estimated prevalence
      of 0.7% to 29%.The diagnosis and treatment of FC can be difficult tasks, and children are
      often referred to specialist services causing treatment to become expensive and
      time-consuming.The standard treatment based on osmotic laxatives (mainly PEG). The recovery
      rate is 50% to 60% after 1 year of treatment, with 50% of the children having relapse within
      5 years. Studies in adults have established the effectiveness of some lactic acid bacteria in
      the treatment of chronic constipation.However, it is unclear whether similar effects occur in
      children. Lactobacilli and Bifidobacteria are the most studied species showing a high safety
      profile. Both are able to promote colonic peristalsis which could be beneficial for the
      treatment of constipation .Even though traditional treatment is well established and safe,
      high proportion of children need prolonged treatment for several months or even years. For
      many parents there is a concern regarding prolonged treatment with PEG .Lactobacilli,
      bifidobacteria and FOS (fructooligosaccharide) increase stool frequency and decrease
      consistency in healthy adults and therefore could prevent recurrence of constipation after
      PEG withdrawal .The principle investigator hypothesize that treatment with probiotics adjunct
      to PEG and several months thereafter could decrease the proportion of children needed
      permanent or prolonged treatment (>12 months) with PEG.

      The importance of the study and its practical benefits:

      Treatment with PEG for FC is well established and is considered safe. Despite that, a high
      proportion of children need prolonged treatment for several months or even years. For many
      parents there is a concern regarding prolonged treatment with PEG. Previous studies did not
      demonstrate efficacy of treatment with probiotics or prebiotics in FC. Neither of these
      studies assessed effectiveness probiotics/prebiotic products as adjunct to the traditional
      treatment (PEG) of FC in shortening its period.

      A recently published studies including from Israel, demonstrated efficacy of Lactobacillus
      reuteri in irritable bowel syndrome, infantile colic and functional abdominal pain
      .Therefore, demonstration of positive effect of treatment with probiotic product in FC, could
      imply for potential use of this product in other functional gastrointestinal disorders among
      children.
    
  