
    
      Background

      Serotonin (5-HT) is one of three brain monoamines that are widely distributed in the brain
      and play important roles in affect and goal-directed behaviors. Limbic structures that
      underlie behavior motivated by palatable food and drugs of abuse receive dense projections
      from brainstem serotonergic nuclei. In rats, light and sound cues associated with access to
      cocaine strongly stimulate drug-seeking behavior. Agonists for the type 2C serotonergic
      receptor (5-HT₂cR) attenuate this responding.8 Drug taking (cocaine self-administration) is
      also attenuated at 5-HT₂cR agonist doses similar to those that decrease food-reinforced
      responding and cause reductions in locomotor activity.

      Lorcaserin is a novel and selective agonist of the 5-HT₂cR recently approved by the FDA for
      weight loss therapy. It acts selectively at this receptor subtype with minimal activation of
      5-HT₂ᴀR or 5-HT₂ᴃR receptors. Based on initial clinical studies leading to its approval,
      lorcaserin is well tolerated and probably does not cause cardiac valve disease or other
      serious side effects. Even so, given the potential for serious adverse events, the FDA has
      limited its use to patients who are either obese or overweight with a medical complication
      such as hypertension. Whether or not lorcaserin will become generally accepted as a long-term
      treatment for obesity will depend on the results of ongoing post-marketing studies of
      cardiovascular outcome data.

      Rationale In preclinical studies, agonists for the 5-HT₂cR potently attenuate cocaine-seeking
      behavior. Lorcaserin is a recently approved selective 5-HT₂cR agonist with an acceptable
      safety profile in humans. No published studies have reported its effects on cocaine-induced
      craving or drug-reinforced responding in humans.

      Specific Aims:

        1. Evaluate whether lorcaserin treatment attenuates the positive subjective effects of
           cocaine and drug-reinforced behavior.

        2. Determine whether active treatment modifies cocaine- or script- induced craving.

      Methods This is a randomized, cross-over, double-blind, placebo-controlled, single-center,
      multiple-panel evaluation of the potential for oral lorcaserin to modify cocaine
      self-administration in a laboratory setting. Up to 32 non-treatment-seeking, regular cocaine
      users will receive treatment with single doses of oral placebo, lorcaserin 10 mg (Panel 1),
      or lorcaserin 20 mg (Panel 2). Script-guided imagery of autobiographical memories will be
      developed based on experiences related to cocaine use, anger, and a neutral event. Following
      treatment with lorcaserin, script-induced emotional states will be assayed. Sampling doses of
      cocaine (0.0, 0.23, and 0.46 mg/kg) will be administered, and participants will choose
      between self-administering additional intravenous doses or receiving monetary alternatives.
      Detailed measures of the negative and positive subjective effects of intravenous infusions
      will also be made. As noncontingent infusions of cocaine are administered, the
      pharmacokinetics of cocaine and lorcaserin will be determined.
    
  