
    
      Medications improve the function and health-related quality of life of patients with heart
      failure and reduce morbidity, mortality, and the costs of patient care. Due to their
      complicated medication regimens, however, older adults with heart failure require assistance
      with their medications to facilitate adherence and improve their health outcomes. Recent
      studies suggest that the outcomes of patients with heart failure improve when pharmacists
      provide patients with education and monitoring. This study aims to develop and test, as a
      randomized controlled trial, a multileveled pharmacy-based program that incorporates patient
      education materials and medication packaging that target patients with low health literacy.

      Elderly patients from Wishard Health Services with a diagnosis of heart failure (n=314) were
      randomly assigned to the pharmacist intervention or usual care group. Patients in the
      intervention group received verbal and written education, icon-based labeling of their
      medication containers, and therapeutic monitoring. A main objective of the pharmacist was to
      reinforce primary care providers' instructions to the patient. The pharmacist educated
      patients about their medications, identified barriers to appropriate drug use, coached
      patients on overcoming drug use barriers, and coordinated drug use for these patients with
      primary care providers. Patients in the usual care (control) group did not receive the
      intervention and also served as a prospective cohort to identify the determinants of acute
      exacerbation.

      To measure medication compliance objectively, electronic monitor lids were used on all heart
      failure medications for patients in intervention and control groups. These lids contain a
      computer chip that electronically imprints a time/date stamp when opened and closed. Each
      open-close event indicates that the patient has taken a dose of their medication. By
      downloading this information from the medication container lid to a computer, we can
      objectively assess the pattern of medication compliance. Study participation for the patients
      in the intervention group concluded after nine months of active intervention and three months
      of post-intervention follow-up.

      The usual care group permitted our identification of the causes for clinical deterioration in
      patients with heart failure. The unique electronic medical record at our institution, the
      Regenstrief Medical Record System, permits capture of a wealth of clinical data, which can be
      merged with primary data from the trial (for example, medication adherence by MEMS caps,
      brain natriuretic peptide, and quality of life assessments). Patients' data captured from the
      Regenstrief Medical Record System during the year of follow-up were used to perform
      multivariate analyses to determine causes of clinical deterioration. So doing provided
      insights into the pathophysiology of decompensation in patients with heart failure to enhance
      our understanding of risk factors of this increasingly prevalent disease and thereby lead us
      to better therapeutic strategies.

      Covariates used in our analyses of risk factors included age, sex, race, weight, ejection
      fraction, brain natriuretic peptide and other renal autacoids, and New York Heart Association
      classification. Endpoints include health-related quality of life, heart failure exacerbation,
      patient satisfaction, and healthcare costs. We evaluated the effectiveness of the
      pharmacy-based program in improving adherence to heart failure medications, improving
      health-related quality of life, decreasing heart failure exacerbations, increasing patient
      satisfaction, and decreasing health care costs. Once identified, factors predicting
      decompensation of heart failure may become the targets of future interventions aimed at
      preventable causes.
    
  