
    
      Periodontal surgery has been expanding in the world of dentistry throughout the past years,
      as new techniques are emerging to treat the different and complex periodontal disorders.
      Surgical procedures in dentistry have undergone major changes to minimize invasiveness. In
      addition, novel instruments and materials have been made to suit the evolution of the
      surgical procedures (Cortellini. 2012).

      Teeth with deep pockets associated with deep intra-bony defects are a clinical challenge for
      periodontists, where periodontal regeneration has been proven to be effective in managing the
      treatment of one-, two-, and three-wall intra-bony defects (Needleman and Tucker
      2012;Needleman. 2015).

      Harrel and Rees (1995) were the first to introduce the term minimally invasive surgery (MIS).
      MIS is used to describe the use of smaller and more precise surgical procedures that are
      possible by using of magnifying instruments, such as operating microscopes and microsurgical
      instruments and materials (Cortellini. 2012).

      The rationale for the development of minimally invasive surgical technique (MIST) includes:
      reduction of trauma during the surgery, increase in flap and wound stability, improvement of
      wound primary closure, reduction of surgical time, and minimization of intra-operative and
      post-operative patient discomfort (Cortellini. 2007).

      With the use of MIST, Cortellini and Tonneti (2009) confirmed blood clot protection with the
      aspects of wound and blood clot stability and primary wound closure.

      An enhancement of MIST, the modified minimally invasive surgical technique (M-MIST), has been
      introduced by Cortellini in 2009 to further reduce the surgical invasiveness, with three
      major objectives in mind: (1) minimize the interdental tissue tendency to collapse providing
      space provision for regeneration, (2) enhance the wound/soft tissue stability and (3) reduce
      patient morbidity.

      Some authors evaluated the use of various regenerative material in MIST and M-MIST e.g.
      Enamel matrix derivative (Cortellini 2007) PDGF-bb (Cosyn et al. 2012) and collagen enriched
      bovine derived xeno-graft (Mishra et al., 2013). Cortellini (2011) also, noted that the use
      of regenerative material is not necessary with M-MIST.

      Hung et al, (2012) reported that granulation tissue could contain progenitor stem cells which
      are very important components needed for periodontal tissue regeneration.

      Moreover, Park et al. (2011) assumed that the inflamed granulation tissue could be used to
      regenerate lost tissues in the same individual in other defective sites according to its
      regenerative potential.

      All the previous data raised an important question about the necessity to remove granulation
      tissues in periodontal regenerative techniques: Is complete removal of granulation tissue in
      M-MIST is mandate for treating isolated intra-bony defects for better healing?
    
  