
    
      Screening evaluation: Screening will include standard-of-care IIH evaluation including
      general medical and neurological examinations, blood chemistries, complete blood count,
      prothrombin time (PT),partial thromboplastin time (PTT), and pregnancy test. Ophthalmological
      evaluation will include visual acuity, pellucid marginal degeneration (PMD), and optical
      coherence tomography (OCT). Quality of life assessments are Headache Impact Test-6, Short
      Form Health Survey-36 and Visual Function Questionnaire-25 + Neuro-Ophthalmology supplement
      tests. Participants must have had a recent (within 6 months of enrollment) magnetic resonance
      imaging (MRI) of the brain as well as a diagnostic lumbar puncture (including opening
      pressure, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) cell count, CSF glucose and CSF protein), both of which
      are also part of the standard of care for diagnosis of IIH.

      Eligible patients will undergo outpatient diagnostic venography within one month of initial
      IIH evaluation. Under local anesthesia, transfemoral venous access will be obtained and a
      guide catheter will be placed in the right jugular bulb. A microcatheter (Excelsior SL-10,
      Stryker Neurovascular) will then be advanced into the dural venous sinuses, and venography
      will be performed to determine the presence of any dural venous sinus stenosis. Then, blood
      pressure will be transduced through the microcatheter at the following anatomic locations:
      Anterior superior sagittal sinus, posterior superior sagittal sinus, bilateral transverse
      sinuses, bilateral sigmoid sinuses and bilateral jugular bulbs. The venous pressure gradient
      will be defined as the difference in pressure measurements between the anatomic locations
      proximal and distal to any stenotic venous sinus segment, or between the transverse and
      sigmoid sinuses. A pressure gradient of ≥ 8 mmHg is considered sufficient for subsequent
      randomization. In patients in which pressure gradient is < 8 mmHg, the patient will not be
      randomized.

      Subsequent visits: Once a patient has met eligibility criteria and undergone randomization,
      treatment will occur within one month of the Neuro-Ophthalmology evaluations and within one
      month of diagnostic venography. Follow-up visits will occur at post procedure prior to
      discharge (24 hours), two weeks, six months and one year after the index procedure.

      At post-procedure follow-up, patients will undergo physical and neurological exams. At
      two-week follow-up (within one week on either side), patients will undergo neurological and
      ophthalmological evaluations, OCT, perimetry, and visual acuity testing for safety. While
      perimetry at this point will not be used for primary outcome analysis, substantial worsening
      in any of the above measures despite treatment will prompt consideration for treatment
      failure.

      At six-month follow-up, subjects will undergo perimetry for primary outcome analysis,
      outpatient diagnostic cerebral venography, and pressure measurements identical to that of the
      screening evaluation (including pressure measurements at all predefined anatomical locations)
      within four weeks on either side of the six-month target date. At both six-month and one-year
      follow-up visits, patients will complete follow-up quality of life questionnaires (HIT-6,
      SF-36 and VFQ-25 + Neuro-Ophthalmology supplement).These visits will also include queries
      regarding interim medical history, headache status, medication usage (specifically details
      and dose of those agents used to treat IIH or headache), and the number of IIH-related
      procedures each subject has undergone since the index procedure. At one-year follow-up, the
      patient will undergo Magnetic Resonance Venography (MRV) or Computed Tomography Venography
      (CRV) to assess patency of stented dural sinus. Follow-up will occur within four weeks on
      either side of the one-year target date.
    
  