
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To evaluate safety, tolerability, and feasibility of pNGVL4a-Sig/E7(detox)/HSP70 DNA
           vaccine and TA-HPV vaccine with or without imiquimod in patients with human
           papillomavirus (HPV)16-positive grade 3 cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN3).

      Secondary

        -  To evaluate the effect of this regimen on histology, based on the regression of cervical
           intraepithelial neoplasia.

        -  To evaluate the feasibility and safety of study immunotherapy in these patients.

        -  To evaluate the quantitative changes in cervical HPV viral load in these patients
           following study immunotherapy.

        -  To evaluate changes in lesion size.

        -  To evaluate the cellular and humoral immune response to vaccination.

        -  To evaluate local tissue immune response.

        -  To correlate measures of immune response with clinical response.

        -  To correlate measures of immune response with those observed in the preclinical model.

        -  To evaluate if the efficacy of the prime-boost vaccination can be improved with the
           cervical application of imiquimod.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study of TA-HPV vaccine (groups 1-3 only). Patients are
      assigned to 1 of 5 treatment groups.

        -  Groups 1-3: Patients receive pNGVL4a-Sig/E7(detox)/HSP70 DNA vaccine intramuscularly
           (IM) in weeks 0 and 4 and TA-HPV vaccine IM in week 8.

        -  Group 4: Patients receive topical imiquimod applied to the cervix once in weeks 0, 4,
           and 8.

        -  Group 5: Patients receive pNGVL4a-Sig/E7(detox)/HSP70 DNA vaccine and TA-HPV vaccine as
           in groups 1-3, and imiquimod as in group 4.

      Patients experiencing no improvement of their lesions at week 15 undergo standard cone
      resection of the squamocolumnar junction. If there is either 1) regression of the size of the
      lesions by colposcopy and/or 2) no CIN3 lesions detected by colposcopy/biopsy and Pap smear
      and/or 3) significant decrease of HPV viral load, patients are followed until week 28. At
      that time, loop electrosurgical excision procedure (LEEP) resection is performed if there is
      a CIN3 lesion detected by colposcopy/biopsy or suspected by Pap smear. Patients undergoing
      LEEP are followed until week 32. Patients not undergoing LEEP are followed until week 41 to
      confirm CIN3 regression.

      Blood and tissue samples are collected periodically to measure immune response via ELISA,
      determine viral load and identify co-infecting HPV types via reverse-line blotting, and
      analyze lymphocytes via flow cytometry.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 36 patients (3 in groups 1 and 2, 12 in groups 3 and 5, and 6
      in group 4) will be accrued for this study.
    
  