
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine whether in advanced colorectal carcinoma patients who have been previously
      treated with 5-FU, the overall survival of patients treated with OXAL + 5-FU + CF followed by
      CPT-11 is equivalent to the survival of patients treated with CPT-11 followed by OXAL + 5-FU
      + CF.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Evaluation of time to tumor progression, time to treatment failure, toxicity of treatment,
      and overall response rate in patients treated with these two regimens.

      II. To compare quality-of-life measurements patients treated with these two regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      performance status (ECOG 0-1 vs 2), primary indicator lesion (hepatic vs pulmonary vs other),
      age (less than 65 vs at least 65 years), alkaline phosphatase (less than 2 vs at least 2
      times ULN), fluorouracil failure (adjuvant vs metastatic), and membership (intergroup vs
      expanded participation project). Patients are randomized to one of two treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive irinotecan IV over 90 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 3
      weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours on day 1, leucovorin calcium IV over 2
      hours on days 1 and 2, and fluorouracil IV bolus followed by IV infusion over 22 hours on
      days 1 and 2. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients who experience progression or toxicity on the initial regimen may crossover to the
      other regimen. At least 3 weeks must elapse between regimens.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, prior to each chemotherapy course, at crossover, and
      at the end of the study.

      Patients are followed every 6 months for 3 years or until death.
    
  