
    
      The process of gait recovery in patients with severe post-stroke hemiplegia requires a
      significant investment and effort for both the patient and the therapist and is not always
      leading to a safe and autonomous gait. Increasing the chances for the patients of regaining a
      functional walking gait within limited timeframes is a challenge. Several studies have
      focused their attention on the neurological foot in the chronic phase because a poorly
      controlled foot dorsiflexion is a factor limiting gait recovery and increasing fall risk.
      Functional Electrical Stimulation (FES) can be used as an alternative to an orthosis to
      restore walking by activating paralyzed muscles. FES has been extensively studied to correct
      drop foot by activating foot dorsiflexors or inducing a withdrawal reflex.

      Few studies have considered knee joint which has a major role, especially for the quality of
      the support, and this over the entire cycle of walking. In the initial phase after stroke,
      ensuring a safe knee control remains difficult because of the associated disorders including
      the lack of proprioceptive feedback. Classical observed disorders in this population are knee
      hyperextension during the stance phase (genu recurvatum) and flexed knees (crouch gait).
      Fixed orthoses are usually used to prevent this by limiting knee flexion or extension over
      the gait. FES is also an alternative to produce appropriately timed knee flexion or
      extension. Bioness L300 Plus© device proposes a thigh cuff embedding electrodes stimulating
      the quadriceps muscles to extend knee at the appropriate time during gait based on shank
      angle observation. Previous studies have investigated the contribution of quadriceps and
      gluteus maximus stimulation in improving standing balance and weight transfer or hamstrings
      stimulation associated to foot dorsiflexors stimulation in improving gait performance.

      One of the main objectives of an early rehabilitation is to encourage patients with
      hemiplegia to rely on their paretic leg and to transfer their weight onto it while walking.
      Depending on the gait phase, the knee extension and flexion are restricted to a safety range
      by the adaptive delivery of quadriceps and hamstring electrical stimulation. A sensor network
      detects gait phases and knee angle evolution from which stimulation levels are modulated.
    
  