
    
      Coronary microcirculatory dysfunction has been known to be prevalent even after successful
      revascularization of ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) patients.
      Microvascular obstruction (MVO) in cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) is significant prognostic
      indicator in STEMI patients after primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). Although
      current gold-standard method to assess microvascular damage or dysfunction in STEMI patients
      is CMR and assessment of MVO, previous study presented that index of microcirculatory
      resistance (IMR) in culprit vessel of STEMI patients showed significant association with the
      presence of MVO in CMR and the risk of cardiac death or heart failure admission.
      Nevertheless, the need for pressure-temperature sensor wire and hyperemic agents
      significantly limits adoption of IMR in daily practice.

      Recent technical development enabled angiographic derivation of IMR without pressure wire,
      hyperemic agents, or thermodilution method. In this regard, the current study will evaluate
      the feasibility of functional angiography-derived IMR (angio-IMR) in the evaluation of MVO
      after successful primary PCI for STEMI.

      The study population will be derived from the prospective institutional AMI registry of
      Samsung Medical Center between December 2007 and July 2014. Main results from this registry
      were published elsewhere (PLoS One. 2017 Jan 12;12(1):e0170115 and Sci Rep. 2019 Jul
      4;9(1):9646). In this registry, 515 consecutive patients who presented with acute myocardial
      infarction and underwent CMR were prospectively enrolled. AMI was defined as evidence of
      myocardial injury (defined as elevation of cardiac troponin values, with at least one value
      above the 99th percentile upper reference limit) with necrosis in a clinical setting,
      consistent with myocardial ischemia. Among the total patients, STEMI patients (n = 332),
      whose electrocardiogram showed ST-segment elevation more than 1 mm in two or more contiguous
      leads or a presumably new-onset left bundle branch block, will be analyzed for the current
      study. For the study purpose, patients with failed primary PCI (n=1), treated by medical
      treatment alone without PCI (n=4), and no available coronary angiographic images (n=3) will
      be excluded. Among the remaining 324 patients, functional coronary angiography core
      laboratory (Shanghai Institute of Cardiovascular Diseases, Shanghai, China) evaluated the
      quality of angiographic images and additionally exclude patients with insufficient image
      quality for angio-IMR calculation (n=37). All patients also underwent baseline and 1-year
      follow-up echocardiography. The Institutional Review Board of Samsung Medical Center approved
      this study, and all patients provided written informed consent.

      The association of Angio-IMR with CMR-derived quantitative parameters (extent of MVO, infarct
      size, area at risk) and qualitative parameter (presence of MVO) will be analyzed. The
      discrimination ability of angio-IMR to predict the presence of MVO in CMR will be compared
      with conventional angiographic measures of culprit vessel reperfusion (TIMI flow grade,
      myocardial blush grade).
    
  