
    
      Study population: Between December 2007 and March 2009, this study enrolled AMI patients who
      had received cardiac catheterization for potential coronary intervention. AMI was defined
      using the European Society of Cardiology / American College of Cardiology guidelines.
      Exclusion criteria were the following: 1) presence of mitral stenosis or prosthetic valve, 2)
      more than mild severity of aortic/mitral valvular problem, 3) any abnormality of atrial
      septum (e.g., atrial septal defect or aneurysm), 4) rhythm other than sinus rhythm and 5)
      lack of informed consent. Finally, 521 patients participated in this study and were under
      final analysis. All patients and controls gave written informed consent to participate in the
      study, and the study was approved by the institutional review board at Kaohsiung Veterans
      General Hospital.

      Cardiac catheterization: Before catheterization, all patients received 300 mg of aspirin and
      300 mg of clopidogrel. After detail explanation and informed consent, patients were subjected
      to diagnostic coronary angiography via a femoral approach following intravenous injection of
      unfractionated 7500 U heparin. There were 46 cases required coronary artery bypass grafting
      (CABG) with/without other repair procedures due to failed percutaneous coronary intervention
      procedure, severe multiple vessel disease, left main lesion, cardiac rupture, severe mitral
      regurgitation or post-MI ventricular septal defect. All other patients were treated
      successfully by primary PCI and stenting. Eight patients who had initially received primary
      PCI were later treated by CABG due to failure of the procedure, severe multiple vessel
      disease or complications (the 46 CABG patients cited above included these eight patients).
      Coronary angioplasty and stenting were performed for just the culprit lesion using standard
      techniques and bare-metal stents in all patients. The decision to use glycoprotein IIb/IIIa
      inhibitors was left to the discretion of the treating physician. The measurements of LVFP
      were performed via a fluid-filled pig-tail catheter placed into the LV after coronary
      angiography if PCI was not indicated or after primary PCI. The LVFP was continuously recorded
      (50 mm/s) by a 6-F pigtail catheter placed at the apex of the left ventricle and was taken
      from 3 to 5 end-respiratory cycles if patients could tolerate breath holding. The LVFP value
      was calculated as the mean of at least 3 consecutive cardiac cycles.

      Echocardiographic and myocardial tissue Doppler measurements: Echocardiography was performed
      immediately after LVFP measurements. All studies were performed by experienced sonographers
      and the results were reviewed by staff cardiologists with advanced echocardiography training.
      Left ventricular ejection fraction was calculated using Simpson's method for biplane images.
      Pulsed-wave tissue Doppler imaging (TDI) was performed using spectral pulsed Doppler signal
      filters, by adjusting the Nyquist limit to 15 - 20 cm/s (which approximated the myocardial
      velocities) and using the minimum optimal gain. In the apical views, a 3-mm, a pulsed-wave
      Doppler sample volume was placed at the level of the mitral annulus over the septal, lateral
      and inferior borders. Pulsed-wave TDI results were characterized by a myocardial systolic
      wave (Sm) and 2 diastolic waves: early (Em) and atrial contraction (Am). The pulsed-wave TDI
      tracing was recorded over 5 cardiac cycles at a sweep speed of 100 mm/s and was used for
      offline calculations. Average Em of septal and lateral mitral annulus was chose to estimate
      LVFP by the method of mitral E/Em.

      Measurement of LA volume: All volume measurements were calculated from apical four- and
      two-chamber views using the biplane area-length method. The LA volumes were measured at three
      points: 1) immediately before the mitral valve opening (maximal LV volume or Volmax); 2) at
      onset of the P-wave on electrocardiography (pre-atrial contraction volume or Volp); and 3) at
      mitral valve closure (minimal LV volume or Volmin). The LA distensibility was calculated as
      (Volmax - Volmin) / Volmin. The LA ejection fraction was calculated as (Volp - Volmin) /
      Volp. In all patients, LA volumes were indexed to body surface area (BSA).

      Follow-up: During index hospitalization, only cardiovascular death was deemed an event. A
      follow-up survey assessing inhospital mortality and hard events was carried out after
      discharge of index hospitalization. Sudden cardiac death, death related to cardiovascular
      problem, and any hospitalization related to heart were defined as hard event. Death within 1
      hour of the onset of acute illness or sudden collapse with unknown cause was diagnosed as
      sudden cardiac death. Follow-up was performed between December 2007 and February 2010 by
      telephone interviews, medical record reviews, and home visits.

      Interobserver variability: In the first fifty enrolled cases, Volmax, Volmin, and Volp were
      measured by two independent observers. Interobserver variability was calculated as the
      difference between the values obtained by the two observers divided by the mean.
      Interobserver difference and variability of Volmax were 4.1±5.4 ml and 6.6±8.7%,
      respectively. Interobserver variabilities and differences, were 8.1±8.9% and 2.9±3.2 ml for
      Volmin, 6.7±7.4% and 3.1±3.4 for Volp, respectively. Therefore, interobserver variabilities
      in LA distensibility and LA ejection fraction measurements were 7.8±6.6% and 3.1±3.2%,
      respectively.

      Statistical analysis: The SPSS software was used for all statistical analyses. Baseline
      characteristics of the study patients were grouped according to quartile of LA
      distensibility. All continuous variables were presented as means ± standard deviation.
      Analysis of variance and post hoc test for unpaired data were used to evaluate the
      significance of differences between groups. A p vale of < 0.05 was considered statistically
      significant. Comparison of clinical characteristics was performed by chi-square analysis for
      categorical variables. Event-free survival curves were generated by means of Kaplan-Meier
      estimates, and differences in survival were compared with use of the log-rank test. To
      evaluate the effect of different levels of LA distensibility on in-hospital mortality, and
      hard events, relative risk and 95% confidence intervals were calculated as hazard ratios
      derived from the Cox proportional-hazards model. Multivariate models were fitted with use of
      the available clinical covariates. The relationship curve between LA distensibility and LVFP
      was estimated using SPSS software. Bivariate analysis, simple correlation and linear
      regression were used when appropriate. Receiver-Operating Characteristic (ROC) curve analysis
      was also performed to assess the sensitivity and specificity for predicting elevated LVFP (>
      15 mmHg).
    
  