
    
      The prevalence of type 2 DM and related-complications continues to increase. Diet is a
      significant factor in the aetiology of type 2 DM. Intakes of zinc and omega 3 fatty acids may
      modulate glycaemic control, lipid metabolism, and inflammatory processes in the disease. Zinc
      is involved in many biological processes that include enzyme action, stabilisation of cell
      membranes, regulation of gene expression, and cell signalling. Zinc supplementation has been
      demonstrated to improve glycaemic control in both animals and humans. The normalising effect
      of zinc on glucose homeostasis may relate to its involvement in insulin metabolism. Zinc
      functions in the synthesis, storage, secretion, and action of insulin. Omega-3 also enhances
      glycaemic control and dietary supplementation with omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids has
      been shown to improve insulin sensitivity in subjects with DM. Both zinc and omega-3 function
      to mediate lipid metabolism. Zinc supplementation has been found to be associated with a
      beneficial increase in HDL cholesterol concentrations in individuals with type 2 DM. The
      mechanism may again involve insulin, which has been proposed as an independent predictor of
      plasma HDL. Omega-3 directly activates transcription factors that regulate lipid metabolism
      and is known to decrease serum triglyceride levels in DM. Zinc appears to beneficially impact
      oxidative stress-related parameters in DM via a range of mechanisms, including the regulation
      of copper,zinc superoxide dismutase, metallothionein, NF-κB and nitric oxide signaling. The
      purpose of this pilot study is to explore the effect of zinc and omega 3 supplementation on
      hyperglycaemia, dyslipidaemia, chronic inflammation, and oxidative stress in a population
      with type 2 DM.

      This study will recruit 48 postmenopausal women with type 2 DM. Participants will be randomly
      allocated to one of 4 groups for a period of 12 weeks: placebo, zinc, omega 3, or zinc +
      omega 3 supplementation. Usual dietary intake will be assessed before and after the trial
      period using 2-day estimated food records, which will be checked by a research dietitian.
      Blood samples will be collected from all participants at the start of the intervention (week
      0) then at 4 weekly intervals (weeks 4, 8, 12) by qualified phlebotomists. Blood samples will
      be analysed for plasma zinc, plasma lipids and fatty acids, markers of inflammation and
      oxidative stress, and indicators of glycaemic control. An aliquot of blood will also be used
      for the measurement of zinc transporter mRNA levels utilising real-time quantitative PCR
      techniques.
    
  