
    
      Phenylketonuria (OMIM 261600) results from the inherited deficiency of the enzyme
      phenylalanine hydroxylase, (PAH, Enzyme Classification 1.14.16.1). A deficiency of this
      enzyme leads to elevated blood and tissue levels of the amino acid phenylalanine upon
      exposure to normal amounts of dietary protein. The elevated phenylalanine in the brain is
      harmful to cognitive development, usually resulting in permanent severe mental retardation.
      Soon after the development of a special dietary treatment for PKU and of a simple screening
      test to detect elevated phenylalanine, newborn screening for PKU became widespread and early
      detection and treatment largely prevented the severe neurological effects of PKU.

      With population-based detection of hyperphenylalaninemia, it soon became apparent that there
      was significant biological variation of phenylalanine levels between patients (i.e.
      inter-individual biological variation) with phenylketonuria (PKU) and this now forms part of
      the classification system for hyperphenylalaninemia (i.e. benign hyperphenylalaninemia, mild,
      moderate or classical phenylketonuria). While variations of the classification system exist,
      most commonly "classical" PKU refers to individuals with plasma phenylalanine levels greater
      than 1200 µmol/L on an unrestricted diet. "Moderate" PKU refers to levels between 900 and
      1200 µmol/L, while "mild" PKU refers to levels between 600 and 900 µmol/L. "Non-PKU" or
      "benign" hyperphenylalaninemia refers to phenylalanine levels less than 600 µmol/L on an
      unrestricted diet, that while greater than normal phenylalanine levels (< 100 µmol/L),
      historically have not been prescribed dietary restriction of phenylalanine. This
      inter-individual variation is generally due to variable residual enzyme activity and genotype
      in PKU patients.

      Intra-individual variation (the changes of phenylalanine levels in one individual) has been
      observed by all clinicians who treat PKU. While some of this variation is simply the
      expression of the underlying genotype when a patient's dietary phenylalanine level exceeds
      prescribed amounts (i.e. "cheating" on their diet), other variation represents shifts from
      anabolic to catabolic states in a diurnal pattern or during intercurrent illness. While
      overall exposure to high phenylalanine has long been known to adversely affect IQ scores,
      recently increased variability in phenylalanine levels has been reported to be linked to
      lower IQ, highlighting the importance of improving our understanding of intra-individual
      variation.

      New treatments for PKU, therefore, need to be assessed in terms of their effect on biological
      variation of phenylalanine. Sapropterin dihydrochloride (KuvanTM) is a small molecule drug
      that can lower phenylalanine levels in patients with phenylalanine hydroxylase deficiency by
      a direct interaction with the enzyme . The pharmacokinetics of KuvanTM have been evaluated in
      adults and are undergoing evaluation in pediatric patients, however, the biological effect of
      KuvanTM in terms of lowering of blood phenylalanine levels would be expected to have a longer
      profile than the blood levels of the drug itself because the half-life of the activated
      enzyme would be longer. This suggests that KuvanTM may have a modulating effect on variation
      of blood phenylalanine levels in PKU patients.

      In this observational study, the investigators will directly measure the short-term
      biological variation of blood phenylalanine in hyperphenylalaninemic patients by frequent
      measurements of phenylalanine levels over a 24 hour period. The investigators will enroll
      subjects already followed at one of the two study sites who are treated by diet alone or who
      are treated with KuvanTM therapy (+/- diet). During the 24 hour period subjects will be asked
      to maintain their typical diet/therapy.

      Hypothesis: Biological variation will be less in KuvanTM treated patients than in classical
      phenylketonuria treated by diet alone.

      OBJECTIVES:

      Determine short-term biologic variation in people with hyperphenylalaninemia, with and
      without KuvanTM therapy.
    
  