
    
      METHODS Study Design DAVID-HF is a prospective, multi-center, randomized controlled,
      open-labeled study. The study is registered with the ClinicalTrials.gov. Patients with
      acutely decompensated HF and reduced LVEF on discharge from hospital will be randomized in a
      1:1:1 ratio to home-based remote HF management system with active physician-directed
      management or home-based remote HF management without activation or optimal medical
      management (routine care). (Figure 1) The investigation conforms with the principles outlined
      in the Declaration of Helsinki. The study protocol has been approved by the Institutional
      Review Board of The University of Hong Kong, and Hong Kong West Cluster, Hospital Authority,
      Hong Kong. Approval at other participating sites will be subsequently obtained.

      Patients The patient eligibility criteria are summarized in Table 1. Briefly, adult patients
      discharged from hospital following an episode of acutely decompensated HF that required
      intravenous diuretic therapy within 14 days and with LVEF <40% will be recruited. The
      diagnosis of ADHF will be based on (1) the presence of symptoms and signs of heart failure as
      defined according to the Framingham Heart Failure Score (≥2) at the time of admission, (Table
      2)(17) (2) radiographic evidence of pulmonary congestion on chest radiography, and (3)
      elevated serum concentration of brain-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) >100 pg/mL. Patients
      will be excluded if they have a history of acute coronary syndrome within the last four
      weeks, complex congenital heart disease, or significant valvular stenosis, are unable to
      operate simple electronic devices, are unable or refuse to provide informed consent, or if a
      mobile network service is unavailable in the place of residence.

      Home-based Remote Heart Failure Management System The home-based remote heart failure
      management system has been designed and manufactured by Heartisans limited (Hong Kong SAR,
      China) in collaboration with Prof. Chung-Wah SIU from The University of Hong Kong. The system
      is able to remotely monitor a patient's physiological parameters that will be communicated
      wirelessly via a smartphone-based device to the heart failure team. (Figure 2) The system
      comprises a wearable heart failure monitor, a Blue-tooth blood pressure measuring device, and
      a Blue-tooth bath scale. The wearable heart failure monitor is capable of (1)
      photoplethysemograph (PPG)-based continuous pulse rate monitoring, (2) electrocardiogram
      (ECG) acquisition, (3) bio-impedance measurement, and has (4) an activity sensor in a
      wristband, and (5) a global positioning system (GPS)-based 6-minute walking distance test
      with a smartphone. The PPG-based pulse rate monitor will continuously acquire beat-to-beat RR
      Intervals with an intelligent motion artifact removal algorithm. The daily activity as
      detected by the motion sensor will continuously monitor patient activity. Patients will be
      instructed to record a 30-second single lead ECG and to perform one bio-impedance measurement
      every morning as well as to perform a 6-minute walking distance test every week. The wearable
      monitors will be worn for 16-18 hours during waking hours and be recharged while sleeping. In
      addition, patients will be instructed to measure their blood pressure in the morning and
      evening and body weight in the evening, every day. All remotely obtained physiological data
      will be transferred in real time through a specially-designed application on the smartphone
      to the doctor console. (Figure 3 and Table 3) All patients will be followed up for 1 year.
      (Table 4)

      Intervention procedure After randomization, patients in Group 1 and Group 2 will be provided
      with a home-based remote heart failure management system, and will be instructed to perform
      daily routine measurements. (Table 3) For patients randomized to Group 1, the home-based
      remote heart failure management system will be connected via the internet for active
      intervention. In Group 2 patients, the system will not be activated although all data will
      continue to be stored and reviewed at clinic visits. For patients in Group 1,
      clinically-assigned targets and alert thresholds of individual physiological parameters
      including blood pressure, pulse rate, and body weight will be decided before discharge and at
      entry into the three management modes (see below). Site investigators will review individual
      patient physiological parameters upon clinic visits, and treatment can be initiated through
      instant communication (electronic communication and/or phone). Patients in Group 3 will
      receive routine care.

      Early discharge mode The objective of early discharge is to optimize volume status, primarily
      using an oral diuretic. This will be accomplished by daily measurement of body weight, blood
      pressure, heart rate, and symptom score. Dosage of diuretic will be titrated as appropriate.
      (Appendix A)

      Drug escalation mode The objective of drug escalation is to ensure the utilization of
      evidence-based medications at the maximally tolerated dose. These include
      angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB),
      beta-adrenergic block (BB), mineralocorticoid antagonist (MRA), ivabradine, and
      sacubitril/valsartan. The aim is to maximize the dosage of one evidence-based anti-heart
      failure medication per week in a sequence according to European Society of Cardiology
      guidelines for the diagnosis and treatment of acute and chronic heart failure, i.e., first
      line: ACEI/ARB, MRA, and BB; and second line: ivabradine and sacubitril/valsartan.(18) The
      dosage of medications will be stepwise increased to the maximally tolerated dose according to
      patient status. (Appendix B) The duration of drug escalation will range from 2 to 16 weeks.
      Blood pressure, heart rate, body weight, subjective symptom score, daily activity, and
      6-minute walking distance will be monitored.

      Maintenance mode The objective of maintenance mode is to ensure medication compliance and
      early detection of complications such as acutely decompensated HF and atrial fibrillation.
      This will be accompanied by daily measurement of blood pressure, heart rate, body weight,
      subjective symptoms, daily activity, and single-lead ECG. (Appendix C)

      Study measures The primary outcome measure will be a composite of re-hospitalization for
      acute decompensated HF and/or mortality within 1 year. The secondary outcomes will include
      1-year mortality and 1-year re-hospitalization for acute decompensated HF rate, New York
      Heart Association functional class, average visual analogue symptom score, 6-minute walking
      distance, daily activity, utilization of evidence-based anti-HF medication, and quality of
      life measured with the Minnesota Living with Heart Failure questionnaire.
    
  