
    
      Background:

      Diabetes is a common, morbid and expensive disease among veterans. Achieving adequate
      glycemic control and blood pressure control can reduce the devastating complications of
      diabetes. Because the majority of patients do not achieve adequate control of blood sugar and
      blood pressure, innovative strategies to improve control are needed. One strategy with great
      potential for veterans receiving VA care is the group clinic. Group clinics have been
      developed over the last 5-10 years, and have been shown to improve clinical outcomes and
      reduce outpatient utilization in geriatric settings. Group medical clinics involve a cohort
      of 8-20 patients who have 1-2 hour group visits. These clinics are distinguished from
      traditional group education visits for diabetes by the fact that these visits involve one
      physician and one or more additional health care professionals, usually a nurse practitioner
      and/or a pharmacist, and are designed to make management changes for a number of people with
      the same disease in a short period of time. The effect of group medical clinics on blood
      sugar, blood pressure, and the cost of diabetes care, is unknown.

      Objectives:

      Our primary objectives in this project were to determine the effectiveness and
      cost-effectiveness of a group visit intervention in improving rates of control of diabetes
      and high blood pressure in patients with both illnesses.

      Methods:

      We performed a two-site, randomized, controlled trial of group medical visits for diabetes
      management. Patients were patients in primary care at the Durham or Richmond VAMC's who had
      inadequate control of both their blood sugar and their blood pressure. We excluded patients
      with life-limiting illness. Patients randomized to the control arm received usual primary
      care. Patients randomized to the intervention arm were assigned to attend a group medical
      clinic every two months for one year. In the clinic, a primary care physician, with the
      assistance of a nurse and a pharmacist, measured blood pressure at the point of care,
      reviewed blood sugar logs, and then made all necessary medical changes for patients with
      diabetes. The primary outcomes were hemoglobin A1c and systolic blood pressure. Additional
      outcomes will be serum LDL-cholesterol, diabetes-specific quality of life, and health
      services utilization. Formative evaluation was undertaken to determine the mechanism of the
      intervention and to prepare for more successful dissemination if the intervention is
      effective. Formal cost analysis will be performed and cost-effectiveness analysis will be
      undertaken. All outcomes were measured at baseline, and 6 and 12 months after the beginning
      of the intervention.

      Status:

      All patient contact complete. Project is in analysis phase.
    
  