
    
      Traumatic spinal cord injuries cause severe neurological deficits (motor, sensory and
      autonomic disorders). Affected individuals have functional limitations and a reduced quality
      of life that result in high medical and social costs. Some studies have shown that early
      rehabilitation improves recovery. It seems therefore essential to optimize patient management
      in the acute phase in order to improve interventions and optimize their functional recovery.

      A major barrier to early patient management is associated with a lack of knowledge about the
      neurophysiological mechanisms of acute spinal cord injury. Moreover, early assessment of
      prognosis is still difficult to make. The early assessment is based almost exclusively on the
      clinical neurological examination and does not include an objective measurement of underlying
      neurophysiological processes. The possibility to establish an accurate neuro-functional
      prognosis at an early stage will have the advantage to guide clinical decision, allow the
      development of an appropriate rehabilitation plan and figure out the long-term needs of the
      patient while promoting better collaboration.

      Clinical neurological examination includes among other things, the evaluation of the
      bulbocavernosus reflex. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the possibility to use
      electromyography in acute phase after a traumatic spinal cord injury to measure
      quantitatively and objectively the bulbocavernosus reflex. This study also aims to determine
      if there is a relationship between the bulbocavernous reflex and neuro-functional recovery 3
      months after a traumatic spinal cord injury.

      The bulbocavernous reflex of patients admitted for acute traumatic spinal cord injury will be
      assessed within 72 hours post-trauma according to the International Standards for
      Neurological Classification of Spinal Cord Injury (ISNCSCI) and by electromyography.
      Neurological improvement during the rehabilitation process and functional status at 3 months
      following the traumatic spinal cord injury will also be assessed. Descriptive analyses will
      be proposed to characterize the bulbocavernous reflex obtained by electromyography
      evaluation. Comparative analyses will be carried out to describe the characteristics of
      patients with different bulbocavernosus reflex stimulation thresholds. Correlations will also
      be established to determine the relationship between the electromyography evaluation of the
      bulbocavernosus reflex and the neurological and functional improvement of the patient.
    
  