
    
      As T790M is the most common mechanism of acquired resistance to EGFR TKI, EGFR TKIs targeting
      T790M has been developed.

      AZD9291 is an oral, potent, irreversible EGFR-TKI selective for sensitizing (EGFRm) and T790M
      resistance mutation with a significant selectivity margin against wild-type EGFR. As a
      result, AZD9291 can effectively block EGFR signaling both in EGFR single mutant cells with
      activating EGFR mutations and in double mutant cells bearing the resistance T790M mutation.

      This is a prospective, open label, multi-centre single arm phase II study assessing the
      efficacy and safety of AZD9291 monotherapy in patients with stage IIIB or IV harboring
      sensitising EGFR mutation (exon 19 deletions and exon 21 L858R substitution mutations) and
      T790M who have progressed following prior treatment with an approved EGFR TKI. Approximately
      108 subjects will be enrolled.

      All patients must have documented radiological progression on EGFR-TKI treatment and on the
      last treatment administered prior to enrolling in the study.

      Target patient population:

      Patients will be > 18 years of age, with a diagnosis of locally advanced/metastatic NSCLC not
      amenable to curative surgery or radiotherapy with documented activating EGFR mutations (exon
      19 deletions and exon 21 L858R substitution mutations) at the time of initial diagnosis, have
      radiological disease progression following either 1st line EGFR TKI treatment OR following
      prior therapy with an EGFR TKI and a platinum-based doublet chemotherapy. Plasma sample must
      harbour an EGFR mutation known to be associated with EGFR TKI sensitivity (exon 19 deletion,
      L858R as well as presence of T790M by central lab testing from a plasma sample taken after
      confirmation of disease progression on the most recent treatment regimen. Patients must have
      normal organ and bone marrow function and ECOG PS 0-2.

      Treatment and regimens:

      Patient will be treated with AZD9291 at a starting dose of 80mg once a day until the patient
      completes the study, withdraws from the study or closure of the study. A cycle of treatment
      is defined as 28 days of once daily AZD9291 treatment. Patients may continue to receive
      AZD9291 until objective disease progression (determined by RECIST 1.1) or if the subject is
      no longer receiving clinical benefit in the Investigator's opinion.
    
  