
    
      There are many differences between children's OSAHS and adult OSAHS. Children's OSAHS mainly
      causes cognitive and neuropsychological disorders, hyperactivity disorder, attention deficit
      hyperactivity disorder, aggressive behavior, learning decline and nocturnal enuresis. At
      present, there are many studies on cognitive impairment in children with OSAHS at home and
      abroad. Cognitive impairment mainly affects attention, memory, especially executive function,
      such as problem solving, planning, goal-oriented behavior and so on. Lau EY et al assessed
      cognitive function by Wechner intelligence scale, children's auditory task, digital vigilance
      test and so on. It was found that compared with the normal group, the language working memory
      of OSAHS children was significantly impaired . Peng Wanda et al used routine craniocerebral
      MRI sequence and fluid attenuated inversion recovery (FIAIR) sequence perpendicular to
      bilateral hippocampus for imaging. According to Scheltens standard and Fukudas method, the
      severity of (PVH), which was associated with hippocampal volume atrophy and white matter
      lesion, was evaluated. The changes of cognitive function were evaluated by Montreal Cognitive
      Assessment scale (MoCA) and Mini Mental State scale (MMSE). The results showed that
      hippocampal volume atrophy and white matter lesions were closely related to cognitive
      impairment in patients with OSAHS. Craniocerebral MRI technique can provide objective imaging
      basis for the diagnosis of cognitive impairment in patients with OSAHS . However, these
      studies also have shortcomings. first of all, most studies do not study the cognitive process
      of OSAHS children as a complete system, but only study the correlation between one side
      (subsystem) or some aspects of children's cognition. Such as memory, executive function and
      so on. Modern cognitive neuroscience holds that cognitive process is the process of
      receiving, coding, storing, extracting and using information in the brain, that is, the
      process of information processing. Whether OSAHS children have defects in the process of
      information processing has not been reported at home and abroad. Secondly, due to the
      limitations of cognitive assessment tools, there is a lack of quantitative research.
      Adenoidectomy (adenotonsillectomy,AT) is recognized as the most commonly used treatment for
      OSAHS . AT treatment can effectively relieve respiratory tract obstruction caused by the
      proliferation of lymphoid tissue in the upper airway during sleep. In recent years, it has
      been found that the inflammatory response mediated by 1eukotriene (LTS) plays an important
      role in the pathogenesis and progress of OSAHS. It has also been found that long-term
      continuous positive airway pressure ventilation (Continuous Positive Airway Pressure,CPAP)
      can reduce serum inflammation and improve cognitive impairment in children with OSAHS . These
      treatments relieve obstruction of the upper airway in children with OSAHS, relieve nocturnal
      hypoxia exposure, and help improve damaged cognitive function, but fully restore advanced
      brain function. That is, in the process of understanding objective things, the acquisition,
      coding, operation, extraction and use of sensory input information need to improve their
      cognitive function and cognitive skills through cognitive training.

      However, DN-CAS is a system established by English background. If the system is introduced
      directly, it may not adapt to the Chinese background. For example, Chinese phonetic training,
      Chinese character dyslexia training, planning process training based on Chinese cultural
      background and so on may not be applicable, so it is necessary to improve and introduce
      Chinese background based on PASS theory.

      The existing cognitive training systems at home and abroad can not form an electronic
      prescription system which can cooperate with the diagnostic results. The prescription form is
      presented in the traditional paper form and lacks good confidentiality, ease of use and
      storage management. The training system also lacks flexible support for personalized training
      of patients. Patients are under the guidance of the doctor on the spot, in the hospital venue
      to complete the training, the training process needs the doctor to carry on the artificial
      treatment and guidance. It is difficult for doctors to easily customize different training
      prescriptions for different patients, and it is also difficult to carry out the electronic
      management of patient training data. The existing cognitive training systems are stand-alone
      systems, and there is no integrated system of screening, diagnosis and training. The scope
      and effect of application are greatly limited, far from being able to meet the growing needs
      of patients. The training plan based on PASS theory should be a personalized scheme based on
      common principles to adapt to individuals with different cognitive function levels.
      Therefore, the system generates personalized electronic prescriptions according to the
      training knowledge base, in which different training levels, contents and processes are
      customized according to the level and characteristics of individual cognitive function. The
      electronic prescription is provided to the patient in an encrypted storage medium, and the
      patient uses it to carry out training at the telemedicine terminal. During the training, the
      electronic prescription can automatically guide the patients to carry out the training steps
      without artificial treatment and show the personalized training scene for the patients. The
      training process and results are automatically monitored and recorded to the training centre
      server for evaluation and analysis by doctors.

      The computer cloud system to be developed in this project is mainly composed of electronic
      scale evaluation system and brain cognitive function monitoring system. The electronic scale
      evaluation system is a semi-quantitative computer cloud system for self-evaluation of
      clinical symptoms and physician-assisted clinical syndrome evaluation. Its working principle
      is that the computer takes the place of doctors to conduct directional consultation with
      patients. The results of consultation were transformed into semi-quantitative data and
      compared with the established mathematical models to provide doctors with semi-quantitative
      decision-making data. The advantage of the system is that because the computer performs
      semi-quantitative consultation instead of the doctor, the patient's current history, past
      history, general situation and symptoms can be collected in detail and semi-quantitatively.
      At the same time, the working time of the doctor is saved and the intensity of the doctor's
      work is reduced at the same time, to the greatest extent, the omission of consultation in the
      consultation of the doctor is avoided, and the working time of the doctor is saved at the
      same time. (2) because the semi-quantitative results are compared with the previous data
      models, doctors can find diseases in more case models and help doctors find quantitative
      evidence for qualitative diagnosis. (3) due to the detailed consultation of the computer,
      sense of security, which brings high quality services to patients and detailed medical
      services, has increased the compliance of diagnosis and treatment. The brain cognitive
      function detection system is a computer cloud system laboratory, which is composed of several
      brain cognitive function detection subsystems, which reflects the function of brain
      information and function. The system presents the target task composed of the simplest visual
      basic geometry through the display screen, enables the detection object to complete the
      target task by operating the computer, and records the accuracy and time of completion. By
      comparing the results with the established mathematical models, we can measure the
      information plus function in 16 aspects of the human brain. Due to the introduction of time
      and space as the evaluation index of brain cognitive function, the detection of brain
      cognitive function gets rid of the traditional scale evaluation and enters the level of
      objective evaluation of physics.

      In summary, based on the international advanced cognitive science PASS theory, this project
      intends to establish a digital remote DN:CAS cognitive evaluation and training (DN:CAS)
      computer remote system under the Chinese background. The information processing process of
      OSAHS children was quantitatively evaluated, on the basis of which the classification of
      defects in children's OSAHS information processing process was further discussed, and a
      cognitive prescription and remote training system with independent intellectual property
      rights was constructed. Finally, a complete screening-diagnosis-training-reevaluation process
      based on cloud computing is formed, in order to provide a basis for personalized clinical
      diagnosis and treatment.
    
  