
    
      Osteoid osteomas (OOs) are small, benign but painful bone tumors, mainly observed in children
      and young adults. Pain, almost universal, is characteristically greater at night. Pain is
      well relieved by NSAIDs but resolution is not always complete and pain reappears a few hours
      after the last dose. Also long-term consumption of NSAID can lead to serious adverse events.
      Therefore OOs are usually cured shortly after diagnosis, mainly by means of percutaneous
      treatment (PT) under computed tomography (CT) (radiofrequency coagulation or interstitial
      laser ablation).

      The clinical success rate using these techniques is 96% at 6-month, 94% at 24-month. However,
      the technique is not distributed everywhere since it is performed by highly specialized
      interventional radiologists. The PT is performed under general, spinal or regional
      anesthesia. General anesthesia is used in most cases, especially in children. When the OO is
      located in close proximity to the skin, cartilage, vessels and nerves, severe complications
      may occur and additional procedures such as infusion of saline or injection of CO2 at the
      interface between the OO and the vulnerable structure are done. Also few anatomic locations
      are not accessible to a PT.

      The natural history of OOs remains poorly understood. However investigators in small series
      of conservatively treated OOs suggested a spontaneous healing of the lesion with
      mineralization of the nidus and resolution of pain (mean duration of pain in patients with
      NSAID treatment: 33 months NSAID).

      The efficacy of bisphosphonates on pain related to benign (Langherhans cell histiocytosis,
      fibrous dysplasia, Paget disease) or malignant bone lesions has been widely reported. The
      investigators observed such efficacy in a small series of 20 patients with percutaneously
      hard-to-reach or recurrent OO using one to three infusions of zoledronate. The clinical
      efficacy assessed on pain relief was accompanied by a significantly increased mineralization
      of the nidus. The investigators postulated that bisphosphonates had accelerated the natural
      history of OO.

      Our hypothesis is that three infusions of zoledronate (4mg) repeated monthly in patients with
      symptomatic OO is non-inferior to percutaneous treatment on the efficacy, measured by pain
      relief at Visual Analogical Scale (VAS).

      The main objective of this randomized study is to demonstrate that in patients with OO,
      treatment with three intravenous cycles of 4mg of zoledronic acid administered monthly, is
      non-inferior to treatment with percutaneous thermal ablation on the efficacy measured by the
      percentage of pain relief between baseline and end of treatment.

      NB: Patients for whom the OO would not be percutaneously accessible (that is to say when the
      percutaneous treatment or surgical excision destruction expose the patient to a substantial
      risk in terms of neurologic or joint damages) will be offered to participate in a cohort,
      only in Lariboisière and Cochin hospital in Paris. In the cohort, the clinical follow-up will
      be conducted as it is currently proposed in Laribosisière hospital (no act added by the
      research). Objectives of the register will be explained to the patient. It consists in
      collecting anonymized medical data after a bisphosphonate treatment to statuate on the
      efficacy of the bisphosphonates to relieve pain due to osteoid osteoma.

      Study design of the randomized study:

        -  Selection / Inclusion visit: verification of eligibility, randomization and recollection
           of patient consent.

        -  Intervention:

             -  percutaneous thermal ablation at V1 visit (i.e. maximum one month after the
                selection / inclusion visit)

             -  or three zoledronic acid infusions at V1, V2 (one month after v1) and V3 visits
                (one month after V2)

        -  V4 visit at 4 months (end of treatment, evaluation of the main outcome) and V7 visit at
           16 months (end of study, evaluation of the secondary outcomes).

        -  Option: One to 3 additional visits (V4, V5 and V6) for zoledronic acid infusion can be
           proposed to the patient, depending on the efficacy of the previous infusion.
    
  