
    
      Beta-lactam antibiotics, aminoglycosides, amphotericin B, cyclosporine, nonsteroidal
      anti-inflammatory drugs, antineoplastic, or antivirus drugs that are used extensively in
      clinical settings bear the risk of nephrotoxicity. This side effect is dose-dependent and has
      been attributed mainly to the accumulation of drugs in the renal proximal tubule. When
      assessing nephrotoxicity, both the dosage and the tubular secretion system, which allows
      transport of drug from blood to urine via the tubular cells, are important factors. This
      study was designed to investigate how renal transporters work in the renal secretion of
      specific drugs.

      Transporters in kidney are critical in detoxification and elimination of xenobiotics from
      systemic circulation, and thus are major determinants of drug response and sensitivity.
      Transporters in the renal epithelium control the exposure of renal cells to nephrotoxic drugs
      and environmental toxins and thus determine xenobiotic-induced nephrotoxicity. Organic anion
      transporters (OATs) and organic cation transporters (OCTs) are two major classes of secretory
      transporters in the mammalian kidney. Among the uptake transporters, OAT1, OAT3, or OCT2
      appear to be particularly important in the renal basolateral membrane to transport a large
      variety of endogenous and therapeutic compounds.

      Recently, rapid advances in single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) mapping can now be applied
      to characterize the individual patients who suffer adverse effects to a drug, or those for
      whom a drug shows efficacy. The aim of this study was to identify and functionally
      characterize OCT2 variants as a first step towards understanding whether genetic variation in
      OCT2 may contribute to interindividual differences in renal elimination of vancomycin.
      Taiwanese patients will be screened and 12 coding region variants of OCT2 will be identified.
      The non-synonymous variants of OAT1, OAT3, or OCT2 will then be constructed and characterized
      using in vitro human renal cell models. It is to establish whether genetic variants in OAT1,
      OAT3, or OCT2 are likely significant contributors to intersubject variability in drug
      response. In addition, approaches toward the prevention of some drug-induced nephrotoxicity
      are discussed, base on molecular mechanisms of renal accumulation of these drugs. Perhaps our
      understanding of OAT1, OAT3, or OCT2 in pharmacogenomics may contribute to the goal of
      individualized drug therapy. Development of new strategies based on the understanding of
      their cellular handing may achieve safer and more effective therapy for personalized
      medicines.
    
  