
    
      The purpose of this Clinical Investigation is to use the PlaqueTec Liquid Biopsy System (LBS)
      to determine which biomarkers detected locally within the coronary artery can give
      information on the state of atherosclerotic disease. The LBS is a novel CE-marked class III
      coronary catheter designed for sampling blood directly from the coronary arteries. The LBS is
      unique in that it can capture "gradients" of biological molecules within the coronary artery
      and by analysing the samples it collects it can unequivocally identify which biomarkers have
      been locally released within the coronary artery. The samples can then be analysed for a
      variety of biomarkers using standard analytical techniques. Cardiologists should find this of
      great benefit as recent studies have shown that coronary artery disease is controlled and
      directed by the release of specific biological molecules into the blood from diseased areas
      of the coronary arteries. The safety and performance of the LBS has been proved previously in
      a recent First In Man study. The Clinical Investigation study will enroll 70 patients and
      will be observational in nature. The study is designed to use the device in its intended
      application (i.e. as an adjunct to a PCI procedure, such as the deployment of a stent) and to
      collect biomarker gradients released locally within the coronary artery. It will then follow
      up on the health status of the patients and see if the release of certain biomarkers is
      associated with particular clinical outcomes. The device will be used to look for locally
      released biomarkers at two different stages of the deployment of a stent, i.e. before and
      after its deployment. The first stage is prior to the deployment of the stent and the LBS
      will collect blood samples to look for the release of "natural" biomarkers gradients, i.e.
      those biomarkers that are naturally released during the progression and development of
      diseased regions within the artery. The second stage is to use the LBS to collect blood
      samples across a diseased artery that has just be perturbed (by "pre-ballooning", a procedure
      carried out just prior to stent insertion) and will looked for "induced" biomarker gradients,
      i.e. those molecules that are released by a diseased plaque when it ruptures. The insights
      gained by collecting biomarker gradients at these two stages will give very important
      information on what causes a region of artery to become diseased and how diseased portions of
      the artery affect the blood and cause heart attacks. The samples that are collected by the
      LBS in the above clinical settings will be analysed for a series of biomarker gradients
      previously selected by PlaqueTec' s Scientific Advisory Panel (SAP) for their potential role
      in causing atherosclerosis. The data collected by the LBS will be for research only and will
      not be used to affect the patient treatment. In summary, the LBS study will deliver
      completely new insights into coronary artery disease and will significantly increase the
      understanding of this hugely significant disease. Patients who need an elective percutaneous
      transluminal interventional coronary procedure will be considered for this study. Patients
      requiring emergency interventional procedures will be excluded. The study duration is
      estimated to be about 8 months with a three year follow up period.
    
  