
    
      Curaleish is a topical formulation in lotion and cream that contains natural extracts
      (hydroalcoholic and glycolic for lotion and cream, respectively) of the branches (stems and
      leaves) of the Caesalpinia spinosa tree known as "Tara" or "Davidivi" , which was developed
      by Bionest SAS, Duitama, Colombia.

      The product is currently manufactured by Biohealthy SD S.A.S in accordance with Colombian
      Good Manufacturing Practices (BPM) and evaluated by PECET following the international
      standardized animal protocols and models of OECD.

      The development of a topical formulation of Curaleish is intended to offer a treatment to be
      applied locally in the lesion of the LC, with a high antiparasitic effect. The formulation of
      Curaleish lotion and Curaleish cream containing natural extracts, started from the activity
      demonstrated in In vitro for the hydroalcoholic extract of C. espinosa (EC50 = 18.4 ± 1.3 µg
      / mL) and a low cytotoxicity evidenced by an LC50 of 135.6 ± 0.7, 183.3 ± 1.1 and 136.6 ± 7.4
      µg / mL in human liver cells HepG2, human macrophages U937 and peritoneal hamster
      macrophages, respectively, and a selectivity index of 9.41, 9.96 and 7.42, respectively. This
      activity was validated in in vivo studies in hamsters experimentally infected with L.
      braziliensis. Applying the cream alone twice a day for 28 days produced a cure in 83% and
      fails in 17%. On the other hand, the lotion applied once a day for 28 days showed cure in 67%
      and relapse in 33%. When the lotion was used in combination twice a day and the cream once a
      day for 28 days, 100% cure was achieved, which occurred early in most hamsters, this is at
      the end of the treatment.

      Accelerated stability tests for 3 months and natural stability (6 months) under Zone IV
      conditions of the ICH (conditions 25ºC / 60% RH, 30ºC / 65% RH, 30ºC / 75% RH and 40ºC / 75%
      RH) have shown that the product meets the criteria required for physical and microbiological
      analysis, established by the United States Pharmacopeia (USP). These parameters are for the
      cream: density 0.957 ± 0.000 g / mL for the cream and 0.958 ± 0.000 g / mL for the lotion;
      Extensibility area 123.24 ± 19.64 mm2 for the cream; pH of 6.69 ± 0.115 for the cream and
      4.82 ± 0.017 for the lotion; <104 CFU of total aerobes and <103 CFU / mL for molds and
      yeasts.

      Weight, clinical appearance and behavior data, as well as histological studies obtained from
      preclinical acute dermal toxicity tests as well as cellular viability data obtained in skin
      irritation / corrosion tests for Curaleish lotion and cream, executed according With the OECD
      guidelines, it was concluded that skin contact with Curaleish products does not generate
      toxic effects at the local level (application site) or at the systemic level, so it can be
      considered as safe for use.

      An exploratory study to assess the safety, and to determine whether the Curaleish topical
      cream when the lotion is applied three times a day in combination with the cream, applied
      twice a day for 4 weeks showed that it is 83% effective for treatment of Colombian subjects
      with uncomplicated LC. 25 of 30 patients managed to cure between 1.5 and 3 months after the
      end of Curaleish treatment.

      The development of a topical formulation of Curaleish is intended to offer a treatment to be
      applied locally in the lesion of the CL, with a high antiparasitic effect. Skin
      irritation/corrosion tests for Curaleish lotion and cream, performed following the guidelines
      of the OECD, allowed to conclude that skin contact with Curaleish products does not generate
      toxic effects locally, or at a systemic level, therefore they can be considered safe for use.

      Main Objectives To assess the safety and tolerability of two Curaleish regimens administered
      topically in individuals with uncomplicated CL.

      The two regimes to evaluate are:

        -  Regimen 1: Curaleish lotion applied three times a day in combination with Curaleish
           cream applied two times a day for 4 weeks.

        -  Regimen 2: Curaleish lotion applied three times a day in combination with Curaleish
           cream applied two times a day for 6 weeks.

      Secondary Objectives Evaluate the safety of Curaleish (frequency and severity of adverse
      events (AEs)). Other secondary efficacy objectives include the assessment of the condition of
      the lesions over time up to 100% re-epithelialization of the ulcerated lesions and the
      proportion of individuals with 100% re-epithelization of not ulcerated lesions over time.
    
  