
    
      All patients, aged 6 and above, who present for an emergent or interval appendectomy to any
      one of the participating surgeons will potentially be enrolled in the study. Prior to
      surgery, the patient or the patient's guardian if a minor, will be informed of the study and
      consent (assent of minors will be obtained) will be requested. If consent is obtained, the
      patient's name and medical record number will then be sent to the inpatient pharmacy. They
      will be randomly assigned using a master list to either water or saline arm. The pharmacy
      will then send the correct solution to the operating room in the form of 3 one Liter bags.
      This will be ordered prior to going to the operating room. Next, a laparoscopic or open
      appendectomy will be performed according to the current standard of care. The surgeon will
      also be free to convert a laparoscopic procedure to an open procedure if deemed appropriate
      by his or her clinical judgment. The type of irrigant used during the case, however, will be
      blinded to the surgeon. The surgeon will use as much irrigation solution as they deem
      necessary based on an intra-operative decision. This will likely not have any affect on the
      study, as there is no standard amount of irrigation that is needed during appendectomies, and
      we do not wish to change the current practices of our surgeons. Additionally, the study
      question of if sterile water will decrease infectious rates will not be affected either. The
      science of this study will remain the same whether 10 mL or 3000 mL of irrigation solution is
      utilized. The surgeon may use more irrigation if deemed necessary to adequately wash the
      abdomen and remove all particulate matter and blood clots. At the end of the case, the
      surgeon will record the amount of irrigant used along with surgery date, duration of
      symptoms, surgery start and finish time, preoperative antibiotics, height and weight. The
      patient will be followed in the study for 30 days after surgery. There is usually a follow up
      office visit one to two weeks after the procedure. A chart review after the case will capture
      the length of stay, post-operative antibiotic, pathology report results, and complications
      consisting such as prolonged ileus (>2 days), bowel obstruction, prolonged fever (> 2 days),
      post-operative abscess, irrigation volume, and wound infection.
    
  