
    
      Given the high prevalence of interatrial block (WHO definition: PWD on surface ECG > 110 ms)
      in a general hospitalized population and especially in patient groups with tachyarrhythmias
      (18% and 52 % respectively), this phenomenon will be important to recognize in a BIC
      pacemaker patient population. Actually, the prevalence of advanced interatrial block (PWD >
      120 ms with biphasic P wave morphology) is 10% in candidates for definitive pacing and 32 %
      in patients with a bradycardia-tachycardia syndrome. The main underlying mechanism is thought
      to lie in abnormalities of the Bachmann bundle resulting in partial or advanced interatrial
      conduction delay (IACD). A normal IACD varies between 60 and 85 ms. Two potential mechanisms
      are spatial dispersion of refractory periods or anisotropy resulting from scarce side-to-side
      electrical coupling and fibrosis disrupting the arrangement of atrial muscle fibers.

      Patients with an interatrial conduction delay may have a suboptimal left atrioventricular
      timing due to delayed contraction of the left atrium with foreshortening of ventricular
      filling. This may be an issue in pacemaker patients, with our without a substrate for heart
      failure. Beside the loss of reduction of left atrial contraction, it might even induce
      neurohormonal changes due to atrial stretch and pressure thus lowering blood pressure.
      Coronary sinus or multisite atrial pacing, both with the aim of synchronizing right and left
      atrial electrical activation, have shown to (i) improve hemodynamics in patients with an
      important IACD, both invasively and noninvasively, and to (ii) decrease recurrences of atrial
      fibrillation. In patients with a conventional BIC pacemaker, prevention of left
      atrioventricular asynchrony can be achieved by AV optimization (lengthening of the AV delay
      in case of too short nominal settings) as an alternative. Though all these interventions have
      proven to have positive hemodynamic results until now evidence about positive effects on
      clinical patient outcomes are lacking.

      On the other hand, some of the patients implanted with a bicameral pacemaker have a too long
      AV delay. As a consequence diastolic filling time is impaired. Without compromising left
      atrioventricular synchrony AV delay, optimal AVD (AVO) can be achieved by lengthening of the
      AVD with conventional methods.

      In contrast to the setting of CRT, AV optimization in patients with a bicameral (BIC)
      pacemaker is not fully implemented in daily clinical practice. Given the proven effect on
      mitral inflow on echocardiography, we wanted to evaluate the effect of this non invasive
      intervention on patient functionality and quality of life, based on a comprehensive
      assessment of atrial pathophysiology.
    
  