
    
      Sequencing of exons :

      To date, most of syndromic obesities have not been elucidated. But, the lack of
      identification of molecular abnormalities involved limits information to families about the
      risk of recurrence and optimal support of patient.

      A new molecular biology tool called sequencing of exons ("exome") or targeted sequencing
      subset of the genome that code for proteins showed its power to identify mutations
      responsible for rare diseases, in a small number of individuals achieved unrelated. Indeed,
      this tool helped to identify two mutations in the gene TSPAN12 (Tetraspanin 12) in 23
      subjects with exudative vitreo-retinopathy, 3 mutations in the gene PRRT2 (proline-rich
      transmembrane protein 2) in 8 Chinese families with kinesigenic paroxysmal dyskinesia, 2
      nonsense mutations in the gene ANGPTL3 (angiopoietin-like 3) in 2 subjects with familial
      combined hypolipidemia, a mutation of the gene RBM10 (RNA binding motif 10) in 3 patients
      with syndromic form of cleft palate (TARP syndrome) or a mutation of the gene PALB2 (partner
      and localizer of BRCA2) in a patient with pancreatic cancer. The investigators believe that
      this tool could identify new molecular abnormalities in individuals with syndromic obesity.
      The detailed analysis of phenotypic data could identify a group of obese patients (at least
      10) sharing clinical and biological phenotype and in which this technique would be used.

      The exome sequencing will be conducted in subjects selected from their phenotype but also
      among their relatives (2 parents and a sibling) to provide additional discriminative
      capacity. Every new variant found at the homozygous state in obese patients and unaffected
      relatives will be immediately excluded from the list of candidate mutations. Conversely, any
      variant found in patients but absent in both parents and sibling is a potential de novo
      mutation. The presence of any variant candidate will be sought in the different exome public
      databases (dbSNP, 1000 Genomes, Exome Variant Server) and, in the case of an unlisted
      variant, it will be possible to genotype in cohorts of children with common obesity and
      non-obese in order to determine its frequency and thus provide additional information about
      its potential involvement in the syndromic obesity phenotype. The last step that will
      validate the role of the variant gene in the clinical picture will be in vitro analysis of
      the functional consequences on the protein and then in vivo in an animal models.

      The sequencing of all exons ("exomes") of the 40 selected subjects (10 probands with both
      parents and non-obese sibling) will be performed on genomic platform using a new type of
      generation sequencer Illumina HiSeq 2000. To do this, DNA 3μg (15μL concentration to 200
      ng/uL) will be needed per sample with then sequencing of type "paired-end" on 2 x 75bp. The
      generated sequences will be aligned with the reference genome (build hg19) using the BWA
      Software. Duplicates (PCR duplicates' and 'optical duplicates') will be eliminated as
      non-paired and misaligned sequences (Q-score <20). The generated sequences will then be
      recalibrated by GATK software to improve detection of such variations insertion / deletion.
      Detecting variants will be carried out using tools software and annotation will use the
      annovar software. Analyzes will focus on detected variants with a depth of at least 10x. The
      investigators will select any variant found in the homozygous state in the patient and in the
      heterozygous state with his parents (recessive hypothesis). Variants also found homozygous
      among the unaffected relatives will be excluded from the list of candidates. Any variant
      found in patients but absent in both parents may also be a potential candidate in case de
      novo The investigators believe that this strategy could facilitate diagnosis but also, after
      validation of the role of this variant in the pathology, assess the risk of recurrence for
      families by offering prenatal diagnosis if necessary. It also will provide a support as early
      as possible to these children, like the medical, psychological and social care of children
      with Prader-Willi syndrome. Indeed, the existence of a genetic diagnosis responsible for the
      phenotype allows the development of specific life project adapted to the patient and
      facilitates the development aid for disability through the reference centers and
      collaboration with departmental homes of disabled people (MDPH). Finally, the progress in
      understanding the mechanisms of these obesities may help to better understand the
      pathophysiology of the most common forms of obesity and improve the management.

      Patient Selection :

      For children and adults with syndromic obesity, day hospitalization is systematically planned
      in usual care to perform a complete clinical and biological assessment. The information about
      the various examinations made during the day of hospitalization are given during a
      consultation. The genetic study will be proposed It was proposed during this consultation to
      patients, children and adults, and their families. The hospitalization date is usually in the
      month following the consultation.

      Inclusion - patient day hospitalization :

      As part of usual care, a precise phenotypic characterization is performed by the investigator
      day hospitalization : family weight history, retrospective analysis of the personal weight
      history, clinical examination, anthropometry, dietary consultation, measures of body
      composition and expenditure energy of rest, food and physical activity questionnaires,
      endocrine and metabolic balanced.

      The research will consist of a blood sample of 20 mL extra for the genetic study and will be
      conducted in obese subjects after signing a consent. Patients for whom analyzable samples are
      already stored in the DNA bank No. DC2009-957 will not be sampled again.
    
  