
    
      On-site cytopathology interpretation during EUS-FNA has a significant clinical impact by
      increasing the diagnostic yield of the FNA. However, many hospitals do not have provision for
      on- site diagnosis of EUS FNA specimen. Therefore, optimal specimen obtainment and
      preparation of EUS FNA are is important to accurate diagnosis. EUS FNA is performed with or
      without self-retracting 10-mL syringe according to endosonographer's preference. In general,
      if there is too little cellularity on immediate cytologic evaluation, then use more suction,
      and, conversely, if the samples are too bloody, then use less suction. However, it is hard to
      determine the quality of specimen without on-site cytopathology interpretation. The actual
      way material is expressed from the needle may influence yield. Injecting air to express the
      material is problematic, because the material may spray out uncontrollably, risk of air
      artifact and specimen clotting may increase . A more controlled method is to pushing the
      stylet and slowly advance it to the needle tip. But use of the stylet during EUS-FNA is not
      only difficult and time consuming process but also increasing the risk of accidental needle
      stick injury. However, there is no firm evidence which one is the appropriate, suction or no
      suction and pushing the stylet or injecting air. If there was no significant difference
      between each methods, appropriate methods of obtaining and preparing aspirates undergoing
      EUS-FNA is no suction and injecting air and EUS FNA may perform more easier and shorter.

      In this prospective randomized controlled trial, patients with peripancreatic mass for
      EUS-FNA will be included. One patient will be underwent at least four puncture during
      EUS-FNA. The sequence of EUS-FNA with first four methods will be selected by using a
      randomization scheme obtained from a sealed envelope : (1) negative pressure suction with 10
      mL syringe and pushing the stylet; (2) negative pressure suction with 10 mL syringe and
      injecting air; (3) without negative pressure suction and pushing the stylet; (4) without
      negative pressure suction and injecting air. EUS FNA will be performed by two experienced
      endosonographers. All specimens will be read by same experienced pathologist blinded to
      methods.

      The investigators will compare between the four groups in terms of adequacy, cellularity,
      bloodiness, contamination, air artifact. The sensitivity, specificity, diagnostic accuracy,
      positive predictive value, negative predictive value and statistical agreement for the
      different methods will be calculated.
    
  