
    
      Crohn s Disease (CD), a major sub-type of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), is a chronic,
      life-long condition characterized by relapsing inflammation of the gastrointestinal (GI)
      tract. Despite recent advances in IBD therapeutics, a significant number of patients with CD
      continue to have significant symptoms.

      In prior studies, it has been demonstrated that epigenetic modifications of the genome are
      associated with and may contribute to the pathogenesis of various disease entities. One type
      of epigenetic modification involves acetylation and deacetylation of histones, mediated by
      histone acetyl transferases (HATs) and histone deacetylases (HDACs). Acetylation and
      deacetylation of histones regulates the affinity of histones for DNA, thus modulating the
      accessibility of transcription factors to gene promoters and enhancer sites. Of interest in
      this context is evidence that epigenetic modifications brought about by HDAC inhibitors
      (HDACi), i.e., agents that cause hyperacetylation of histones, can limit the course of
      gastrointestinal inflammation. One naturally occurring HDAC inhibitor, the bacterial product
      butyrate, has been shown to have effects on gene transcription that regulate potentially
      deleterious pro-inflammatory responses to microbiota in the gut environment. It has been
      shown that treatment of dendritic cells and macrophages with butyrate leads to
      down-regulation of lipopolysaccharide induced pro-inflammatory mediators such as nitric
      oxide, IL-6 and IL-12. In addition, butyrate has been shown to enhance the differentiation of
      intestinal Foxp3-positive T cells (T regulatory T cell (Treg) development that then modulates
      GI inflammation and contributes to mucosal homeostasis. Along the same lines, another HDAC
      inhibitor, vorinostat, has been shown to ameliorate graft-vs-host disease (GVHD) affecting
      the GI tract in patients undergoing allogeneic bone marrow transplantation. This
      anti-inflammatory effect was also attributable to increased Treg activity, suggesting that
      vorinostat, like butyrate, decreases inflammation by enhancing the activity of cells with the
      capacity to down- regulate immune responses. The effect of vorinostat on Treg cell expansion
      in this study was particularly notable because it suggested that Treg cell numbers can be
      increased by agents that have an intrinsic effect on the transcription of key Treg cell
      transcription factors. On this basis, treatment of patients with inflammatory and autoimmune
      diseases by influencing Treg cell numbers may be a more effective than alternative existing
      methods of inducing Treg cell expansion such as administration of purified Tregs.

      In this protocol we propose a proof of concept clinical trial to study the safety and
      efficacy of vorinostat (100 mg PO BID for 36 weeks) in treating 20 individuals with
      moderate-to- severe CD who have not been controlled by standard maintenance therapy. This
      will be accomplished in Phase II (12 weeks of treatment) and Phase III (36 weeks of
      treatment). We will assess the effectiveness of vorinostat by evaluating changes in symptom
      scores, endoscopic/histologic findings, and immunologic/laboratory parameters. The
      participant will return to the NIH CC after starting treatment on week 4, week 8, and week 24
      for assessment of safety labs and testing of clinical response. On Week 12 and week 36
      participants will return to the NIH CC for assessment of safety labs and testing of clinical
      and immunologic response.

      In Crohn s disease most patients have alternating periods of relapse and remission with half
      of patients requiring surgery within 10 years of diagnosis on present maintenance therapy.
      Therefore, the approach to treatment must also evolve from induction control of symptoms to
      preventing progression of the disease with maintenance therapy. Thus, treatments that safely
      maintain long-term remission are essential. Treatment guidelines for Crohn s disease
      recommend maintenance therapy after remission is achieved, particularly for moderate- to-high
      risk patients. Potential benefits include reduction in hospitalization and surgery and
      improved quality of life. Long-term efficacy has been studied with
      azathioprine/mercaptopurine, methotrexate, tumor necrosis factor (TNF) antagonists, and
      vedolizumab. Although TNF antagonists have significantly advanced the care of Crohn s
      disease, their efficacy is limited and the development of anti-drug antibodies is associated
      with loss of response in maintenance therapy. In addition, potential significant side effects
      of maintenance treatments include bone marrow suppression malignancy and serious infections.
      Therefore, a need exists for safer agents that have demonstrated improved long-term
      maintenance efficacy.

      The gut inflammation complicating Crohn s disease has been characterized as a T helper type 1
      (Th1)/T helper type 17 (Th17) inflammatory response, with excess IL-12, IL-23 cytokine
      production leading to the generation of excessive IFN-g and IL-17. Ustekinumab, a monoclonal
      antibody to the p40 subunit of IL-12 and IL-23, is currently FDA approved for the treatment
      of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis, active psoriatic arthritis, and moderately to
      severely active CD.

      Prior clinical trials have demonstrated long-term efficacy and safety profile of ustekinumab
      in psoriasis. Similarly, the long-term efficacy and safety of ustekinumab in Crohn s disease
      dosing had been established in the UNITI trial studies (up to 44 week treatment) in patients
      who have failed TNF antagonists or other conventional therapies. These studies demonstrated
      significant response rates and induction of remission rates with a positive safety profile.
      Studies addressing long term maintenance efficacy of ustekinumab in patients that are in
      remission have not been performed.

      In the present protocol (Phase IV), Crohn s disease patients that have achieved either a
      defined clinical response or are in remission with vorinostat will then be enrolled to
      receive long term maintenance treatment with ustekinumab. Participants will receive a weight-
      based IV loading dose of ustekinumab followed by administration of maintenance doses of 90 mg
      subcutaneously (SC) every 8 weeks with participants followed over a 2-year period.
    
  