
    
      Cannabis abuse and dependence are the most prevalent drug use disorders in the United States
      (Compton et al., 2004), yet little is known about the factors contributing to successful
      marijuana treatment. Previously, we have shown that cognitive impairments in patients treated
      for substance disorders are associated with premature treatment dropout. However, little is
      known about whether such impairments are the result of drug use per se. The objective of this
      within-subject study is to determine whether decision-making and risk-taking are affected by
      acute cannabis intoxication. The Balloon Analogue Risk Task (BART; Lejuez et al. 2002)
      assesses decision making in a context of increasing risk, and the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT;
      Bechara et al. 1994) tests the ability to balance immediate rewards against long-term
      negative consequences; both tasks have strong face validity for evaluating cognitive deficits
      that may contribute to poor treatment outcome. Research volunteers will be current marijuana
      smokers. Each will participate in three, 4-hour outpatient sessions in the Substance Use
      Research Center (SURC) in the Division of Substance Abuse at NYSPI. They will smoke a
      different strength marijuana cigarette (0.0, 1.98, 3.9% THC) in each session in
      counter-balanced order. After baseline data have been collected (risk taking and decision
      making behaviors, heart rate, blood pressure, mood scales, exhaled carbon monoxide),
      participants will take 3-6 puffs, 5 seconds in duration, from a National Institute on Drug
      Abuse (NIDA) marijuana cigarette. After smoking, we will repeatedly re-assess risk taking and
      decision making abilities with the BART and IGT. We will also measure subjective mood
      ratings, heart rate and blood pressure repeatedly for 180 minutes following smoking. This
      study is the first controlled investigation of the effects of smoked marijuana on both risk
      taking and decision making tasks. The data obtained will be used to guide treatment
      development for marijuana use disorders.
    
  