
    
      1. Patients that meet the inclusion criteria will be approached by a member from their care
           team, details of this study will be explained. Verbal consent to screening will be
           obtained during this phone interview and recorded in the clinical trial database;
           patients will be screened for their eligibility, and a clinical visit will be arranged
           for eligible patients.

        2. Consent form and questionnaires that are commonly used to collect general health
           information and assess OA patients' mental and physical functions (General
           Questionnaire, Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC)
           and 36-Item Short Form Health Survey (SF-36)) will be mailed to eligible patients.
           Patients will read consent form and fill up questionnaires.

        3. Eligible patients will be reached by phone by the research assistant at a later date to
           obtain their verbal consent to further contact regarding participating in the study, and
           consent status will be recorded in the clinical trial database.

        4. Initial clinical visit:

             1. All questions and concerns will be answered by researchers, consent form will be
                signed by participants, research assistant, and one of the investigators, and
                participants will be given a copy as record.

             2. Questionnaires (baseline) will be collected.

             3. 6.5 ml of blood sample (baseline) will be collected by a qualified research nurse.

             4. Participants will be randomly divided into 2 groups, each group will receive
                arginine and instruction or nothing, and will take arginine or nothing for 6
                months:

                  -  Group I (n=50): 1.5 g of L-arginine daily.

                  -  Group II (n=50): No supplement.

        5. Pre-admission clinical vist:

             -  WOMAC and SF-36 questionnaires (at 6 months of the trial) will be administered.

             -  6.5 ml of blood sample (at 6 months of the trial) will be collected.

        6. During total joint replacement surgery, small pieces of replaced joint cartilage tissue,
           which are normally thrown away, will be collected.

        7. At 6 and 12 months after the surgery, participants will be reached via phone by the
           research assistant to complete WOMAC and SF-36 questionnaires. A blood requisition form
           will be mailed to participants after the last phone interview for their next scheduled
           routine fasting blood work; 4 ml of blood sample will be collected for the study and
           sent to the clinical trail lab by the blood collection centre.

        8. Lab testing will be conducted; all outcome data will be obtained and analyzed.
    
  