
    
      Stroke is common in the United Kingdom and a leading cause of adult disability. It has been
      reported that more than half of all stroke survivors remain dependent on carers for everyday
      activities. A greater understanding stroke disease has led to improvements in stroke care for
      the general population.

      Patients with ESRD are at increased risk of cerebrovascular disease with a risk approximately
      5-10 times higher than the general population yet a relative paucity of data exploring the
      mechanisms and impact of stroke disease on patients on HD remains. Signs of cerebrovascular
      disease are common with evidence of early stroke disease (white matter hyperintensities on
      MRI) having been described in up to 50% of ESRD patients. In addition to this it is now
      estimated that up to 70% of patients on dialysis aged 55 years and older have moderate to
      severe cognitive impairment. Previous work has revealed that cognition declines during
      dialysis - specifically a decrease in executive function has been reported, without
      significant memory impairment. Such findings are in suggestive of vascular related injury.
      Mean cerebral blood flow assessed by transcranial Doppler ultrasound is reduced during
      dialysis, although whether this finding is associated with a clinical outcome is not clear.

      In order to generate appropriate preventive strategies for stroke in ESRD the mechanism by
      which injury occurs must be confirmed. In addition, although a decrease in executive function
      has been shown during HD it is unclear if long-term HD is associated with progressive decline
      or if this clinical finding correlates with neuroimaging.

      This study is being performed to determine:

        -  The impact of long term HD (including indices of cardiovascular instability) on changes
           on brain MRI and cognitive function.

        -  The relationship between intracerebral blood flow rate, brain MRI findings and
           neurocognitive function

        -  The relationship between intracranial blood flow measures (during and post haemodialysis
           (HD)) and brain perfusion and structure

      Following informed written consent patients will be observed over a 12 month period. On the
      first visit participants will undergo a transcranial ultrasound before and during HD to
      achieve baseline and intra-dialytic blood flow velocities. During the dialysis sessions a
      neurocognitive assessment (patient questionnaire) will be performed which will assess
      multiple cognitive domains. On completion of dialysis a subgroup will undergo a brain MRI.
      All patients will meet with the investigators within 2 weeks to repeat the neurocognitive
      assessment on a non-dialysis day. This will allow for comparison of cognitive changes,
      alterations in cerebral blood flow and (in some) correlation with MRI findings. All
      participants will repeat this process 12 months later.
    
  