
    
      This study aims to examine:

        1. the level of plasma vitamin C for patients that volunteered for alcohol withdrawal.
           Measurement of vitamin C plasma level will be performed as soon as possible after the
           agreement as the discussion with the physician could lead to a change in dietary habits.
           It will be performed by high-pressure liquid chromatography (Cerba Laboratory, F-Cergy
           Pontoise) according to Lee et al.

        2. the correlation between plasma vitamin C level and clinical signs of scurvy, especially
           signs of latent scurvy like tiredness, leg pain, gums involvement, previously loss of
           healthy teeth. These signs will be recorded in a structured questionnaire during the
           first consultation, before knowing the laboratory result patient. All patients who are
           smoking will perform systematic otorhinolaryngology examination in search of cancer.
           Other reasons for weakness will be searched by clinical anamneses, body examination,
           blood probe and abdominal ultrasound examination.

        3. the decrease or disappearance of tiredness and/or purpura and/or gums involvement will
           be studied after vitamin C supplementation in patients whose vitamin C plasma
           determination is under normal levels and that don't have another explanation for their
           tiredness. Patients will be evaluated after receiving 1 g oral vitamin C for at least
           three months.

      Ethical considerations The study was approved by the institutional ethics committee of the
      clinic and was conducted in accordance with the principles of the Declaration of Helsinki.
      Informed consent was obtained before entry study and each participant agreed to pay for the
      plasma vitamin C determination.

      Dissemination findings Findings for the present study will be reported in manuscripts that
      will be submitted for publication to a leading medical or nutrition journal in a appropriate
      field (i.e.alcoholism, nutrition). In addition, findings will be presented as abstracts,
      posters and presentations at conferences.
    
  