
    
      Aim: To study the effect of (WAVE Device) limb proprioceptive stimulation using a vibratory
      device on AoP events, intermittent hypoxic episodes (SpO2≤85%) and bradycardias(≤100bpm) in a
      premature infant with confirmed clinical diagnosis of apnea of prematurity (AoP).

      The objective of the WAVE device is to provide an adjunct to current care to provide support
      in apnea of prematurity (AOP). Recurrent apnea and accompanying resultant intermittent
      hypoxic (IH) episodes are significant concerns commonly encountered in premature infants, and
      optimal management is a challenge to neonatologists. AoP is defined as >20s breathing pause
      OR breathing pause of 10-20sec with clinical signs of Bradycardia (≤100bpm) and/or
      desaturation (≤85% SpO2) in infants born less than 37 weeks of gestation. When these pauses
      are longer (> 20s), they are frequently prolonged by obstructed inspiratory efforts, most
      likely secondary to loss of upper airway tonic activity. In extremely low birth weight (ELBW)
      infants, the incidence of IH progressively increases over the first 4 weeks of postnatal
      life, followed by a plateau and subsequent decline between 6-8 weeks.

      The incidence of AOP correlates inversely with gestational age and birth weight. Nearly all
      infants born <29 weeks gestation or <1,000 g, 54% at 30 to 31 weeks, 15% at 32 to 33 weeks,
      and 7% at 34 to 35 weeks gestation exhibit AOP (2). Both animal and human evidence show that
      immature or impaired respiratory control and the resultant IH exposure contribute to a
      variety of pathophysiologic issues via pro-inflammatory and/or pro-oxidant cascade as well as
      cellular mechanisms, e.g., apoptosis, leading to acute and chronic morbidities (e.g.
      retinopathy of prematurity, altered growth and cardiovascular regulation, disrupting zinc
      homeostasis which hampers insulin production and there by predisposing to diabetes in later
      life, cerebellar injuries and neurodevelopmental disabilities).

      Current standard of care for AOP includes prone positioning, continuous positive airway
      pressure (CPAP) or nasal intermittent positive pressure ventilation (NIPPV) to prevent
      pharyngeal collapse and alveolar atelectasis, and methylxanthine therapy (caffeine,
      theophylline), which is the mainstay of treatment of central apnea. Apart from prone
      positioning, none of these interventions are optimal for early development. CPAP masks will
      distort the bony facial structure in early development, and methylxanthine interventions pose
      serious questions of neural development interactions.
    
  