
    
      This study aims to test the hypothesis that cardiogoniometry (CGM) is helpful to identify
      physiologically significant coronary artery stenosis in comparison to fractional flow reserve
      (FFR).

      Last year in the UK 202 098 patients underwent coronary angiography to determine whether they
      had significant coronary artery disease. However, it is well recognised that, even with
      orthogonal views, angiography is limited in terms of its ability to determine the functional
      importance of coronary lesions. In particular those lesions judged to be 50-70% stenosed may
      not necessarily cause ischaemia as this depends on factors such as the lesion length and,
      importantly, the size of the territory supplied by the vessel.

      There have been several studies that have demonstrated the clinical utility of evaluating
      such lesions with FFR. The measurement of FFR is an index of the physiological significance
      of a coronary stenosis and is defined as the ratio of maximal blood flow in a stenotic artery
      to normal maximal flow. It is calculated by comparing the ratio of the aortic pressure and
      the pressure distal to the coronary stenosis during maximal hyperaemia. These pressures are
      measured by introducing a coronary pressure guide wire into the artery and hyperaemia is
      induced by giving an infusion of adenosine intravenously. An FFR ratio of <0.80 indicates
      that the coronary stenosis is causing significant ischaemia and would benefit from PCI. This
      has since been incorporated into ESC clinical guidelines on myocardial revascularisation.

      However this is an invasive procedure and the pressure wires are relatively expensive
      compared to standard angioplasty wires. On the contrary, CGM is a cheap and non-invasive
      technique that can be easily applied. The aim of the proposed study is to assess whether CGM
      may be able to aid clinicians in identifying if a coronary stenosis is physiologically
      significant at inducing myocardial ischaemia in conjunction with standard coronary
      angiography.

      CGM is form of 3D vector electrocardiography which can provide quantitative analysis of
      myocardial depolarisation and repolarisation. It has been shown to be more sensitive and
      specific than standard 12-lead ECG at diagnosing stable coronary artery disease. Furthermore,
      other work has showed CGM to be more sensitive than 12-lead ECG at detecting patients with
      ACS. More recently in 2012, further work found that CGM was more sensitive and specific than
      the 12 lead ECG at identifying abnormal myocardial perfusion scans (MPS). FFR validity was
      initially based on a comparison with MPS and therefore we hypothesise that CGM may be
      comparable to FFR.
    
  