
    
      The clinical manifestations of disorders of energy metabolism and defects in
      oxidation/reduction are similar because the basic defect involves the inability to transfer
      electrons. The same is true for many mitochondrial diseases. Affected patients exhibit a wide
      variety of signs and symptoms, but the most frequent and earliest dysfunctions occur in the
      muscle and brain, where energy requirements are high. The diagnosis of this type of defect is
      problematic because of the nonspecific and protean clinical manifestations of these
      disorders. Treatment is equally challenging, since the exact locus of the primary defect
      generally remains enigmatic. As a consequence, physicians rely upon generic cocktails of
      vitamin co-factors or endogenous intermediates intended to enhance mitochondrial electron
      transport, diminish the damage of reactive oxygen species, and promote energy production. The
      field is such a morass that, in general, it calls for trial-and-error treatment based upon
      empiric data. Edison Pharmaceuticals, Inc, has developed an in vitro assay that utilizes
      patient fibroblasts to model the innate susceptibility to oxidative stress caused by the
      disorders of energy metabolism and oxidation/reduction. The assay system also determines if
      the cells respond with increased viability to an IND drug called EPI-743. We propose a
      clinical trial that enrolls 20 children who meet three criteria. First, they must have a
      disorder that, based upon studies performed in a clinical protocol such as 76-HG-0238
      ("Diagnosis and Treatment of Patients with Inborn Errors of Metabolism and Other Genetic
      Disorders"), is consistent with a defect in energy metabolism or oxidation/reduction. Second,
      their cultured fibroblasts must exhibit a defect in the ability to withstand oxidant stress.
      Third, their fibroblasts must respond to EPI-743 in vitro by showing improved viability under
      conditions of oxidative stress. This protocol is a double-blind, placebo-controlled crossover
      study with 6-month periods of treatment and a two-month washout period. Patients will be
      admitted to the NIH Clinical Center for 2-5 days every 3 months. The primary outcome measure
      will be quality of life based upon the Newcastle Paediatric Mitochondrial Disease Scale
      (NPMDS) for ages 2-11 years; parts IIII

      will be evaluated separately from part IV. Secondary outcome measures will be tailored to
      each patient's laboratory, imaging, and clinical abnormalities. Results while receiving
      EPI-743 will be compared to results while receiving placebo; both repeated measures analyses
      and Student's t test will be employed.
    
  