
    
      While increase using of zirconia in extra coronal restoration as a substitute for metal
      ceramic restoration still high rate of technical complications specifically chipping of
      veneering ceramic and wear of antagonist are usually associated with veneered zirconia
      restoration which led to development of new monolithic zirconia to overcome these technical
      complications.

      Therefore this study will be conducted to evaluate chipping and wear of antagonist of
      veneered zirconia versus monolithic zirconia all ceramic crowns in posterior area.

      Benefits of the research to the patient:

      Patient will receive a restoration with superior function, esthetics, and quality.

      It will save teeth such as mutilated teeth, endodontically treated and teeth with massive
      loss of tooth structure that cannot be restored with direct restoration.

      As a result of properly functioning restoration, teeth will be restored with predictable
      prognosis and the patient will be psychologically improved.

      Benefits of the research to the clinician:

      Practitioner will have the advantage to clinically assess a new material that can be used in
      different situations for better function and esthetic outcomes.

      It will improve patient confidence with the dentist.

      Explanation for choice of comparators:

      The use of veneered zirconia is well documented in the literatures as successful restoration
      modality. A two Clinical performance of two different CAD/CAM-fabricated ceramic crowns
      revealed no chipping for veneered zirconia.

      A 3 years Randomized Controlled Clinical Trial of Zirconia-Ceramic and Metal-Ceramic
      Posterior Fixed Dental Prostheses reported Alpha Scores A=66.6%, B =25% , C=5.6% and Only D=
      2.8 A 5 years prospective clinical study of posterior zirconia fixed dental prosthesis
      reported Alpha scores greater than 95% indicating no predictable changes during the 5 years
      Another 3 years Randomized controlled clinical Trial of Posterior veneered zirconia for fixed
      dental prostheses revealed 20% chipping and also 30% reported alpha for antagonist wear and
      70% reported bravo after 3 years of clinical use.
    
  