
    
      GOALS OF THE PROJECT The aim of our study is to compare the effect of catheter ablation of
      atrial fibrillation with risk factor modification strategy in a randomized study. The main
      hypothesis is that strict risk factor modification (weight loss, physical exercise
      improvement, and alcohol absence) in patients with AF will be associated with similar rhythm
      outcomes as catheter ablation. Beside the AF-recurrence and AF-burden as the primary
      endpoint, the co-primary endpoint will be the change in diffuse myocardial fibrosis and left
      ventricular mass, as assessed by cardiac MRI.

      JUSTIFICATION OF THE PROJECT As mentioned above, the estimated prevalence of AF is approx. 2%
      in general population, i.e. about 200,000 patients only in the Czech Republic. Moreover, the
      incidence of AF has been increasing. Despite wide use of catheter ablation of AF, such huge
      number of patients could not be handled by the current capacity of electrophysiological cath
      - labs in any country. The searching for other, alternative approaches in treatment of AF is
      warranted. This approach has been already validated in previous, aforementioned trials+
      however, these trials enrolled either patients either after or before catheter ablation, and
      so far, no head-to-head randomized study comparing this two treatment strategies has been
      done. If the risk factor modification management has been proven to have similar efficacy as
      catheter ablation, many motivated patients could be treated using this simple, non-invasive
      approach.

      METHODS The study is planned as prospective, multicenter, randomized, non-inferiority trial
      comparing two different approaches in the treatment of AF. Symptomatic AF patients indicated
      for rhythm control strategy (i.e. restoriation and maintenance of SR) will be enrolled and
      randomized to catheter ablation or risk factor modification.

      Study population - inclusion criteria (all of three have to be met for enrollment) (i)
      symptomatic AF (paroxysmal, persistent, or long-standing persistent), and (ii) BMI ≥ 25, and
      (iii) signed informed content

      Study population - exclusion criteria:

        -  permanent AF

        -  severe valve disease

        -  left ventricular ejection fraction < 40%

        -  severe pulmonary hypertension (PAP > 60 mm Hg)

        -  history of tachycardia-induced cardiomyopathy

        -  planned revascularization

        -  pregnancy

        -  left atrial size ≥ 60 mm

        -  BMI ≤ 20 or BMI ≥ 40

        -  indication for surgical treatment of obesity

        -  age ≥ 75 let

        -  a significant physical limitation that could affect physical activity (musculoskeletal
           disorders, COPD)

        -  life expectancy less than 2 years Patients with significant structural heart disease
           (left ventricular dysfunction, significant valve disease, moderate or severe pulmonary
           hypertension, significant left atrial dilation) will be excluded. Also, patients who
           could not actively participate (musculoskeletal disorders, heart failure, patients older
           than 75 years) in regular physical activity will be excluded. Diabetes will be an
           exclusion criterion because of significant interference associated with antidiabetic
           medication relative to some of the endpoints.

      BASELINE DIAGNOSTIC EXAMINATION

      Anthropometric measurement and the assessment of physical fitness - functional fiagnostics
      After informed content has been given, and before the randomization, all patients will
      undergo baseline anthropometric measurements (the height, weight, percentage of body fat, and
      waist-to-hip ratio measurement) and baseline evaluation of physical fitness (functional
      diagnostic). Additionally, blood will be drawn for biochemistry and cytokine analysis and
      baseline cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) will be done. All patients will be asked to
      complete specific questionnaires for quality of life (QoL) assessment, and all patients will
      be implanted with an implantable ECG loop recorder (ILR). Functional diagnostics will be
      performed in all patients to assess the cardiorespiratory fitness, ventilatory parameters at
      rest and exercise. In the risk factor modification group, functional diagnostics will also be
      used to reveal any contraindication for physical training. Based on the results of functional
      diagnostics, an individualized and optimized physical training program will be prepared.

      An initial exercise spiroergometry test Vita Maxima with 12-lead ECG monitoring, blood
      pressure monitoring, and ventilation monitoring using exhaled air analysis will be carried
      out within one month of enrollment. The protocol will consist of a 3-min warm-up period (0.5
      W/kg), followed by a ramp test with exercise intensity increased by 0.2 W/kg/min in women and
      0.3 W/kg/min in men up to the maximal subjective tolerance. Criteria of test termination will
      be physical intolerance, inability to maintain ergometer rotation speed (in a range of
      60-100/min), significant ECG changes, occurrence of significant cardiac arrhythmias, and an
      unacceptable increase in blood pressure. Based on the results of spiroergometry, the heart
      rate for mild and moderate aerobic exercise will be determined, as well as the maximum heart
      rate that could be even achieved (i.e., 85% of maximum heart rate).

      Cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) CMR will be done using 1.5 Tesla scanners located at each of
      the three participating centers. Before CMR evaluation, the ventricular rate will be
      optimized with a target ventricular rate < 100/min. The evaluation of systolic function of
      both ventricles will be done using steady-state free precesion (SSFP) cine CMR sequences in
      long- and short axis, during breath-holds of 10-15 s with measurement of end-systolic and
      end-diastolic volumes, a calculation of the ejection fraction of both ventricles, and with a
      measurement of left ventricular myocardial mass. Parametric T1 mapping will be performed
      using shortened modified look-locker inversion recovery (ShMOLLI) breath-hold sequence in
      short axis to visualize and assess the diffuse myocardial fibrosis. This will be done
      natively and then after an i.v. injection of gadolinium contrast agent, which allows the
      calculation of the extracellular volume. Furthermore, standard late gadolinium enhancement
      imaging of regional myocardial fibrosis using inversion recovery T1-weightened sequences will
      be done.

      RANDOMIZATION Patients will be randomized to the catheter ablation group (CA) or risk factor
      modification group (RFM) in a 1:1 ratio; randomization will be done using randomization
      software. The software will be designed to account for BMI, and AF type, with the goal of
      having comparable groups regarding those characteristics. The randomization will be done in
      blocks of 10 patients.

      TREEATMENTS A. Catheter ablation arm Catheter ablation will be done within one month (maximum
      two months) of randomization. In patients with paroxysmal AF, PVI will also be performed. In
      patients with non-paroxysmal AF forms, additional lesion sets, except for PVI, will be
      allowed according to the guidelines of each participating center. The first three months
      following catheter ablation will be considered as a "blanking period," i.e., AF reoccurrences
      won´t be assessed as an endpoint. If AF reoccurs during this period, treatment using AADs or
      cardioversion will be allowed. During this period, AF episodes recorded on ILRs will not be
      calculated. Three months after ablation, AADs will be discontinued and ECG monitoring, using
      ILR, will be started, In case of a reoccurrence of symptomatic AF or atrial tachycardia (AT),
      re-do ablations, cardioversion, or AADs treatment during the follow-up period will be
      allowed, in accordance with the current guidelines and practice of participating centers.
      However, because the indication for any of them will be a reoccurrence of AF or AT, it will
      be assessed as the primary endpoint (i.e., AF reoccurrence).

      B. Risk factor modification arm The risk factor management intervention will be started after
      fulfillment of all the baseline diagnostic and functional examinations (spiroergometry,
      anthropometrical measurement, CMR) within one month after the enrollment of the patient.

      The aim will be a 10% weight loss over 6 - 12 months, an increase in physical fitness, and
      alcohol (optimally absolute, if possible) abstinence. To achieve weight loss goal, standard
      recommendations according to the standards of the national and international professional
      societies will be used, in particular, societies on obesitology and cardiology. The approach
      will be highly individualized. In general, low-caloric dietary menu will be used based on
      current recommendations in combination with low or moderate physical activity, based on the
      individualization principle. Aerobic exercise will initially be prescribed for 20 minutes per
      week gradually increasing to 200 min/week until the end of the study. The physical activity
      part of the intervention will be performed using different activities: gym-based exercise in
      small groups with a physician, individual exercise with remote activity monitoring,
      outpatient follow-up consultation with regular education, and assessment of achieved results.
      Based on the results of functional diagnostics, changes in individual heart rate for mild and
      moderate intensity training will be assessed.

      Nutritional intervention: intensive consultations with nutritional specialists will be done
      during the first three months after enrollment. The flow-chart of the on-line and personal
      consultation within the first three months is shown in the Table 1. A low-caloric dietary
      menu will be suggested and optimized by a nutritional specialist for each patient on
      individual basis respecting the comorbidities of the particular patient and planned increase
      in physical activity. Regular consultation with dietary specialists (on personal basis, or by
      phone) are planned for all patients also after three months, with less frequent intensity.

      The physical intervention will consist of three types of activities. i)regular gym-based
      training in small groups of approx. 5 patients, or individual training with trainer.
      Initially, training will be performed three times a week as circuit training to increase
      physical condition, muscle balance stabilization, and education of proper functional
      respiration (respiratory training).

      ii)Individual aerobic training: fast walking or Nordic walking: The intensity and frequency
      will be set individually based on initial spiroergometry, 1-2 training weekly in the
      beginning of the study with further increase.

      iii)Home-based training: 20 min physical exercise sets including functional respiratory
      training to increase respiratory capacity, and balance exercise to balance muscle
      disproportions.

      The physical intervention will be based on regular mild and moderate intensity aerobic
      exercise that will be gradually increased from 60 min/week up to 200 min/week and then
      continued until the end of the study. Patients will be taught how to use their optimal heart
      rate for aerobic exercise, and also warned about exceeding their maximum possible heart rate
      (i.e., not exceeding 85% of the maximum heart rate).

      All the aforementioned physical interventions will be continued through the end of the study
      period. The type and ratio of the aforementioned physical exercises will be changed over the
      study period. In the first three months, there will be more emphasis on regular gym-based
      training in small groups, and less emphasis on individual exercise. The goal will be to teach
      patients how to properly perform all the exercises as well as assisting patients in getting
      used to regular exercise. By the end of the third month, when the majority of patients should
      be used to perform regular physical activity, the ratio of types of physical activities will
      change a greater emphasis on individual physical activity and less emphasis on gym-based
      programs, done in groups.

      Since it is known that the adherence of patients to regular activity is affected by activity
      monitoring, all patients will have an opportunity to be monitored using remote activity
      monitoring (fitness bands) with a freely available smartphone application. Patient will be
      encouraged to use the fitness bands for the whole study period to monitor the habitual
      activity (steps/hour units) to document the increase of the activity in the risk factor
      modification arm since the randomization. Moreover, all physical activities could be stored
      at the web-page www.casprozdravi (energy income, weight, physical activities). This web-based
      tool allows the on-line discussion with therapeutic and will be free for all participants.

      Similarly, as in the catheter ablation group, the first three months will be assessed as a
      "blanking period" regarding the rhythm measurement It means, no rhythm assessment will be
      done and AF reoccurrences will not count as an endpoint. The use of AADs will be allowed
      during this period. In patients in sustained AF at the end of three months, electrical
      cardioversion will be recommended. Also, as in the catheter ablation group, AADs will be
      withdrawn at the end of the "blanking period," and the ECG monitoring using ILR will be
      started. Any AF reoccurrence after the "blanking period" will be assessed as endpoints (AF
      recurrence). Electrical cardioversion, AAD re-initiation, or catheter ablation will be
      allowed during the follow-up period, based on clinical judgment, patient symptoms, and
      current recommendations according to the guidelines. However, because these treatment
      modalities are indicated only in patients with AF, all of them could be done only in endpoint
      (i.e. AF recurrence) appearance. Moreover, the recommendation, especially for catheter
      ablation, will be that they are postponed so that the effect of the risk factor modification
      strategy can be fully pronounced.

      OUTPATIENT FOLLOW-UP

      After the end of the blanking period, follow-up visits will be scheduled at 3, 6, 9, and 12
      months during the first year, and then every 6 months afterward. The follow-up protocol and
      ECG monitoring are the same in both arms. Routine 12-lead ECGs will be recorded at follow-up
      visit along with a physical examination of the patient, and a medical history update.

      At the 12-month follow-up, CMR, blood drawing, antropometric measurement, and physical
      diagnostics will be done. During this visit, patients will also be asked to complete
      follow-up QoL questionnaires. The anthropometric measurement will be done finally at the last
      visit of each patient, at the end of the 3rd year of the study.

      ENDPOINT MONITORING Any symptomatic or asymptomatic episode of AF or regular AT lasting > 30
      sec will be considered as an arrhythmia reoccurrence. AF-free survival will be defined as a
      complete absence of any AF or AT during the follow-up period. The AF burden will be
      calculated as the percentage of time spent in AF or AT. All ECG endpoint will be analyzed
      using ILR recordings. All recordings from patients ILRs will be sent by home monitoring
      equipment, and analyzed by the core lab using commercially available software supplied by the
      monitoring equipment manufacturer. The core lab will consist from two experienced biomedical
      engineers and cardiologists.

      ENDPOINTS

      Primary endpoints:

        1. AF recurrence (i.e. the first recurrence of any AF or AT lasting more than 30 sec)

        2. AF burden: calculated using ILR as a percentage of time spent in AF or AT

        3. Change in left ventricular mass and myocardial fibrosis (LV mass, diffuse myocardial
           fibrosis, late gadolinium enhancement) between the baseline and one-year CMR
           examinations

      Secondary endpoints

        1. Hospitalization for AF reoccurrence and/or emergency room visit due to AF

        2. A composite of stroke, cardiovascular death, or hospitalization for heart failure

        3. Changes in QoL questionnaires between baseline and 1 year

        4. Metabolic endpoint: changes in weight, fasting glucose, lipid levels, glycated
           hemoglobin, and cytokines associated with inflammation and LV fibrosis (hsCRP, TGF-beta,
           GDF-15)

      Power calculation and statistical analysis According to the present data, about 60-70%
      efficacy could be expected in the catheter ablation arm, and 50-60% in the lifestyle
      modification arm. Assuming the power of 80%, with alfa value of 5%, and non-inferiority
      margin 10%, 60 patients have to be randomized to each arm. For data description, standard
      descriptive statistical methods will be used: absolute and relative frequencies for
      categorical data and the median with 5-95% percentiles for continuous data. For categorical
      variables, statistical analysis was done using the chi-square or the Fisher exact test; for
      continuous variables, the Student t-test or Mann-Whitney U test will be used. Kaplan-Meier
      curves will be calculated for visualizing the occurrence of endpoints during follow-up. The
      influence of patient characteristics on the occurrence of endpoints will be calculated using
      logistic regression and the Cox proportional risk model, as appropriate. Statistical analyses
      will be done using SPSS v. 22.0 software (IBM Corporation, 2013).

      Randomization process and data management Randomization software will be developed by the
      team of statisticians and computer specialists of the Institute of Biostatistics and Analyses
      (IBA). The randomization software will respect the risk characteristics of patients, the
      randomization software will be designed to account for age, BMI, AF type, and LA size, with
      the goal of having comparable groups regarding those characteristics. The randomization will
      be done in blocks of ten patients. IBA presents the institution with the largest experience
      in biomedical statistics and data management in the Czech Republic, and has been
      participating in several similar studies. The randomization process will be done outside all
      participating centers using web-based randomization software, and therefore it will be
      independent of study subjects and site personnel. The website will be used not only for
      collection of baseline data and randomization, but also for collection of all outpatient
      follow-up data during the whole follow-up. IBA will be also responsible for data management
      during the whole study period. Each participating center will have an access to a dedicated
      part of the web page. The local investigator at each site will be responsible for data
      completeness and validity. The first interim analysis will be done after enrollment of the
      first 50 of patients, the next on annual basis. The final analysis will be done when the last
      enrolled patient will achieve 6 months follow-up. All regulations regarding medical
      confidentiality and data protection will be fulfilled.

      Safety monitoring The local investigators will be responsible for reporting of all adverse
      and serious adverse events to the local and multicenter ethical committee. Serious adverse
      event (SAE) will be defined as life-threatening events resulting in death or hospitalization.
      A Data Safety Monitoring Board will be constituted before the onset of the trial. All the
      interim analyses will be reported to the DSMB by the principal investigator on the annual
      basis. DSMB may suggest termination of the study at any time based on appearance of SAEs, or
      if one treatment approach is shown to be significantly superior than other during the interim
      analysis, using statistical criteria for acceptable deviations from the null hypothesis.

      DISCUSSION In the last 5 years, lifestyle modification has been shown to be a very promising
      treatment modality for AF. AF is the most common sustained cardiac arrhythmia with an
      estimated worldwide prevalence of about 33.5 million people. According to recent
      epidemiological studies, its prevalence may triple by 2050. Even if catheter ablations were
      associated with a 100% success rate, it would be impossible to treat the current or projected
      numbers using catheter ablation. So will lifestyle modification studies may seem to offer a
      panacea, those studies suffer from significant limitations and possible biases. For example,
      the most important and most extensive studies were both non-randomized, and all patients had
      either a history of catheter ablation (ARREST-AF), or were without a history of catheter
      ablation, but catheter ablation was allowed without limitations, based on the judgment of the
      attending physician during the follow-up period (LEGACY). A randomized study that directly
      compares catheter ablation with lifestyle modification strategy has not yet been done. Only a
      randomized study can really answer the question, how effective is lifestyle modification
      compared to catheter ablation. Additionally, a randomized study has to potential to indicate
      which patients would be most likely to benefit from a non-invasive treatment, thus increasing
      the number of successfully treated AF patients, without the use of invasive methods. Due to
      increasing incidence and prevalence of AF, the searching for other, alternative approaches in
      treatment of AF is warranted. If the risk factor modification management has been proven to
      have similar efficacy as catheter ablation, many motivated patients could be treated using
      this simple, non-invasive approach.
    
  