
    
      Diabetes Mellitus (DM), Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease (ASCVD), Metabolic Syndrome
      (MetS) and Obstructive Sleep Apnea Syndrome (OSAS) are major health problems. However due to
      absence of symptoms and/or lack of knowledge, people are often unaware of having DM, ASCVD,
      MetS or OSAS while early treatment could prevent or stop the progression of these diseases.
      Therefore risk indicators for early detection of DM, ASCVD, MetS and OSAS are needed and
      proposed.

      Many studies demonstrate the association between oral diseases and DM and/or ASCVD. The most
      observed chronic oral disease is periodontitis. Periodontitis is a common chronic
      multifactorial inflammatory disease of the supporting structures of the teeth. DM and ASCVD
      might, due to their proinflammatory state and alteration of the immune system, contribute to
      the onset and/or progression of periodontitis. Therefore periodontitis could be considered as
      an early sign of an underlying vascular and/or metabolic pathology.

      Some studies have also reported a positive association between periodontitis and MetS. The
      MetS prevalence in patients with periodontitis was shown to be higher than controls and MetS
      showed to be associated with severe periodontitis. The association between periodontitis and
      OSAS is less established, however there is some evidence to a plausible association between
      periodontal disease and Obstructive Sleep Apnea (OSA).

      Due to the broad overlap of objective biomarkers, in this study, subjects with or without
      periodontitis will be screened for determining the prevalence of (pre)DM, the 10 year risk of
      ASCVD, the prevalence of MetS and the risk of OSAS.

      The screening will be based on clinical measures, specific blood markers determined by a
      developed finger stick procedure and three questionnaires.

      Notably, a recently published pilot paper from the ACTA periodontology research group
      presents the feasibility and preliminary results of proposed screening for (pre)DM; 18.1% new
      DM cases were found among subjects with severe periodontitis, compared to 9.9% in
      mild/moderate periodontitis and 8.5% in controls.

      Objective of the study:

      The aim of the proposed study is to screen for (pre)DM, an increased 10 year risk of ASCVD,
      MetS and a high risk of OSAS in participants with and without periodontitis. Consequently,
      the dental office will be evaluated as a suitable location for early detection of these
      diseases.
    
  