
    
      The study protocol was approved by the Local Ethics Committee. Written informed consent was
      obtained from each patient. The study was carried out in accordance with The Code of Ethics
      of the Declaration of Helsinki. 300 patients ASA I-II, between18-65 years old, scheduled for
      elective laparoscopic cholecystectomy under general anesthesia were enrolled in the study.
      Patients who have pharyngeal or esophageal dysfunction, significant cardiorespiratory
      dysfunction, phenylketonuria, inadequate to Turkish language comprehension, allergy to mint
      or antiemetic drugs, were not feasible to chew gum were excluded from the study. All patients
      were routinely monitored (electrocardiography,SpO2,noninvasive blood pressure). Demographic
      datas were recorded. Anesthesia induction was made with propofol 2-3mg/kg iv, fentanyl 1.5mcg
      /kg iv and rocuronium 1mg / kg. Anesthesia maintenance was provided with sevoflurane MAC 1.0
      in 50% O2 and air mixture. Intravenous10 mg metoclopromide, 50 mg ranitidine was given to all
      patients and sugammadex 2 mg/kg were administered for antagonism of neuromusculer block.
      Before surgical incision paracetamol 1000 mg intravenous was given and 10 minutes before
      extubation diclofenac sodium 75 mg intramuscular was injected.At the end of surgery the
      patients were randomly divided into two groups. Group G (Gum group) and Group C (Control
      group) with the closed envelope method. Patients were followed up in the recovery unit for at
      least 30 minutes. Degree of nausea and Abramowitz Emezis Score were evaluated for all the
      patients. In Group G, peppermint gum was chewed for 15 minutes in patients with sufficient
      wakefulness (Observer's Assessment of Alertness/Sedation scale of 5). The first gum
      application time was recorded. If patient refused chewing gum, ondansetron iv 4mg was given.
      If PONV repeated, chewing gum was given again. If PONV was persisted despite chewing gum
      twice, ondansetron iv 4 mg, then dexamethasone iv 4 mg, propofol 20 mg iv slowly were given,
      respectively. In Group C, ondansetron 4 mg iv was performed to patients whose postoperative
      nausea score was bigger than 3 and Abramowitz Emesis score one and above. The first drug
      application time was recorded. The time of PONV healed fully was recorded. If PONV was
      continued, it was planned to give ondansetron 4mg iv, dexamethasone 4 mg iv and propofol iv
      20 mg iv, respectively. Nevertheless, it was planned to repeat ondansetron 0.15mg / kg at
      4-hour intervals in patients whose PONV did not improve, with a total dose not exceeding
      16mg. The patients were followed up for 24 hours in terms of PONV. In Group C, sufficient
      wakefulness was evaluated by Observer's Assessment of Alertness/Sedation scale of 5.If there
      is a complaint of PONV in the Surgical Service, the gum was given in Group G, then
      ondansetron 0.15 mg / kg and dexamethasone were given. In Group C,ondansetron 0.15 mg / kg
      and dexamethasone were given. Additional antiemetic needs, adverse events were recorded
      postoperatively 24 hours. Patient and surgeon satisfaction were recorded for 24 hours.
    
  