
    
      Cerebral venous thrombosis is rare form of stroke, accounting .5 to 1% only (1)Exact estimate
      for Pakistani population is not known Mubarak et al described 6- year imaging incidence and
      prevalence of CVST to be 10.22% and 11.055% respectively(2) .Majority of cerebral venous
      stroke patients are females in reproductive age. Coumadin is one of the notorious drugs to be
      used in pregnancy categorized as X. it also has many drug interactions .and there are diet
      restrictions too being on Coumadin. It also requires maintanence of prothrombin time in
      certain range which means patient has to go under phlebotomy at least twice a month. Moreover
      not all laboratories are well equipped resulting in poor test sensitivity. and at times
      clinicians keep patients on suboptimum doses for fear of bleeding ending with poor efficacy.

      In past few years new anticoagulants have been developed which directly inhibit thrombin or
      factor X.factor x inhibitor is available in Pakistan.

      The superior efficacy of Rivroxaban has been shown in Deep Venous Thrombosis in EINSTEIN
      study (3).Its definite superiority in prevention of embolic stroke in nonvalvular atrial
      fibrillation is evidenced by the study ROCKET AF (4). With Rivroxaban no monitoring is
      required, and also there are no drug interactions .There are few pilot studies of using
      Rivroxaban in cerebral venous thrombosis. This study is therefore required to find its
      efficacy in CVT patients as well as its comparison with Coumadin .

      OBJECTIVE To Compare the efficacy of Rivroxaban to Warfarin in Cerebral Venous Thrombosis
      MATERIAL AND METHODS STUDY DESIGN: Quasi Experimental; Descriptive cross sectional

      DURATION OF STUDY:

      6 months to 1 year

      SAMLE SIZE :

      50 patients SAMPLING TECHNIQUE : Consecutive (non probability) sampling.

      INCLUSION CRITERIA:

      Patients of either gender Age between 13 years and 50 years Patients with proven CVT on neuro
      imaging (CTV, o MRV)

      EXCLUSION CRITERIA:

      Patients suffering from Chronic Liver disesase Patients having contraindications for oral
      anticoagulation Patients suffering from hematological or brain malignancy Patients whose MRV
      and CTV do not support CVT

      DATA COLLECTION PROCEDURE After taking permission from hospital ethical review committee ,
      All patients with confirmed CVT based on established criteria using any NOAC or WARFARIN
      presenting to PIMS or FFH hospitals will be enrolled. Data will be obtained by retrospective
      manner if they are using anticoagulants for more than 6 months. If patients are using
      anticoagulants for less than 6 months, they will be enrolled and followed up for six months.

      DATA ANALYSIS The data will be analyzed using SPSS version 16.0. Descriptive analysis will be
      done and reported as mean ± SD for continuous variables like age whereas frequencies and
      percentages will be calculated for categorical variables such as gender, individual risk
      factors.

      P-value ≤ 0.05 will be significant. Results will be presented in tabulated or graphical
      forms.

      Outcome measures Outcome measures will include any hemorrhage or recurrent CVT based on
      repeat MRI.

      MRs Scale Secondary Outcome Comparison of cost of two treatment groups.
    
  