
    
      The measurement of the weight distribution and the static posturography is performed on the
      balance platform Good Balance by Metitur . The device is comprised of the triangular force
      platform (800 mm x 800 mm x 800 mm) with electronic system and computer software. The body
      weight distribution is evaluated in the upright standing with eyes open, feet placed 20 cm
      from each other or narrower in children, with upper extremities in relaxed position by sides.
      The individual stands motionlessly for 15 s, then the measurement is recorded. The results of
      each lower extremity loading and a difference in weight bearing between extremities are
      expressed in percentages (%) .

      The static posturography examination is performed with 3 various positions of feet, both with
      eyes open (EO) and eyes closed (EC). (1) Position : normal standing - an upright standing
      with feet placed parallel 20 cm apart. (2) Position: tandem - a stance with one foot placed
      ahead of the other, medial edge of feet was put on the midline of the balance platform. In
      the experimental group 2 trials were recorded: (a) foot of the shorter leg in the front, (b)
      foot of the shorter leg in the rear. In the control group also 2 trials are performed: (c)
      foot of the right leg in the front, (d) foot of the left leg in the front. (3) Position: one
      leg standing: stance on the one leg, foot placed 10 cm from midline of the platform, the
      other - 90 degrees flexion of the knee and the hip, test performed only with EO. Every
      participant is supposed to stand motionlessly for 30 s in normal standing , or for 20 s in
      tandem .and one leg standing position. Conditions of the posturographic examination involved
      : quiet and normally lit room , standing barefoot , the eyesight directed at a point in the
      distance of 2 m , glasses or contact lenses are worn if they are normally needed, arms held
      in the front of the body with hands together in order to limit movements of upper extremities
      . The recording is initiated when a stable position is attained . Each test is performed once
      .

      Mean velocity (mm/s) of COP sway is measured as a quantitative parameter of the postural
      control assessment . Mean COP sway velocity is recorded both in anteroposterior (AP) and
      mediolateral (ML) directions .
    
  