
    
      Thrombosis and pregnancy loss are common features of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE),
      particularly in the presence of antiphospholipid (aPL) antibodies. The in vivo mechanisms by
      which aPL antibodies lead to vascular events and, specifically, to recurrent fetal loss are
      largely unknown. Studies in a mouse model of antiphospholipid antibody syndrome (APS)
      indicate that in vivo complement activation is necessary for fetal loss caused by aPL
      antibodies. This study represents an effort to translate these research observations on the
      potential role of complement activation in the pathogenesis of aPL antibody-mediated
      pregnancy loss to a clinically relevant human study.

      In addition, studies in humans and mice have shown 1) that the balance of circulating
      angiogenic and antiangiogenic factors predicts preeclampsia and fetal growth restriction in
      healthy women, 2) circulating antiangiogenic factors cause endothelial dysfunction and
      abnormal placental development in animal models, and 3) complement activation leads to
      elevated levels of circulating antiangiogenic factors and complement inhibition prevents
      increased levels of antiangiogenic factors, placental dysfunction and fetal growth
      restriction in a mouse model of APS. This study will permit testing the hypothesis that, like
      in healthy women, the balance of circulating angiogenic and antiangiogenic factors predict
      complications in women with SLE and APS and to translate the findings in animal models into
      humans.

      The PROMISSE Study is a prospective observational study that will follow 700 pregnant
      patients who will be grouped and analyzed according to the presence or absence of aPL
      antibodies and preexisting SLE. The patients are followed regularly during the course of the
      pregnancy, collecting medical and obstetrical information as well as serial blood specimens
      for complement and cytokine assays. The data obtained will be analyzed and used to identify
      mechanisms and predictors of poor fetal outcome. We expect that the insights provided through
      this study will suggest means to prevent, arrest or modify these conditions.
    
  