
    
      The STAND trial aims to measure the effect of an early goal-directed mobilization algorithm
      versus usual care for ICU patients with acute respiratory failure in the medical and surgical
      ICUs across University of Pennsylvania Health System (UPHS) with respect to patient-centered
      outcomes of patient physical function and cognition as well as multiple secondary clinical
      outcomes. To achieve this goal, the investigators will conduct a 54-week stepped-wedge,
      cluster randomized, trial to test the intervention during the course of providing usual care
      among a large and diverse population of patients admitted to 12 ICUs across 4 hospitals
      within UPHS. The intervention is an early mobilization protocol implemented during a
      patient's stay in the ICU. It involves three steps: 1) the clinical team will set a
      standardized mobility goal for each patient during morning rounds and display the goal on the
      patient's door; 2) a facilitator will be established in the ICU to communicate mobility goals
      and activities across clinical personnel shifts; 3) patient mobility scores will be displayed
      to clinical and administrative staff in the ICU via the ICU board. Approximately 1,500 adult
      patients with continuous mechanical ventilation for ≥48 hours (without interruption) and
      baseline independent ambulatory status will be enrolled. Participating ICUs will be
      randomized into 6 clusters of 2 ICUs each. Each ICU contributes a minimum of 12 weeks of data
      under the usual care control condition prior to implementing the early mobilization
      intervention. Then, using the stepped-wedge design, all ICUs will implement the intervention
      in 6-week intervals with the order and timing of implementation determined by random
      assignment. By the end of the trial, all ICUs will have utilized the intervention for at
      least 12 weeks. The primary outcome is peak patient activity level as measure by the ICU
      mobility score (IMS) at ICU discharge. Secondary outcomes include an array of clinical
      outcomes.
    
  