
    
      Allogeneic hematopoietic stem-cell transplantation (HSCT) has revolutionized the treatment of
      hematopoietic malignancies, inherited hematopoietic disorders, aplastic anemia, and other
      severe diseases. Unfortunately, graft versus host disease (GvHD) remains a major toxicity
      that greatly limits the application and efficacy of allogeneic HSCT, occurring commonly after
      the procedure and affecting 30 to 80% of patients. Acute GvHD occurs within 100 days in up to
      50% of allogeneic HLA-matched HSCT recipients despite prophylactic immunosuppressive drugs.

      The most efficient treatment for GvHD prevention is T cell depletion. However, most
      clinicians avoid that modality due to the crucial effect of T cells in prevention of tumor
      relapse. Current standard prophylaxis and therapy for acute GvHD include mainly the use of
      immunosuppressive drugs that help less than 50% of the patients and are associated with
      increased infection risk. New strategies of GvHD prophylaxis are examined and this study uses
      a physiological strategy of antigen presenting cell (APC) tolerance induction that will
      modulate effector cells either directly or via T regulatory cells.

      ApoCell treatment is anticipated to be a prophylactic measure for acute GvHD by inducing
      tolerance in the donor effector cells, leading to a potentially significant decrease in the
      immune response of the donor cells against the recipient. The effects of apoptotic cells on
      preventing GvHD may involve the following mechanisms: inhibit pro-inflammatory cytokine
      production, promote anti-inflammatory cytokines production, induce tolarogenic APCs, decrease
      ability to stimulate T-cell responses, delete CD8 T-effector cells, induce regulatory
      T-cells, and inhibit response to inflammatory cytokines and LPS.

      Tolarex Ltd. is proposing a novel cell-based approach of donor apoptotic cells treatment,
      ApoCell, for a Phase I-IIa study of patients undergoing sibling HSCT with high risk of
      developing acute GvHD. The ApoCell product is composed of HLA-matched donor mononuclear
      enriched leukocytes in the form of liquid suspension that will be injected intravenously to
      the patient 24 hours prior to HSCT. The ApoCell suspension contains at least 55% of early
      apoptotic cells. The cell suspension is prepared under cGMP conditions with PBS solution
      within 8 hours prior to intravenous injection and should be stored at 2-8oC until
      administered.
    
  