
    
      Objectives:

      Standard treatment of hypophosphatemic rickets consists of oral phosphate tablets and vitamin
      D analogous. Due to their rapid absorption, serum-phosphate fluctuations can occur and
      secondary hyperparathyroidism may be a consequence. Our aim was to evaluate, if phosphate
      supplement administered as milk or cheese is superior or equal to phosphate tablets in
      patients with hypophosphatemic rickets

      Study population:

      Patients with genetic verified hypophosphatemic rickets were included in the period from
      August 2015 to June 2016. Patients were excluded from the study if they presented with
      tertiary hyperparathydoism, were treated with Cinacalcet or suffered from milk allergy.

      Study design:

      The study was designed as a randomized, multiple crossover study with three treatment periods
      consisting of the regular oral phosphate supplement, a high milk intake or a high cheese
      intake (randomization.com). Patients were instructed to discontinue their regular treatment,
      except for their usual doses of D vitamin analogs, three days prior to sample collection and
      instead engage in the study treatment. Furthermore, they should follow their normal eating
      habits while undergoing the study treatment, which was controlled by food and liquid
      registrations.

      At the phosphate supplement session, the patients were treated with an 800 mg oral phosphor
      supplement distributed over five times a day independently of any prior treatment dose. At
      the cheese session, the patients were treated with an estimated phosphate content of 800 mg
      distributed over 5 meals. At the milk session, the patients were treated with 800 ml of milk
      daily corresponding to approximately 800 mg phosphor per day.

      Sampling:

      After three days of treatment, the patients visited our clinic for anaerobically handled
      blood samples, which were collected 5 times through out one day for calcium, phosphate,
      parathyroid hormone, fibroblast growth factor 23 and basic phosphatase. Urine samples for
      calcium and phosphate was collected in containers from 0800 to 1200 and from 1200 to 1600. A
      24-hour urine samples was obtained from the day before the sampling from 0800 to 0800 hours
      the following morning.
    
  