
    
      One hundred twenty treatment-naïve subjects with chronic HCV GT1b infection without cirrhosis
      will be enrolled.

      There will be one treatment group with EBV/GZR (50/100 mg) once daily without regards to food
      for 8 weeks.

      EBV/GZR is manufactured as a 50/100 mg tablet for oral administration. Subjects will take 1
      tablet daily.

      Screening assessments will be completed within 28 days of the Day 1 visit. The screening
      window can be extended to 42 days for subjects requiring a liver biopsy, or extenuating
      circumstances.

      All subjects will complete the following study visits: Screening, Day 1, and on-treatment
      visits at the end of week 2, week 4 and week 8.

      Post-treatment visits will occur at Weeks 4, 12, and 24 after last dose of study drug. All
      subjects will complete the posttreatment Week 4 and 12 visits. Subjects who achieve SVR12
      (HCV RNA < LLOQ at posttreatment Week12) will complete the posttreatment Week 24 visit.

      Screening assessments will include physical examination, medical history, height, weight,
      vital signs, adverse events related to screening procedures, concomitant medications, safety
      laboratory tests (including hematology, chemistry, and coagulation), HCV RNA, serology (HCV,
      HBV), serology and/or antigen testing for HIV, HCV genotyping, hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c),
      assessment of the absence of cirrhosis or severe fibrosis (including Fibrotest® and
      Fibroscan®), serum β-human chorionic gonadotropin (β-hCG) (females of child-bearing potential
      only), urinalysis.

      On-treatment assessments include adverse events (AEs), concomitant medications, study
      medication dispensation and pill count, physical examination, weight, vital signs, safety
      laboratory tests, HCV RNA, and urine pregnancy tests (females of child bearing potential
      only).

      Post-treatment assessments include AEs, concomitant medications, vital signs, safety
      laboratory tests (including hematology, chemistry, and coagulation), HCV RNA, and urine
      pregnancy tests (females of child-bearing potential only).
    
  