
    
      OSI-774 is a drug that helps to block the activity of an enzyme that is believed to play an
      important role in cell growth. It is hoped that blocking these enzymes will slow tumor
      growth. Both cisplatin and docetaxel are commonly used chemotherapy drugs. These drugs are
      designed to target and destroy cancer cells.

      Before the study, you will have a physical exam, blood tests (around 2 teaspoons), and an
      electrocardiogram (ECG - a test that measures the electrical activity of the heart). You will
      also have a chest x-ray and a CT scan. If the diagnosis has not yet been confirmed, a biopsy
      of the tumor may need to be done. Women who are able to have children must have a negative
      blood or urine pregnancy test.

      During treatment, you will take OSI-774 by mouth once a day. Once every 3 weeks, you will be
      given docetaxel and cisplatin. Docetaxel is given by a continuous infusion into a vein over 1
      hour. This will be followed by an infusion into a vein of cisplatin over 2 hours. Treatment
      with docetaxel and cisplatin is given every 3 weeks for 18 weeks. You will continue to take
      OSI-774 until your disease worsens, until side effects become too severe, or until your
      doctor thinks it is no longer benefiting you.

      If at any time during the study the disease becomes worse or you experience any intolerable
      side effects, you will be taken off the study and your doctor will discuss other treatment
      options with you.

      During the study, you will have blood drawn (around 2 teaspoons) once a week. These samples
      will be used for routine lab tests. Every 3 weeks, you will have a physical exam and your
      vital signs and weight will be measured. You will also be asked about any side effects you
      may be experiencing. If your doctor feels it is necessary, you may have more frequent
      check-up visits.

      Every 6 weeks during treatment, you will have blood tests (around 2 teaspoons), and imaging
      tests. The imaging tests include a chest x-ray and a CT scan of the head and neck area. You
      may also have CT scans of other areas of the body. These tests are being done to check on the
      status of the disease.

      You may continue receiving OSI-774 for as long as your cancer responds to study treatment. If
      you continue to receive OSI-774, every 3 months you will have a physical exam (including
      measurement of vital signs), routine blood tests (about 2 teaspoons), a performance status
      test (a test looking at the ability to perform everyday activities), a chest x-ray, and a CT
      or MRI scan. Your doctor may decide to take you off this study if you experience significant
      side effects or your medical condition worsens.

      This is an investigational study. OSI-774 is approved by the FDA for treatment of NSCLC in
      patients who have relapsed. Its use in this study is considered investigational. Docetaxel
      and cisplatin are FDA approved and commercially available. There will be a total of 50
      patients taking part in this study. There will be no cost for OSI-774 or for any tests and
      procedures performed solely for this research study.
    
  