
    
      Total knee arthroplasty (TKA) has been established as a valuable procedure patients with
      end-stage osteoarthritis and the rates of elective TKA are increasing steadily each year.
      Ninety percent of patients reported reduced pain, improved functional ability, and greater
      health related quality of life after TKA. Kinesiotaping (KT), a type of elastic tape that is
      being increasingly used for the management of pain and oedema after surgery

        1. . Cold therapy (CT) can also help relieve pain and swelling during early postoperative
           period

        2. . These two application may have impact on functional performance outcomes in patients
           with TKA. The number of studies that include KT in the rehabilitation process is
           increasing, but there isn't any study that compare KT application and CT after TKA.

      The aim was to compare the effectiveness of kinesiotaping and cold therapy on muscle strength
      and functional performance outcomes in patients with TKA during early postoperative period.

      Methods One-hundred-eleven patents with TKA are going to randomly assigned to control, KT and
      CT groups (nC=nKT=nCT=37). KT group are going to receive KT for lymphatic correction and
      rectus femoris facilitation technique. CT group are going to receive CT immediately after
      operation and following postoperative days. After surgery, all patients will receive standard
      post-operative treatment including continuous passive motion, active-assistive and active
      range of motion exercises, isometric and isotonic strengthening exercises, gait training and
      transfer training. After operation, pain intensity, active range of motion and knee function
      score [Hospital for Special Surgery (HSS) score] Functional activities are going to evaluate
      using the Iowa Level of Assistance Scale, and walking speed was evaluated using the Iowa
      Ambulation Velocity Scale. Isometric muscle strength measure of quadriceps femoris and
      hamstring muscles assessed by Hand-Held Dynamometer. All measurements evaluated at the
      discharge. One way ANOVA is going to be used in statistical analysis.
    
  