
    
      BACKGROUND: A good 60% of patients presenting with upper abdominal complaints have functional
      dyspepsia. Usually, acid-suppressive drugs are given as first-line therapy for upper
      gastrointestinal symptoms. However, results are often not satisfying and symptoms persist.
      Since many patients with functional gastrointestinal diseases are more anxious and depressed
      in comparison to healthy controls, several studies investigated the use of antidepressant
      agents in these patients. Although many studies were underpowered, promising results were
      obtained with tricyclic antidepressant and mianserin in patients with irritable bowel
      syndrome. There is still a need for a placebo controlled study with antidepressants in
      patients with functional dyspepsia.

      OBJECTIVE: To investigate the effectiveness of venlafaxine, a selective serotonin and
      norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor, for treatment of patients with functional dyspepsia.

      STUDY DESIGN: A randomized, double blind, placebo controlled trial.

      STUDY POPULATION: Consecutive patients with persistent upper GI symptoms without
      abnormalities at upper gastrointestinal endoscopy.

      PRIMARY ENDPOINTS: Upper gastrointestinal symptom absence after 6 weeks treatment.

      SECONDARY ENDPOINTS:

        -  Anxiety and depression after venlafaxine treatment;

        -  Health related quality of life after venlafaxine treatment;

        -  The association between serotonin transporter protein and 5-HT receptor polymorphisms
           and efficacy of venlafaxine.

      STUDY PROCEDURE: A venous blood sample will be collected in a 10ml EDTA-tube. Then, each
      subject will be randomized to treatment with Efexor XR (first and last two weeks 75 mg 1dd
      and from the third to the fifth week 75 mg 2dd) or identical placebos for 8 weeks. Before
      starting and after finishing treatment, patients will be asked to fill out a questionnaire on
      intensity of their gastrointestinal complaints, current quality of life and anxiety and
      depression.
    
  