
    
      This is a prospective, international, multicenter outcome cohort study. This study starts at
      the moment patients visit the outpatient clinic 3 to 6 months after a diagnosis of acute PE
      as part of routine medical care. If patients consent to study participation, the CTEPH
      clinical prediction score will be calculated. This score consists of 6 variables that should
      be assessed at the time of PE diagnosis: unprovoked PE (+6 points), known hypothyroidism (+3
      points), diagnostic delay >2 weeks (+3 points), right ventricular dysfunction on computed
      tomography pulmonary angiography (CTPA) or echocardiography (+2 points), known diabetes
      mellitus (-3 points) and thrombolytic therapy or embolectomy for the acute PE event (-3
      points) CTEPH is considered to be not present in patients with a low probability (≤6 points)
      and no symptoms suggestive of CTEPH, i.e. dyspnea on exertion, edema, newly developed
      palpitations, syncope or chest pains. The remaining patients with either high probability (>6
      points) or who report symptoms that may be associated with CTEPH will be subjected to the
      'rule-out criteria'. CTEPH will be assumed not present in patients with an age- and gender
      dependent normal NT-proBNP level (as defined by the assay's manufacturer), in the absence of
      these 3 ECG criteria: 1) rSR' or rSr' pattern in lead V1, 2) R:S >1 in lead V1 with R >0.5mV
      and 3) QRS axis >90o. Patients who have an abnormal result from the 'rule-out criteria' will
      be referred for transthoracic echocardiography. All echocardiograms will be judged by the
      echocardiographic criteria for suspected PH according to the 2015 ESC guidelines.

      In case of echocardiographic intermediate or high probability of PH, patients will be
      referred for further diagnostic work-up of suspected CTEPH starting with perfusion lung scan
      or VQ-scan and right heart catheterization, of which the results will be discussed by an
      independent interdisciplinary working group of PH specialists, to ensure optimal diagnostic
      management. This latter diagnostic work-up of an abnormal echocardiograph lies within the
      setting of standard medical care.

      All patients who were not diagnosed with pulmonary hypertension of any origin, or with NYHA
      class III or IV heart failure due to left ventricular systolic dysfunction, left ventricular
      diastolic dysfunction or significant valvular lesions, will be followed for a total of 2
      years from the index PE diagnosis. During that period, the study protocol will not interfere
      with standard patient care, allowing diagnostic tests as deemed indicated by the treating
      physician including echocardiography in case of new respiratory symptoms. At the end of the
      follow-up period, all patients will be subjected to a second echocardiography that will be
      handled according to the above stated procedures to evaluate the presence of CTEPH.
    
  