
    
      A large weight loss as a result of a longer period (>30 days) of starvation or
      semi-starvation will result in a metabolic adaptation to the decreased food intake. To
      prevent the degradation of muscle mass into gluco- and ketogenic amino acids to be used for
      energy production, a shift from gluconeogenesis to lipolysis occurs. Lipids therefore become
      the primary energy fuel, and the body adapts to use ketone bodies instead of glucose. The
      reduction in glucose metabolism results in a decreased need for amino acids for use in
      gluconeogenesis. This means that less amino acids are needed for gluconeogenesis and
      therefore important muscle mass is preserved. At the same time as the lipid stores are
      degraded, an intracellular depletion of phosphate, potassium and magnesium occurs. The serum
      levels of these electrolytes stay within the normal range as long as the body is in the
      adaptive starvation state. A too quick reintroduction of food to the body will result in a
      major glucose-induced increase in insulin secretion that will stimulate the transport of
      glucose, phosphate, potassium and magnesium from plasma into the cells. Because the
      extracellular blood volume is much smaller than the intracellular, an influx of these
      electrolytes to the intracellular space will result in a quick and large decrease in the
      plasma levels. Likewise, an influx of glucose means that it again can enter the glucolysis,
      and the need for phosphate and the co-factor thiamine, for the production of ATP, will
      increase. The increased production of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) will activate membrane
      pumps and reestablish the membrane potential. This means that sodium will be transported from
      the large intracellular space to the small extracellular, with subsequent fluid retention and
      edema formation.

      Therefore a slowly introduced diet low in sodium and high in slowly absorbed carbohydrates
      might prevent the development of refeeding syndrome.
    
  