
    
      Cannabis is the most commonly used psychoactive substance among pregnant women, with an
      estimated prevalence of use between 5 to 20% in in the United States. Little is known about
      the neurodevelopmental consequences for the fetus, particularly in the context of
      contemporary cannabis use patterns including high potency strains, cannabinoids and novel
      routes of administration. Colorado leads the nation in implementation of legalized medical
      and retail marijuana. Coupled with a growing pro-marijuana advocacy movement, marijuana may
      be perceived as "safe" to use during pregnancy. The local actions of endocannabinoids are in
      place in the placenta during fetal brain development and THC and its metabolites freely pass
      the placental barrier and the fetal blood-brain barrier. Furthermore, cannabinoid receptors
      appear to be more widespread in the fetal and neonatal prefrontal cortex (PFC) and the limbic
      areas (the amygdala and hippocampus) than in the adult brain, thus the in utero period may be
      a sensitive period of human brain development during which exogenous cannabinoids could
      permanently alter neurodevelopmental processes. Human epidemiologic studies across diverse
      populations have reported an emerging theme of deficiencies related to impulse control and
      executive functioning among offspring with in utero exposure to cannabis starting in
      adolescence. Only rudimentary aspects of executive function are present in infants, thus
      evidence of an impact during infancy and the toddler years is sparse, inconsistent and
      confounded by the postnatal environment (i.e., daycare, caregiver functioning). Research is
      needed to evaluate the proximal impact of in utero cannabis exposure on robust metrics of
      neonatal brain morphology and structural integrity of white matter tracts that connect to the
      PFC and the limbic regions before the influence of postnatal exposures become a major
      confounding influence.

      To address this challenge, a pilot prospective pre-birth cohort study will be conducted to
      investigate the impact of chronic in utero cannabis exposure by enrolling 110 mother-infant
      pairs (50 exposed and 60 unexposed controls) for a neonate neuroimaging scan within 2 weeks
      after birth. Chronic in utero cannabis exposure will be quantified using ultra-high
      performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS) of neonatal meconium. The
      associations between in utero cannabis exposure and neural morphological outcomes will be
      examined by structural MRI and diffusion tensor imaging (DTI). The central hypothesis is that
      in utero cannabis exposure will be associated with alterations in grey and white matter
      development in the prefrontal lobe and its connectivity to limbic regions.

      Specific Aim 1: To determine the magnitude of the association between in utero exposure to
      cannabis and neonate brain morphology and structural connectivity.

      Hypothesis: In utero exposure to cannabis (assessed by THC metabolites in meconium) will be
      associated with the following neonate brain structural outcomes: (1) Grey matter: reduced
      volume in the PFC and limbic regions (i.e. the amygdala, hippocampus); (2) White matter:
      reduced structural integrity (assessed by fractional anisotropy) of white matter tracts that
      connect to the PFC and the limbic regions including the uncinate fasciculus and the cingulum
      bundle. The associations will be independent of other maternal substance use (i.e. tobacco),
      postnatal feeding practices (i.e. breastfeeding), socio-demographic characteristics and
      maternal mental health.
    
  