
    
      Rationale for Study

      The rates of hypoglycaemia in older people with diabetes are not known with any accuracy and
      there are no data in older frail patients with diabetes. However, as this latter group is
      increasingly recognized as a specific subgroup of patients with diabetes it is important to
      assess how safe sulphonylurea agents are in older patients as this group of glucose-lowering
      medication is recommended in most diabetes clinical guidelines including algorithms.

      The data for rates of mild to moderate hypoglycemia in older people with diabetes is also
      very scant and because many episodes may be asymptomatic, these take place without either the
      patient or family knowing, and thus important information of this nature does not reach the
      clinician in charge of prescribing. In these latter circumstances, continuous blood glucose
      monitoring (CBGM) will have an important role to detect the frequency of these episodes and
      will be used in a subgroup of each treatment arm in this PILOT study. When hypoglycaemic
      episodes are accompanied with symptoms, detection rates are obviously improved. It is
      important note that even mild symptomatic hypoglycemia may be associated with increased
      cardiovascular events, increased hospitalisation and increased mortality although this study
      was in a young 'elderly' group (average age about 63y), There is thus an important need to
      assess what this risk is and whether commonly used sulphonylureas are relatively safe in this
      respect. As metformin and sulphonylureas are still the commonest agents used to lower glucose
      levels in people with diabetes, the investigators wish to study these first in our programme
      of studies in this area. With the development of other classes of oral glucose-lowering
      agents such as DPP4-inhibitors which are associated with low levels of hypoglycaemia and are
      well tolerated in older patients with type 2 diabetes (5), it is important to provide more
      justification for their use by discovering if hypoglycaemia, both subclinical/asymptomatic
      and more serious forms of hypoglycaemia occur commonly in sulphonylurea treatment.

      The data for rates of mild to moderate hypoglycemia in older people with diabetes is even
      more scant - when symptomatic, detection rates are improved, but when asymptomatic, detection
      requires CBGM. In a young 'elderly' group (average age about 63y), even mild symptomatic
      hypoglycemia may be associated with increased cardiovascular events, increased
      hospitalisation and increased mortality Therefore, the primary object of this short PILOT
      hypoglycemia rate-determining study will be the evaluation of the difference (as % of
      variation of mild-moderate hypoglycemic events) between glimepiride (2-4mg twice daily) as
      add on to metformin, and metformin treatment alone (at maximal dose (1500 mg/day), in mild to
      moderately frail older type 2 diabetic patients aged over 70 years. The investigators will
      wish to observe whether the intervention group has had a change in HbA1c levels during the
      treatment period with glimepiride.
    
  