
    
      This project aims at better understanding the physiopathology of Parkinson's disease and the
      effect of the administration of the classical medical treatment. The main aim of this project
      is to evaluate the possibility of an early detection using a new original strategy. The
      investigators want to demonstrate the predictive value of the superior colliculus light
      responses as an early biomarker.

      The investigators will perform functional magnetic resonance imagery (fMRI) to measure the
      BOLD light responses of the superior colliculus at different key stages of the normal medical
      follow up of Parkinson's patients by the neurologist (when diagnosed, when introducing the
      first treatment and when the treatment is stabilised).

      Two groups of participants will be tested: a) a group of de novo patients, which have just
      been diagnosed and haven't started their treatment; b) a group of matching controls.

      A first fMRI session (S1) will be performed to compare the light induced BOLD response of the
      superior colliculus between de novo patients and their matching controls. This session will
      evaluate a possible visual processing dysfunction in the superior colliculus of newly
      diagnosed patients.

      Parkinson's patients will then start their treatment and a second session (S2) will be done
      on this group shortly after the introduction of the treatment to measure its acute effect. If
      the superior colliculus of those patients presents a sensory rebound, the investigators
      should observe a bigger light-induced BOLD response after the treatment compared to before
      the treatment.

      A third session (S3) will be performed after the optimal adjustment of the treatment on motor
      symptoms which would be around six month after the start of the treatment. This adjustment is
      long and difficult, realized by the neurologist according to its effect on the motor
      symptoms. Those two last fMRI will allow the investigators to compare the effect of the
      introduction of the treatment on the motor symptoms, known to not improve correctly at this
      stage, and on non-motor symptoms (visual processing deficits in this project) from which no
      information are available to the investigators knowledge.
    
  