
    
      Efforts at treating radiation-induced cognitive and neuropsychiatric declines with
      medications have shown only minimal preliminary cognitive benefit and do not affect quality
      of life (QOL). Given the structural and functional brain alterations associated with WBRT,
      preventing rather than treating these radiation-induced changes may produce more favorable
      outcomes. Innovative radiotherapy techniques can limit the dose of radiation applied to
      specific brain structures without compromising tumor coverage. In this light, Radiation
      Therapy Oncology Group (RTOG) recently published a study evaluating the hippocampal avoidance
      whole brain radiation therapy (WBRT) in patients with brain metastases. They suggest
      potential preservation of cognitive function with this approach with no perceived detriment
      in survival. This concept is currently undergoing investigation in a definitive randomized
      controlled study (NRG-CC003) in patients receiving prophylactic cranial irradiation for small
      cell lung cancer. However, no other studies to date have prospectively evaluated avoidance of
      other particularly sensitive brain regions.

      One brain region that has received little attention in the radiotherapy literature is the
      corpus callosum. The genu of the corpus callosum contains thin, densely packed neural fibers
      that primarily connect the prefrontal association areas and the anterior inferior parietal
      regions of the brain. Damage or thinning of the genu is associated with reduced functioning
      on tests of executive functioning, attention, working memory, processing speed, verbal
      fluency and memory in a variety of healthy and patient groups including aging, cerebral small
      vessel disease, traumatic brain injury, multiple sclerosis , human immunodeficiency virus,
      mild cognitive impairment secondary to Parkinson's disease, and euthymic bipolar disorder.
      The limited existing data in adults receiving WBRT for brain metastases suggest that they
      also perceive progressive declines in motivation following treatment. Given its apparent
      involvement in a wide range of cognitive processes, the genu of the corpus callosum is an
      excellent candidate for sparing in WBRT. This relatively small area has the potential to
      preserve cognitive functioning across several domains if guarded from the damaging effects of
      radiation. In this study patients will receive the standard whole brain radiation dose of
      3000 centigray (cGy) in 10 fractions, but intensity modulated radiation therapy will be
      utilized to limit radiation dose to the genu of the corpus callosum. Patients will undergo
      cognitive testing at baseline and at 4-, 6- and 12-months following completion of brain
      radiation to evaluate the study hypothesis.
    
  