
    
      Study Purpose

      The purpose of the study is to determine if islet cell transplantation (ICT) is more
      effective than intensive medical therapy at reducing the progression of diabetic retinopathy.

      Hypothesis

      ICT will result in less progression of diabetic retinopathy than intensive medical therapy.
      The null hypothesis states that there is no difference between ICT and intensive medical
      therapy in the chance of progression of diabetic retinopathy.

      Study design: prospective, single-centre, randomized clinical trial

      Outcome Assessment

      Main Efficacy Outcome The primary outcome measure is a composite consisting of progression of
      DR, development of significant ME, or moderate visual loss in patients who have significant
      ME at randomization. The definition of each term is described below. The unit of analysis is
      an individual eye and an eye can only be counted as progressing once.

      Rationale for Primary outcome Progression of either DR or DME is clinically meaningful since
      each can threaten vision. Since the chance of progression in one of these manifestations of
      diabetic eye disease is independent of the chance of progression in the other, the combined
      endpoint of progression in either is designated as the primary outcome. Progression of each
      condition is assessed differently and will be done using generally accepted criteria. The
      primary eligibility criteria is the level of DR since this is where the benefit found in our
      initial study was identified. We are attempting to determine the benefit of our intervention
      (ICT) at levels of DR before PRP is indicated and therefore before vision is threatened. For
      this reason, two of the three definitions of progression use a surrogate outcome, and one
      uses the clinical outcome of visual acuity. Surrogate outcomes can be used if they predict
      the clinical outcome of interest and this has been established for the levels of DR. The
      appropriate outcome measure for ME depends on its severity. For patients without CSME, the
      surrogate outcome is the proportion progressing to CSME. For those with CSME, the appropriate
      outcome is the clinical measure of the incidence of moderate visual loss. (PKC-DRS2 2006,
      Hauser 2008)

      Progression of Diabetic Retinopathy is defined as either:

        1. An increase of 2 grades in an individual eye

        2. Development of PDR (grade ≥ 61)

      The progression must be present on 2 consecutive visits separated by at least 4 months.

      Progression of Macular Edema is defined as either:

        1. In eyes with central subfield mean thickness (CSMT) measured by OCT < 300 μm at
           baseline, the development of CSMT > 300 μm AND and increase of > 50 μm.

        2. In eyes with CSMT measured by OCT > 300 μm at baseline, a vision loss of ≥ 15 letters.

      VA is measured using the ETDRS protocol. (ETDRS 1991c). The outcome is the development of
      moderate visual loss, a decrease in the ability to read 15 letters on this 90 letter scale.
      This corresponds to a loss of 3 lines of visual acuity or the doubling of the visual angle
      (eg from 20/20 to 20/40).

      The progression must be present on 2 consecutive visits separated by at least 4 months.

      Sample Size Calculation Metabolic control, baseline retinopathy and diabetes duration are the
      only independent predictors of progression to PDR (Porta 2001, Skrivarhaug 2006). A recent
      study examining the effect of protein kinase C inhibition on the progression of DR enrolled
      subjects a similar spectrum of DR severity as is planned for our study (PKC-DRS 2005). The
      progression rate over 3 years in the study was 50%, lower than their estimated 64% (ETDRS
      1991c). We will use the more conservative estimate of 50% for our sample size calculation.

      We anticipate that 30% of our subjects will have significant ME at the time of randomization
      and that 25% of this group will experience moderate visual loss over 3 years. (Klein 1998,
      PKC-DRS2 2006, PKC-DRS 2005) Of the anticipated 70% without significant ME at randomization,
      25% can be expected to develop ME over 3 years (ETDRS 1985). Since the risk of progression is
      25% whether or not ME is present at entry, our sample size calculation will not be influenced
      if the proportions of the recruited population is different than the projected 30:70

      This literature analysis suggests that the composite endpoint can be expected to occur in 75%
      of the control group over 3 years. For conservative purposes, a rate of 65% will be used for
      the calculation. We wish to be able to detect a 50% reduction to a rate of 32.5%. For α = .05
      and a power of 80%, 36 eyes (18 subjects) are needed in each group. We plan to recruit 20
      subjects for each group (total 40) to allow a dropout of 10%.

      Ability to perform study Our rate of donor pancreases suitable for ICT has averaged 1/month
      since we began in March 2003 (Thompson 2008). Although 2 pancreases are usually required to
      allow a subject to become insulin independent, we have found that the benefits of ICT on
      microvascular complications begin after a single islet infusion, whether or not the subject
      is able to stop insulin. Therefore, we should be able to have sufficient donors to allow 20
      subjects to receive an islet infusion in 2 years. For conservative purposes, to allow for
      unexpected events such as a decrease in the availability of donor pancreases, we will allow 3
      years for all subjects to be randomized.

      Step 1 - Recruitment

      It is anticipated that most subjects will be identified during routine-care examinations with
      their endocrinologist or ophthalmologist. The Islet Transplant Program will make
      ophthalmologists and endocrinologists in British Columbia aware of this study and we believe
      that all recruitments will come from these physicians. They will be asked to provide any
      subjects who are potentially eligible and express interest with contact information. Subjects
      will be able to contact the program by phone (604-875-5997), fax (604-875-5925) or email
      (isletlab@interchange.ubc.ca).

      Step 2 - Initial Meeting

      When a subject has identified themself as being interested in the study, they will be
      contacted by phone by the study coordinator and asked to schedule a preliminary meeting with
      the PI and study coordinator who will provide further information about the study. At the end
      of the meeting they will be given the informed consent document to read and consider. There
      is no time limit given for a subject to determine if they wish to enter the study. Subjects
      who remain interested will proceed to the next step.

      Step 3 - Further Assessment: the components of step 3 occur simultaneously

      3a Suitability for ICT Meeting with transplant team to ensure eligibility and that the
      subject understands the risks of the transplant procedure and immunosuppression.

      3b Intensive medical therapy Subjects to begin intensive insulin management, as with current
      program, to ensure that they will be able to comply with this aspect of the study prior to
      randomization and after if they are randomized to the medical arm. This is necessary so that
      ICT is compared with the best available current treatment. Failure to maintain regular
      contact with the nurse-clinicians, perform regular glucose monitoring and to achieve an A1c <
      8.0 by the end of this assessment will be considered a reason to exclude the subject from the
      study.

      3c Ocular assessment Complete eye examination including 7-field fundus photos, visual acuity
      and OCT to confirm eligibility. The photography will be performed by certified photographers
      at the Eye Care Centre. These photos will be read by one of the investigators (ISB) locally.

      The time to complete step 3 is estimated to be approximately 2 months.

      Step 4 Team meeting of the investigators to make a decision about each subject regarding
      enrollment in study. Eligible subjects will be asked to sign an informed consent at this
      time.

      Step 5 Subjects are now considered to be enrolled in the study and will continue intensive
      medical management based on the 2008 CDA guidelines. Failure to comply with the requirements
      of intensive therapy will disqualify a patient from the study.

      Randomization will be in blocks: 8 subjects per block for blood groups A and O and 4 subjects
      per block for groups B and AB. Eight subjects are chosen for the common blood groups to make
      it highly likely that at least 4 would be cross-match negative with a particular donor and
      thus eligible to receive the islet infusion from that donor. The smaller number is used for
      the less common groups so that they can participate in the study. All subjects remain on
      intensive medical therapy until a block is full.

      Steps 6 and 7 A completed block is activated. Prior to activation, the subjects understanding
      of the trial, willingness to accept the assigned treatment group and commitment to the
      follow-up schedule will be confirmed.

      Half of these subjects will randomly be assigned to receive and ICT and the other half will
      continue with intensive medical therapy for the duration of the study. If the study
      demonstrates that ICT is more effective than medical therapy in preventing progression of
      diabetic retinopathy, subjects who have not received an ICT as part of this study will be
      offered the chance to have an ICT as part of their ongoing care.

      The random number sequence will be generated by computer and the numbers placed in numbered,
      opaque, sealed envelopes which will be stored in the locked islet transplantation laboratory.
      These will be prepared before any subjects have been enrolled. Each numbered, sealed envelope
      will contain two additional sealed but unmarked envelopes - one containing a randomization
      number for medical treatment and the other for ICT.

      Randomization will occur at the time a donor becomes available. The two best matched subjects
      for the donor will be identified. This identification requires the agreement of at least two
      of the investigators. In the presence of at least 2 investigators, a numbered envelope will
      be obtained from the islet lab and opened. The name of one subject will be written on one of
      the sealed, unmarked envelopes and the name of the other subject on the other envelope. Only
      then will the envelopes be opened to reveal the code. One of these subjects will then be
      randomized to receive the ICT and the other will continue medical therapy.

      No new subjects of this blood group will be activated until half have received an ICT and the
      other half have been randomized to medical therapy. At this time, another group of subjects
      of this blood group will be activated.

      Assessment of study outcomes will begin from the time of randomization of each 2 subjects
      (one ICT, one medical). A complete ocular assessment will be performed within 1 week of
      randomization.

      Follow-up Phase

      Blinding The subjects and investigators administering the interventions by necessity will be
      aware of the treatment allocation. The outcome assessment will be blinded in the following
      manner. The eye photographers and technicians performing the photographs and VA testing will
      not be aware if the subject has received a transplant. Once collected this information will
      be marked with a unique identifier and shipped to the University of Wisconsin Fundus
      Photograph Reading Center for analysis. The assessors at the center will have only the unique
      identifier number and therefore will not know which treatment the subject is receiving.

      Outcome Assessment Ocular assessment (for complete eye exam, ETDRS best corrected VA, Fundus
      photos, OCT) will be performed every 4 months ± 1 month from the time of randomization.

      Islet transplantation Islet isolation and transplantation are performed as described (Warnock
      2005). Subjects will receive ≥ 5,000 IE/kg for their initial infusion and are considered to
      have received a completed islet transplant when they have received ≥ 12,000 IE/kg in 1 - 3
      infusions.

      Post-transplantation Care Subjects are followed in the Solid Organ Transplant Clinic at
      Vancouver General Hospital as described (Warnock 2005)

      Diabetes Management Diabetes care is provided according to the standards recommended in the
      Canadian Diabetes Association 2008 Clinical Practice Guidelines. Subjects are followed
      closely as described (Warnock 2005)

      Duration of Follow-up: 3 years from time the last patient is randomized

      Statistical Analysis The unit of analysis is an individual eye. Analysis will be by
      intention-to-treat. At the end of the study, the proportion of eyes in each treatment group
      that have reached the primary outcome will be compared by Chi-square analysis.

      There will be no interim data analysis. The DCCT found that transient early worsening of DR
      can occur in the first two years of intensive therapy and that analysis during this time
      would provide inaccurate information as to the long-term benefit of treatment that begins to
      appear after three years of follow-up (DCCT 1995b).
    
  