
    
      Background and purpose:

      Frailty is a continuous decline of multiple physiological systems along with aging. Common
      characteristics of frailty are fatigue, weakness, weight loss, slowness, and low physical
      activity. Brain changes accompanying frailty may lead to cognitive decline. Moreover,
      evidence showed positive relations between frailty and cognitive decline. Frailty with
      cognitive decline increases the risk of various adverse outcomes, such as disability,
      hospitalization, incidence of dementia, loss of daily activity functioning, and poor quality
      of life. Physical exercise training is a common intervention for frail elderly; however, most
      studies applying physical exercise to frail elderly are for enhancing physical performance,
      few are for improving cognitive function. On the other hand, the square-stepping exercise has
      been proven to be beneficial to healthy older adults for both physical performance and
      cognitive function, but it's application for frail elderly is scarce. Therefore, the purpose
      of this study is to explore the effects of the square-stepping exercise on frailty and
      cognitive function in elderly with frailty and mild cognitive impairment (MCI).

      Method:

      This is a single-blinded, randomized controlled trail with pre- and post-measurements. The
      inclusion criteria are: (1) age between 65 to 90 years old, (2) the presence of at least one
      of the 5 physical characteristics defined by Fried, (3) with mini-mental state examination
      (MMSE) score≧24 and Montreal cognitive assessment (MoCA) score < 26, and (4) ability to walk
      independently for 1 min without assistive devices. The exclusion criteria are: unstable
      physical condition, any neurological, psychiatric disorder, or diagnosed with learning
      disability which may affect participation in this study. Twenty-eight elderly will be
      recruited, and randomly assigned to one of two groups: square-stepping exercise (SSE) group
      (n=14) or control group (n=14). The intervention for both group will be 50 minutes per
      session, 3 sessions per week for 8 weeks. The primary outcomes include frailty status
      indicated by Fried frailty criteria, and global cognitive function indicated by MoCA score.
      Secondary outcomes include frailty and MCI reverse rate, attention and memory, executive
      function, and physical performance.

      SPSS 25.0 will be used for data analysis, with significant level set at 0.05. Repeated
      measures two-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) with Tukey's post-hoc analysis will be used to
      compare between time (pre-test, post-test) and between groups. Chi-square test (χ2 test) will
      be applied comparing data of frailty/ MCI reverse rate.
    
  