
    
      Pharmacological enhancement of trabeculectomy using Mitomycin C (MMC) has significantly
      improved success rates. Despite this, some patients still mount aggressive scarring responses
      post-operatively and require additional subconjunctival injections of antifibrotic agents,
      such as 5-Fluorouracil (5-FU) to reduce scar formation and reduce the likelihood of surgical
      failure. There is concern that these agents are potentially toxic and may result in side
      effects such as keratopathy (loss of corneal epithelium) and are also painful for the
      patient. For those patients that are showing clinical evidence of potential scar formation, a
      more predictable and less toxic modulator of wound healing is desirable.

      Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) has been associated with angiogenesis in numerous
      pathological situations, including tumor growth, proliferative retinopathy, and rheumatoid
      arthritis. VEGF is also thought to play a pivotal role in ocular wound healing. It mediates
      the signal transduction cascade leading to tenon's fibroblast migration and proliferation and
      collagen gel contraction at the site of surgery, as well as angiogenesis. VEGF also causes
      persistent vascular permeability and vasodilation at the level of existing microvessels.
      Vessels with increased permeability are typically tortuous and dilated and this is the
      clinical appearance within the conjunctiva, suggestive of future excessive wound healing and
      scar formation following trabeculectomy. Early interventions such as subconjunctival
      injections of 5-Fluorouracil (5-FU) are therefore often considered when these clinical
      findings are apparent, in order to modify the course of wound healing.

      The investigators propose a pilot study looking at the effect of serial injections of
      bevacizumab (an anti-VEGF agent) on modifying the wound healing response in patients showing
      early signs of future failure, compared to 5-Fluorouracil (5-FU). The purpose of the pilot is
      to also gather outcome data and information relating to safety and recruitment with a view to
      powering a definitive study addressing this issue.
    
  