
    
      NSABP B-59/GBG 96-GeparDouze is a prospective, randomized, double-blind, Phase III clinical
      trial. This is a collaborative study being conducted by NSABP Foundation, Inc. in partnership
      with the German Breast Group (GBG), and supported by funding by Genentech, a Member of the
      Roche Group, and F. Hoffmann-La Roche, Ltd.

      In this clinical trial of neoadjuvant and adjuvant administration of atezolizumab/placebo in
      patients with high risk triple-negative breast cancer, the potential incremental efficacy and
      safety of neoadjuvant administration of atezolizumab/placebo with a sequential regimen of
      weekly paclitaxel with every-3-week carboplatin followed immediately by neoadjuvant
      administration of atezolizumab/placebo with AC/EC will be evaluated. Patients will then
      undergo surgery. Following recovery from surgery, patients will initiate approximately 6
      months of adjuvant therapy with atezolizumab/placebo and receive the same investigational
      agent they received pre-operatively. Administration of radiation therapy will be based on
      local standards at the discretion of patients and investigators, but if administered,
      atezolizumab/placebo will be administered concurrently.

      The primary aims of the study are 1) to determine value of atezolizumab in improving
      pathologic complete response in the breast and post-therapy lymph nodes evaluated
      histologically (pCR breast and nodes [(ypT0/Tis ypN0)]), and 2) to determine the value of
      atezolizumab in improving event-free survival (EFS). Secondary aims include: pathologic
      complete response in the breast (ypT0/Tis); pathologic complete response in the breast and
      lymph nodes (ypT0 ypN0); positive nodal status conversion rate; overall survival;
      recurrence-free interval: distant disease-free survival; brain metastases free survival; and
      toxicity. The stratification factors for the study are: 1) clinical size of the primary tumor
      (1.1-3.0 cm; > 3.0 cm); 2) nodal status as determined by protocol-specified criteria
      (negative, positive); 3) AC/EC (every 2 weeks; every 3 weeks); and 4) Region (North America;
      Europe).

      For patient eligibility, local testing on the diagnostic core must have determined the
      patient's tumor to be ER-negative, PgR-negative, and HER2-negative by current ASCO/CAP
      guidelines. Material from either the diagnostic core biopsy or the research biopsy must be
      sent for central testing for confirmation of ER, PgR, and HER2 to confirm eligibility. If
      local testing has determined a tumor to be HER2 equivocal or to have a borderline ER/PgR
      status (% IHC staining < 10% for both), material may be submitted for central testing to
      determine eligibility.

      In order to proactively identify and further assess any cardiac toxicity that may occur with
      the combination of anthracyclines and atezolizumab, this study includes a cardiac safety
      lead-in for the first 60 patients who initiate AC/EC. The safety lead-in will consist of
      assessment of ECG and serum troponin-T obtained just prior to administration of the first
      dose of AC/EC, following completion of the administration of the 1st and 3rd cycle of AC/EC
      prior to initiation of the atezolizumab/placebo. An additional assessment of LVEF with
      echocardiogram or MUGA scan will also be obtained prior to the 3rd dose of AC/EC. In order to
      provide an early assessment of cardiac safety, results of the troponin-T assessments, ECGs,
      LVEF assessment, and cardiac safety data will be evaluated by the Data Safety Monitoring
      Board (DSMB) when the last of the initial 20 patients who initiate AC/EC undergo their
      scheduled post-surgery LVEF assessment. When the last of the first 60 patients to initiate
      AC/EC undergo their scheduled post-surgery LVEF assessment, results of the troponin
      assessments, ECGs, LVEF assessments, and cardiac safety data from all 60 patients will be
      evaluated by the DSMB.

      Research core biopsies of breast primary at baseline and 1-4 days prior to the second dose of
      atezolizumab/placebo are a study requirement for all patients. One to three representative
      blocks of residual primary tumor containing the maximum amount of tumor and node with the
      largest focus of metastasis is required from the definitive breast surgery if gross residual
      disease is greater than or equal to 1.0 cm. If gross residual disease is less than 1.0 cm,
      tissue should be submitted, if possible. Blood specimens will be collected on all patients at
      baseline for exploratory biomarker analysis and to support future correlative studies.

      Accrual for this study will be 1,520 randomized patients. It is expected that approximately
      760 patients will be randomized by sites in North America and approximately 760 patients, by
      sites in Europe.
    
  