
    
      Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most common neurodegenerative disorder and affects
      approximately 1 million people in the United States with total annual costs approaching 11
      billion dollars. Current medical and surgical treatment approaches for PD are either only
      mildly effective, expensive, or associated with a variety of side effects. Therefore, the
      development of practical and effective therapeutic adjuncts to current treatment approaches
      would have significant benefits.

      Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) is a non-invasive brain stimulation technique
      that can modulate cortical excitability and improve motor function in healthy subjects, older
      adults, and in stroke. However, there are several crucial issues that currently prevents the
      determination of the viability of tDCS as an adjunct intervention in PD. For example, the
      magnitude to which tDCS may be able to improve long-term motor learning beyond what can be
      achieved by practice alone in PD is unknown. It is also unclear if short-term improvements in
      motor function induced by tDCS and measured in the OFF state in PD can be attained over the
      long-term in the ON state, which is necessary for real world application. In addition, it is
      uncertain if the effects of tDCS generalize to non-practiced tasks and to the ipsilateral,
      non-tDCS stimulated hand. Finally, the physiological mechanisms underlying any of these
      issues have not been identified because no long-term motor learning tDCS studies in PD to
      date have concurrently quantified behavioral, clinical, and physiological measures.

      The project will be a single-center, double-blind, randomized, sham-controlled, experimental
      design. PD patients will practice 2 motor tasks (practice tasks) with their right (primarily
      affected) hand in 9 practice sessions over a 2 week period in association with either tDCS or
      SHAM stimulation of the left (contralateral) motor cortex. In addition, 4 testing sessions
      will be performed and will include a Baseline test, an end of training test (EOT), a follow
      up test 2 weeks after the end of training (EOT+14), and a follow up test 4 weeks after the
      end of training (EOT+28). The primary outcome variables will be the force error in the first
      practice task (precision grip task; PGT) and the stroke amplitude, stroke variability, and
      writing speed in the second practice task (handwriting task; HWT). The secondary outcome
      variables the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) Part 3, the Purdue Pegboard
      Test (PT), and the Jebsen Taylor Hand Function Test (JTT).
    
  