
    
      This will be a phase Ib trial where ficlatuzumab will be added to the standard of care for
      locally advanced HNSCC: cisplatin-IMRT. Biomarkers of HGF/cMet pathway activation that may
      associate with clinical response will be developed in an expansion cohort. Patients with high
      or intermediate risk, locally advanced HNSCC will be eligible.

      A diagnostic primary tumor block for biomarker correlatives is mandatory for inclusion to
      this study. A representative paraffin block of the original diagnosis and all repeat
      biopsies, if available, will be submitted.

      The starting dose of ficlatuzumab (dose tier 1) will be 10 mg/kg every 2 weeks, beginning the
      week prior to cisplatin-IMRT (week -1). Ficlatuzumab will be administered as an IV infusion
      over 30-60 minutes, for a total of 4 doses.

      The starting dose of cisplatin (dose tier 1) will be 40 mg/m2 weekly, beginning concurrent
      with IMRT during week 1 of study treatment (and one week following the first dose of
      ficlatuzumab which is administered during week -1 of study treatment). Patients will receive
      cisplatin once weekly as an IV infusion over 60 minutes, for a total of 7 doses.

      Megavoltage energy photon beam irradiation is required. Any treatment planning and delivery
      system that has been credentialed for head and neck IMRT is acceptable. Immobilization should
      be performed with a thermoplastic mask to ensure daily reproducibility of setup. Treatment
      planning CT scans will be required to define tumor, clinical and planning target volumes.The
      treatment planning CT scan should be acquired with the patient in the same position and
      immobilization device as for treatment and performed with IV contrast so that major vessels
      of the neck are easily visualized.

      Four dose tiers will be considered for the phase I portion for ficlatuzumab and cisplatin.
      IMRT will remain consistent for all dose tiers. Under this schema, more than one patient can
      be enrolled at the same time. However de novo dose escalation cannot occur until 2 patients
      have completed study treatment without DLT. In the dose-finding phase, a total of 10 patients
      will be treated if no DLTs are observed or 14 patients if at least one DLT occurs. If no DLTs
      are observed among the first 10 patients the recommended for phase 2 dose (RP2D) will be set
      to dose tier 3. If a DLT is observed and 14 patients are treated and observed, the RP2D will
      be estimated from DLTs across all dose levels by isotonic regression. The observation period
      for identifying a DLT will be 10 weeks, or 2 weeks following completion of IMRT, whichever
      comes later. To be considered a DLT, the toxicity must be at least possibly related to
      ficlatuzumab. An expansion cohort will then proceed at RP2D until 12 patients have been
      treated at that dose level.

      In the absence of treatment delays due to adverse event(s), treatment may continue until one
      of the following criteria applies:

        -  Completion of treatment,

        -  Disease progression,

        -  Intercurrent illness that prevents further administration of treatment,

        -  Unacceptable adverse event(s),

        -  Patient decides to withdraw from the study, or

        -  General or specific changes in the patient's condition render the patient unacceptable
           for further treatment in the judgment of the investigator.

      After completing treatment, patients will be followed every 3 months for 2 years, then every
      6 months for 3 years, for a total of 5 years from completion of IMRT. Patients removed from
      study for unacceptable adverse event(s) will be followed until resolution or stabilization of
      the adverse event.
    
  