
    
      Men who have sex with men continue to make up a majority of incident HIV infections. Despite
      alarmingly high rates of HIV infection, there are few effective interventions to prevent HIV
      transmission among these men. This five year study, proposed by a New/Early Stage
      Investigator, consists of a randomized controlled trial to test a behavioral intervention
      designed to reduce risks for HIV/AIDS posed by sexual partner selection strategies,
      specifically serosorting, among at-risk HIV negative men who have sex with men in Atlanta,
      GA. Serosorting - limiting unprotected sexual partners to those of the same HIV status- has
      emerged as a risk reduction strategy with little input from public health agencies. It is
      commonly practiced among men who have sex with men to avoid HIV infection. However, engaging
      in serosorting is a predictor of HIV transmission rather than a reliable form of prevention.
      Serosorting is ineffective due to several factors, including: multiple flaws in the ability
      to be certain of own or partner's HIV statuses, the failure of routine HIV tests to detect
      acute HIV infection, elevated infectiousness due to acute HIV infection, and increased risk
      for contracting other STIs that can facilitate HIV transmission. We are therefore proposing
      to test a brief, single-session, Conflict Theory of Decision Making based intervention for
      use in public health settings. This project uses a novel theory of informed decision making
      to guide an intervention designed for use in routine services, i.e., HIV post-test
      counseling. An intervention to address the needs of men who test HIV negative fits well with
      current efforts to scale up HIV testing, also referred to as seek, test and treat. The
      proposed research builds on the strengths of a pilot tested, behavioral intervention for
      addressing serosorting among men who have sex with men. Following screening, informed
      consent, baseline assessments, and HIV testing (we predict 70 men will test HIV positive),
      600 HIV-negative participants will be randomly assigned to receive one of two intervention
      arms: (a) a serosorting, partner selection intervention, or (b) a time-match, CDC based,
      post-HIV test counseling, standard-of-care. Participants will be followed over 12-months and
      assessments will include measures of serosorting beliefs, decisional balance, knowledge of
      acute HIV infection, HIV status disclosure, and biological (incident STI) and behavioral
      outcomes (sexual behaviors). This study will test the hypotheses that a brief, single
      session, serosorting intervention will result in less risk-related serosorting beliefs,
      greater knowledge/awareness of HIV transmission risk taking, increased HIV status disclosure,
      reductions in number of sex partners, unprotected sex acts, and incident STIs among
      intervention participants more so than the control group participants. Moreover, we will test
      the hypothesis that the intervention will be cost saving when tested in cost-effectiveness
      analyses. If shown effective, the intervention model will be ready for immediate
      dissemination to HIV testing services. In a subset of participants, we will test how stigma
      affects linkage, engagement and retention in care for participants who test HIV/STI positive.
    
  