
    
      The purpose of this study is to better understand the differences of two commonly used local
      anesthetics in carpal tunnel surgery. This study will explore the differences in terms of
      patient satisfaction during surgery (measured on VAS), pain after surgery (measured on VAS),
      and the need for pain medications after surgery (patients will annotate on a log given to
      them the time of the medication taken if needed for analgesia).

      Wide awake hand surgery (freezing your limb while being fully awake) has recently been
      popularized as being faster and safer for patients compared to hand surgery under general
      anesthesia or with sedation. Advantages include fast recovery and no risks of general
      anesthesia.

      In order to freeze the wrist to undergo carpal tunnel surgery, a local anesthetic is injected
      into the nerves of the wrist. Among the most commonly used anesthetic agents are Lidocaine
      (shorter duration of anesthesia) and Bupivacaine (longer duration of anesthesia). Until now,
      no enough evidence to support using one anesthetic agent over the other. Furthermore, no
      previous studies looked at the perception of pain from patient's perspectives when using
      different anesthetic agents.

      There will be NO change in the standard medical care that patients will receive whether or
      not patients decide to participate in the study. Patients that join the study will receive
      the same anesthetic agents used in those procedures as patients who decide not to
      participate. The only difference will be collecting clinical data from participants and
      asking participants to complete two questionnaires regarding the surgical experience, and the
      perceived level of pain during the two days that follow surgery. As well, participants will
      be asked to keep a simple log of the pain medications that are consumed during the two days
      after the surgery. Patients' total participation time should take no more than 30 minutes.

      Patients' decision to participate in this study will help doctors in the future to decide
      which of these two used anesthetic agents (Lidocaine or Bupivacaine) gives patients the best
      experience during surgery. As well, it will help reduce the pain that some patients
      experience after surgery, as well as reduce the need for pain medications after surgery.
    
  