
    
      Cough of children is one of the most frequent events for which parents ask for a medical
      consult and it is a true challenge for pediatrics during daily practice. Cough is perhaps the
      most troubling symptom for children suffering from upper respiratory tract infections (URIs)
      and their parents. Often It results in discomfort to the child and loss of sleep for both
      children and parents.

      In the majority of cases, persistent cough is self-limiting, but its persistence could become
      exasperating and it could reduce quality of life and social activities.

      The influence of persistent cough of children on family's life can create growing discomfort.
      Indeed, children with acute cough may experience transient disability which leads to lose
      parents' work and school days so increasing overall cost for its management. Generally,
      parents' concerns increase when children's cough lasts for more than a week. Consequently,
      often occurs that parents seek for a medical consult with requirement of drug treatment, even
      if the most of antitussive drugs lack of proved evidence of effectiveness and safety.

      Even if inappropriate prescription of antitussive pharmacological treatment in children has
      been reduced, pediatrics prescribing attitudes do not still always are reflecting accurate
      treatment of cough.

      Furthermore, pediatric approach is always compromised by parental exaggerate perception of
      symptoms and usual consequent requirement of pharmacological prescription of antibiotics,
      that they consider the appropriate and effective therapeutic option for cough.
      Epidemiological data indicate that cough in children is much more feared than in adults and a
      substantial proportion of individuals think of cough as "a disease". Also a recent Italian
      survey confirms this view by suggesting that some pediatricians' therapeutic attitudes should
      be substantially improved in order to achieve better management of cough in children and to
      minimize the burden of cough. Moreover, it often happens that attempting to treat cough,
      children are administered with over-the-counter products having little or no scientific
      evidence of proven efficacy.

      The World Health Organization identifies honey as a potential demulcent treatment for cough.
      Administration of honey before bedtime has been reported by parents as being preferable to
      dextromethorphan, diphenhydramine or placebo for symptomatic relief of their child's
      nocturnal cough and sleeping difficulty due to URIs. A separate clinical entity is cough when
      is without an organic cause. Such a persistent involuntary cough without a cause is
      considered to be a functional disorder.

      On the light of the above considerations and since available pediatric treatments for acute
      cough are limited by lack of demonstrated efficacy, a pediatric cough syrup product
      containing Acacia honey as well as specific fractions of resins, polysaccharides, saponins,
      flavonoids and sugars derived from Malva sylvestris extract, Inula helenium, Plantago major
      extract, Helichrysum stoechas (KalobaTuss) to be clinically tested on persisting cough of
      children, has been developed. Researchers investigated through a randomized, double blind
      controlled clinical study the effects of KalobaTuss or placebo on persistent cough in
      children aging 3-6 years. Aim of this trial is to compare the effects of Kalobatuss with
      effects of placebo on nocturnal and daytime persistent cough for eight days.

      Methods This randomized, double-blind controlled clinical study was carried out in the
      pediatric consulting rooms of the Azienda Ospedaliera Provinciale of Messina together with
      the Azienda ospedaliera Universitaria Policlinico "G. Martino of Messina, Italy. Children
      recruited for the study were divided in two groups: children belonging to the active group
      received the syrup KalobaTuss and the second group received a placebo as syrup formulation.
      Randomization was performed according to a table generated by Excel program. The
      double-blinding was released and the treatment groups to be revealed only after the analysis
      of the study results. Children aged between 3 and 6 years, with persistent cough for at least
      three consecutive days, which led parents to the need for medical consultation, participated
      in the study. Children with history of obstructive pulmonary diseases, cystic fibrosis,
      neuropathies, heart disease, diabetes and immunodeficiencies were excluded. Children suitable
      according to the inclusion criteria were randomly assigned to one of the treatment groups
      (KalobaTuss or placebo). Parents or tutors according children participation signed the
      informed consent form. The two treatment regimens were administered 4 doses a day, 5 ml each,
      for 8 days. The appearance, consistency, organoleptic characteristics and viscosity of
      KalobaTuss and placebo were similar.

      The study was approved by the Ethic Committee of Azienda Ospedaliera Universitaria
      Policlinico "G. Martino" with protocol number 95/18 on 17 December 2018. The trial was
      conducted according to the ethical principles of the Seoul revision (2008) of the Helsinki
      Declaration and Good Clinical Practice.

      Objective of the study was to evaluate the clinical efficacy of KalobaTuss by using as
      primary endpoint the evaluation and analysis of changes in day- and night-time cough score
      assessed through a questionnaire filled by parents. Cough was clinically diagnosed and
      evaluated by the pediatrician during the first visit and successively monitored by parents by
      filling a daily diary. At the end of the administration period pediatrician visited again
      children and collected the daily diary for each child.

      The sample size was obtained assuming a mean cough score of 3 points in both groups at
      baseline, and a mean change in cough score of 2 and 1 points respectively for the arm treated
      with the study product and the placebo arm.

      110 children with persistent cough were enrolled, 106 (96.36%) completed the treatment. 54
      children received the KalobaTuss syrup and another 52 children received the placebo syrup.
      Four children, two from each group, left the study before the end of treatment.

      The median age of children completing the study was 53.02 ± 12.02 months (range, 38-70
      months; median age 4.3 months), with no significant difference in age between the two
      treatment arms (p= 0.8181).

      54 children (50.8 %) were boys, of which 28 (51.85%) in the KalobaTuss syrup arm and 26
      (48.15%) in the placebo arm. The mean duration of coughing before enrollment was 3.53 ± 0.57
      (SD) for the KalobaTuss syrup and 3.52 ± 0.58 (SD) for the placebo arm, with no significant
      difference between the two arms (P= 0.93624). None of the children monitored for the study
      needed to receive antibiotics or any other pharmacological therapy during the days of
      treatment and for the follow-up period of one week after the end of the study.

      Adverse events (AEs) were monitored during all the study period. An AE was defined as an
      inconvenient medical event occurring during the study period whether or not it was linked to
      the study procedure or the study product. A severe AE (SAE) was defined as a medical event
      resulting in death, a life-threatening situation, requiring inpatient admission or
      prolongation of hospitalization, and/or resulting in severe or persistent subject disability
      or incapacity.
    
  