
    
      The purposes of this study fall in 2 categories: 1) information important to an understanding
      of normal pregnancies and the roles of polyols and trace carbohydrates in human fetal
      nutrition and metabolism and 2) determination of the impact of the small IUGR placenta upon
      the delivery of polyols and trace carbohydrates to the fetus. Stable isotopes of D-mannose,
      D-glucose and myoinositol are used to determine the contributions of placental transport of
      these carbohydrates from the maternal circulation to the fetus vs their synthesis in the
      fetus and placental tissues. The IUGR pregnancies compare the transport and synthesis of
      these compounds vs a classification of clinical severity based upon Doppler velocimetry data.

      The investigators anticipate that, (just as the investigators have shown for glucose) the
      fetal enrichment of mannose m+6 will be ~ equal to the maternal enrichment. Thus, without any
      appreciable dilution of fetal mannose m+6 there is no evidence of fetal production of
      mannose. This will be further confirmed by the infusion of D-[1-13C]glucose into the maternal
      circulation. Our previous studies have shown that the fetal enrichment will equal the
      maternal enrichment. Thus, confirmation will be obtained by comparing the enrichment of fetal
      mannose m+1 with the fetal enrichment of glucose m+1. The mannose enrichment should be 10% or
      less of the glucose enrichment. These findings would establish unequivocally that fetal
      requirements for mannose are met primarily by transplacental transport, not fetal production
      from glucose.

      Conversely, the investigators anticipate demonstrating that the fetal enrichment of
      myoinositol m+6 is significantly less than the maternal enrichment demonstrating minimal
      transplacental flux of myoinositol with very little dilution of fetal enrichment by
      myoinositol production from glucose. This will receive further confirmation by comparing the
      fetal enrichment of myoinositol m+1 with the fetal enrichment of glucose m+1. For example if
      the fetal enrichment of myoinositol m+1 is 70% of the fetal enrichment of glucose m+1, then
      70% of fetal plasma myoinositol is derived from fetal plasma glucose. This would establish
      that fetal myoinositol requirements are met by fetal production from glucose rather than by
      transplacental transport.
    
  