
    
      Community integration, which includes physical integration (e.g. participation in activities,
      as well as use of goods and services in the community in a self-initiated manner), social
      integration (e.g. quantity and quality of social relationships) and psychological integration
      (e.g. perception of belongingness to the community), is a necessary element to achieve
      personal recovery among people with severe mental disorder (SMD).

      Group identification, based on Social Identity Theory, emphasizes an individual's definition
      of who they are in relation to their group membership. When individuals have a strong
      tendency to define their self-concept in terms of the group they belong to and uphold the
      values of their group, they are said to have high identification with the group. Group value,
      on the other hand, refers to the evaluative judgment of one's social group, which reflects
      the extent to which individuals feel positively or negatively toward their ingroup, and
      people who have positive perceptions toward their group are more strongly identified with it.

      Self-dehumanization is the process by which people dehumanize themselves. This can happen in
      two ways: when they perceiving themselves as unintelligent, amoral, irrational, wild, etc.;
      thus perceived as animal-like, it is called animalistic dehumanization; or when they perceive
      themselves as lacking emotion, warmth, vitality, etc.; perceived as object-like, which is
      referred to as mechanistic dehumanization.

      Self-stigma occurs when people accept the negative stereotypes about their in-group apply to
      themselves. This has shown to influence the community integration of people with SMD.

      Empowerment is understood as the process by which people, organizations and communities
      acquire control over their own lives. People with SMD who endorsed higher group value were
      more likely to be involved in educating the public about mental health and helping others
      with mental disorder, which are considered a behavioral manifestation of empowerment.

      In order to test the hypotheses previously mentioned, the users of the public centers of
      social care for people with SMD of the State of Madrid (Spain) will be contacted. The
      inclusion criteria are: to have a diagnosis of SMD and disorder consciousness. The exclusion
      criteria are: to be underage and legally incapacitated. Participants will complete a
      pencil-and-paper questionnaire, including the measurement of the variables previously
      mentioned and some socio-demographical questions, in the centers they attend.

      The analytical program SPSS.25 (Statistical Package for the Social Sciences) will be used to
      conduct the appropriate test of hypothesis (correlation, regression, mediation, moderation).
    
  