
    
      Iron deficiency anaemia (IDA) affects 2-5% of men and post-menopausal women (1). It is
      thought to occur as a consequence of gastrointestinal blood loss in the majority of cases.
      Studies suggest that gastroscopy identifies a possible cause in 25-58 % and colonoscopy in
      25-33 % of cases. Because pathologies in both upper and lower gastrointestinal tract occur
      simultaneously in up to 26% of cases, current United Kingdom guidelines recommend both
      gastroscopy and colonoscopy for patients with IDA.

      Wireless capsule endoscopy (CE) is a non-invasive form of endoscopy using a swallowable pill
      camera which produces images which can be viewed as a video. It is used routinely in clinical
      practice to examine the small bowel and colon and a role in upper GI investigation is
      emerging. We have experience of upper GI capsule endoscopy in over 100 patients who have
      declined conventional gastroscopy using a protocol involving positional change to move a
      capsule around a water-filled stomach (Ching et al., submitted for publication. It is much
      better tolerated than conventional endoscopy which requires oral or anal intubation, often
      following the administration of intravenous sedation and analgesia and incurs a small risk of
      perforation.Pathology in the small bowel was historically considered to account for only 5%
      of all gastrointestinal causes of anaemia . Consequently, current guidelines recommend small
      bowel capsule endoscopy only when IDA has recurred after treatment. However, it is accepted
      that as many as 30 % of patients with IDA undergoing bidirectional endoscopy have no
      significant abnormality identified, raising the possibility that the cause is located in the
      small bowel. The studies which identified that only 5% of IDA was due to small bowel
      pathology used radiological methods of small bowel imaging, before the advent of CE.
      Meta-analyses now show significantly better diagnostic yields of CE compared to small bowel
      radiology in patients with IDA (42% and 6%, respectively).

      Although mostly performed in patients with recurrent or refractory (as opposed to first
      presentation of) anaemia, CE studies show a diagnostic yield of small bowel pathology in 66%
      and a tumour detection rate of as much as 10% . Even in patients of less than 50 years of
      age, 5% of patients are found to have tumours. Given the uncertainties about which
      pathologies cause anaemia, the failure to identify a cause using conventional bidirectional
      endoscopy in 30% and the availability of a highly sensitive, well tolerated small bowel
      investigative tool, our primary aim is to determine the incidence, nature and location of
      pathology in the gastrointestinal tract by performing small bowel capsule endoscopy in
      patients referred for gastroscopy and colonoscopy for the investigation of IDA.

      Prior to passage through the pylorus and small bowel, capsules can now be moved around the
      stomach using a joystick-controlled robot magnet (Ankon Technologies, Shanghai, China). A
      multicentre study using this device showed a 90% sensitivity in the detection of gastric
      focal lesions compared to gastroscopy, irrespective of size or location of the lesion. We
      have also demonstrated that the diagnostic ability of capsules moved around the stomach
      either using simple patient positional change or external handheld magnets is comparable to
      gastroscopy. Patient tolerance significantly favoured CE in these studies and no patient
      suffered adverse effects. The diagnostic yield using magnetically assisted CE (MACE) of the
      upper gastrointestinal tract will be compared with gastroscopy as a secondary outcome measure
      in this study of patients with IDA.

      Overall, this study aims to report on the prevalence of lesions in entire gastrointestinal
      tract by endoscopy in patients with IDA. This is novel as there has been no such study
      reporting pan enteric pathology by endoscopy in unselected patients with iron deficiency
      since the advent of CE in 2000. This is important because uncertainty about the likelihood
      that certain upper gastrointestinal and colonic pathologies, such as oesophagitis, gastritis,
      diverticulosis and colonic polyps, are the cause of IDA, is widely acknowledged. In up to 25%
      of patients synchronous upper and lower GI pathologies are found on gastroscopy and
      colonoscopy, but we are unsure of the rates and significance of synchronous small bowel
      pathologies in those deemed to have a cause found on gastroscopy or colonoscopy. If there are
      significant synchronous pathologies in the small bowel it may be that small bowel CE should
      become part of first line investigation. Furthermore, should MACE prove to be sensitive in
      upper GI pathology detection when compared to gastroscopy, it may have a role in
      investigating the stomach and small bowel simultaneously.
    
  