
    
      This is a pilot study included in the "Implementing injury Prevention training ROutines in
      TEams and Clubs in youth Team handball (I-PROTECT)" project (Ageberg et al, 2019, 2020). The
      overall aim of I-PROTECT is to achieve wide-spread, sustained and high-fidelity use of
      evidence-based injury prevention training in youth handball through behavior change at
      multiple levels within the sports delivery system (individual and organizational levels). The
      I-PROTECT model is evidence-based, theory-informed, and context-specific injury prevention
      training specifically tailored for youth handball players, incorporating physical and
      psychological components and an associated implementation strategy. The process of developing
      the I-PROTECT model has been described (Ageberg et al 2020). The current study is a
      prospective single case study for initial testing and evaluation of the I-PROTECT model
      (i.e., before the model is implemented in a larger scale study). The reporting will adhere to
      the SCRIBE guidelines. All youth teams in the two clubs with representatives of the
      stakeholder group overseeing the I-PROTECT project will use the I-PROTECT model for one
      handball season. The Health Action Process Approach (HAPA) theory will be used to evaluate
      behavior change among players, coaches and club administrators. The Reach, Effectiveness,
      Adoption, Implementation, and Maintenance Sport Setting Matrix (RE-AIM SSM) framework will be
      used to guide the evaluation of implementation outcomes of the I-PROTECT model among all
      stakeholders (players, coaches, club administrators, caregivers).

      The main hypothesis is that the intervention increases scores in HAPA questions in coaches
      from pre- to post intervention by at least 30%, indicating higher motivational and volitional
      levels in relation to injury prevention training post intervention (end of season) compared
      to pre-intervention (baseline). A preliminary sample size calculation indicates that 42
      coaches are needed to detect a clinically relevant change in behavior of at least 30%
      (baseline vs post intervention) with 80% power at the 5% significance level. Secondary
      outcomes will be: i) HAPA questions among players and club administrators; ii) RE-AIM SSM
      questions, descriptive data, and/or mobile application data among all stakeholders (players,
      coaches, club administrators, caregivers). Interviews (e.g., focus groups) with end-users
      will be conducted to enable an in-depth understanding of the feasibility, acceptability and
      usability of the program, including its packaging. An "exit strategy" will be employed to
      refine the model, address any potential barriers for implementation and sustainability, and
      embed the I-PROTECT model into the organizations that have participated in the study.
    
  