
    
      Parkinson's disease (PD) is a chronic and progressive neurodegenerative disorder
      characterized by motor symptoms. In recent years it has become clear that motor symptoms are
      associated with non-motor and non-dopaminergic symptoms throughout the natural progression of
      the disease, and sometimes even before the onset of motor manifestations.

      Chronic constipation is the most common gastrointestinal symptom reported by PD patients; it
      could be one of the manifestations of disease onset.

      In the past, constipation was considered a side effect of neurological therapy, but more
      recent studies have evidenced that it is widely present in patients with early untreated PD
      too and it may precede of years the onset of motor symptoms.

      The prevalence of constipation can reach 80% of patients with PD, with an incidence of
      decreased stool frequency (less than 3 bowel movements per week) of 57-67% of patients.

      Although constipation should be interpreted as part of the disease, patients often don't link
      it to PD, with the result that it may be neglected or poorly managed. Moreover, continuous
      and incongruous use of laxatives, that are often used in increasing doses in order to
      maintain efficacy, may cause the onset of abdominal pain and diarrhoea with the risk of bowel
      incontinence and other side effects.

      Constipation also adversely affects quality of life of PD patients: beyond being an annoying
      symptom, it may also cause other serious gastrointestinal pathologies (i.e. magacolon,
      intestinal pseudo-obstruction, volvolus, bowel perforation). Moreover, constipation can
      directly or indirectly influence the absorption of PD drugs, with the result of a poor
      control on motor symptoms.

      Afterwards, finding an effective treatment of constipation would be very important for
      quality of life of PD patients; this treatment should be easy to be administered and should
      not have any interference with other PD drugs.

      PHGG fiber is extracted from a herbaceous plant (Cyamopsis Tetra-Gonolobus, family:
      Leguminosae) of Indian origin: it produces 5/9 pods containing seeds which produce the famous
      guar gum, that is a natural polysaccharide. It differs from fibers derived from other plants
      for its high content of Galactomannan. Guar gum (referred to as GG) is classified in the
      European list of additives under the symbol E 412. Recently, a partially hydrolyzed guar gum
      (indicated with the abbreviation PHGG) has been developed. Unlike the original and other
      fibers (eg. Psillium), it has the characteristic to remain liquid and, due to its low
      molecular weight, to not turn into gel. The introduction of molecules of water (hydrolysis),
      by an enzyme called Mannanase, reduces the length and the molecular weight of guar gum and
      creates a fiber with unique properties: by remaining liquid, it does not cause bloating,
      flatulence and meteorism, that are adverse events typically associated to other fibers. The
      association with sodium hyaluronate (low molecular weight depolymerizes) rapidly attracting
      water and amplifying the desired clinical effect.

      The aim of this pilot research study is to investigate the effectiveness of this formula
      (Stick pack 30 ml containing PHGG 5 g and Hyaluronic 200 mg) in PD patients affected by
      constipation.
    
  