
    
      Peanut allergy is a common allergy in the United States, with a prevalence in the general
      population as high as 1%. So far, there is no approved treatment of peanut allergy. Peanut
      allergy management is based on strict peanut avoidance and injectable epinephrine after the
      allergic systemic reactions have started. Specific Immunotherapy methods currently available
      have shown some limitations in their use because of safety issues. Hence, there is an
      important unmet medical need for efficient and safe treatment of peanut allergy.

      DBV Technologies has developed an epicutaneous delivery system, called Viaskin, a method
      based on delivering precise quantity of the allergen on the upper layers of the skin.
      Avoiding contact between the allergen and the bloodstream should confer to epicutaneous
      immunotherapy (EPIT) a higher level of safety as systemic reactions should be circumvented

      The VIPES study is a 12-month double-blind, placebo-controlled,randomized trial to study the
      efficacy and safety of Viaskin Peanut in subjects from 6 to 55 years old with a history of
      immediate hypersensitive reaction to peanut protein.

      The trial will be conducted at sites with investigators and staff trained and experienced in
      the diagnosis and the management of peanut allergy and anaphylaxis, and who are capable of
      performing a double-blind placebo-controlled food challenge (DBPCFC) in adult and/or
      pediatric subjects. Three doses of peanut proteins, i.e. 50 mcg, 100 mcg and 250 mcg will be
      evaluated for the study. Following the confirmation of peanut allergy at screening, subjects
      will be randomized in a 1:1:1:1 ratio into four different treatment groups, including 50 mcg,
      100 mcg and 250 mcg peanut protein or placebo. Treatment will be comprised of daily
      applications of Viaskin Peanut or placebo patch for 12 months. Each subject will undergo two
      DBPCFCs: one at screening and one at Month 12. A follow up visit will be performed 2 weeks
      after completion of treatment and the last DBPCFC.
    
  