
    
      Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) has become a major health problem worldwide with a high
      prevalence and related mortality, and a high rate of disability in the economically active.
      In Mexico the prevalence was 14.4% reported one of the highest in Latin America and estimated
      a cost of $ 778 million allocated for this disease in 2010, i.e., the tenth place worldwide.
      Within its pathophysiology are alterations in the secretion and insulin action, qualitatively
      and quantitatively, which implies a challenge for long-term metabolic control with the
      pharmacological arsenal available today. Since the function of pancreatic β cell decreases as
      a function of time and lack of control is essential metabolic find drugs that can preserve
      pancreatic cell mass and even promote neogenesis, with the aim of restoring the physiological
      secretion of insulin have been lost in the early stages of type 2 diabetes to achieve optimal
      glycemic control sustained over time to avoid complications and reduce the costs associated
      with the disease.

      Have been evaluated in animal models with promising results Proton Pumps Inhibitors (PPI) for
      the restoration of glucose and the preservation of pancreatic cell function, including
      promoting its growth through increased levels of gastrin, which appears to act as a growth
      factor. However, at present no such mechanisms have been evaluated in humans, it would be
      interesting to assess the effect of administration of a PPI such as pantoprazole is, on the
      phases of insulin secretion in patients with T2DM recent diagnosis.

      Material and Methods: Randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled clinical trial.
      Population: 14 drug-naive adults patients with T2DM and obesity.
      Hyperglycemic-hyperinsulinemic clamp to assess the phases of insulin secretion. Intervention
      for 45 days: pantoprazole 40mg or placebo.
    
  