
    
      Relevance: Robotic technologies were first introduced into medicine in the 1950s. The use of
      robotic systems in surgery begins with the use in neurosurgery. In 1985, the Programmable
      Universal Manipulation Arm (PUMA) 560 was introduced to perform CT-guided brain biopsy. In
      1992, the Robodoc system (IBM) became the first orthopedic robotic system used in orthopedics
      for hip replacement, which subsequently improved the ability to automatically perform the
      stages of prosthetics. (Caspar system, Acrobot). Around the same time, the development of a
      robot for performing total knee arthroplasty began.

      A distinctive feature of total knee arthroplasty (TKA) is the manufacturability of the stages
      and the high accuracy of surgical manipulations, which attracts the attention of many robotic
      surgical systems (RSS).

      Traditional total knee arthroplasty (TKA) has now reached its maximum manufacturability and
      efficiency, but the accuracy of the performance depends on the skill and experience of the
      surgeon, as well as the accuracy of the cutting instrument (oscillator saw) when performing
      bone resection, the condition of the instrument and the density of the bone fabric, which is
      highly variable. The use of intramedullary guides during conventional surgery increases the
      risk of thromboembolic and cardiorespiratory complications. Computer navigation partially
      solves the problem of resection accuracy, infrared cameras read information from sensors and
      display a model with anatomical and kinematic features of the knee joint, which helps the
      surgeon to more accurately determine the level and direction of resection, but cannot ensure
      the accuracy of this manipulation and compliance with the preoperative plan.

      Modern RSS used in orthopedics include a robotic arm, robotic cutting devices with a computer
      navigation system that operate in an active, semi-automatic, or passive control mode. The
      main advantage of robotic systems is accurate preoperative planning using 3D modeling, the
      possibility of individual selection of the implant and virtual positioning. Another advantage
      is the ability to accurately reproduce the preoperative plan during orthopedic surgery.

      Today, active robotic surgical systems (ARSS) are used in clinical practice. ROBODOC /
      TSolution One. Robotic Surgical System (Curexo Technology, Fremont, Calif.), And Navio PFS
      (Blue Belt Technologies, Plymouth, Minnesota) Semi-Active Surgical Systems, OMNI Robotic
      System (OMNIlife Science, East Taunton, MA), RIO Robotic Arm Interactive Orthopedic System
      (Mako Surgical Corporation, Fort Lauderdale, Florida), ROSA Knee (Zimmer Zimmer Biomet,
      Montreal (Quebec), Canada).

      The active robotic surgical system TSolution-One allows participants to level the error in
      the positioning of the implant. The accuracy of the filing is not affected by the manual
      skills of the surgeon, and does not depend on the density of bone tissue. Significant
      advantages of the system are: 1) precise preoperative breading; 2) rigid fixation of the
      limb, hip and tibia displacement sensors; 3) active autonomous milling without the
      participation of a surgeon; 4) accuracy of resection according to the preoperative plan; 5)
      rotation of the tibial component as in the preoperative plan; 6) no manual tools required; 7)
      postoperative control of the results of the operation. The active robotic surgical system
      (ARSS) allows participants to correctly install the implant, which affects its service life,
      reduces the risks of postoperative complications, the patient quickly returns to his usual
      way of life and forgets about those negative feelings and limitations that were before the
      operation.

      The novelty of the proposed topic: For the first time in Russia, it is planned to introduce
      and study total knee arthroplasty using an active robotic system. Apply the use of a 3D
      patient model and the creation of an individual personalized preoperative plan using a
      robotic system for knee arthroplasty.

      Aim and objectives of the research:

      aim: To increase the efficiency of primary total knee arthroplasty using an active robotic
      surgical system.

      objectives:

        1. To study the possibilities of an active robotic system for primary arthroplasty of the
           knee joint, to determine indications and contraindications for use in endoprosthetics of
           the knee joint in patients with primary arthrosis.

        2. To evaluate the technique of preoperative planning for total knee arthroplasty using an
           active robotic system in patients with arthrosis.

        3. To work out the technique of total knee arthroplasty using an active robotic system,
           compare with computer navigation and the traditional method.

        4. To evaluate the results of total knee arthroplasty using an active robotic system in
           comparison with the use of standard techniques and computer navigation.

        5. Examine complications

        6. Determine the place of the active robotic surgical unit in the total knee arthroplasty
           system.

      Type of new research: an open-label, retrospective and prospective observational clinical
      study in parallel groups.

      Research object and number of observations: the study is planned to include 300 patients with
      osteoarthritis of the knee joint of stage 3-4 (according to Kellgren-Lawrence).

      Methods of the research:

        1. General clinical examination of patients (collection of complaints, examination,
           assessment of physical findings and local status);

        2. Assessment of the range of motion in the knee joint before and after surgery;

        3. Performing X-ray images and CT of the knee joint before and after surgery, with the
           determination of the angles: LDFA, MPTA, Q, MAD;

        4. Preoperative 3D planning on the TPLAN workstation;

        5. Surgical treatment. 1) Primary total knee arthroplasty using the active robotic surgical
           system TSolution One, TCAT 2) Primary total knee arthroplasty using computer navigation
           3) Primary total knee arthroplasty using the standard recommended set of instruments.

        6. Evaluation of patient treatment results according to scales: VAS, KSS, OKS, WOMAC,
           SF-36, ASA, FJS-12, Spielberger test.

        7. Methods of statistical processing of the material: statistical processing of data is
           planned to be carried out on a personal computer using Excel software packages and using
           standard methods of variation statistics using SPSS 16 statistical software packages.

      Estimated research result:

        1. For the first time in Russia, an active robotic system for primary total knee
           arthroplasty will be introduced into clinical practice.

        2. Indications and contraindications for the use of this system in patients with
           gonarthrosis will be determined.

        3. The methodology of preoperative planning will be improved.

        4. The results of primary total knee arthroplasty using an active robotic system will be
           evaluated in comparison with the use of standard techniques and computer navigation.

        5. The methodology developed and improved in the dissertation will be introduced into the
           work of the clinical bases of the Department of Traumatology, Orthopedics and Disaster
           Surgery, the study of the learning curve.
    
  