
    
      The proposed project involves three phases consistent with the ORBIT model:

      Phase 1a (9 months): The Parent Empowerment Program (PEP) developed by Dr. Hoagwood
      (consultant), has been tested in a diverse population of children and adults with mental
      illnesses, such as anxiety and depression, and has been shown to increase family empowerment,
      access to mental health services, and self-efficacy skills. However, PEP has not focused on
      ADHD care. The investigators will use the PEP program as I2-ART's foundation but specifically
      tailor the intervention to improve adherence to ADHD treatments using findings from the
      empirical literature regarding facilitators and barriers to adherence for African American
      (AA) and Latinx (Lx) youth with ADHD and their families. The investigators will gather
      feedback from the focus groups in Phase 1a to make adaptations to I2-ART and determine the
      most effective ways to deploy I2-ART, which will be needed to implement the intervention
      during Phase 1b. Focus groups participants (N=24) will include 6 clinicians (e.g.,
      psychologists, general pediatricians, and developmental pediatricians), 6 experienced family
      navigators from prior PI and co-mentors' studies (3 Lx, 3 AA), 6 caregivers who are
      experienced with ADHD treatment for their child (3 Lx, 3 AA), and 6 caregivers of
      treatment-naïve children with ADHD (3 Lx, 3 AA). Eight focus groups will be conducted using
      the well-established Morgan & Krueger approach (e.g., group size of 3-6 participants).
      Separate focus groups will be conducted for each stakeholder group and for Spanish-speaking
      participants, including at least one focus group for clinicians, two for family navigators (1
      Lx, 1 AA), and four for caregivers (2 Lx, 2 AA). First, the investigators will gather
      information from caregivers of children with ADHD who are experienced with ADHD treatment
      (Parent Focus Group 1) regarding their receptivity to collaboration with a family navigator
      as well as the most effective ways to introduce family navigator/caregiver dyads to each
      other and support their relationship. Then, the investigators will conduct focus groups with
      clinicians to obtain their perspective on needed PEP adaptations to address barriers to ADHD
      treatment adherence and how to identify patients within their clinical practices who may
      benefit from working with a family navigator. Next, the investigators will hold focus groups
      with family navigators to understand preferences for intervention delivery, including their
      feedback on the use of ADHD shared decision-making tools and animated videos to overview
      session key points with minority families. Feedback from all focus groups will be used to
      modify the I2-ART treatment manual and implementation plans, which will subsequently be
      reviewed by focus groups of caregivers of treatment-naïve children with ADHD (Parent Focus
      Group 2) for additional modifications. Throughout the focus groups, the investigators will
      use feedback to ensure I2-ART's cultural appropriateness. All focus groups will be
      facilitated by the PI and co-mentors experienced with focus groups (Drs. Modi, Crosby and
      Jacquez), and will last 1-2 hours. All sessions will be audio-/video-recorded, field notes
      composed, and sessions transcribed verbatim. The primary deliverable is the design and
      content for the I2-ART intervention, including a draft treatment manual.

      Phase 1b (12 months): Four family navigators (2 Lx, 2 AA) will receive I2-ART training, and
      then will implement I2-ART with 2-3 culturally matched caregivers each (n=8-12). Feasibility,
      acceptability, and satisfaction with I2-ART will be assessed after intervention
      implementation. The investigators will make modifications to the I2-ART treatment manual
      based upon family navigator and caregiver feedback. Based on the PEP model, I2-ART will use
      methods of adult learning, direct instruction to share knowledge or techniques for practice,
      modeling, vicarious learning, and practice opportunities (i.e., role rehearsals). The
      research team will provide the family navigators with 3 months of I2-ART training, including
      40 hours of didactic and interactive sessions (10 sessions of 4 hours each). The family
      navigators' I2-ART training will include these areas: 1) conceptual framework, 2) listening,
      engagement, and boundary-setting skills; 3) ADHD psychoeducation (e.g., diagnosis, treatment,
      shared decision-making tools), and 4) service options. Following training, the family
      navigators will implement the 3-month I2-ART intervention with the caregivers, including a
      2-hour face-to-face meeting (session 1), at least three monthly in-person meetings (sessions
      2, 3, and 4), and intermittent contact between in-person meetings by phone calls, texts or
      emails, as determined by the family navigator-caregiver dyad. Family navigators will meet
      weekly with research staff for supervision and case review. Family navigators and caregivers
      will complete questionnaires at baseline (B), after session 1 (Time 1), after session 2 (Time
      2), after session 3 (Time 3), and immediately post-intervention (Time 4), and 3 months
      post-intervention (Time 5). In addition, the PI will interview the family navigators and
      caregivers to gain a more detailed understanding of their I2-ART experiences. After Phase 1b
      completion, the investigators will modify I2-ART as needed.

      Phase 2 (24 months): Using a 2-wave approach, the investigators will evaluate the preliminary
      effectiveness of the revised I2-ART intervention, compared to a "usual care" control
      condition, on ADHD treatment adherence (e.g., initiation, implementation, and discontinuation
      of ADHD medication and/or behavioral treatment) in minority children (Lx, AA) with ADHD. Four
      family navigators (2 Lx, 2 AA) will implement the I2-ART treatment manual in 2 waves:

      Wave 1 (12 months): Thirty caregivers (15 Lx, 15 AA) will be randomly assigned to the
      intervention group (n=20; 10Lx, 10AA) or "usual care" control group (n=10; 5Lx, 5AA). A
      research liaison at each recruitment site will request caregivers' permission for research
      staff to contact potential participants. Research staff will phone these families, and then
      meet face-to-face with those interested in study participation for informed consent. After
      enrollment, primary caregivers from both groups will meet with research staff to complete
      demographic and baseline measures (B). Then, for the intervention group, the family
      navigators will implement I2-ART for 3 months (including a 2-hour face-to-face meeting with
      the caregivers, at least three monthly in-person meetings, and intermittent contact between
      in-person meetings by phone calls, texts or emails). Family navigators will also meet weekly
      with research staff for supervision and case review. Caregivers in the control group will
      receive "usual care." In addition to completing the baseline surveys, family navigators and
      caregivers from both the intervention and control groups will complete questionnaires at Time
      4 (immediately post-I2-ART for the intervention group) and Time 5 (3-months post-I2-ART for
      the intervention group).

      Wave 2 (12 months): Thirty caregivers (15 Lx, 15 AA) will be randomly assigned to the
      intervention group (n=20; 10Lx, 10AA) or "usual care" control group (n=10; 5Lx, 5AA), and
      will use the same procedures as described for Wave 1.

      Treatment fidelity will be measured through self-report from family navigators and
      caregivers, as well as through research staff assessment. For self-report, family navigators
      and caregivers will complete questionnaires to indicate whether they implemented/received
      identified intervention components. In addition, the investigators will audio record all
      family navigator/caregiver sessions (n=48 for Phase 1b, n=240 for Phase 2); then, the
      investigators will code 10% of the Phase 1b sessions (n=4) and 20% of the Phase 2 sessions
      (n=48) for fidelity. As with prior mentors' projects (Drs. Epstein and Froehlich),4,5 two
      independent coders (PI and research coordinator) will be trained and calibrated on the coding
      scheme and Noldus® software until reaching 90% reliability. The investigators will double
      code half of the coded sessions and will compute intraclass correlation coefficients to
      determine reliability of the fidelity coding. In addition, to ensure uniformity of
      intervention delivery, the investigators will develop an animated video using Vyond (an
      animated software tool) to provide an overview of core concepts and key points for each
      family navigator/caregiver session. This animated video overview of each session's contents
      will be viewed jointly by the family navigator and caregiver, and used as a springboard for
      discussion.
    
  