
    
      HYPOTHESIS:

      H1: 5 independent predictors for cure and mortality can be identified, including active
      empirical therapy, early targeted optimized therapy and early source management if needed.

      H2: For pneumonia, cIAI (complicated intrabdominal infection) and BSI (bloodstream
      infection), combination therapy with two active drugs, one of them being (if available) an
      "active" beta-lactam (such as meropenem or imipenem if minimum inhibitory concentration [MIC]
      <16 mg/L, aztreonam if isolate is susceptible as in many metallo-beta-lactamase producers, or
      cephalosporin if isolate is susceptible as in some OXA-48 producers). For cUTI (complicated
      urinary tract infection), monotherapy with an "active" beta-lactam as above, colistin or an
      aminoglycoside (if active in vitro) is as effective as combination therapy.

      H3. Clinical cure rate at test of cure (TOC) will be 50% with BAT. H4: Specific carbapenemase
      types do not independently influence cure rate or mortality.

      H5: CRE infections caused by isolates showing a carbapenem MIC <16 mg/L are associated with
      higher probability of cure and lower mortality.

      H6: five significant independent predictors (risk factors) for CRE infection can be found.

      H7: the targeted infections due to CRE are significantly and independently associated with
      higher mortality, hospital stay and hospital costs than infections caused by
      carbapenem-susceptible Enterobacteriaceae (CSE) or than other diseases causing
      hospitalisation.

      SPECIFIC OBJECTIVES. O1. To characterise the features, clinical management and outcomes of
      hospitalised patients with cIAI, pneumonia, cUTI and BSI caused by CRE and CRAB.

      O1A. To provide cohorts of patients with the targeted infections caused by CRE and CRAB that
      would eventually be used as historical cohorts for comparison of efficacy and safety of newer
      drugs against these organisms.

      O1B. To identify the outcome predictors of patients with cIAI, pneumonia, cUTI and BSI caused
      by CRE and CRAB, with identification of the best alternative therapy (BAT).

      O1C. To exploratively investigate the importance of the specific carbapenemase and
      carbapenem-MIC in the outcome of CRE and CRAB infections.

      O2. To identify the risk factors for target infections caused by CRE to inform a more
      efficient design of future randomized clinical trials for these infections.

      O3. To assess the mortality, length of hospital stay and hospital costs associated with
      target infections caused by CRE.

      DESIGN AND STUDIES To answer the above objectives, a prospective, multinational, multicentre,
      observational and analytic project including 3 studies was design.

      Study 1. For the analysis of outcome predictors of CRE and CRAB infections (objective 1), a
      prospective cohort study of patients with the target infections due to CRE and CRAB will be
      performed.

      Study 2. For the analysis of risk factors for target infections caused by CRE (objective 2),
      a nested case-control-control will be performed. The first group of controls will be formed
      by matched patients with CSE infections, and the second groups of controls will be formed by
      admitted patients non-infected patients by CRE or CSE.

      Study 3. For the analysis of cost, outcome impact and length of stay associated to target
      infections caused by CRE (objective 3), a matched cohorts study will be performed. The
      cohorts will be formed by selected patients with infections due to CRE and the patients with
      infections due to CSE (identical to the CSE control group above). Additionally, a control
      group of admitted patients not infected by CRE or CSE will be studied (identical to the
      admitted control group above).

      SETTING This study will be performed in 50 European hospitals from Spain, Italy, Greece,
      Turkey, Serbia, Croatia, Montenegro, Kosovo, Albania, Bulgaria and Romania.

      STUDY PERIOD The recruitment period of the study is planned from February 2016 to June 2017.

      ENDPOINTS (MAIN OUTCOME VARIABLES) See below

      STUDY VARIABLES AND DEFINITIONS

        -  CRE: any isolate identified as an Enterobacteriaceae showing a minimum inhibitory
           concentration (MIC) ≥1 mg/L if using any dilution method and/or ≤22 mm if using a
           disc-diffusion method for imipenem or meropenem (10 µg disks); all others will be
           considered carbapenem susceptible (CSE), but meropenem and imipenem susceptible isolates
           showing resistance to ertapenem will be excluded.

        -  CRAB: Any isolate identified as Acinetobacter baumannii showing a minimum inhibitory
           concentration (MIC) ≥16 mg/L for imipenem or meropenem if using any dilution method
           and/or ≤17 mm for meropenem and/or ≤15 for imipenem if using a disc-diffusion method.

        -  Independent variables for Study 1: demographics, comorbidities in adults (Charlson's
           index), comorbidities in children (ARPEC PPS definitions), type of acquisition, systemic
           inflammatory response syndrome severity in adults, sepsis criteria in children, Pitt
           score, SOFA score, APACHE-II score, PIM2, invasive procedures, neutropenia,
           microbiological variables (poly or monomicrobial infection, carbapenemase producer,
           carbapenemases type, susceptibility profile, carbapenem MIC), clinical management
           (source control and support therapy), antimicrobial therapy.

        -  Independent variables for Study 2: demographics, length of hospital stay,
           epidemiological variables (travels, previous contact with persons colonised by CRE,
           previous hospitalization, nursing home or other long term-care facility residency,
           previous colonisation by CRE), comorbidities, acquisition type, SIRS severity in adults,
           sepsis in children, Pitt score, SOFA score, APACHE-II score, PIM2, invasive procedures,
           neutropenia, type of infection, microbiological variables, antibiotics received in the
           last 3 months.

        -  Independent variables for Study 3: all those included in Study 2.

      DATA COLLECTION AND FOLLOW-UP Data will be collected by trained local investigators. Patients
      will be followed for 30 days from day 0. Data prior to study entry will be collected by
      reviewing medical records or interviewing the patient, his/her family or the attending
      healthcare staff. After that, the patients will be followed prospectively. If the patients
      had been discharged before assessement, outcome must be assessed by an outpatient visit or
      phone call according to a pre-design questionnaire.

      MICROBIOLOGICAL STUDIES. All procedures will be performed locally using accepted, standard
      microbiological protocols. Isolates identified as CRE or CRAB according to above criteria
      will be locally studied for carbapenemase production using the CARBA-NP test. Susceptibility
      tests to key antimicrobial agents will be collected. Isolates preservation CRE and CRAB
      isolates will be preserved locally at least at -20ºC.

      SAFETY ASSESMENT No investigation drugs will be used in this study. Adverse event will be
      collected during follow-up as one variable of interest for analysis purposes.

      SAMPLE SIZE :

        -  Study 1 The sample size for the CRE and CRAB cohorts were calculated so that the cohorts
           may serve as 'historical' cohorts for future comparison with new drugs for CRE and CRAB.
           To do so, and because the estimates for the outcome variable of the new drug is unknown,
           we seek to estimate the clinical cure rate of BAT with 95% confidence interval and 8%
           precision. For an estimated cure rate of 50% based on data from previous studies, 151
           patients for each of the five types of infection are needed (due to CRE: cUTI,
           pneumonia, cIAI, and BSI; due to CRAB: BSI). However, because around 25% of patients
           will not receive BAT, we will need 201 patients per type of infection except for BSI due
           to A. baumannii, for which we will need 221 because some blood isolates identified as
           Acinetobacter spp in sites not specifying the species will not be A. baumannii (total,
           1025 patients). Such sample size will be enough also to investigate the best available
           therapy with the merged CRE cohorts.

        -  Study 2: The CRE case group will be formed by 248 patients with CRE infections selected
           from the study 1 cohort. Per each CRE case, one CSE control patient and 3 non-infected
           controls will be selected. Because of possible heterogeneity due to the different
           infection types, we have chosen to over sample by a ratio of 248/201*100%. The number of
           matched controls has been chosen to be four which is well known to well approximate the
           power of full cohort data.

        -  Study 3 The CRE, CSE and non-infected cohorts will be formed by the same patients as in
           Study 2. Therefore, the sample size rationale is as for Study 2, however with the
           refinement that the nested case control matching is now viewed as an exposure density
           sampling.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS

        -  Study 1. The outcomes associated with exposure to different variables will be compared;
           the targeted exposures will be empirical active antimicrobial therapy, early targeted
           optimized therapy, and early source control. Antimicrobial regimens will be analysed as
           empirical (administered before the susceptibility testing is available) and targeted
           (thereafter) therapy. The primary endpoint "mortality from any cause until day 30" will
           be analysed using survival methods (Kaplan-Meier, Cox regression). The other primary
           endpoint "clinical response at TOC" will be analysed as a dichotomous outcome,
           regression analyses will use the logistic regression model. The analysis of the
           secondary endpoints will be analogous. Microbiological response at TOC is a
           polychotomous outcome and will be analysed using multinomial logistic regression.
           Goodness of fit will be assessed throughout. Variable selection will be based on
           Akaike's information criterion.

        -  Study 2. Exposure to potential risk factors of patients will be compared between CRE
           cases and CSE controls, and between CRE cases and admitted controls. A stratified and
           weighted Cox analysis will be performed. Multilevel hospital data (local rate of CRE,
           antimicrobial consumption, infection control measures) will also be considered in the
           analyses above.

        -  Study 3. The impact of CRE infection on mortality, length of stay, cost, length of
           hospital and ICU stay, and length of mechanical ventilation of patients will be assessed
           by comparison with those of CSE infection and admitted patients. All time-to-event
           outcomes (for costs and extra hospital/ICU days see below) will be compared using
           survival techniques. Because the outcome infection due to CRE is subject to the
           competing risks of death in hospital w/o CRE infection and discharged alive from
           hospital with or without CRE infection, the analyses shall be supplemented by those of
           the competing outcomes. Goodness of fit will be assessed throughout. Extra hospital/ICU
           days will be estimated using the multistate approach of Beyersmann et al. Variable
           selection will be based on Akaike's information criterion. Goodness of fit will be
           assessed throughout.

      ETHICAL CONSIDERATIONS. Prior to initiation of a study site, approval will be sought from the
      appropriate regulatory agency and local Ethics Committees of Research or IRBs to conduct the
      study in accordance with regulatory requirements. This is an observational study and
      therefore no intervention is performed on behalf of the investigation. Management of all
      patients including all antibiotic regimens prescribed will be decided by the physician
      doctor/team in charge without any interference. The processing of the patients' personal data
      collected in this study shall comply with the Data Protection Act 1998 and with the European
      Directive on the Privacy of Data.

      MONITORING The study will be monitored for quality and consistency of data.
    
  