
    
      A total of 256 students, ages 18-25, who meet the inclusion and exclusion criteria will be
      recruited from Columbus State Community College (CSCC). A sample size of 256 subjects (n=128
      per each trial arm) will have sufficient power (>80%) to detect an average between-group
      difference with a moderate effect size of 0.4. The mixed effect modeling for repeated outcome
      measures at 6 and 12 months was used for the power calculation using two-sided significance
      level of 0.05 assuming 1) first-order autoregressive covariance structure, 2) the
      within-structure correlation of 0.8, and 3) 20% attrition rate at 12-month follow-up. The
      effect size of 0.4 was reasonably assumed based on data from published trials on weight-loss
      interventions (an effect size of 0.8 using 8-week social media, 0.3 using 12-week Smartphone
      intervention, and 0.6 using 4-month text messaging). Investigators will conduct stratified
      recruitment by gender (female vs. male) and ethnicity (Non-Hispanic Black vs. Hispanic Black)
      to achieve a study sample with 80% Non-Hispanic Black and 20% Hispanic and 50% male in each
      ethnic group. The recruitment and randomization will be equally distributed with
      approximately 10 subjects per month, which is a feasible enrollment target considering the
      pool of eligible participants and our previous recruitment success.

      Prospective participants who contact through telephone or email will undergo a preliminary
      screening via telephone and receive an explanation of the study. Included in this screening
      are four questions from the Eating Attitude Test-26 (EAT-26), which will be asked to
      determine symptoms of disordered eating in the past 6 months. Those who seem to meet
      eligibility criteria and are interested in participating will be scheduled for an in person
      visit for the informed consent and screening process.

      Following the informed consent process and baseline visit questionnaires, participants will
      be randomly assigned to intervention or the attention-control group. Investigators will use
      stratified randomization by sex (female vs. male) and ethnicity (Non-Hispanic Black vs.
      Hispanic Black). For each gender strata, randomization will occur in permuted blocks of
      varying block sizes. Subjects in each block will be randomly assigned to intervention arm or
      attention-control arm with an allocation ratio of 1:1. The advantage of permuted block
      randomization is that it will ensure balance in the number of subjects in the two trial arms
      during the entire study period.
    
  