
    
      Methamphetamine dependence is a major health problem in the US. Methamphetamine's reinforcing
      effects associated with its abuse liability depend upon activation of the cortico-mesolimbic
      dopamine (CMDA) system. Medications that antagonize CMDA function might have therapeutic
      potential Mirtazapine appears to affect this pathway. Mirtazapine works through serotinergic
      (5-HT) mechanisms 5HT 2 and 3, alpha 2 and H1 antagonist and has been noted to decrease
      excitatory responses in methamphetamine challenged animals. Mirtazapine increases dopamine
      release in the prefrontal cortex by 5HT receptor activation. Additionally, in a randomized,
      placebo controlled trial; individuals taking mirtazapine for amphetamine detoxification were
      found to have significant improvements in hyper arousal and anxiety subset score when
      discontinuing the stimulant. Methamphetamine has been given safely to healthy human
      volunteers in other studies.

      We propose to conduct the first preliminary human laboratory study to determine if
      mirtazapine 15 mg diminishes methamphetamine (20 mg) induced positive subjective interest,
      mood elevation and reinforcing value. This dose of methamphetamine has been used by other
      investigators in healthy volunteers.

      This preliminary trial is the first in a sequence of studies to characterize the dose
      dependent effects of mirtazapine as a treatment agent for methamphetamine dependence. If this
      study is successful, it would afford us a scientific platform and rationale for progressing
      with testing efficacy for mirtazapine among methamphetamine dependent individuals both in the
      human laboratory and in clinical trials. The primary objective of this study is to evaluate
      systematically the neurobehavioral basis and dose-response effects of mirtazapine acutely on
      methamphetamine-induced interest, mood elevation and reward. This study employs a
      well-validated, state-of-the-art, human laboratory technique to determine the extent to which
      mirtazapine blocks methamphetamine induced euphoria, reinforcement, and cue craving in
      healthy volunteers tested in a controlled hospital environment under medical supervision.
    
  