
    
      BACKGROUND

      Tumors evolve to evade the body's anti-tumor immune response by targeting cancer cells and
      downregulating immune pathways. Immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) prevent this tumor
      evasion by driving the immune system into an "activated state", and upregulating the
      patient's immune system to destroy tumor cells. While enhancing the immune system disrupts
      tumor growth, in doing so oncologists risk "over activation" resulting in immune-mediated
      toxicity known as immune related adverse events (irAEs).

      irAEs are an emerging disease entity, affecting many organ systems with diverse clinical
      presentations similar to known autoimmune diseases, such as systemic lupus erythematosus,
      inflammatory arthritis, psoriasis, thyroiditis, inflammatory bowel disease, hepatitis,
      pneumonitis, and myocarditis. The most common presentations of irAEs are dermatologic
      (rashes), endocrine (hypo/hyper-active thyroid, hypophysitis, adrenal), and gastrointestinal
      (colitis). However, any organ system can be affected resulting in a wide array of irAEs.

      Immunotherapy, especially ICIs, are being increasingly used in a wide variety of cancer
      therapy and have been found to effectively treat many different types of cancers. ICIs are
      monoclonal antibodies targeting cytotoxic T-cell lymphocyte antigen 4 (CTLA-4), programmed
      cell death protein 1 (PD-1) or programmed death ligand 1 (PD-L1) pathways. CTLA-4 and
      PD-1/PD-L1 are involved in deactivating T-cell and attenuating T-cell effector response,
      respectively. These are already being used to treat a wide range of cancers with several
      clinical trials currently underway examining response of additional cancer types to current
      ICIs as well as for developing new ICI treatments. The investigators anticipate that there
      will be additional immune checkpoint targets in the future given that some are already in
      clinical trials and the high interest in cancer immunotherapy.

      The goal of this project is to collect, curate, and store data and specimens for future
      studies presented in separate protocols. This patient registry will provide biological
      specimens for biomarker analysis, immunophenotyping, genetic and microbiome analysis to
      understand development of autoimmune conditions. Clinical data can be used for
      epidemiological studies as well as clinical, functional, psychosocial and economic outcomes
      research regarding impact of ICIs and irAEs on cancer patients. Moreover, this infrastructure
      can inform the development of clinical algorithms and help determine the effectiveness of
      medical interventions targeting cancer outcomes and irAEs.

      STUDY OUTLINE

      Patients will be involved in the study from the time of consent (before starting ICI therapy)
      until 2 years after the end of ICI treatment. The investigators will collect clinical data
      (including demographic information, medical history, cancer diagnosis and treatment,
      management of adverse events, and outcomes), specimens (including blood, urine, stool,
      biofluids and/or tissue samples), and questionnaires at multiple time points. All patient
      data and samples will be linked by a de-identified study ID and will be stored indefinitely
      until used or patient withdraw from the study in writing.

      STUDY OBJECTIVES

      The overall goal of this project is to build an infrastructure that will provide resources
      for researchers at UNC Chapel Hill and beyond to conduct multidisciplinary clinical,
      translational, and basic research in elucidating pathways involved in cancer biology and
      irAEs.
    
  