
    
      Esophageal cancer is a highly aggressive neoplasm which is fatal in the great majority of
      patients. On a global basis, cancer of the esophagus is the sixth leading cause of cancer
      death worldwide. In fact, gastric and esophageal cancers together accounted for nearly 1.3
      million new cases and 980,000 deaths worldwide in 2000 - more than lung, breast, or
      colorectal cancer. With advances in surgical techniques and treatment, the prognosis of
      esophageal cancer has slowly improved over the past decades. However, with a 5-year overall
      survival rate of approximately 14%, at the time of development of the LEOPARD-II protocol,
      survival was poor, even in comparison with the dismal survival rates (4%) from the 1970s.
      Underlying reasons for this disappointingly low survival rate are above all the difficulties
      in cancer detection at an advanced stage, with over 50% of patients with unresectable disease
      or distant metastasis at presentation and the limited survival achieved with palliative
      chemotherapy alone for patients with metastatic or unresectable disease.

      Clearly, additional strategies are needed to improve the systemic treatment options for
      esophageal cancer.

      The optimal treatment of locally advanced esophageal cancer, a potentially curable disease,
      is controversial. Through several non-randomized cooperative group trials, concurrent
      cisplatin-based chemoradiation or surgery alone represent acceptable standards of care for
      patients with resectable tumors.

      Metastatic or unresectable esophageal cancer is found at presentation in more than 50% of
      patients and is considered incurable. At the time of protocol development, chemotherapy was
      palliative, improving quality of life and dysphagia in 60%-80% of patients. Typical clinical
      and radiographic responses lasted for fewer than 4 months, with a median overall survival
      time of 8-10 months.

      Combination chemotherapies have been demonstrated to be superior to best supportive care and
      chemotherapy given as a single agent, with occasional patients achieving complete responses
      (0%-11%). However, even with the combination regimens, the median survival time remained less
      than 10 months.

      An improved understanding of the molecular pathogenesis of cancer has facilitated the
      development of novel agents designed to target critical pathways involved in cancer
      development and progression. Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) plays a crucial role in
      tumour growth. EGFR-dependent signaling is involved in cell proliferation, apoptosis,
      angiogenesis, and metastatic spread.

      The overexpression of EGFR has repeatedly been shown to predict poor prognosis in both
      esophageal squamous cell carcinoma and gastro esophageal junction adenocarcinoma. EGFR
      blockade through monoclonal antibodies (Cetuximab, Matuzumab and Panitumumab) and tyrosine
      kinase inhibitors (gefitinib, erlotinib) has translated into promising evidence of clinical
      benefit in clinical trials.

      Cetuximab is a targeted therapeutic agent, a chimeric monoclonal antibody that specifically
      binds to the EGFR with high affinity, internalising the receptor and preventing ligands from
      interacting with the receptors and thus effectively blocking ligand-induced EGFR
      phosphorylation. In addition, cetuximab had been found to potentiate the effects of
      chemotherapy and radiotherapy in experimental systems. The dose of cetuximab (initial dose
      400 mg/m2 and subsequent weekly doses of 250 mg/m2) has been found to be generally safe and
      effective in several studies in major tumor types expressing the EGFR. These included
      colorectal cancer and squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck, with cetuximab given
      either in combination studies with chemotherapy and radiotherapy or as monotherapy.

      In two phase I studies prior to LEOPARD-II, EGFR-directed antibodies had shown activity in
      patients with esophageal cancer. In the phase I study of the humanized EGFR monoclonal
      antibody (mAb) EMD72000, one patient with metastatic, pretreated squamous cell carcinoma had
      had a durable, 6-month partial response.

      In addition, a phase I trial with a fully human EGFR mAb, had reported stable disease for 7
      months in one esophageal cancer patient. Preclinical and these early clinical studies
      suggested potential activity and minimal toxicities with EGFR antibodies for esophageal
      cancer.

      Furthermore, a randomised phase II compared cisplatin + 5-FU (CF) to cisplatin + 5-FU +
      cetuximab (CET-CF) (n=62). Cetuximab did not increase grade 3/4 toxicity, except for rash (6%
      versus 0%) and diarrhea (16% versus 0%). The overall response rates were 19% and 13% for the
      CET-CF and CF arms respectively, and the disease control rates were 75% and 57%,
      respectively. The median progression free survival was 5.9 and 3.6 months and median overall
      survival 9.5 and 5.5 months for CET-CF and CF, respectively.

      With respect to the combination of Cetuximab with radiotherapy, preclinical studies have
      shown, that Cetuximab enhanced the radiosensitivity of EGFR expressing tumour cells in vitro
      and in tumour xenografts and the repopulation of epithelial tumour cells after exposure to
      radiation was related to the activation and expression of EGFR. Cetuximab also enhanced the
      efficacy of docetaxel chemoradiotherapy in human adenocarcinoma xenografts.

      Rationale for the LEOPARD-II study Esophageal cancer is a highly aggressive tumor and one of
      the most frequent malignant diseases worldwide.

      Treatment options are various and range from chemotherapy to radiotherapy and several
      surgical techniques. Nevertheless, the overall survival rates for this disease remain poor.
      During the last years before protocol development the combination of cetuximab with standard
      chemotherapy or radiotherapy had mainly been investigated in clinical trials focusing on
      colorectal and/or head and neck cancer. The results obtained from these studies had been very
      encouraging and led to the initiation of active clinical research in esophageal cancer
      patients with antibody inhibition of the EGFR. The first data in this indication were
      encouraging showing that cetuximab could safely be added to chemoradiation for esophageal
      cancer patients with first hints of efficacy. Based on the experiences with cetuximab in
      colorectal cancer and in combination with radiotherapy in head and neck cancer, the aim of
      the LEOPARD-II study was to evaluate the feasibility of a combined treatment of cetuximab
      with continuous infusional 5-FU, cisplatin and radiotherapy in patients with esophageal
      cancer and to assess if the overall survival rates could be increased by addition of an
      EGFR-targeted therapy.
    
  