
    
      After screening, participants are assigned to either the Dose Escalation Phase or Dose
      Confirmation Phase. The Dose Escalation Phase consists of 3 cohorts and will evaluate
      available PK and safety data from the first 6 participants of each cohort, including dose
      limiting toxicities (DLTs). The purpose of the Dose Confirmation Phase is to gather
      additional safety, tolerability, PK, and preliminary efficacy data of quavonlimab in
      combination with pembrolizumab. The 5 arms of the Dose Confirmation Phase will include
      advanced/metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and second line advanced/metastatic
      small cell lung cancer (SCLC). In participants who have initial evidence of radiological
      progressive disease (PD) by modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST)
      version 1.1, it will be at the discretion of the investigator whether to continue a
      participant on study treatment until repeat imaging is obtained.

      Protocol Amendment 4 will enroll participants with melanoma in an Efficacy Expansion Cohort.
      During the Efficacy Expansion Phase, participants will be randomized to receive either
      quavonlimab in combination with pembrolizumab or quavonlimab monotherapy.

      Protocol Amendment 7 will enroll participants in a new cohort (Arm I). During the
      Coformulation Phase, the safety and PK of a coformulated product of quavonlimab plus
      pembrolizumab (MK-1308A) will be evaluated in comparison to that of the single,
      co-administered products given at the same dose and schedule.

      Protocol Amendment 8 will enroll participants in 3 new cohorts (Arms J, K, and L). Arm J
      enrolls participants with refractory melanoma and Arm K enrolls participants in mainland
      China with relapsed or refractory solid tumor. Arms J and K will receive
      pembrolizumab/quavonlimab. Arm L enrolls participants in Japan with first-line advanced
      NSCLC. Participants in Arm L will be divided into 4 sub-cohorts and these sub-cohorts will
      receive 4 cycles of an indicated chemotherapy PLUS pembrolizumab/quavonlimab.
    
  