
    
      Survival of patients undergoing therapy with FOLFIRI + cetuximab seems to be related to the
      ability of this treatment to induce a rapid reduction in tumor mass. In the retrospective
      analyses of the FIRE-3 trial ETS was significantly associated with PFS and OS, suggesting
      that ETS reflects the existence of a selected population of patients highly sensitive to
      cetuximab. This permits the assumption that, once this goal has been achieved, further
      exposure to combined antineoplastic treatment (cytotoxic drugs and targeted therapy) may not
      result in improvement or preservation of the result, but only in an increase of side effects
      that will be additional to unavoidable disease progression. In addition, the heavy exposure
      to cytotoxic antineoplastic treatments may lead to bone marrow toxicity, hepatic and renal
      function decreases that could compromise the sequential treatment plan, negatively affecting
      OS. With the availability of an effective treatment such as cetuximab in monotherapy4 without
      major side effects on blood counts and liver and kidney function, the use of this treatment
      alone after achievement of the deepest clinical response could be a viable strategy to
      achieve a good control of the disease, limiting side effects. As shown in several studies
      designed to understand the most effective treatment sequence in colorectal carcinoma, the
      most important factor that influences the overall survival is the possibility to administer
      more lines of effective therapy. As a consequence, a de-intensifying strategy in a subgroup
      of highly selected RAS and BRAF WT population might segregate a group of patients with the
      largest potential for fast-primary treatment. Joining the best induction treatment with the
      expression of patients capability to undergo additional lines of antineoplastic therapy may
      be the way to optimize the continuum of care.

      Recently, several mechanisms of resistance to anti-EGFR therapy have been described, but
      until now none may used early in order to support the treatment choice.Moreover, assessment
      of secondary resistance requires further tissue samples and often it is not really feasible.
      Therefore, a prospective multiple gene mutation analysis could meet the need of
      characterizing primary resistance, whereas liquid biopsy might help to recognize resistance
      occurring early during treatment by means of a simple and repeatable assay. Based on all
      these considerations, the investigators designed a strategy study: a phase III randomized two
      arm study with FOLFIRI + cetuximab until disease progression compared to FOLFIRI + cetuximab
      for 8 cycles followed by cetuximab alone until disease progression in the first line
      treatment of patients with RAS and BRAF WT metastatic colorectal cancer combined with a
      prospective multiple gene mutation analysis of both tumor tissue and blood.
    
  