
    
      In human subjects GH (Growth Hormone) acutely antagonises the effects of insulin on glucose
      uptake in skeletal muscle and increases the hepatic glucose production of humans. This has
      clinical implications for patients with active acromegaly, in whom the prevalence of glucose
      intolerance and overt diabetes mellitus is increased. It is also of significance in relation
      to GH replacement therapy in GH-deficient adults not least when considering that a
      substantial proportion of these patients are insulin resistant in the GH-untreated state.
      There is evidence to indicate that the acute insulin antagonistic effects may be balanced
      with time by the favourable effects of GH on body composition and physical fitness, but the
      data are ambiguous. The mechanism underlying these effects of GH are not fully characterised,
      but there is experimental evidence of a causal linked to the concomitant stimulation of
      lipolysis, since GH-induced insulin resistance is partly abrogated when lipolysis is
      pharmacologically suppressed. This is noteworthy since elevated levels of free fatty acids
      (FFA) are also implicated in the pathogenesis of insulin resistance in patients with the
      metabolic syndrome and type 2 diabetes mellitus. Thiazolidinediones (TZDs) are insulin
      sensitizers which function as highaffinity agonists for the nuclear
      peroxisome-proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) gamma, which improve insulin sensitivity in
      T2DM. PPAR gamma is a nuclear receptor expressed mainly in adipocytes, which activates the
      transcription of genes involved in lipid and glucose metabolism. Administration of TZD in
      T2DM enhances insulin-stimulated glucose uptake via mechanisms including a lowering of
      circulating FFA and a redistribution of fat away from hepatocytes and myocytes and into
      peripheral adipocytes. To our knowledge, the impact of TZDs on GH-induced insulin resistance
      has not previously been reported. Experimental data in human subjects on this issue are of
      potential importance not only in relation to patients with abnormal GH status, but also
      regarding our understanding of the pathogenesis of insulin resistance in general and the
      complex actions of PPAR gamma activation in particular.
    
  