
    
      What do we do at our institution? The vast majority of centers including ours continue to
      utilize a regimen for neonatal CPB prime that constitutes of PRBCs ( 20-30 ml/kg) added to
      achieve a hematocrit > 25 on CPB and FFP (20-30 ml/kg) to assist the lower antithrombin
      levels, improve heparin efficiency and improved suppression of the thrombin generation on
      CPB. Platelets are not added in the CPB prime at our institution. This regimen of avoiding
      donor apheresis platelets transfusion during early CPB is because of the known effects of CPB
      on native platelets resulting in decreases in count from hemodilution and mechanical damage.
      Donor apheresis platelets administered as an initial constituent of CPB prime also carry the
      risk of platelet activation during hypothermia and CPB with potential activation of the
      coagulation cascade. Fresh whole blood is also not used secondary to the difficulty and
      logistics pertaining to availability fresh whole blood makes this approach unattractive.

      What is the advantage of adding platelet apheresis just prior to separation from CPB? We know
      that native platelets are significantly reduced in count and function with increasing
      duration of CPB and function diminishes independently of platelet count with hypothermia.11
      The advantages of adding donor apheresis platelets just prior to separating from CPB are that
      the donor platelets don't get spalliated and deformed by the roller pumps for long durations,
      they are not subjected to the intense cooling and rewarming process and spared of the early
      reperfusion injury/inflammation. Furthermore, addition of 10 ml/kg of platelets would raise
      the platelet counts by at least 50% based on a previous study at this institution (IRB#
      HSC-MS-13-0647; post-CPB platelet transfusion of 28 ± 16 ml/kg resulted in elevation of
      platelet counts from 76 ± 27 to 223 ± 60 (109/L).

      Effect of modified ultrafiltration (MUF): MUF is routinely performed immediately on
      termination of CPB and prior to protamine administration. During this stage, after successful
      weaning from CPB, 10-15% of the cardiac output from the arterial cannula along with residual
      volume from the venous reservoir of the CPB pump is pumped through a hemofilter placed under
      vacuum to allow rapid hemofiltration with the effluent returned via a single atrial venous
      cannula to the patient. This 15-minute rapid hemofiltration allows for removal of excess
      water, improvement in hematocrit with improved oxygen delivery, faster achievement of steady
      state inotrope levels with improved hemodynamics and removal of inflammatory mediators.12-14
      While MUF improves hematocrit, it does not increase platelet count significantly, MUF has no
      effect on native platelet function.3 The biggest advantage of transfusion of apheresis
      platelets prior to termination of bypass versus standard practice of their transfusion after
      protamine is that the transfused fluid load of 10-15 ml/kg of platelets volume that would
      have diluted the red cell fraction (hematocrit) and impacted oxygen delivery and pulmonary
      dysfunction would now take the full benefit of modified ultrafiltration with excess fluid
      removal even prior to protamine administration with overall improved hemodynamics.

      Institutional Blood transfusion Management for Neonatal CPB For the CPB prime: PRBCs
      (50ml/kg) are added to allow for a hematocrit >30 for the estimated blood volumes. FFP is
      added to the pump prime for all patients weighing less than 5 kilograms and in those who
      demonstrate heparin resistance on initial heparin dose response assays. Heparin is added in
      the CPB prime. Other constituents of the CPB prime are epsilon aminocaproic acid (50 mg/kg),
      cefazolin (30 mg/kg) and methylprednisolone.

      Post CPB: Current practice in neonates is to administer a combination of cryoprecipitate,
      platelet and PRBC in a 1:1:1 ratio till hemostasis is achieved. 3PCC factor administration is
      based on diffuse clinical bleeding suggestive of coagulopathy that persists despite one round
      of cryoprecipitate and platelet transfusion.

      Study Method:

      Prospective Randomized trial in neonates comparing platelet apheresis transfusion prior to
      termination of CPB versus standard transfusion of platelet apheresis after modified
      ultrafiltration and protamine administration. Primary outcomes and secondary outcomes are
      detailed below.

      Study Group Platelet Transfusion Management

        1. Pre-Termination of CPB- Platelet Transfusion 10ml/kg to be administered to the patient
           via central venous access when the patient has been rewarmed to 35*C, (the Sano or BT
           shunt clip is still on in children with SV physiology)

        2. Post CPB- Platelet transfusion 10ml/kg via a central venous line is continued at a rate
           of 100 ml/hour till completion.

      FFP and Cryoprecipitate:

        1. 1 unit of cryoprecipitate administered during MUF and or after MUF as needed

        2. FFP transfusion 10ml/kg during MUF and or after MUF as needed

      PRBC and cell saver Transfusion:

      1. Transfuse for target Hematocrit > 40 in neonates with SV physiology; Transfuse for
      Hematocrit> 33 for 2-Ventricle physiology

      3- Factor Concentrate (Bebulin):

        1. Based on clinical bleeding and achievement of hemostasis

      Control Group Platelet Transfusion Management 1. Pre-Termination of CPB- No intervention 2.
      Post CPB- Platelet transfusion 20ml/kg via a central venous line is continued at a rate of
      100 ml/hour till completion.

        1. Initial transfusion to occur proximal to the hemofilter on the MUF circuit for as long
           as MUF lasts

        2. Subsequent platelet transfusion continued till completion via central venous access to
           the patient

           FFP and Cryoprecipitate:

             1. 1 unit of cryoprecipitate administered during MUF and or after MUF as needed

             2. FFP transfusion 10ml/kg during MUF and or after MUF as needed

           PRBC and cell saver Transfusion:

           1. Transfuse for target Hematocrit > 40 in neonates with SV physiology; Transfuse for
           Hematocrit> 33 for 2-Ventricle physiology

           3 Factor Concentrate (Bebulin):

             1. Based on clinical bleeding and achievement of hemostasis

                Objectives

                a) Volume of Blood Transfusion (PRBC, FFP, Cryo, Platelets) Number of Donor
                Exposures (PRBC, FFP, Cryo, Platelets) from termination of CPB to first 24 hours
                post op b) Number of exposures of 4-PCC and Factor 7 c) Time from termination of
                CPB to Chest Approximation

                  1. Chest tube output first 24 hours

                  2. Inotropic support at time of chest approximation and at 24 hours postop

                  3. Length of mechanical ventilation

                  4. 30 day mortality

                  5. Mediastinal exploration

                  6. Delayed sternal closure

                  7. Perioperative cardiac arrest first 72 hours

                  8. Arrhythmia

                Sample size- Based on pilot data we have collected in the standard procedure group,
                the mean and standard deviation (SD) of total blood product intake during first 24
                hours is 125.3+/- 71.1 (ml/kg). To detect a 1*SD unit reduction on the total blood
                intake, we need 17 patients per group with 80% power at 0.05 significance level. To
                account for 20% drop out rate, we need 22 patients per group, i.e. 44 patients in
                total.

                Inclusion Criteria- All neonates and infants less than 3 months of age under 4
                kilograms undergoing open heart surgery and cardiopulmonary bypass.

                Exclusion Criteria-1) Redo open heart surgery 2) Bleeding Disorders - such as von
                Willebrand Disease, Hemophilia

                Screening and Recruitment:

                The list of newborns to be operated will be obtained daily from the operating room
                log.

                Care4 records and OR Tracking will be used to screen for patients Initials of
                Patients, Date of Brith, Date of Surgery and MRN will be collected. The Research
                Team ( PI and Co-PI) will make contact with the family member while obtaining the
                surgical and or the anesthesia consent.

                Data Collected ( routine Standard operating procedure data)

                Patient Demographics:

                MRN, Gestational age, Age at operation, weight at birth, weight at operation,
                primary Diagnosis, Other diagnosis,

                Operative Data:

                CPB time, Aortic Cross Clamp time, Deep Hypothermic Circulatory Arrest time,
                Antegrade Cerebral perfusion time, Case duration.

                Pump Prime Constituents:

                Inotrope score: at chest approximation {dopamine + dobutamine + (epinephrine*100) +
                (milrinone*10) 15 Procedure performed. Complications All Laboratory values
                performed from baseline to 24 hours postoperative

                a) Baseline- CBC with Platelets, Fibrinogen, TEG b) Rewarming, prior to termination
                at core temperature of 35*C- CBC with platelets, Fibrinogen, TEG c) Arrival to
                PICU- CBC with platelets, fibrinogen, TEG d) 24 hours post op- CBC with platelets,
                fibrinogen, TEG All Blood products administered with age of the blood product at
                time of administration (<5 days, > 5days) Post operative Length of Intubation STS
                reportable complications Mortality Cumulative fluid balance first 72 hours.

                Outcome Variables:

                d) Number of Donor Exposures (PRBC, FFP, Cryo, Platelets) from termination of CPB
                to first 24 hours post op e) Number of exposures of 4-PCC and Factor 7 f) Time from
                termination of CPB to Chest Approximation i) Chest tube output first 24 hours j)
                Inotropic support at time of chest approximation and at 24 hours postop k) Length
                of mechanical ventilation l) 30 day mortality m) Mediastinal exploration n) Delayed
                sternal closure o) Perioperative cardiac arrest first 72 hours p) Arrhythmia

                Study Risks:

                There are no perceivable risks from exposure to platelets since the patients will
                be exposed to platelet transfusion after protamine administration. Only the timing
                of administration is being changed in the study group.

                Informed Consent:

                A written informed consent will be obtained. If informed consent is not obtainable
                or refused, patients will be randomized to control arm.
    
  