
    
      Objectives and specific aims:

      The investigators propose to prospectively evaluate the predictive value of the most
      promising blood biomarkers to identify treatable stroke etiologies on admission and risk of
      recurrence in 3000 consecutive ischemic stroke patients enrolled by 10 centers in Europe and
      the US.

      The clinical endpoints of the study are 1) recurrent stroke within one year, 2) all types of
      atrial fibrillation (AF) detected on admission or by prolonged ambulatory cardiac rhythm
      monitors, 3) presence of cerebrovascular atherosclerosis detected by ultrasound
      investigations and 4) new silent ischemic brain lesions and progression of chronic cerebral
      ischemic lesion volume detected by repeated magnetic resonance imaging (MRI and MRA) and
      (i.e. on admission and after 12 months).

      Aim 1: To determine whether the proposed biomarkers independently predict recurrent stroke
      among all patients. Hypothesis 1: Elevated levels of one or more of the proposed biomarkers
      will independently predict recurrent strokes during trial follow-up, assessed by structured
      interviews, as well as chart reviews 90 days and 1 year after the index stroke.

      Aim 2: To determine whether cardioembolic (CE) biomarkers are associated with atrial
      fibrillation among all patients. Hypothesis 2: Baseline values of one or more of the proposed
      CE biomarkers will be independently associated with AF, including history of AF, AF detection
      at baseline, or AF detected during the follow up period by prolonged ambulatory cardiac
      rhythm monitors and structured interviews as well as chart reviews 90 days and 1 year after
      the index stroke.

      Aim 3: To determine whether large artery atherosclerosis (LAA) biomarkers are associated with
      a) the presence of cerebrovascular atherosclerosis among all patients. Hypothesis 3: Baseline
      values of one or more of the proposed LAA biomarkers will be independently associated with
      the presence of extra and intracranial atherosclerosis among patients with ischemic stroke,
      assessed by duplex sonography.

      Exploratory Aim 4: To determine whether the proposed biomarkers will predict b) new silent
      strokes and c) progression of chronic cerebral ischemic lesion (white matter hyper-intensity)
      volume (WMHV) among cryptogenic stroke patients. Hypothesis 4: Baseline values of one or more
      of the proposed biomarkers will independently predict a) silent stroke b) progression of
      WMHV, during study follow-up, assessed by repeated magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) (on
      admission, and 1 year after the index stroke).

      This study will be conducted in compliance with the protocol, the current version of the
      Declaration of Helsinki, and Good Clinical Practice (GCP) guidelines as well as all national
      legal and regulatory requirements.
    
  