
    
      The study takes places at the Medical University of Graz, Department of Psychiatry and
      Psychotherapeutic Medicine. Individuals that start inpatient treatment at the ward in the
      first floor of the Department because of a major depressive episode are eligible. After
      inclusion into the study, the participants are asked to fill in different self-rating
      questionnaires (Becks-Depression Inventory-II BDI-II, Symptom Checklist-90-Revised SCL-90-R,
      Manie-Selbstbeurteilungsskala german adaptation of Self-Report manic inventory (SRMI) - MSS,
      food frequency questionnaire). General data are explored routinely, as well as a diagnostic
      interview (MINI - mini international neuropsychiatric interview, German version 5.0) is
      performed during the stay at the hospital. Participants are asked to provide a stool probe as
      soon as possible.

      At the day after admission, fasting blood is taken (100ml). Routine parameters are further
      analyzed at the local laboratory, while the rest is stored at -80 degree for later analyzes.
      Afterwards a cognitive test-battery is performed to measure verbal learning and memory,
      information processing speed, cognitive flexibility and working memory capacity.

      After one week a further stool probe is taken, to measure possible changes in dietary habits
      due to the stay at the hospital. Antidepressive treatment at the hospital is continued as
      treatment as usual.

      At the end participants go through a similar cognitive test battery as at the beginning and
      are asked to fill in the same self-rating questionnaires. If participants are discharged
      before day 28 they are given their own preparation and instructed to take it at home in the
      exact same manner. An outpatient appointment at the end of the preparation intake is arranged
      to collect the fasting blood and stool sample and to perform the cognitive assessment.
    
  