
    
      Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a major cause of morbidity and mortality globally. More than 50%
      of patients can be expected to develop metastatic disease, and most of these patients will
      require palliative systemic therapy. The primary goal for patients who present with
      technically resectable liver metastases is definitely cure, with R0 resection as the primary
      goal. Consequently, any patient with limited liver and/or lung metastases should be
      considered a candidate for potential secondary resection as there are no criteria that allow
      physicians to distinguish between those patients for whom purely palliative treatment and
      those or whom potentially curative treatment is appropriate. Although survival times are
      slightly shorter for patients who undergo conversion therapy followed by surgery than for
      patients with initially resectable metastatic disease, they are far better than if resection
      is not carried out at all. First-line therapy commonly involves the doublet regimens of
      5-fluorouracil, folinic acid, and either oxaliplatin or irinotecan. The addition of targeted
      therapies, such as bevacizumab (a pure anti-angiogenic agent which binds circulating VEGF-A),
      cetuximab, and panitumumab, to FOLFOX (5FU, oxaliplatin) or FOLFIRI (5FU, irinotecan) may be
      helpful to some patients in improving tumor response and ultimately overall survival. The
      cytotoxic triplet FOLFOXIRI (5FU, oxaliplatin, irinotecan) with or without bevacizumab may be
      an option in selected fit and motivated patients when cytoreduction (tumour shrinkage) is
      needed to undergo conversion therapy.

      RAS mutations are found in about 50% of mCRC tumors. These mutations exclude affected
      patients from epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)-directed therapy. Besides their
      negative predictive value, RAS mutations may also carry distinct prognostic information.
      Modest studied the prognosis by RAS status of a total of 1239 mCRC patients from five
      randomized trials studying 2-CT. Actually, PFS and OS were significantly influenced by
      molecular subgroups. Multivariate comparison of Progression-Free Survival (PFS) and Overall
      Survival (OS) in patients with mutant tumors versus patients with non-mutated tumors revealed
      a negative prognostic effect of RAS mutations. Interestingly, the negative prognostic role of
      these mutations was consistently observed across different treatment regimens (subgroups of
      irinotecan- and oxaliplatin-treated patients as well as in bevacizumab- and
      non-bevacizumab-treated patients). Median PFS and OS were 10.3 vs. 9.5 months and 26.9 vs.
      21.1 months in RAS-wildtype (and BRAF-wildtype) and RAS-mut patients, respectively. The TRIBE
      consortium reported that a 3-CT (FOLFOXIRI) combined with bevacizumab provided a
      significantly longer PFS (the primary end-point of the study) than did the 2-CT FOLFIRI plus
      bevacizumab . In the subgroup of RAS- and BRAF-wild-type patients, those in the FOLFOXIRI
      plus bevacizumab group reported a median PFS of 13.7 months (95% CI, 10.1-18.1) compared with
      12.2 months (95%CI, 9.5-14.4) in the FOLFIRI plus bevacizumab group (HR 0.85, 95%CI
      0.55-1.3).

      Later on, the same group reported that FOLFOXIRI plus bevacizumab provided a significantly
      longer overall survival than the FOLFIRI plus bevacizumab group (HR 0.80, 95%CI 0·65-0·98;
      p=0·03) . Looking at survival by RAS status, Cremolini reported that median OS was 37.1
      months (95%CI, 29.7-42.7) in the RAS- and BRAF-wild-type subgroup compared with 25.6 months
      (95%CI, 22.4-28.6) in the RAS-mut subgroup (HR 1.49, 95%CI, 1.11-1·99). Interestingly, median
      PFS was 13.7 months (95% CI 10.1-18.1) in the RAS-wild-type subgroup treated with FOLFOXIRI
      plus bevacizumab, while PFS data were not given for the RAS-mut patients . However, for these
      RAS-mut patients, it was possible to estimate the median PFS (i.e. 9.4 months) from the
      Kaplan-Meier curve which was provided.

      Regorafenib is a small-molecule inhibitor of multiple membrane-bound and intracellular
      kinases. Beyond its well-known antiangiogenic properties, regorafenib has also less-known
      anti-proliferative activities in human colon cancer cell lines. Interestingly, regorafenib
      potently inhibits growth of patient-derived CRC xenografts alone and in combination with
      irinotecan . Regorafenib is approved for refractory mCRC patients, for locally advanced,
      unresectable or metastatic GIST patients and for HCC patients previously treated with
      sorafenib. The recommended dose is 160 mg (40 mg × 4 tablets) orally, once daily for the
      first 21 days of each 28-day cycle. Two phase III trials demonstrated a significant overall
      survival benefit for regorafenib over placebo in patients with mCRC who progressed on
      standard therapies . Two phase II trials studied the safety and efficacy profile of
      regorafenib when combined to chemotherapy in patients with mCRC . In vitro data indicate that
      both regorafenib and its metabolite M-2 inhibit glucuronidation mediated by UGT1A1 ( uridine
      5'diphospho-glucuronosyl tranferase A1) and UGT1A9 (whereas M-5 only inhibits UGT1A1), hence
      triggering potential pharmacokinetic interactions. The study from Schultheis was designed to
      explore whether addition of regorafenib to FOLFOX or FOLFIRI could be feasible as a treatment
      of mCRC, in terms of safety and pharmacokinetic interactions of the various drug components
      of the regimen. Forty-five patients were treated every 2 weeks with 5-fluorouracil 400 mg/m²
      bolus then 2400 mg/m² over 46 h, folinic acid 400 mg/m², and either oxaliplatin 85 mg/m² or
      irinotecan 180 mg/m².

      On days 4-10, patients received regorafenib 160 mg orally once daily. Drug-related adverse
      events resulted in dose modification, dose interruption, or permanent discontinuation of
      study treatment in 31 (69%) patients overall (18 [72%] FOLFOX and 13 [65%] FOLFIRI).

      Dose reduction or dose interruption of at least one of the chemotherapy components was
      observed in 52% of patients treated with FOLFOX and 65% of patients receiving FOLFIRI. A dose
      reduction of 5-fluorouracil due to AEs was necessary in 18% of administered cycles.
      5-Fluorouracil administration was omitted in 8% of cycles. Oxaliplatin and irinotecan doses
      were reduced in 11% and 12% and interrupted in 11% and 5% of administered cycles,
      respectively. Actually, regorafenib had acceptable tolerability in combination with
      chemotherapy. The most frequent grade 3-4 AEs were: neutropenia (45%), Hand-Foot Skin
      Reaction (15%), diarrhea (10%), and hypophosphatemia (12%). Regarding pharmacokinetics, area
      under the curve (AUC) of irinotecan was significantly higher in cycle 2 (following
      regorafenib dosing) than in cycle 1 (before regorafenib dosing); the ratio of AUC values
      (cycle 2:cycle 1) was 1.28 (90% confidence interval [CI] 1.06 -1.54). Cmax of irinotecan was
      only slightly increased, and t½ (half-life) was unchanged. For SN-38 (metabolite of
      irinotecan), AUC was significantly higher in cycle 2 than in cycle 1 (ratio 1.44, 90% CI
      1.12-1.85), while Cmax was unchanged. In line with the known elimination pathways of platinum
      and 5-fluorouracil, no pharmacokinetic interaction with regorafenib was seen . The study from
      O'Neil was designed to show whether the addition of regorafenib to FOLFIRI improves PFS (over
      a placebo-FOLFIRI arm) when given as second-line therapy for patients treated initially with
      oxaliplatin and fluoropyrimidine-based therapy. The regorafenib/FOLFIRI schedule that was
      used was the one proposed by Schultheis (i.e. standard FOLFIRI with irinotecan 180 mg/m² plus
      regorafenib 160 mg daily from day 4 to 10). The study met its primary endpoint of
      demonstrating that the addition of regorafenib to FOLFIRI prolongs PFS compared to FOLFIRI
      alone with a HR (Hazard Ratio) of 0.72. When looking at tumor response, authors found that
      regorafenib (combined to chemo) provided more partial responses than placebo plus chemo (35%
      vs. 19%, p= 0.045). The combination was very tolerable, with little increase in toxicity
      compared to the control chemotherapy regimen. Of note, regarding the top-3 reported severe
      (gr. 3-4) AEs, neutropenia, diarrhea, and hypophosphatemia were reported in 41%, 15%, and 14%
      of the patients, respectively (as compared to 30%, 5%, and 0% in the placebo group).

      Actually, there is room to combine regorafenib with a chemo triplet such as FOLFIRINOX
      (5-fluorouracil, irinotecan, oxaliplatin) on the following conditions: controlling patients
      on UGT1A polymorphisms (at least UGT1A1), stepwise dose-escalation of irinotecan and
      regorafenib, mandatory granulocyte growth-factor injections.
    
  