
    
      1. Diabetic neuropathic pain seriously affects the quality of life, clinical problems are
      difficult, and new treatment methods are urgently needed.

      Diabetic neuropathy is one of the most common complications of diabetes mellitus. The study
      of investigators shows that the prevalence rate of diabetic neuropathy diagnosed in downtown
      Shanghai is as high as 61.8%. The most common type of diabetic peripheral neuropathy is
      distal symmetric polyneuropathy, which is the main cause of diabetic neuropathic pain (DNP).
      Diabetic neuropathic pain can affect about one fifth of diabetic patients, which can lead to
      the decrease of daily activities, even the loss of work, severe depression, and quality of
      life. The pathogenesis of diabetic neuropathic pain is complex and not yet fully clear, so
      there is a lack of available and effective treatment. At present, the first-line clinical
      treatment drugs include pregabalin, duloxetine, amitriptyline, gabapentin and venlafaxine,
      etc., and these drugs sometimes relieve the symptoms of diabetic neuropathic pain not
      obvious, and have more side effects, which has become a difficult problem in clinical
      treatment. Therefore, it is urgent to explore effective drugs for diabetic neuropathic pain.

      2. The clinical observation and animal study of the investigators show that the GLP-1
      receptor agonist (liraglutide) can improve diabetic neuropathic pain.

        1. Diabetic neuropathic pain is related to brain microglia. In the animal model of diabetes
           mellitus, investigators found the phenomenon of abnormal activation of microglia.
           Previous studies showed that the abnormal activation of microglia at the level of spinal
           cord was closely related to diabetic neuropathic pain, and microglia at the level of
           spinal cord played an important role in the transmission of pain. As the center of pain
           loop, the activity of microglia in cerebral cortex and thalamus is less related to
           diabetic neuropathic pain.

           Therefore, investigators used STZ induced diabetic neuropathy model of SD rats. Before
           STZ injection (0 week), at the 2nd, 4th, 6th and 12th week after STZ induced
           hyperglycemia. The investigators monitored the changes of body weight, blood glucose
           level and pain threshold of mechanical pain and thermal pain in rats. The investigators
           used [18F] dpa714 specific marker transfer protein TSPO to carry out PET / CT scan of
           brain to reflect microglia in each brain area. After PET / CT scan, EMG was used to
           evaluate the degree of peripheral nerve injury. The results showed that after STZ
           injection, compared with the control group, the blood glucose of STZ group increased
           gradually, and with the increase of blood glucose, the nerve conduction velocity of
           diabetic rats decreased gradually. Mechanical pain decreased significantly in 4-6 weeks,
           thermal pain threshold decreased significantly in 4 weeks, and mechanical pain and
           thermal pain sensitivity disappeared in 12 weeks. The results of PET / CT showed that in
           cortex, hippocampus, thalamus, hypothalamus and pituitary, dpa714 standard uptake value
           was significantly higher than other time points in the fourth week, and significantly
           higher than that in the control group. The correlation analysis indicated that the pain
           threshold of thermal pain was significantly related to the activity of microglia in
           thalamus and hypothalamus. Previous studies have shown that hyperglycemia can induce
           neuropathic pain. Thermal hyperalgesia occurs 4 weeks after hyperglycemia, while
           mechanical hyperalgesia occurs 4-6 weeks. PET / CT study showed that the activity of
           microglia in the brain of diabetic rats increased in the fourth week, and the activity
           of microglia was significantly related to the occurrence of heat pain. It has not been
           reported that the relationship between the activity of microglia and diabetic
           neuropathic pain was directly observed by PET / CT.

        2. Liraglutide can regulate the activation of microglia Glucagon like peptide 1 (GLP-1)
           acts by binding to GLP-1 receptor, which is a G protein coupled receptor. A large number
           of studies have shown that GLP-1 receptor agonists can improve the activation of
           macrophages, microglia as macrophages in the brain, and GLP-1 receptor agonists can
           improve the activation of macrophages. However, few studies have shown that in vitro
           cultured astrocytes and microglia, GLP-1 analogues can change the morphology of glial
           cells, reduce IL-1 β and increase cAMP level at mRNA level.

           Therefore, liraglutide, the GLP-1 agonist, was selected as the intervention drug . BV2
           microglia cell line was used as the following treatment methods: liraglutide was co
           cultured with LPS or high glucose, and liraglutide was added after LPS and high glucose
           induced activation. After treatment, the levels of IL-6 and TNF - α in the supernatant
           of the cells were observed. The results showed that liraglutide was added in advance
           before induction and activation. Or the level of IL-6 and TNF - α released by BV2 could
           be significantly reduced by using liraglutide. Therefore, liraglutide can regulate LPS
           and high glucose induced microglia activation.

        3. Animal experiments show that liraglutide can improve diabetic neuropathic pain. On the
           basis of previous work, the investigators further studied the effect of liraglutide on
           diabetic neuropathic pain at the animal level. SD rats were divided into three groups:
           normal blood glucose group, normal saline control group and 200ug / kg / dliraglutide
           injection group. The latencies and thresholds of thermal and mechanical pain were
           monitored weekly. It was observed that for diabetic neuropathic pain rats, the
           peripheral injection of GLP-1 receptor agonist (liraglutide 200ug / kg / D)
           significantly increased the thermal pain threshold at 4 weeks, the mechanical pain
           threshold at 8 weeks, and the pain sensitivity disappeared at 12 weeks in both the
           normal saline control group and the liraglutide injection group.

        4. Observation of clinical cases In clinical work, the investigators observed some obese
           patients with neuropathic pain in type 2 diabetes mellitus. In the process of using
           GLP-1 receptor agonist to control blood glucose, the symptoms of pain were also
           significantly improved. In addition, a clinical study showed that the use of sitagliptin
           (DPP-IV inhibitor, which can inhibit the degradation of GLP-1 in vivo) can also improve
           diabetic neuropathic pain. However, these observations and studies have significant
           limitations, not excluding the effect of blood glucose lowering itself in the population
           level, nor exploring the mechanism.

      3. The clinical study of liraglutide in improving diabetic neuropathic pain has better
      clinical value.

      The investigators found that liraglutide can improve the activation of microglia, and it can
      significantly alleviate diabetic neuropathic pain at the animal level and clinical cases. The
      systematic study of liraglutide used to improve neuropathic pain in diabetic patients has not
      been reported, and this subject has better clinical value.

      Therefore, considering the hypoglycemic effect of liraglutide on the basis of previous
      studies, the investigators plan to select diabetic neuropathic pain patients whose blood
      sugar is not up to standard in this study, and give Mecobalamin (one of the commonly used
      drugs recommended in the guidelines for prevention and treatment of diabetes mellitus to
      treat neuropathy). At the same time, on the basis of the original hypoglycemic treatment,
      participants were randomly divided into one group to be given liraglutide and the other group
      to be increased/adjusted insulin. After 3 months, the improvement of diabetic neuropathic
      pain in the two groups under the condition of similar blood glucose level were observed. The
      purpose of this study was to evaluate the safety and efficacy of liraglutide in improving
      diabetic neuropathic pain.
    
  