
    
      Clinical Trial Study Design: Pilot Individually Randomized Group-Treatment Trial

      Study Site: University of Delaware

      Study Participants: Approximately 65 older adults will be recruited to participate to ensure
      50 completers with MCI. Participants will be recruited and complete study procedures in
      waves. Each wave will consist of 10 completers with MCI; for a total of 5 waves.

      Randomization: Following the screening criteria session and informed consent, if the
      participant met the criteria for amnestic MCI he/she will be randomly assigned to the
      immediate treatment (n=25) or delayed treatment control (n=25) condition.

      Study Procedures Aim 1: Clinical Trial. Once randomly assigned to a condition, participants
      will complete baseline testing and additional testing at two other time periods: weeks 8 and
      16. Participants in the immediate treatment condition will then complete 7-weeks of the group
      SEMAT. At week 8, participants in both groups will complete assessments. Then, those in the
      delayed treatment group will complete 7-weeks of treatment. At week 16, participants in both
      conditions will complete assessments. During assessment sessions, participants will complete
      performance-based and self-reported measures of independent daily tasks and tests of thinking
      and memory independently with an assessor for approximately 1 hour. During treatment sessions
      (approximately 60 minutes), participants will interact with group-mates and learn how use
      three different categories of external memory aids. Treatment sessions will be video recorded
      and transcribed.

        -  Aim 2a: The 50 participants with MCI who are enrolled in Aim 1 activities will also be
           included in Aim 2. Participants will complete additional self-report measures of
           efficacy and depression prior to the active phase of treatment either during baseline or
           week 8 (Aim 1).

        -  Aim 2b: The investigators will randomly select a subpopulation of participants with
           single-domain aMCI (n=15) and multi-domain aMCI (n=15), as well as their study partners
           (n=15; n=15) to complete cognitive interviewing immediately following completion of the
           active phase of the intervention (Aim 1). Participants will engage in semi-structured
           interviews that will take approximately 1 hour and will be video recorded, transcribed,
           and qualitatively analyzed for themes that are discussed.

      Study Duration: Each participant will be involved for approximately 18 weeks (including
      screening criteria session and cognitive interviews, if applicable)

      Retention of Subjects: The investigators will stagger participant payments and over recruit.

      Control condition: No treatment

      Intervention: The Structured External Memory Aid Treatment (SEMAT): A 7-week treatment that
      will teach three categories of external memory aids to participants to help compensate for
      everyday memory challenges. This is a behavioral intervention.
    
  