
    
      All patients enrolled in the CLEAR study are implanted with a Cylos pacemaker with Closed
      Loop Stimulation (CLS) rate adaption technology. Any legally marketed pacing leads may be
      implanted with the Cylos family of pacemakers.

      Prior to enrollment, patients provide written informed consent and are screened to ensure
      they are eligible to participate in the study. Patients enrolled in the study must have been
      implanted within 45 days prior to enrollment or are being considered for implant. Once
      enrolled and implanted with the Cylos pacemaker, the first 500 patients have 45 days to
      complete an ADL Testing visit. At the Activities of Daily Living (ADL) testing visit, each of
      the first 500 enrolled patients performs a 6-minute walk test, orthostatic test, and sweep
      test in three pacing modes, CLS (DDD-CLS or VVI-CLS), standard rate response (DDDR or VVIR)
      and non-rate responsive mode (DDD or VVI). The order of the pacing modes for testing is
      randomized in a 1:1:1 ratio. The study primarily analyzes the number of ADL repetitions
      performed during the 6-minute walk and sweep tests, pulse pressure during the orthostatic
      test, and secondarily analyzes heart rates during all three tests to compare CLS to both rate
      responsive and non-rate responsive pacing modes.

      For all enrolled patients, the study collects additional data over a 12-month period.
      Patients are randomized and their pacemaker programmed to one of three pacing modes, CLS, R,
      or no-rate response in a 2:1:1 ratio, respectively. The patients are then followed for a
      period of 12 months after the ADL testing (first 500 enrolled patients) or enrollment
      (patients 501 through 1500). The study collects the following secondary measures to compare
      CLS to both rate responsive and non-rate responsive pacing modes: changes in 6-minute walk
      test distance, quality of life, mode reprogramming, atrial fibrillation (AF) burden, cardiac
      symptoms, and New York Heart Association (NYHA) classification.
    
  