
    
      We propose a prospective study to be conducted in 3 distinct clusters of 150 households each
      in one semi-urban municipality in Orizaba, Veracruz, Mexico during and after the February
      2015 National Immunization Week (NIW.) Mexico provides a unique environment to study OPV
      transmission. The last case of poliomyelitis was reported in 1990. Mexico transitioned from
      an OPV to an IPV-based immunization regimen in 2007-2008. Currently, Mexican children receive
      IPV at 2, 4, 6, and 18 months of age. In addition, children ≤5 years old who have received at
      least 2 doses of IPV are eligible to receive OPV during biannual NIW held in February and May
      each year. Because of the changes in vaccination regimens over time, Mexican households
      consist of individuals with different degrees of susceptibility to OPV infection: those born
      before 2007 who were exposed to WPV and OPV or OPV alone, those born after 2007 exposed to
      IPV with intermittent OPV exposure, and un-vaccinated infants, some with maternal polio virus
      antibodies. By studying OPV transmission in this setting, we will be able to assess the
      impact of differing immunization status on OPV shedding and transmission.

      We will conduct our study in a relatively isolated and semi-urban municipality of Orizaba,
      Veracruz, Mexico. These household clusters will differ only in the proportion of OPV-eligible
      children who will be OPV-vaccinated during the February 2015 National Immunization Week (10%,
      30% and 70%.) We will enroll households that have at least 1 healthy child less than 5 years
      of age with an up-to-date IPV vaccination history. Enrolled households will then be
      randomized to the OPV-vaccinated or non-vaccinated arm of each household cluster. Eligible
      children from households in the OPV-vaccinated arm will then be further randomized to either
      receive OPV or remain un-vaccinated. Thus, only one child per household in the OPV-vaccinated
      arm will be vaccinated.

      We will collect stool samples from all members of the enrolled households serially over the
      course of the study and will determine if individuals shed OPV in their stool using a
      serotype-specific real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay. We will define
      inter-household transmission as fecal OPV shedding by any member of a non-vaccinated
      household. By comparing inter-household transmission rates among all the household clusters,
      we will determine the if the proportion of OPV-vaccinated children impacts community OPV
      transmission in a primarily IPV-vaccinated community. These results will be critical to
      predicting the risk of OPV re-introduction in the event of a poliomyelitis outbreak in the
      post-OPV era.

      We will define intra-household transmission as OPV shedding by household contacts living in
      vaccinated households. We will examine intra-household transmission in all clusters together
      to determine if certain characteristics are associated with transmission to household
      contacts. Elucidating these characteristics would allow for targeted interventions to reduce
      or prevent OPV transmission as cessation policy is implemented or in the event that OPV
      re-introduction is needed during polio endgame.
    
  