
    
      Transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) using the Edwards SAPIEN valve and Retroflex 3
      delivery system provides both a mortality and quality of life benefit for inoperable
      patients. Only the transfemoral (TF) access has been approved in the US. A substantial number
      of patients cannot have a TF approach due to inadequate vessel size, vessel disease, or other
      anatomical considerations. The pivotal study did not include an assessment of safety and
      effectiveness of alternative access approaches in this inoperable patient group.

      Early approaches to TAVR included a femoral transvenous approach with transseptal access to
      the left side for delivery of the valve. This approach avoided large bore arterial
      catheterization, but it had unacceptable rates of complications and lacked reproducibility.
      Alternative access approaches have been developed because of the risks associated with
      inserting large caliber catheters into small, diseased femoral arteries often associated with
      diffuse vasculopathy. To avoid the vascular complications from femoral access, other
      transcatheter approaches have been developed to include open surgical access to the left
      ventricular apex (TA), ascending aorta, (TAO), subclavian and axillary arteries (TS), and
      retroperitoneal access to the iliac artery (TI) as well as distal aorta. In addition to
      providing TAVR to patients who cannot have TF access, additional advantages include better
      catheter control and safer closure of the access site. Commonly cited disadvantages include
      the need for surgical expertise and additional equipment, along with the potential for longer
      recovery, more incisional pain, greater radiation exposure for operators, unsuitable delivery
      catheters for alternative access sites, and a host of unique alternative access site
      complications.

      We propose to collectively analyze 30-day safety endpoints as a lumped data group for these
      alternative access approaches. These data are gathered from clinical practice in real-world
      settings and submitted to the TVT Registry. It is expected that centers will choose among the
      various choices for alternative access based the causative factors underlying the need for
      alternative access, as well as local skill sets and experience. For this lumped data group of
      alternative access approaches we will compare 30-day safety results to the TA outcomes
      reported from Cohort A of the PARTNERS 1 trial. We recognize that these TA patients were high
      risk operable patients rather than inoperable patients, but no other direct comparator group
      is available. We reason that the TA data from this published clinical trial are high quality,
      represent an alternative access approach rather than TF, and will provide a frequency of
      safety endpoints that have been found to be acceptable both clinically and from a regulatory
      perspective.
    
  