
    
      Many individuals, particularly those who are obese, are inactive and increasing physical
      activity continues to be a challenge, thus, developing strategies that assist individuals in
      engaging and sustaining high levels of physical activity is imperative.1,2 Incorporating a
      variety of activities into a physical activity program is a strategy that may be promising
      for increasing physical activity levels.3 Data from the National Health and Nutrition
      Examination Survey (NHANES) showed that individuals who reported engaging in a variety of
      activities (i.e., walking + other leisure-time activities) were more likely to meet national
      physical activity recommendations compared to those who reported no variety (i.e., only
      walking).4 In another study, the investigators found that overweight participants in an
      18-month behavioral lifestyle intervention who reported physical activity variety (i.e., ≥ 2
      activities) at 6 months had higher self-reported physical activity-related energy expenditure
      and a lower body mass index (BMI) at 18 months than those who reported no physical activity
      variety (i.e., only 1 activity).5 Additionally, the investigators have also found that
      performing a variety of activities is related to greater engagement in objectively measured
      moderate- to vigorous-intensity physical activity in both successful weight loss maintainers
      and normal weight individuals.6 Based on the literature available, it appears that increasing
      the number of activities in a physical activity regimen can assist with increasing engagement
      of physical activity. However, physical activity variety has primarily been examined by
      summing the number of different activities a person engages in (i.e., walking + other
      leisure-time activities). Other environmental factors, including location, visual and
      auditory stimuli, and the number and types of people engaging in physical activity in close
      proximity, may impact on the degree of variety of differing physical activities that people
      engage in. Thus, the purpose of this study is to collect more information about physical
      activity variety.

      Specific Aims:

      Specific Aim 1. To determine the average minutes of moderate- to vigorous-intensity physical
      activity participants engage in.

      Specific Aim 2. To determine if environmental factors influence the degree of variety of
      physical activities that participants engage in.

      Specific Aim 3. To determine if the average number of minutes of moderate- to
      vigorous-intensity physical activity increases as the variety of physical activities
      increases.
    
  