
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the safety of alemtuzumab and low-dose cyclosporine, as defined by occurrence
           of adverse effects, in patients with severe aplastic anemia or single lineage acquired
           marrow failure.

        -  Determine the efficacy of this regimen, in terms of overall survival, hematological
           response (partial and complete response, including time to response) and failure-free
           survival (failure is defined as no response, chronic treatment-maintained response, or
           relapse), in these patients.

      Secondary

        -  Evaluate the incidence of adverse effects after treatment.

        -  Evaluate the long-term safety of alemtuzumab treatment.

        -  Determine the time to achieve a complete hematological response.

        -  Determine the proportion of patients maintaining hematological response free of any
           treatment.

        -  Determine the incidence of relapse in responding patients.

        -  Determine the incidence of severe infections.

        -  Determine the requirement for IV antibiotics and antifungal therapy.

        -  Determine the requirement for red cell and platelet transfusion.

        -  Determine the incidence of CMV reactivation.

        -  Determine the kinetics of immune reconstitution.

        -  Determine the incidence of paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria clone (lymphoid or
           myeloid) development.

        -  Determine the incidence of clonal evolution (i.e., karyotypic abnormalities or secondary
           myelodysplasia/leukemia).

      OUTLINE: Patients receive alemtuzumab subcutaneously on days 1-5*. Patients also receive oral
      cyclosporine beginning on day 7 and continuing for ≥ 180 days, followed by a taper according
      to clinical condition.

      NOTE: *Patients with single lineage aquired marrow failure receive alemtuzumab on days 1-4.

      After completion of study therapy, patients will be followed up every 3 months for up to 2
      years.
    
  