
    
      Stroke is a leading cause of long-term disability. The recovery of motor function after
      stroke is often incomplete, despite classical rehabilitation techniques. At the beginning of
      the 21st century, transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) was introduced as a
      non-invasive tool to reversibly modulate brain excitability in humans in which a device sends
      constant low direct current (DC) delivered to the area of interest through the electrodes.
      Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) has been used in neurorehabilitation to
      benefit ischemic stroke patients at a different stage of stroke especially during acute,
      sub-acute and chronic phase with positive and safety reports.

      After stroke, the excitability of the lesioned hemisphere is decreased and seen like
      overactive of the excitability of the non-lesioned hemisphere. Abnormally high
      interhemispheric inhibition (IHI) drive from intact to lesioned hemisphere has been reported.
      The neural plasticity begins in the early stages after stroke. Prevent the imbalance IHI and
      increase the excitability of the lesioned hemisphere in the early phase would be beneficial
      for stroke rehabilitation.

      Based on the polarity-specific effects, anodal tDCS increases cortical excitability and
      cathodal tDCS decreases cortical excitability. Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS)
      can be applied in two distinct montages: monocephalic and bi-hemispheric/dual-tDCS (applying
      two electrodes over both cerebral hemispheres at the same time). To induce post-stroke motor
      recovery, two different monocephalic montages are typically used: i) to restore excitability
      in the lesioned hemisphere: anode over the lesioned hemisphere and the cathode as the
      reference electrode placed over the contra-orbital area ii) to down-regulate the excitability
      of the non-lesioned hemisphere and rebalance IHI: cathode over the non-lesioned hemisphere
      and the anode as the reference electrode. Dual-tDCS can be also applied, permitting
      simultaneous coupling of excitatory and inhibitory effects on both cortices. Few evidences
      are showing that tDCS (monocephalic and bi-hemispheric/dual-tDCS) could improve lower limb
      performance at immediate and at least 3 months. However, there is still unclear effect on
      gait performance and muscle strength.

      Recently, dual-hemisphere tDCS which excites one hemisphere using anodal stimulation and
      inhibits the other by cathodal stimulation has been described in healthy volunteers to
      greater enhance hand motor learning compared to uni-hemispheric tDCS. The corresponding
      tDCS-induced changes were reported in imaging study to involve interhemispheric interactions.
      Dual tDCS has been more recently used in rehabilitation aiming to reduce the inhibition
      exerted by the non-lesioned hemisphere on the lesioned hemisphere and restore the normal
      balance of the IHI. Dual-tDCS combined with training or simultaneous occupational/physical
      therapy has been reported to improve motor skill learning and functions of the paretic upper
      limb in chronic stroke patients.

      Lower-limb functions are commonly disabling after stroke, however, few studies have focused
      on the effect of tDCS on lower limb functions. A single session of anodal tDCS over the lower
      limb M1 has been reported to acutely enhance the effect of motor practice of the paretic
      ankle, force production of the paretic knee extensors, and postural stability in chronic
      stroke patients. A study showed an improvement in walking speed immediately after a single
      session of dual-tDCS alone in sub-acute stroke patients.

      Based on the previous study, 1-2 mA current intensity of tDCS is usually used for modulating
      brain activity. The proper current density delivered is between 0.029-0.008 mA/cm 2. The
      higher current density, the longer-lasting, stronger, and deeper cortical neuron stimulation.
      Therefore, 2 mA current intensity of tDCS was applied in stroke patients for lower limb
      performance improvement. Following homologous brain regions, the motor area of lower
      extremities is in depth and previous studies demonstrated that current intensity 2 mA of tDCS
      could pass through the lower extremities area of the brain.

      Moreover, Tahtis et al, 2013 found that using 2 mA of dual-tDCS could improve walking speed
      immediately after a single session in sub-acute stroke and Klomjai et al, 2018 found that a
      single session of dual-tDCS 2 mA with physical therapy in sub-acute stroke immediately
      improved sit to stand performance greater than physical therapy alone. The mechanisms of
      action were hypothesized that when stimulation continuously affects neuronal plasticity
      changes. Therefore, they suggested that further study shall implement more sessions of
      dual-tDCS combined with physical therapy to improve lower limb performance and determine the
      long lasting-after effect.

      A previous study reported that the 10-consecutive sessions of tDCS were an effective
      treatment strategy in reducing the risk of falls and improving lower limb functions after a
      stroke. However, gait ability and lower limb muscle strength were not included in the outcome
      measures. In this study, the long-lasting effect was demonstrated at least one week to three
      months. There are evidences that 10 sessions for uni-hemisphere tDCS appeared to improve
      lower limb motor functions without serious adverse effects in patients with stroke. It is
      still unclear the effect of multiple sessions of dual-tDCS on gait performance and muscle
      strength as well as the long-lasting after-effect of multiple sessions of dual-tDCS.

      Therefore, the present study aims to investigate the efficacy of ten sessions of dual-tDCS
      combined with conventional physical therapy on the lower limb functions after stroke in
      sub-acute. Clinical outcomes for lower limb performance evaluations will consist of muscle
      strength assessed by hand-held dynamometer, the Time up and go test for lower limb functional
      performance, Five times sit to stand test for dynamic balance and muscle strength, and the
      Zebris Force distribution measurement (FDM) for gait analysis.
    
  