
    
      PET/CT Scans:

      If you are found eligible to take part in this study, you will have a PET/CT scan at your
      treatment baseline visit, about 1 week before your first cycle of chemotherapy. You will then
      have a second PET/CT scan at the end of your first cycle of chemotherapy (about 3-4 weeks
      after starting chemotherapy).

      For up to 6 hours before the PET/CT scan, you must not eat or drink anything except water. A
      small needle and tube will be placed in your arm, and you will receive an injection of a very
      small amount of a mildly radioactive material into your bloodstream (the investigational
      tracer, [18F]fluciclatide). The radioactive nature of this injected material allows the
      scanner to "see" it in certain places in your body. After the injection, you will need to
      rest quietly until it is time for the scan. The amount of rest time may vary, but be prepared
      to wait for between 45 and 90 minutes. During the scan, you will lie flat on your back on a
      table. The scan itself may last up to 1 hour.

      Each PET/CT imaging session will last about 4 hours total from the time you arrive at the
      clinic until you are discharged and allowed to go home. You may be discharged 30 minutes
      after the scan is complete, if the doctor thinks you are clinically stable and it is safe for
      you to leave.

      Study Visits:

      If the following tests are already being performed as part of the clinical research study you
      are participating in or as part of standard care, they will not need to be repeated for this
      study.

      Baseline Visit (before the first PET/CT is performed):

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 3 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  If you can become pregnant, urine will be collected for a pregnancy test. To take part
           in this study, you must not be pregnant.

      End of Cycle 1 (before the second PET/CT is performed):

      -Blood (about 3 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

      About 24 hours after each PET/CT is performed, the study staff will call you by telephone to
      ask about your health status and any side effects you may be experiencing.

      Anytime within the next month after the second PET/CT scan, blood (about 3 tablespoons) will
      be drawn for routine tests.

      When your chemotherapy is over, you will have a third PET/CT scan as part of your standard
      care, and an FDG tracer will be used for that scan.

      Length of Participation:

      Your study participation will end about 6 weeks after your second PET/CT scan is performed.

      This is an investigational study. [18F]Fluciclatide is not FDA approved or commercially
      available. At this time, it is only being used in research.

      Up to 50 patients will take part in this research study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  