
    
      The objective of Phase III is to initiate and complete a community mobilization intervention
      aimed at ultimately reducing HIV incidence and prevalence among youth. The intervention will
      consist of guiding C2P coalitions through a strategic planning process that will result in
      the development and implementation of a local action plan. The action plan will focus on
      changing structural elements of the affected communities that are believed to be associated
      with youth HIV acquisition and transmission. Each coalition's plan will include: (1)
      identification of potential community structural changes and specific steps for how to effect
      such changes; and (2) the selection of a community-level Centers for Disease Control and
      Prevention (CDC)-endorsed HIV prevention program. These activities will be described in this
      document. Details related to the training, technical assistance, adaptation, and
      implementation of the selected CDC program will be subsequently submitted for IRB review as
      part two of Phase III (ATN 041).

      The intervention consists of community mobilization activities that are expected to lead to
      structural change and the adaptation and delivery of a CDC-endorsed HIV-prevention program.
      ATN/C2P staff at each site, with training and technical assistance from a C2P National
      Coordinating Center, will engage in a strategic planning process with their coalition members
      that results in the development and implementation of a local action plan.

      The evaluation of the intervention will be within and across ATN/C2P sites implementing this
      protocol. For assessing the overall efficacy of the community mobilization intervention, data
      will be collected and analyzed from:

        1. ATN/C2P site staff, in the form of systematic documentation of the community
           mobilization process and accomplishments (e.g., structural change achieved); and

        2. Local public health departments and other similar sources of epidemiological
           information, as was done for generating Phase I epidemiologic profiles.

      Duration: 4 years.
    
  