
    
      Non-Aromatic-Very rich in Steranes (NAVS) naphthalan is a transparent, earth mineral oil
      prepared by a complex set of procedures of separations and refining, starting with a special
      oil that is used as the raw material for brown naphthalane, which has been successfully used
      in the treatment of psoriasis. In order to remove potentially mutagenic polycyclic aromatic
      hydrocarbons (PAHs), liquid chromatography was used. UV / VIS (ultra violet / visible light)
      spectrophotometry confirmed that PAHs were bellow detection threshold. Additionally, the
      precise distillation process has concentrated steranes, which are important bioactive
      constituents. Since steranes contain similar chemical structure as well-known bioactive
      substances, such as vitamin D3 and steroid hormones, the assumption is that NAVS is effective
      in the treatment of oral diseases which have immune genesis such as OLP and RAS.

      Today, topical steroid preparations are considered as first-line therapy for many chronic
      immune-mediated inflammatory diseases of the oral mucosa. Risks of short-term use of topical
      corticosteroids are clinically insignificant, while their long-term use is not recommended
      because of potential side effects, such as mucosal atrophy, secondary infection with Candida
      albicans, possible systemic absorption and suppression of the adrenal gland.

      Study participants are adult patients of the Department of Oral Medicine, School of Dental
      Medicine in Zagreb, with a clinically and histologically proven OLP or RAS in the acute stage
      of the disease.The treatment outcome of the OLP patients will be measured by clinical
      improvement and subjective symptomatic relief. The outcome of RAS patients treated by NAVS
      naphthalan or by betamethasone will be measured clinically by the decrease in number and size
      of lesions as well as by subjective symptomatic relief over treatment period. One member of
      the team, who will not evaluate the therapeutic effect, will took care of the allocation of
      test and control preparations. At the end of the study, a randomization code will be opened
      and statistically analysed. In both clinical and subjective domains, of both clinical
      conditions, the improvement rate will be measured by comparing these readings, as the
      percentual reduction of clinical scores and symptoms. Since the data will not be normally
      distributed, methods of nonparametric statistics will be used: Wilcoxon test for dependent
      and Mann-Withney test for independent samples. Baseline intergroup differences will be
      assessed by Mann-Withney test. For the interpretation of the average values, medians and
      interquartile ranges (IQR) will be used. Fisher exact test will be used to compare gender
      representation among the groups. Statistical analysis will be performed using MedCalc
      Software 13.0.0.0 (Acacialaan 22, 8400 Ostend, Belgium). P value lower then 0.05 (p< 0.05)
      will be considered statistically significant.
    
  