
    
      Malignant pleural effusion (MPE) is common, and is estimated to affect up to a half of
      patients with malignancy, either at the time or during subsequent clinical course after the
      diagnosis of malignancy. Lung cancer is the most common cause of MPE, followed by breast
      cancer, lymphoma, unknown primary genitourinary and gastrointestinal carcinoma. Pleural
      involvement indicates dissemination of malignancy and suggests a poorer prognosis and the
      median survival rate ranges from 3 to 12 months, with lung cancer showing the shortest
      survival among Caucasian cohorts. Patients with MPE frequently suffer from effusion related
      symptoms requiring therapeutic drainage. Conventionally, the options of therapeutic drainage
      of MPE include needle aspiration, and intercostal drain insertion with or without chemical
      pleurodesis. Needle aspiration allows quick relief of effusion and symptoms, though the
      volume of pleural effusion being aspirated with each attempt of needle puncture is limited to
      1-1.5 litres, and repeated puncture involves risks of complications. Intercostal drain
      insertion will allow gradual drainage of large pleural effusion over days, but the
      shortcomings being the long hospitalization of at least a week, and the presence of trapped
      lung would preclude chemical pleurodesis for definitive fluid control. Up to 40% of MPE
      patients still require repeated pleural drainage procedure, even after Talc chemical
      pleurodesis. The much longer hospitalization period is considered unfavourable for patients
      with limited lifespan in terms of weeks or a few months, who would spend more time with their
      family. In recent few years, indwelling pleural catheter (IPC) has provided a relatively
      novel option of palliative MPE drainage, on an ambulatory out-patient setting. IPC has been
      reported to be cost-effective, in particular for patients with survival of less than 14
      weeks. With the limited time span, it is important to balance between the aim of symptomatic
      relief and maintaining patient's quality of life. Invasive procedures and prolonged
      hospitalisation can cause great distress to patients. Predicted survival of patients with MPE
      would be important in informing the most suitable method for relieving MPE. Previous studies
      have identified relevant factors on prediction of survival in patients with malignant pleural
      effusion but so far, there is no data for Chinese patients. The LENT scoring system (pleural
      fluid lactate dehydrogenase, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance score, neutrophil
      -to-lymphocyte ratio and tumour type) is a new validated prognostic score in malignant
      pleural effusion.
    
  