
    
      Design: This project will be a prospective double-blinded randomised clinical controlled
      trial comparing a "standard" volume eccentric exercise program (Group I-Control) versus a
      participant determined volume program (Group II-Experimental).

      Participants Participant population The participant population of interest are those
      attending NHS out-patient physiotherapy departments for the treatment of chronic mid-portion
      Achilles tendinopathy in Scotland. Consequently both genders and varying pre-morbid activity
      levels will be anticipated across a wide age range.

      Participant recruitment and selection Physiotherapy colleagues across Forth Valley NHS Trust
      will be contacted via a standardised email inviting individuals to participate in the
      proposed investigation. Those volunteering will be required to identify potential
      participants currently waiting to attend physiotherapy. Such waiting lists include
      self-referral, orthopaedic and GP referrals.

      Once identified potential participants will be sent standardised letters of introduction
      identifying they may be eligible to participate in a research project concerning
      physiotherapy treatment of Achilles tendon pain. More detailed participant information sheets
      will also be included to allow candidates have best opportunity to provide informed consent.
      Any potential risks will be outlined. As part of the informed consent process participants
      will be encouraged to seek opinions from friends and family. Participant recruitment will be
      implemented over a 4 month period. Potential participants will be instructed that they will
      receive an appointment in due course at the location they would normally attend.

      On initial contact participants will be assessed as per normal practice by participating
      physiotherapists in the health centres or hospitals they would normally attend in an attempt
      to minimise disruption to the patient journey. It is hoped travel will be minimised for
      participants in order to minimise drop out and participant expense. In instances where
      diagnosis is uncertain participating therapists are advised to seek a second opinion from
      appropriate colleagues/senior clinical staff as they would do under normal circumstances. If
      a diagnosis of Achilles tendinopathy is still uncertain the potential participant will not be
      included and will be informed why. Participating therapists will undergo training in
      obtaining informed consent; diagnosing Achilles tendinopathy as defined in the following
      inclusion criteria; and receive instruction in data collection procedures required for this
      investigation from the principle researcher.

      Again any potential risks will be outlined in the process of obtaining informed consent.
      Participants will be given time to consider their options. It will be made clear that
      deciding not to participate will not affect future treatment. If potential participants agree
      to take part, eligibility to participate will be assessed against the following criteria. If
      potential participants are suitable they will then be randomised to either group.
      Participants will be reminded of their right to withdraw from the trial at anytime and this
      will not affect future treatment. If necessary on withdrawal participants will be informed
      that they can request to be seen by a different physiotherapist if they so wish. If an
      individual does not fulfil the selection criteria they will be informed why immediately and
      then managed as per normal.

      Sampling technique It is anticipated the sample size required will be obtained. Nevertheless,
      due to uncertain incidence rates and the limited time convenience sampling will be used to
      maximise recruitment.

      Participant randomisation Once recruited, participants will be randomised to the control
      group ("standard" volume) or experimental group (patient determined volume). Randomisation
      will be achieved by participating physiotherapists telephoning a recruited Stirling Royal
      Infirmary physiotherapy department secretary at the end of the initial consultation. The
      secretary will randomly draw sealed opaque envelopes detailing the number of repetitions to
      do per day and inform the participant directly. As well as written documentation provided at
      the initial consultation the participant will be reminded not to discuss the volume of
      repetitions with anyone potentially participating in the trial or with the participating
      therapist for the duration of testing. In this way the participants, participating therapists
      and researcher will be blinded to group allocation. Any questions participants may have will
      be directed to the independent supervisor of the project (Frank Gilroy, Physiotherapy
      Manager, Forth Valley NHS Trust).

      Sample size calculation The VISA-A has been suggested to be valid and reliable and is
      therefore strongly recommended for use when researching and treating Achilles tendon pain
      (Robinson 2001; Brukner & Khan 2007). Thus it will be used as the principle outcome measure
      of this investigation. Previous research suggests a delta of 10 points with a standard
      deviation of 12 when comparing eccentric exercise to a wait and see approach (Rompe et al
      2008) giving a large effect size of 0.83. With a power of 0.80, an alpha level of 0.05, and
      using methods outlined by Fleiss (1986) it is calculated that 23 participants are required
      for each group of this trial. All studies in this area assign an additional 10% to the
      calculated sample size to account for loss to follow-up (Rompe et al 2007). This appears to
      be adequate for the proposed population and setting as no studies have failed to recruit the
      required number to ensure adequate power. Therefore a total of 26 patients will be required
      for each arm of this trial.

      Procedure Participants will be assessed, recruited and randomised as detailed previously. All
      participants will be instructed in the same eccentric exercise technique as per previous
      literature (Alfredson et al 1998). Advice concerning progression, and exercising to pain will
      be consistent across groups with that recommended by Alfredson et al (1998). All participants
      will also receive the same written instructions on how to perform and progress exercise as
      well as a simple exercise diary to record the number of repetitions actually completed per
      day. During the initial consultation the data collection sheet will be completed where
      appropriate. At the end of the initial consultation participating therapists will phone
      Stirling Royal Infirmary physiotherapy department where the recruited secretary will inform
      the patient directly the number of exercises to do a day (as part of the randomisation
      process). A follow-up appointment will be arranged in three weeks.

      At week three exercises will be reviewed to ensure good technique. All outcome measures will
      be re-assessed and documented on the data collection sheet.

      At week six all outcome measures will be re-assessed. Patient satisfaction with treatment
      will be assessed. All completed data collection sheets and exercise activity logs will be
      mailed to the principle investigator for analysis. At this point participants will be
      informed the trial is over and management will continue as per normal practice. If symptoms
      have resolved participants may be discharged; if they are improving they may be given an open
      appointment with advice to contact if any further problems; if there is little change
      therapists will be allowed to continue management as they see fit as per normal practice.

      At the end of the trial the principle researcher will attempt to contact participants lost to
      follow-up to determine any reasons for this as long as they have agreed to this during the
      consenting process.
    
  