
    
      Pneumococcus is a bacterium that healthy people commonly have in their nose and throat; this
      is called pneumococcal 'carriage'. Carriage is usually harmless, but can progress to serious
      disease like pneumonia, meningitis, and blood stream infections or to less serious, but
      burdensome, diseases like sinusitis or ear infections. Infants and the elderly bear the
      greatest burden of pneumococcal disease with over 800,000 annual global deaths from this germ
      among children under 5 years of age. Furthermore, pneumococcus has developed resistance to
      antibiotics making it increasingly difficult to treat pneumococcal infections. Within the
      United States some Native American groups, like the Navajo and the White Mountain Apache
      tribes, suffer from pneumococcal disease much more often than people in the general US
      population. We don't know why pneumococcus disproportionately afflicts these communities, but
      we know this health disparity can be significantly reduced through vaccination. In 2000, for
      the first time a pneumococcal vaccine designed specifically for infants, called PCV7, became
      available and was put into routine use among Navajo and Apache as well as the general US
      population. PCV7 contains the 7 most common of the >90 pneumococcal strains that exist.
      Although PCV7 is only given to infants and toddlers, it impacts pneumococcal disease
      throughout the community because it not only protects vaccinated infants from disease it also
      protects them against NP colonization. Infants and children are the main transmitters of
      pneumococcal colonization in the community so any change in their carriage affects the whole
      population of pneumococcal germs circulating within the family and community. Reductions in
      pneumococcal disease caused by the 7 types in PCV7 have exceeded expectations, especially
      among Navajo and Apache where we have seen virtually no cases in over 5 years. But, PCV7 has
      had the unintended consequence of increasing the amount of pneumococcal disease from some
      pneumococcal types that are not in PCV7. Therefore a new vaccine to protect against 13
      pneumococcal strains, called PCV13, has been developed and is about to be licensed and used
      (expected licensure Q4/2009). This project aims to reveal the impact of PCV13 on pneumococcal
      disease and carriage of strains which move from person to person within the Navajo community.
      We specifically intend to find out if use of PCV13 has an effect on disease and carriage of
      the 6 additional strains in the vaccine and to find out if PCV13 will result in the emergence
      of new pneumococcal serotypes within the community, like PCV7 did. This information will
      allow us to design vaccine strategies to meet these new patterns of pneumococcal disease and
      stay at least one step ahead of the organism changes. It will also provide the evidence on
      which rational policies for PCV13 use among Navajo can be made. This has been essential
      information in past experiences of vaccine shortages, where Navajo communities were given
      priority for vaccine use. We also propose to explore the correlations between pneumococcal
      colonization and viral infection of the nasopharynx to establish if there is enhanced risk of
      pneumococcal colonization in the setting of viral co-infection and if that enhances the risk
      of developing disease. To achieve the overall objectives we propose pulling together three
      types of information (1) effect of PCV13 on nasopharyngeal colonization with pneumococcus and
      viral pathogens (2) effect of PCV13 on disease and (3) use of PCV13 in the community.
    
  