
    
      Carcinomas of the sinuses and the salivary glands are rare. They are heterogeneous in terms
      of anatomical sites and histology subtypes. For this reason and in the absence of prospective
      study, their treatment is still largely extrapolated from data of frequent carcinomas of the
      upper digestive tract. These tumors are most often diagnosed lately. Their treatment is based
      on a multimodal management of care, with a central place for the surgery and radiotherapy
      (Proof level Grade C). Despite the advances in surgical techniques, and the addition of
      radiation therapy, the 5-year overall survival probability does not exceed 65% mainly due to
      a loco regional development.

      In this context, a chemotherapy administered concomitantly to radiotherapy, could increase
      the efficacy of the locoregional treatment by a radiosensibilization process and regardless
      of the histology. This point is regularly discussed in multidisciplinary concertation
      meeting, including bi-monthly national REFCOR meeting (network of French Expertise on rare
      Cancers of the head and neck). At present, the lack of data brings even to discuss the
      addition of cisplatin to exclusive irradiation of unresectable or not operable tumors.

      No randomized study has been published in this context. The first comparative prospective
      study addressing the addition of weekly cisplatin to the adjuvant irradiation of salivary, is
      a phase II randomized study (Radiation Therapy Oncology Group - RTOG 1008) currently
      enrolling patients in the United States of America.

      The Sponsor propose to conduct a phase III randomized study evaluating the impact of the
      addition of cisplatin to a treatment by radiotherapy in adjuvant setting (≥ 65 Gy) in case of
      a high risk of recurrence: case of radioresistant histologies (e.g. cystic fibrosis adenoids
      carcinomas), or case of unfavourable histo-prognostic criteria (incomplete resection,
      presence of emboli, etc.) in this population.
    
  