
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the frequency of spontaneous remission in pediatric patients with localized
           neuroblastoma.

        -  Determine the course of regression in patients with spontaneous remission.

        -  Determine the event-free survival rate of patients with high-risk neuroblastoma treated
           with maintenance chemotherapy OR consolidation chemotherapy followed by autologous stem
           cell rescue.

        -  Determine if a correlation exists between long-term overall survival and catecholamine
           response in these high-risk patients.

        -  Determine if a correlation exists between cytotoxic and conditioning chemotherapies, in
           terms of bone marrow toxicity, in these high-risk patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to risk (low vs
      standard vs high).

        -  Observation stratum (low risk): Patients undergo surgical biopsy followed by observation
           for 6-12 months. Patients may also undergo second-look surgery. Patients with tumor
           regression receive no further therapy. Patients with disease progression or no tumor
           regression receive standard-risk chemotherapy as in the standard-risk stratum.

        -  Standard-risk stratum: Patients undergo surgical biopsy. Patients at least 6 months of
           age receive 1 course of chemotherapy comprising cisplatin IV and etoposide IV
           continuously on days 1-4 and vindesine IV over 1 hour on day 1. Patients then receive 1
           course of chemotherapy comprising vincristine IV over 1 hour on days 1 and 8,
           dacarbazine IV over 1 hour on days 1-5, ifosfamide IV continuously on days 1-5, and
           doxorubicin IV over 4 hours on days 6 and 7.

      Patients under 6 months of age receive doxorubicin IV over 30 minutes and vincristine IV on
      days 1, 3, and 5 and cyclophosphamide IV over 5 minutes on days 1-7. Treatment repeats every
      3 weeks for 2 courses in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

      After chemotherapy, patients may undergo second-look surgery followed by 2 additional courses
      of chemotherapy as above. Patients with complete response or very good partial response
      receive no further therapy. Patients with partial response, minimal response, no response, or
      progressive disease undergo local radiotherapy daily 5 days a week for approximately 6 weeks.
      Patients with no response after radiotherapy may then receive therapy as in the high-risk
      stratum.

        -  High-risk stratum: Patients undergo surgical biopsy. Patients at least 6 months of age
           receive induction chemotherapy comprising cisplatin, etoposide, and vindesine as in the
           standard-risk stratum combined with filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SC) daily
           beginning on day 8 and continuing until blood counts recover. Patients also receive
           alternating courses of vincristine, dacarbazine, ifosfamide, and doxorubicin as in the
           standard-risk stratum combined with G-CSF SC daily beginning on day 9 and continuing
           until blood counts recover. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for up to 6 courses in the
           absence of unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients under 6 months of age receive 2 courses of induction chemotherapy as in the
      standard-risk stratum followed by 4 courses of alternating chemotherapy as above.

      Patients may also undergo second-look surgery.

      Patients then receive consolidation chemotherapy comprising melphalan IV over 30 minutes on
      days -8 to -5, etoposide IV over 4 hours on day -4, and carboplatin IV over 1 hour on days -4
      to -2. Patients undergo autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT) on day 0. Patients also
      receive G-CSF SC or IV over 2 hours daily beginning on day 0. Patients may then undergo
      radiotherapy daily 5 days a week for 6 weeks.

      Patients who were diagnosed less than 1 year ago and who do not demonstrate MYCN amplication
      receive maintenance chemotherapy comprising oral cyclophosphamide on days 1-8 (instead of
      consolidation chemotherapy and ASCT as above). Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 4 courses.

      Beginning 4-6 weeks after transplantation or 4 weeks after initiation of the last course of
      maintenance chemotherapy, all patients receive consolidation therapy with oral tretinoin 3
      times daily on days 1-14. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 6 courses followed by a 3-month
      rest. Patients then receive 3 additional courses.

      Patients are followed at 6 weeks, every 3 months for 5 years, and then every 6 months
      thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 130 patients (50 in high-risk stratum, 15 in standard-risk
      stratum, and 65 in observation stratum) will be accrued for this study within 1 year.
    
  