
    
      Prostate cancer is the most common type of cancer found in American men, other than skin
      cancer. The American Cancer Society estimated that there were about 230,900 new cases of
      prostate cancer in the United States in the year 2004. About 29,900 men will die of this
      disease. Prostate cancer is the second leading cause of cancer death in men, exceeded only by
      lung cancer. This protocol attempts to exploit an approach to prostate cancer immunotherapy
      using a naturally occurring barrier to xenotransplantation in humans in an attempt to
      vaccinate patients against their prostate cancer. The expression of the murine alpha (1,3)
      galactosyltransferase [alpha (1,3) GT] gene results in the cell surface expression of alpha
      (1,3) galactosyl-epitopes (alpha-gal) on membrane glycoproteins and glycolipids. These
      epitopes are the major target of the hyperacute rejection response that occurs when organs
      are transplanted from non-primate donor species into man. Human hosts often have pre-existing
      anti-alpha-gal antibodies that bind alpha-gal epitopes and lead to rapid activation of
      complement and cell lysis. The pre-existing anti-alpha-gal antibodies found in most
      individuals are thought to be due to exposure to alpha-gal epitopes that are naturally
      expressed on normal gut flora leading to chronic immunological stimulation. These antibodies
      may comprise up to 1% of serum IgG. In this Phase I/II trial, patients with hormone
      refractory prostate cancer will undergo a series of twelve intradermal injections with a
      vaccine composed of irradiated allogeneic prostate cancer cell lines (HAP-1 and HAP-2) that
      have been transduced with a recombinant Moloney murine leukemia virus (MoMLV)-based
      retroviral vector expressing the murine alpha (1,3) GT gene. Endpoints of the study include
      determination of dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), maximum tolerated dose (MTD), tumor and
      immunological responses.
    
  