
    
      Chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection is a global health problem, affecting about 3% of
      the world's population. Compared to patients with mild hepatic fibrosis, those with
      significant fibrosis are at risk of developing cirrhosis over a 10- to 20-year period. This
      fact suggests the need of early antiviral therapy in chronic hepatitis C (CHC) patients to
      prevent the development of cirrhosis and associated complications. For patients having
      cirrhosis, surveillance endoscopy and ultrasound for gastroesophageal varices and
      hepatocellular carcinoma are needed to minimize morbidity and mortality ). Furthermore,
      reduced treatment response and tolerability to antiviral therapy may be encountered in
      cirrhotic patients. An accurate assessment of hepatic fibrosis stage is therefore important
      for both diagnostic and therapeutic purposes.

      Liver biopsy has been recognized as the gold standard for assessing the grade of
      necroinflammation and stage of fibrosis. However, it is costly, and harbors risk of
      complications, including 20% of patient discomfort, 0.1-3% of significant morbidity, and
      0.02-0.24% of mortality. In addition, sampling error due to the non-uniform distribution of
      the parenchymal damage, as well as intra- and inter-observer variability is often
      encountered. A noninvasive tool to evaluate liver disease activity or fibrosis stage would be
      helpful, particularly in monitoring CHC patients over time.

      Noninvasive methods to evaluate the hepatic histology in HCV-infected patients include
      symptoms and signs, routine laboratory tests, serum markers of fibrosis and inflammation,
      quantitative tests of liver function, and radiological imaging. Previous studies have
      assessed the usefulness of noninvasive tests in predicting hepatic fibrosis. However, none of
      them showed satisfactory results, either due to lack of accuracy, accessibility,
      reproducibility or being expensive.

      Duplex Doppler ultrasonography (DDU), which is readily available and non-invasive, has been
      used for the assessment of splanchnic vascular hemodynamics in patients with chronic liver
      disease. Portal vein velocity (PVV) has been shown to be correlated with significant fibrosis
      or cirrhosis. Hepatic artery resistive index (HARI) and pulsatility index (HAPI) are
      associated with portal vein resistance and hepatic vein-portal vein pressure gradient (HPVG).
      Splenic artery resistive index (SARI) and pulsatility index (SAPI) are associated with portal
      vein resistance, cirrhosis and grade of esophageal varices (EV). Previous studies to evaluate
      the value of DDU in predicting liver histology are controversial, probably due to small
      patient number, diverse grading of liver histology, and large missing data.

      Thus, the purpose of our prospective study was to evaluate the value of Doppler parameters
      and compare the diagnostic accuracy of Doppler parameters with various biochemical indices in
      predicting significant hepatic fibrosis (≥ F2) and cirrhosis (F4) in chronic hepatitis C
      (CHC) patients.
    
  