
    
      Hypothesis 1: Neuroticism measured with (BFI-10), positive metacognitions, negative
      metacognitions, and unhelpful coping strategies (the latter three measured with CAS-1), will
      predict higher levels of depression and anxiety.

      Research Question 1: How and to what extent are different traits related measured with BFI-10
      related to depression and anxiety in the present pandemic sample?

      Research Question 2: Are the trait or state variables most strongly associated with
      depressive and anxiety symptoms? This question will be investigated using part correlations
      in the multiple regression analyses.

      Statistical analysis:

      Two hierarchical regression analyses will be conducted. 1) with PHQ-9 as the dependent
      variable; and 2) the second with GAD-7 at as the dependent variable. Both analyses will
      include the following variables and the following steps: In step 1, the demographic variables
      age, gender, and education will be included in the model. In step 2 two, the trait-variables
      (i.e., all five personality traits measured with BFI-10) will be included. In the final step,
      the three state-variables positive metacognitions, negative metacognitions (CAS-1), and
      unhelpful coping strategies (CAS-1) will be included.

      Part correlations will be reported for each regression analysis, presenting the effect size
      of the hypothesized predictors on depression and anxiety. A part (semi-partial) correlation
      gives the least biased and easiest interpretable estimate of the strength of a predictive
      relationship (Dudgeon, 2016). It is the correlation between the outcome and the aspects of
      the predictor unique from all the other predictors. As a type of correlation, its size can be
      evaluated according to Cohen's (1988) criteria: small >=0.10, medium >=0.30, large >=0.50.

      Both analysis include the following 5 trait-predictor variables: Neuroticism (BFI-10),
      Openness (BFI-10), Conscientiousness (BFI-10), Extroversion-Introversion (BFI-10), and
      Agreeableness (BFI-10).

      The state-predictor variables are as mentioned: positive metacognitions (CAS-1 subscale);
      negative metacognitions (CAS-1 subscale); unhelpful coping behaviors (CAS-1 subscale).

      Multicollinearity and other statistical assumptions will be checked using examined.
      Multicollinearity will be assessed with common guidelines (VIF < 5 and Tolerance > 0.2;
      Hocking, 2003; O'Brian, 2007).

      If any further analyses or questions are addressed in the forthcoming paper that are not
      pre-specified in this pre-registered protocol, they will be explicitly defined as
      exploratory.

      Sensitivity analyses and random subsample replications of the main findings will be conducted
      following selection of a random sample of participants that ensure a proportionate ratio
      between the collected sample and the adult population of Norway.

      Sample size and power calculation:

      The present study is part of a larger project with the first part aiming to investigate
      information source predictors of mental health through regression analyses, and the second
      part aiming to examine directional relations amongst specific sources of information and
      their centrality through complex systems approaches (i.e., network analysis). Consequently,
      power calculations are based on power required for network analyses. Following power analysis
      guidelines by Fried & Cramer (2017), it is recommended that the number of participants are
      three times larger than the number of estimated parameters. However, more conservative
      recommendations by Roscoe (1975) for multivariate research, recommends sample size that is
      ten times larger than the number of estimated parameters. Thus, following these two
      approaches respectively, between 1305 to 4350 participants are required. Data will be
      collected for three weeks, and participants are based on a representative and random sample
      of Norwegian adults, randomly selected and provided equal opportunity to partake in the
      study, providing digital consent.

      Missing data:

      The TSD system (Services for Sensitive Data), a platform used in Norway to store
      person-sensitive data verifies participants officially through a kind of national ID number
      to give them full right to withdraw their data at any time, following the European GDPR
      (General Data Protection Regulation) laws. Accordingly, participants are allowed to withdraw
      their own data at any time. The survey includes mandatory fields of response. Participation
      is voluntarily, and withdrawal of provided data is possible at any moment. The investigators
      do not expect participants to withdraw their data and thus expect no missing data. However,
      if participants do withdraw their data, the investigators will conduct state-of-art missing
      data analyses and investigate whether data is missing at random.
    
  