
    
      Recently published NICE guidelines recommend using fluid warmers for all infusions of 500mls
      or more and forced-air warming blankets for all main theatre operations. These guidelines
      have been extrapolated from work done on longer operations.

      Patients whose temperature drops below 36 degrees Centigrade during or after surgery suffer
      more complications and blood loss than those whose temperature remains above 36 degrees
      Centigrade. They also often require more blood transfusions and stay in hospital for longer.
      Some of these complications are more common even when the temperature drops below 36.5.

      Disposable forced-air warming blankets prevent hypothermia, but cannot be re-used and
      therefore incur a significant expense in terms of consumables.

      Re-usable carbon polymer blankets, such as the HotDog, have been shown to not only be
      effective in preventing hypothermia, but have also been shown to maintain core temperature as
      effectively as forced air blankets.

      Carbon polymer blankets are re-usable, with the added associated benefit of lower running
      costs. Therefore, in the face of limited NHS resources a reusable money saving alternative,
      such as the carbon polymer HotDog, would be a preferred option to the disposable forced air
      blanket.

      The current data on the effectiveness of the carbon polymer blanket is from volunteers. This
      study is actually powered to show a reduction in the number of patients who get cold in a
      clinical setting.

      References:

      NICE. Perioperative hypothermia (inadvertent): the management of inadvertent peri-operative
      hypothermia in adults.NICE Clinical Guideline 29. London: National Institute for Health and
      Clinical Excellence, 2008. http://www.nice.org.uk/GC065.

      Schmeid H, Kurz A, Sessler DI, Kozek S, Reiter A. Mild hypothermia increases blood loss and
      transfusion requirements during total hip arthroplasty. The Lancet 1996; 347:289-92.

      Rajagopalan S, Mascha E, Na J, Sessler DI: The Effects of Mild Perioperative Hypothermia on
      Blood Loss and Transfusion Requirement. Anesthesiology 2008;108:717.
    
  