
    
      Indwelling urethral catheters are a source of discomfort and pain in males, particularly when
      in place for extended periods of time. All patients require catheterization for a minimum of
      10 days following radical prostatectomy. Currently, catheters are secured to the patient's
      leg using tape or an elastic leg strap. This point of securing, however, allows the tip of
      the penis and the urethral meatus to move in different vectors from the catheter. Data
      demonstrating urethral catheter hypermobility as an etiology of pain and discomfort have not
      been reported. However, clinical experience suggests that this type of catheter mobility is
      associated with significant discomfort.

      It is predicted that the use of an external urethral catheter immobilization device (Patent:
      Simpson et al., US8500719, 2013) designed to secure/minimize catheter movement relative to
      the tip of the penis will greatly improve catheter associated pain and discomfort in men
      undergoing radical prostatectomy. The catheter immobilization device is an FDA-approved,
      510(k) exempt, pliant tubular structure comprised of Suprazote Foam (Zotefoams) that
      surrounds the penile shaft. The foam support has a rigidity greater than that of the flaccid
      penis. It is bi- lobed (i.e., two identical halves) that hinge together to close around the
      tip of the penis with an aperture aligned with the urethra. The catheter extends through this
      opening and is secured to the device does not alter the urethral catheter in any fashion. The
      device limits catheter movement radial to the axis of the catheter. This, in turn, keeps the
      catheter in line with the urethra, reducing abrasion and traction to the meatus and urethra.

      To test the hypothesis, a randomized-controlled trial will be performed in male patients who
      underwent radical prostatectomy. These men will be randomized to two arms: one arm will have
      the device fitted around their catheter after surgery is complete while the other will not
      have the device fitted. Outcome measures involving catheter-related pain and discomfort will
      then be assessed until the urethral catheter is removed per standard of care after radical
      prostatectomy.
    
  