
    
      Because of the state of insulin resistance in heart failure (HF), metformin, with its ability
      to sensitize tissues to insulin, seems to be an ideal agent for managing type 2 diabetes
      mellitus (DM) in HF. It reduces the concentration of glucose in blood by enhancing insulin
      sensitivity, inducing greater peripheral uptake of glucose, and decreasing hepatic glucose
      output. However, according to the package insert, it is contraindicated in all patients with
      HF requiring pharmacologic treatment because of increased risk of lactic acidosis. The FDA
      has now de-escalated this contraindication to a warning as the evidence is lacking regarding
      an increased risk of lactic acidosis in patients with type 2 DM and HF who take metformin.

      Hypothesis: In patients, who have diabetes type 2, are treated with metformin, and are
      admitted for HF, metformin leads to reduced insulin requirements, as measured in units of
      insulin, with no negative impact on patient safety.

      Primary Objective: To test the hypothesis that continuing a patient's home metformin for
      diabetes management while admitted to UK hospital will result in decreased utilization of
      insulin as denoted by total units given.

      Secondary Objectives: To test the hypothesis that administering metformin in HF patients
      admitted to UK Hospital:

        1. Results in similar glycemic control (targeting a blood glucose < 200mg/dL) when compared
           with placebo along on the basis of basic metabolic panel glucose values. Both groups may
           receive conventional inpatient hyperglycemia management with insulin products

        2. Reduces drug and laboratory costs

        3. Reduces hospital length of stay

        4. Does not result in hypoglycemia (blood glucose < 60 mg/dL)

        5. Reduced discharge medication errors related to diabetic medications

        6. No observed increase in metabolic acidosis due to elevated lactate levels

        7. Does not impact heart failure status (as indicated by trending NT-pro BNP levels)

      Both the diagnosis and clinical management of patients with heart failure and type 2 diabetes
      mellitus will be guaranteed by the application of standard guidelines internationally
      recognized. All patients admitted to the Medicine / Cardiology Advanced Heart Failure at UK
      Hospital will be evaluated for inclusion and exclusion criteria. Based on our power analysis
      we plan to enroll 100 subjects total. Subjects will be enrolled from January 1, 2016 -
      December 31, 2018 until 120 patients are enrolled, estimated study time frame is two years.
    
  