
    
      The proposed study is designed to further demonstrate the performance of the NoL Index in
      surgical patient under general anesthesia, by evaluating its response to controlled changes
      in the levels of noxious stimuli/analgesia mentioned characteristics and to correlate early
      outcome predictors to the NoL values throughout the surgical procedure, thus provide the
      medical caregiver general recommendations on how to interpret the NoL Index in terms of
      magnitude and direction, and how to utilize it during the surgical procedure.

      In this study the investigators plan to demonstrate that the NoL Index is a continuous index.
      It is anticipated that a higher level of nociception will correspond to a higher NoL index.
      On the other hand, it is anticipated that higher levels of analgesic agent for the same
      noxious stimulus will lead to a lower NoL index. This will be achieved by measuring the NoL
      response to various types of noxious stimuli, varying in their intensities, under different
      levels of analgesic agents.

      The noxious stimuli that will be used in this pivotal study are:

        1. - Intubation

        2. - Incision and/or trocar insertion

        3. - Internal handling during the surgical procedure

        4. - Extubation

        5. - Other specific pain event related to the surgical procedure (e.g. bone related
           treatment in orthopedic, muscle tension or cut etc.).

      The study population includes subjects requiring a surgical procedure under general
      anesthesia. During the surgical procedure the subject is anesthetized (by various anesthetic
      agents) and paralyzed (by muscle relaxant agents). Thus, the response to noxious stimuli
      under those conditions will be related to the underlying physiological response. The
      participants will be monitored, as in a typical surgery and according to the local
      guidelines, by various types of monitoring devices, such as: vital signs, pulse oximeter,
      Bispectral Index (BIS), Electroencephalography (EEG) etc. Therefore, patients suffering from
      fluctuations in their vital signs and hemodynamic parameters during the surgical procedure,
      can be detected by the various monitors. However, assessment of the level of nociception is
      still complex, subjective and mainly depends on the physician's experience and knowledge.

      Development of a nociception monitor that may present an index to assess the level of
      nociception will allow the anesthesiologist better patient management during the surgical
      procedure.
    
  