
    
      A decreased level of consciousness is a common reason for presentation to the emergency
      department (ED) and is often the result of intoxication (up to 1% of all ED visits and 3% of
      intensive care unit (ICU) admission). In France, approximately 165 000 poisoned patients are
      managed each year.1 Originally developed in head injured patients, the Glasgow Coma Scale
      (GCS) is a validated reproducible score evaluating the level of consciousness - a GCS ≤ 8 is
      associated with reduced gag reflex and increased incidence of aspiration pneumonia (with an
      adjusted odds ratio of 2.32, 95%CI =1.60 to 3.33). However, whether this risk of aspiration
      pneumonia (AP) may be decreased by early intubation is unknown, and no difference in the risk
      of AP was reported between patients that were intubated early and patients who were not.

      Although it is well established that in trauma patients, a GCS ≤ 8 mandates airway management
      by endotracheal intubation, it remains unknown whether this strategy should be applied to
      other etiologies of coma, in particular for acute poisoned patients. Tracheal intubation and
      mechanical ventilation allow to prevent aspiration pneumonia, to optimize oxygenation and gas
      exchange.

      Investigators will include patients with a decreased level of consciousness (defined by a GCS
      of 8 or less) caused by acute intoxication (alcohol, recreative drugs, or other prescription
      drugs (with the exception intoxication with cardiotropic drugs, e.g. beta blockers, calcium
      channel inhibitor, angiotensin conversion enzyme)). These patients will be included at the
      initial stage of their management: in the ED, or out of hospital with a pre-hospital
      emergency physician. Patients with clear proven benefit of intubation will be excluded :
      patients in shock, patients with suspicion of brain lesion, seizure related with poisoning,
      visualization of regurgitation of gastric content or sign of respiratory distress.
      Conservative airway management. Patients will be conservatively managed, i.e. close
      monitoring and no intubation and mechanical ventilation unless the patient presents a
      clinical event that needs intubation (shock, sign of respiratory distress, visualization of
      regurgitation or seizure).

      Acute poisoning is a common reason for presentation to the ED or MICU intervention (up to 1%
      of all ED visits and 3% of intensive care unit (ICU) admission). These patients are often
      intubated (reported rate ranging from 20 to 50% in different cohort studies), when their GCS
      is below 8, in order to protect their airways. However there is currently no clear
      demonstration of its efficacy in this specific target population, while it is known that
      intubation is associated with morbidity and mortality.

      Intubated patients need subsequent intensive care unit admission and invasive monitoring, and
      this can be associated with increased risk of pulmonary complications, length of
      hospital-stay, nosocomial infections and cost. In a context of expenditures control in health
      care, appropriate intensive care resource utilization is an important issue. When considering
      the increasing demand for intensive care among emergency patients, the importance of health
      care resource allocation and expenditure control, and the possible absence benefit of
      intubation and intensive care, an endotracheal airway management of poisoned coma patients
      might be detrimental.

      Thus, if our hypothesis is demonstrated, the results of NICO study will change practice and
      guidelines for management of acute coma poisoned patients, with less exposure to the
      morbidity of endotracheal intubation and associated with decrease of ICU stay, and reduction
      of their health costs.
    
  