
    
      Background: Drug therapy of atypical parkinsonism is generally ineffective or minimal, and
      novel therapy approaches for atypical parkinsonian disorders are needed. Repetitive
      transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) is a noninvasive tool that modulates cortical
      excitability and holds promise in treating neurological/psychiatric disorders. The 'motor'
      basal ganglia-cortical circuit is implicated in parkinsonian akinesia and hypokinesia; a
      'prefrontal' circuit is implicated in working memory (WM) and mood regulation, possibly
      linked to depression and apathy.

      Hypothesis: Motor deficits in Progressive Supranuclear Palsy (PSP) and Corticobasal
      Ganglionic Degeneration (CBGD) are associated with a dysfunctional motor network; emotional
      deficits in PSP/CBGD are associated with a dysfunctional prefrontal network. We hypothesize
      that high-frequency and low-frequency rTMS over cortical targets will selectively and
      specifically improve tasks and symptoms relevant to that target in PSP and CBGD patients,
      respectively.

      Aims: To contrast cortical excitability characteristics and motor and emotional function
      between PSP and CBGD patients. To determine selective and specific beneficial rTMS effects
      over primary motor (M1) and dorsolateral prefrontal (DLPFC) cortex on cortical excitability
      characteristics and motor and emotional function in PSP and CBGD patients.

      Design: Ten individuals with PSP and ten with CBGD will participate in a within-subject
      cross-sectional design. Motor outcome measures include a timed finger tapping task at
      comfortable and maximal speed. Quantitative cognitive outcome measures comprise a visual
      analogue scale of mood states (VAS). After a first baseline visit, PSP patients will receive
      high-frequency 5 Hz rTMS in two separate visits to two site conditions (left DLPFC vs. the
      more affected side of M1) across subjects with two within-session task conditions (motor vs.
      cognitive). They will also receive sham stimulation in a separate visit. These three
      stimulation visits will be randomized. CBGD patients will receive the same treatment with the
      only difference that they will receive low-frequency 1 Hz rTMS instead.

      Relevance: If successful, we will demonstrate a double-dissociation and causal functional
      significance between rTMS modulation of M1 in motor tasks and DLPFC in emotional function in
      PSP Vs. CBGD. Exploratory aims will be conducted. Sufficient data and experience for future
      PSP/CBGD intervention studies will help identify candidate TMS parameters that are optimal
      for given symptoms.
    
  