
    
      Febrile seizures(FS) are one of the most common neurological disorders in children and
      infants. It is estimated that 2-5% of children younger than 5 years of age experience at
      least one epileptic seizure during the period of febrile seizure.

      FS, as defined by the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP), are " seizure occurring in
      febrile children between the ages of 6 and 60 months who do not have an intracranial
      infection, metabolic disturbance, or history of afebrile seizures ".

      The diagnosis of FS is based on physical examination and anamnesis taken from the gardian,
      aiming primarily to detect the real cause that led to a FS.

      The etiology of FS is complex and it is still the subject of numerous studies and research
      done in the field. However, there is strong evidence showing that heterogeneous genetic
      predisposition interacting with various risk factors can lead to a FS.

      There are several risk factors mentioned in literature which can cause the first FS. One of
      the most important is positive family history of FS (especially among the closest relatives)
      . Other possible factors include: high body temperature (the higher level of body temperature
      increases the risk of a seizure occurrence), preexisting neurodevelopment delay , neonatal
      care longer that 28 days.

      The development of epilepsy after FS moves around 3%, after simple febrile seizure (SFS) the
      risk is around 2% whereas after complex febrile seizure (CFS) it is about 2 to 3%. Around 13%
      of epilepsy patients have experienced FS once. Prolonged FS can lead to mesial temporal
      sclerosis and to temporal lobe epilepsy, but the level of risk is still uncertain.

      The research shows that abnormal neurological development before the FS, the occurrences of a
      febrile seizures among relatives, as well as the CFS, represent risk factors for emergence of
      epilepsy after the FS.

      Since FS are genetically controlled, it is presumed that increased homozygosity and decreased
      variability in patients can be in correlation with the expression of FS.

      The determination of the presence of homozygous-recessive characteristics (HRC) in
      individuals with FS provides an insight whether the prevalence of homozygous or heterozygous
      loci on different chromosomes exists. The number of homozygous recessive traits represent one
      type of indicator of the homologous chromosomal homozygosity, which can vary significantly
      both at the individual, as well as at the group level.
    
  