
    
      Schizophrenia is a severely debilitating mental disorder. People with schizophrenia often
      experience unusual thoughts or perceptions, decreased pleasure in everyday life, and
      difficulty functioning in social situations. Antipsychotic medications have been shown to be
      effective in improving the symptoms of schizophrenia. Poor adherence to medication, however,
      leads to re-hospitalization, impedes the process of recovery, and contributes to the high
      costs associated with schizophrenia treatment. Studies have shown that PharmCAT, cognitive
      adaptive training that specifically targets medication adherence, has been effective in
      improving adherence and outcomes in people with schizophrenia. The Med-eMonitor™ is a new
      pill device that is able to alert patients when they should take medication, when they are
      taking the wrong medication, and when they are taking medication at the wrong time. The
      device can also record side effect complaints and then send stored information to treatment
      staff. The capabilities of the Med-eMonitor™ eliminate the need for the weekly home visits
      that are necessary in the PharmCAT program, and may make treatment more easily available to
      individuals in remote or rural settings. This study will compare the effectiveness of
      PharmCAT, the Med-eMonitor™, and standard treatment in improving medication adherence and
      treatment outcome in people with schizophrenia.

      Participants in this study will be randomly assigned to one of the following treatment
      groups: (1) PharmCAT; (2) the Med-eMonitor™; or (3) standard treatment. Participants in Group
      1 will receive weekly home visits from a case manager. These visits will specifically target
      medication adherence. Participants in Group 2 will use the Med-eMonitor™ device. Data
      recorded by the device will be sent electronically to study staff. Participants in Group 3
      will keep the Med-eMonitor™ device in their homes throughout the study but will not use its
      medication reminder function. The device will record only when medication is taken. All
      participants will report to the study site at study entry and Months 4, 7, and 10 for
      measures of symptoms, functioning, social activities, and relationships.
    
  