
    
      Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection can be diagnosed by invasive (i.e., endoscopy and
      biopsy) and non-invasive techniques . The most accurate non-invasive tests for diagnosing
      active H. pylori are the 13C-urea breath test and the stool antigen test3 Several guidelines
      for the management of dyspeptic patients in primary care settings recommend the use of
      non-invasive tests for H. pylori in the initial management of dyspeptic patients (test and
      treat strategy)3 . This strategy has been tested in a number of clinical settings and has
      been shown to be effective from both a clinical and a cost perspective The urea breath test
      (UBT) and the stool antigen test are very sensitive and specific except in patients taking
      proton pump inhibitors (PPI) 678 In patients taking PPI, a positive test remains reliable for
      the detection of H. pylori but the number of false negative tests rises dramatically reducing
      the sensitivity of these tests. PPI are widely available and are over-thecounter agents in
      some countries (e.g. USA, Sweden). Clinicians are frequently confronted with making a
      diagnosis of H. pylori infection in patients who may knowingly or unknowingly be taking PPI.
      Currently available breath and stool tests are reliable 12 - 14 days after discontinuation of
      the PPI. This results in the cost and inconvenience of another visit and the possibility of
      symptoms in some patients when the PPI is withdrawn.

      Although the exact mechanism by which acid inhibition causes a false negative reaction is
      unclear, some studies have suggested that acidification of the stomach may reverse the
      abnormality Results have been inconsistent, however, and how to acidify the stomach and to
      what extent this should be done is unclear. Standardised test meals are routinely
      administered with the breath test substrate.

      The aim of this study is to assess the sensitivity and specificity of the 13C-urea breath
      test administered with the new test meal in patients with dyspepsia and GERD taking PPI.
    
  