
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the feasibility of a home-based, computerized, cognitive training program for
      patients with pediatric brain tumors who are undergoing cranial radiation therapy (CRT),
      treated in multiple Children Oncology Group (COG) institutions.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the effect size of this program on measures of attention and working memory in
      patients with brain tumors treated with CRT in order to design a definitive large-scale
      clinical trial.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I (intervention): Patients undergo a home-based, computerized, interactive training
      program comprising 3-5 sessions of 15-45 minutes every week for 5-9 weeks. The program
      contains twelve visually engaging and interesting exercises that target skills involving
      visual-spatial and verbal working memory (WM). The program is adaptive in a way that each
      difficulty task is automatically adjusted on a trial-by-trail basis to match a patient's
      current WM. Each patient has an interventional coach who has online access to patient's
      training sessions and outcomes (pass or fail). Coaches are able to modify the training
      sequence or make suggestions to patients and/or parents about how progress can be maximized.
      Coaches also have telephone meetings with patients and/or families once a week to ensure
      compliance, track progress, provide feedback, and answer questions that arise during
      training.

      ARM II (control): Patients undergo a home-based, computerized, interactive, non-adaptive
      training program comprising 3-5 sessions of 15-45 minutes a week for 5-9 weeks. Each patient
      also has an interventional coach as in arm I. Patients in both arms complete a brief
      neuropsychological/behavioral assessment comprising the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for
      Children (WIS-IV), the Children's Memory Scale (CMS), and the California Verbal Learning
      Test-Children's Version (CVLT-C) at baseline, after completion of study, and at 6 months
      after completion of study. Additionally, parents complete a parent-report questionnaire to
      gather information about patient's behaviors, thoughts, emotions, adaptive skills, and social
      and functional impairment. Parents and children also complete surveys about the program
      regarding technical feasibility, adherence, ease-of-use, and satisfaction.

      After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up within 3 weeks, then at 6
      months.
    
  