
    
      Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada disease (DVKH) is an autoimmune disorder, which is mainly a T CD4+ Th1
      lymphocyte mediated aggression to melanocytes, in individuals with a genetic predisposition,
      in particular, the presence of HLA-DRB1*0405 allele. It is an important cause of
      non-infectious uveitis at tertiary services in Brazil and a major cause of uveitis in
      general, in some regions of the world, such as in Japan and Asia. Its clinical course is
      classically defined in four phases: prodromal, with general symptoms possibly related to a
      viral trigger; uveitic, with sudden decrease in visual acuity in both eyes with a diffuse
      choroiditis associated or not to iridocyclitis; convalescent, wherein the depigmentation of
      the integument and choroid is more evident, with an apparently quiescent disease from a
      clinical point of view; and chronic or recurrent, in which the predominant inflammatory signs
      of anterior segment are clinically detected and complications are more evident, such as
      choroidal neovascularization, cataract and glaucoma.

      Recent studies have shown subclinical inflammation of the choroid, detected by indocyanine
      green angiography (ICGA) and also by enhanced-depth imaging spectral-domain optical coherence
      tomography (EDI-OCT). Several authors have been taking these findings into account for
      inflammation monitoring and treatment follow-up. However, the wider knowledge of these
      subclinical signs of inflammation and the understanding of the disease's course from a global
      perspective are still scarce. The study developed by Sakata et al. (2012-2015) established an
      early and aggressive treatment with pulsetherapy of methylprednisolone, followed by high
      doses of oral prednisone (1 mg / kg / day) with slow and gradual tapering over a 15-month
      period. Such study has showed that, despite an "adequate" treatment: a) 94% of patients had
      worsening of visual acuity or disease relapse during a 12-month follow-up; b) subclinical
      signs fluctuated without changing the initial treatment ; c) particular cases, in which there
      was an increase of treatment, showed better retinal function at final follow-up.

      Thus, this study aims to continue the evaluation of subclinical signs and their clinical and
      functional relevance, as well as, with an early immunomodulatory treatment, to observe the
      clinical course of DVKH and its behavior in functional terms and development of
      complications. Study design: prospective and longitudinal, with a minimum 12-month follow-up,
      with integrated clinical, angiographic, tomographic and functional assessments. On clinical
      examination, anterior segment inflammatory signs will be evaluated (cells in anterior
      chamber), as well as posterior findings (observed in the acute phase: optic disc hyperemia,
      exudative retinal detachment, macular edema, vasculitis, vitreous haze); on angiographic
      evaluation, fluorescein angiogram (FA) and ICGA will be included; on tomographic evaluation,
      evaluation of retina and choroid will be included (EDI-OCT); and, on the functional tests, it
      will be included: the full-field electroretinography (ERGct) and multifocal
      electroretinography (ERGmf); as well as autofluorescence (AF) with blue light (Bl-AF) and
      near-infrared light (NIR-AF); automated perimetry (30-2) and contrast sensitivity test.
      Quality of life questionnaires and visual function evaluation will be included in pre-defined
      intervals.

      Expected results: 1. To reaffirm the importance of an integrated analysis of the clinical and
      ancillary tests for better patient monitoring and to improve disease prognosis; 2. To
      increase the understanding of the disease natural course; 3. To increase the understanding of
      the disease pathogenesis; and, 4. To set parameters (outcomes) that can guide therapy.
    
  