
    
      Introduction Collagen IV-related nephropathies, caused by mutations in the three genes
      encoding collagen type IV of the basal membrane, represent a spectrum of phenotypes from
      Alport syndrome (AS) to thin basement membrane nephropathy (TBMN) (1). Subtypes are X-linked
      AS (XLAS) which corresponds approximately 80% of AS, autosomal recessive AS (ARAS), counting
      for 15% of AS, and the autosomal dominant forms, represented by autosomal dominant AS (ADAS,
      5% of AS) and TBMN, which is believed to be present in 1% of the population (1).

      Besides renal manifestations, these diseases can present cochlear and ocular abnormalities
      (2). However, the hallmark of Collagen IV-related nephropathies is hematuria. Proteinuria is
      detected during life, being a marker of disease progression. All males with XLAS develop
      proteinuria and, eventually, progressive renal insufficiency, which leads to end-stage renal
      disease (ESRD). Overall, an estimated 60% reach ESRD by age 30 years, and 90% by age 40 years
      (2). Approximately 12% of females with XLAS develop ESRD before age 40 years, increasing to
      30% by age 60 years (3). Most individuals with ARAS develop significant proteinuria in late
      childhood or adolescence and ESRD before age 30 years. Progression to ESRD is slower in
      individuals with ADAS. Similarly, TBMN is characterized clinically by persistent
      microhematuria often observed in childhood. TBMN is rarely associated with extrarenal
      abnormalities and proteinuria. Hypertension and progression to ESRD are unusual (4).

      Despite the severity of disease, the high rate of ESRD, and the increasing knowledge about
      genetics and diagnosis, there is currently no proven treatment to AS. So far, the therapeutic
      approach is limited to angiotensin-II (AII) blockade, blood pressure control and diet
      counseling. Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEi) or angiotensin receptor blockers
      (ARB) are usually started once proteinuria appears but there is no clear evidence that such
      treatment alters the natural history of the disease in humans.

      Our goal was to describe the evolution of a series of cases with Collagen IV-related
      nephropathies and proteinuria treated with enalapril, as well as predictive variables of
      progression to ESRD.

      Patients and Methods This is a retrospective study of collagen IV-related nephropathies
      patients followed at Instituto da Criança - HCFMUSP from 1999 to 2010. All patients presented
      glomerular hematuria (erythrocyte dysmorphism and/or red blood cell cast in the urinary
      sediment) and proteinuria. In 16 of 19 cases the diagnosis was based on familial history and
      renal histology findings which showed negative immunofluorescence and the ultrastructural
      abnormalities of the glomerular basement membrane (GBM) showing TBMN (uniform or diffuse
      attenuation of the GBM without the typical lamellation and thickening that is seen in AS) or
      AS (defects in terms of alternating attenuation, splitting, lamellation, and thickening along
      the GBM). However, it is very difficult to discriminate between the initial stage of AS and
      TBMN. Three patients were not submitted to renal biopsy since the familial history and the
      renal histology of relatives were characteristics of the disease. Only adherent patients were
      included, which was based on presence in attendance and exams.

      The patients visited the outpatient clinic at least once every 3 months and had at least 2
      years of follow up. The following parameters were evaluated at baseline: age, renal function
      (serum creatinine, urea, and creatinine clearance according to Schwartz Formula) (5), 24 hour
      proteinuria, blood pressure and light and electron microscopy of the renal fragment.

      In all patients, enalapril was employed as a RAAS blocker, observing benefits and side
      effects as hypotension symptoms and/or signs. Our protocol intends to reach a dose of 0.3
      mg/kg/day.

      The following parameters were also collected during follow up: serum creatinine and urea, 24
      hour proteinuria and creatinine clearance estimated by stature (Schwartz Formula).

      In this study hyperfiltration is defined as ≥ 145 ml/minute/1.73m2BS, based on Piepsz et al
      and Prestidge et al data (6,7).

      Statistical analysis Mann-Whitney and chi-square (or Fisher) tests were used in the
      univariate analysis. For the analysis of the effect of enalapril on proteinuria during the
      first 2 years of treatment we have used a non-parametric repeated measures analysis
      (Friedmann´s test). We have analyzed the main predictive variables of CKD progression, by
      considering a creatinine clearance below 60 ml/min/1.73m2 as an outcome.
    
  