
    
      The outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) due to a novel
      coronavirus (COVID-19) has emerged from Wuhan, China in late December 2019 and spread rapidly
      worldwide. Until July 16, 2020, there has been more than 13 million confirmed cases worldwide
      and ~580,000 deaths attributed to the disease. With the fast evolution of this worldwide
      public-health emergency, the general public has demanded the urgent investigation of
      potentially beneficial drugs that may improve the outcome of those affected by SARS-CoV-2
      infection. While new therapies and vaccines are urgently being investigated, they may take an
      inordinate time, or never be identified. In the world today, there is only one drug approved
      by the FDA for COVID-19 (Remdesivir), while the investigation of several other re-purposed
      drugs is potentially suggested for SARS-CoV-2 treatment. Many trials are taking place around
      the world, including some utilizing potentially dangerous drugs with considerable side
      effects and enormous costs. However, the clinical effectiveness and safety of all
      pharmacologic therapies so far have not been fully proven.

      The preliminary findings about this disease indicates that patients with cardiovascular risk
      factors including diabetes, obesity and other pre-existing cardiovascular diseases have worse
      outcomes. Additionally, severe respiratory infection and hypoxia associate with severe
      COVID-19 might trigger many pathological pathways which leads to cardiovascular sequelae. In
      a cohort of 416 hospitalized patients with COVID-19, myocardial injury defined by an elevated
      high sensitivity troponin I level was associated with in-hospital mortality. Another study of
      187 hospitalized patients with COVID-19 showed a similar association. Interestingly, the
      highest mortality rates were observed among patients with pre-existing cardiovascular
      disease. Importantly, none of the published experiences from anywhere in the world has
      explored omega-3 oil and its known protective cardiovascular benefits.

      Omega-3 fatty acids are found in food such as fish and flaxseed as well as in dietary
      supplements labeled omega-3-oil.The beneficiary role of Omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids
      (PUFA), namely eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) from fish, other
      marine sources, and supplements, have been shown to be anti-inflammatory through several
      cellular mechanisms including their incorporation into cellular membranes and resulting
      altered synthesis of eicosanoids. There is the potential that arachidonic acid (AA,)
      eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), and other dietary unsaturated
      fatty acids can inactivate enveloped viruses. It is thought that these fatty acids and others
      cause leakages or lysis of the viral envelopes by disrupting the membrane integrity, amongst
      other potential mechanisms. Indeed, the supplementation of EPA and DHA raises the level of
      these fatty acids in the phospholipids of cells involved in inflammation in a time and
      dose-dependent fashion at the expense of AA4. Li and colleagues reviewed 89 systematic
      reviews and meta-analyses investigating fish intake and all-cause mortality, concluding that
      fish intake at 2-4 servings per week is associated with the largest risk reduction.

      In animal models despite these potential positive effects, there is conflicting evidence in
      relation to fish or fish oil consumption for some viral infections. In influenza models, fish
      oil-fed mice demonstrated impaired resistance to influenza infection due to their
      immunomodulatory and anti-inflammatory properties, which negatively dampened the immune
      response of the mice against the infection. In another mouse model, fish oil intake delayed
      influenza virus clearance and impaired the immune response in the lungs of mice by disrupting
      interferon-γ and immunoglobulin A. A further study indicated that it may be due to the
      impairment of virus-specific T lymphocyte cytotoxicity.

      Despite the potential benefit, there are few human studies with omega 3 and immune and
      inflammatory response. The recent proposed benefit for omeg-3-oil is unique, EPA and DHA
      which are main fatty acids in omega-3-oils may act as substrates for the synthesis of
      specialized pro-resolving lipid mediators such as maresins, resolvins, and protectins, of
      which protectins may reduce the replication of influenza and potentially affect the
      inflammatory manifestations of respiratory viral diseases.

      Notably, an in vitro model of human cells (Huh-7 and VeroE6) infected with a human
      coronavirus (HCoV-229E) demonstrated that several bioactive lipids downstream of
      phospholipase A2 (PLA2) activation were upregulated by the host cells. It is postulated that
      coronaviruses modulate the host lipid profile to optimize and maintain a specific homeostasis
      for viral replication. However, exogenous supplementation of AA and linoleic acid suppressed
      viral replication by interfering with the optimal host lipid conditions for viral
      replication. Notably, exogenous supplementation of AA and linoleic acid was also conserved
      when human cells were infected with MERS. However, exogenous supplementation of AA and
      linoleic acid suppressed viral replication by interfering with the optimal host lipid
      conditions for viral replication. Notably, exogenous supplementation of AA and linoleic acid
      was also conserved when human cells were infected with MERS. EPA, DHA, and AA also inhibited
      the replication of enterovirus A71 and coxsackievirus A16.While it is suggested that the oral
      or intravenous administration of various bioactive lipids could potentially reduce the
      severity and/or enhance the recovery of those infected with COVID-19, a dietary prophylactic
      approach or a dietary strategy for recovering patients is also worth considering. Further
      research is certainly required, as increasing AA via the diet might seem counterintuitive, as
      it is mainly proinflammatory.

      Other clinical research about several lung infections, found the administration of PUFA can
      improve the outcome of the patient in acute pneumonia. Recent study reported that the dietary
      supplementation of ω-3 PUFA can exert an overall beneficial effect against acute pneumonia
      through the upregulation of the host's specific and nonspecific immune defenses.

      Inflammation resolution is strongly dependent on lipid mediators, the specialized
      pro-resolution mediators (SPMs). As mentioned above, omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (n-3
      PUFAs) are precursors of very potent SPMs, including resolvins, protectins and maresins. In
      addition, they are associated with a less aggressive inflammatory initiation, after competing
      with omega-6 fatty acids for eicosanoid synthesis. Therefore, it makes sense to consider the
      use of n-3 PUFAs for clinical management of COVID-19 patients.

      Recent clinical studies In ARDS patients, the enteral use of n-3 PUFAs has been associated to
      oxygenation improvement, reduced duration of mechanic ventilation as well as shorter ICU
      length of stay. In another study, critically ill patients receiving parenteral nutrition
      therapy enriched with fish oil lipid emulsion (rich in n-3 PUFAs EPA and DHA) were reported
      to have decreased infection and sepsis risk (40% to 56%, respectively) and a reduction of
      length of hospital and ICU stay by about two day.

      As eluded previously, 2 cohort studies from China indicate that a significant proportion of
      hospitalized patients with COVID-19 developed some degree of myocardial injury. Coronary
      atherosclerotic plaques are more prone to rupture in response to an exacerbated inflammatory
      response during SARS-CoV-2. The use of n-3 FA (4-6 g/d) for improving atherosclerotic
      cardiovascular disease risk in patients with hypertriglyceridemia is supported by a 25%
      reduction in major adverse cardiovascular events in REDUCE-IT.

      Furthermore, several drugs will increase triglyceride concentrations in patients with
      underlying high triglycerides. The effects of n-3 FA on drug-induced HTG have received
      relatively little attention, but n-3 FAs have uniformly been reported to lower triglycerides
      when used with interferon-α, antipsychotics, l-asparaginase, oral estrogens, protease
      inhibitors, retinoic acid, and sirolimus. In contrast with COVID-19 there is scarce of
      information published till now about role of n-3 FAs.

      Collectively, these findings suggest that omega-3 fatty acids have properties that could
      improve oxygenation and outcome of COVID-19 patients. The utilization of omega-3-oil as safe,
      available and inexpensive therapy could be a promising therapeutic approach against
      SARS-CoV-2. Moreover, recent analysis of 8 studies showed that consumption of omega 3 oil up
      to 10 gm per day is safe in ICU.

      However, due to lack of sufficient clinical data supporting either the beneficial or harmful
      effects of omega-3 oil use in patients with COVID-19, the optimal strategy for the management
      of in COVID-19 is uncertain and remains to be elucidated - putting together all the known
      properties of omega 3 and what is known about the COVID-19, the investigators hypothesize
      that omega 3 could have a significant beneficial impact on the clinical outcome of infected
      patients. The aim of this study is to investigate in-hospital use of omega-3 oil and
      mechanical ventilator days, improvement in oxygenation, need for ventilator in non-ventilated
      patients, ICU- length of stay, hospital related length of stay, thrombosis, all-cause
      morbidity and mortality in COVID-19 patients in a in randomized prospective controlled trial.

      There is no study or evidence on Omega 3 and COVID-19 infection and respiratory failure. The
      investigators propose a randomized controlled study to minimize the risk of bias and
      confounding factors.
    
  