
    
      Worldwide, iron deficiency is the most common shortage in women of childbearing age and also
      the most common cause of anemia. The prevalence of iron deficiency in young not pregnant
      women is 10-30%. During pregnancy take Frequency and importance of iron deficiency. Through
      organic growth and development of fetoplacental Unit and by maternal tissue formation, uterus
      growth and strong Expansion of maternal blood volume increases the pregnant woman the iron
      requirement for a Multiple. Starting from a non-pregnant state in the daily requirement of
      about 1 mg increasing this to 4-5 mg. Even with optimum food selection and a secured Increase
      of intestinal absorption in pregnancy, there is a negative Iron balance. The consequences are
      a depletion of iron stores (Serum ferritin <15 mcg / L) and a qualitative and quantitative
      disturbance of maternal Erythropoiesis with increased hypochromic and microcytic erythrocytes
      up to the occurrence anemia. The increased iron requirement is the background to a general
      recommendation an iron prophylaxis during pregnancy. However, this is possible due
      Reinforcement of gastrointestinal symptoms usually only from the 12th week of pregnancy is
      recommended. All pregnant women receive from the 12th week of pregnancy a multivitamin
      supplementation for the most important trace elements and vitamins. According to the
      guidelines of the Department of Obstetrics of USZ should a pregnant woman after the 12th week
      of pregnancy at a marginal ferritin <50mcg / l prophylactically receive additional iron and
      so anemia can be prevented. The aim of the study is on the one hand today's conventional iron
      supplements Maltofer Fol and Gyno-Tardyferon to examine their effectiveness, in particular
      with regard to the difference between two- and trivalent iron. On the other hand are at the
      usual multivitamin supplements. Women with normal iron stores at the beginning with respect
      to their effectiveness in preventing a depletion of these stores will be examined. Another
      aspect to be examined the occurrence of manifest iron deficiency anemia among called iron
      prophylaxis.

      According to ferrtin value at first pregancy check, patients are enrolled after informed
      consent.

      ferritin >50 mcg/L means patient will be randomized in eiter iron sulfate or iron polymaltose
      group. Ferritin > 50 mcg/L means pt will reeive multivitamin - multimineral containing iron.
      At midpregancy ferritin value is routinely checked as well at entering delivery floor at
      term.
    
  