
    
      P-glycoprotein (P-gp) is an ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporter and is the major efflux
      pump in the blood-brain barrier. P-gp has several physiological roles such as limiting drug
      absorption, active drug elimination, and limits drug penetration into sensitive tissues
      (e.g., brain and testis) (Fromm, 2004). Reduced activity or expression of P-gp may contribute
      to neurodegenerative disorders such as Parkinson s and Alzheimer s disease. The reduced
      activity of P-gp (i.e., decreased neuroprotection at the blood brain barrier) may allow
      harmful pesticides access to the brain which can damage the brain s dopaminergic cell groups
      possibly leading to Parkinson s disease (Betarbet et al., 2000; Kortekaas et al., 2005). The
      increased deposition of beta-amyloid in Alzheimer s disease, may be due in part, to the
      decreased elimination of cerebral beta-amyloid in brain (Vogelgesang et al., 2002).
      Conversely, an overexpression of P-gp has been found in epilepsy and in several forms of
      multi drug resistant cancer tumors (Brandt et al., 2006; Szakacs et al., 2006). In vivo
      evaluation of P-gp function in the brain and throughout the body is important in disease
      states, and in therapeutic and diagnostic drug evaluation.

      P-gp function has been assessed in healthy volunteers with positron emission tomography (PET)
      using [11C]verapamil, nevertheless, accurate quantification of this PET radioligand is
      difficult due to the large contribution of radiometabolites and low signal (Ikoma et al.,
      2006; Lee et al., 2006; Lubberink et al., 2007). Therefore, we have recently developed
      [11C]dLop as an alternative radioligand for imaging P-gp function, which will allow a more
      accurate quantification of P-gp with a higher signal and less contribution of
      radiometabolites. In the current protocol, we wish to evaluate [11C]dLop in healthy
      volunteers to determine the kinetics of brain imaging of P-gp function. In order to simulate
      P-gp dysfunction in healthy volunteers we will administer the P-gp inhibitor tariquidar. We
      will perform brain PET scans using [11C]dLop before and after P-gp blockade in order to
      quantify P-gp function at the blood-brain barrier.
    
  