
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare the disease-free survival (DFS) of patients with completely resected early stage
           breast cancer receiving 1 of 2 different schedules of adjuvant chemotherapy comprising
           epirubicin, cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and fluorouracil versus 1 of 2 different
           schedules of adjuvant chemotherapy comprising epirubicin and capecitabine.

      Secondary

        -  Compare overall survival (OS) and distant disease-free survival (DFS).

        -  Compare the tolerability (including serious adverse events [SAE], dose-intensity, and
           toxicity) of these regimens.

        -  Determine the detailed toxicity of these regimens.

        -  Determine the quality of life of a subset of these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multi-center, randomized study. Patients are stratified according to
      participating center, nodal status (N0 vs N1-3 vs N≥ 4), age (≤ 50 years vs > 50 years), and
      estrogen receptor (ER) status (negative vs positive). Patients are randomized to 1 of 4
      treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive epirubicin on day 1. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 4
           courses. Patients then receive cyclophosphamide orally once daily on days 1-14 or IV on
           days 1 and 8 and methotrexate and fluorouracil on days 1 and 8. Treatment repeats every
           28 days for 4 courses.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive epirubicin on day 1 and pegfilgrastim on day 2. Treatment
           repeats every 2 weeks for 4 courses. Patients then receive cyclophosphamide,
           methotrexate and fluorouracil as in arm I.

        -  Arm III: Patients receive epirubicin as in arm I. Patients then receive oral
           capecitabine twice daily on days 1-14. Treatment with capecitabine repeats every 3 weeks
           for 4 courses.

        -  Arm IV: Patients receive epirubicin and pegfilgrastim as in arm II. Patients then
           receive capecitabine as in arm III.

      In all arms, treatment continues in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

      Beginning 3-6 months later, all patients may undergo radiotherapy at the discretion of the
      principal investigator. Patients with ER- and/or progesterone receptor-positive disease then
      receive tamoxifen citrate or an aromatase inhibitor for up to 5 years.

      Quality of life is assessed in a cohort of 1,000 patients in week 6, week 8 or 12, and week
      20 or 24 during treatment and then at 12 and 24 months after randomization.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed every 6 months for 2 years and then
      annually for at least 10 years.

      Peer Reviewed and Funded or Endorsed by Cancer Research UK.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 4,400 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  