
    
      Investigators will compare two strategies: (1) Engage PCPs with Clinical Decision Support at
      the point of care, raising active alerts through the Electronic Health Record (EHR) when
      there is risk of inappropriate opioid prescribing, thus leading to informed decision-making
      with the patient about alternative treatments; versus (2) Engage patients prior to their PCP
      visit using Patient Education and Activation Tools (PEATs) administered via REDCap, helping
      patients to prepare for their visit and encouraging discussion about treatment preferences,
      values and treatment goals at the time of the visit, thus leading to shared decision-making
      with the provider. Our CDS intervention will use "Choosing Wisely" and CDC guidelines, and
      our Patient Education and Activation Tool intervention will use widely disseminated material
      developed by Consumer Reports and the ACPA. Investigators will assess whether improved
      communication and patient activation through these strategies improve patient-reported
      outcomes related to pain interference and HRQOL. To assess these outcomes, investigators will
      use NIH Patient Reported Outcome Measurement Information System (PROMIS®) questionnaires to
      capture health domains identified by our patient partners as most important. Using PROs will
      also help capture whether the use of either of these strategies leads to unintended
      consequences for patients when opioids are reduced and other pain management strategies are
      not substituted.

      Recruitment procedures: The study team mails study materials including an introductory
      brochure, information sheet, and initial contact letter to eligible participants. Eligible
      participants are then called and asked if they would like to enroll in the study, at which
      point the study team obtains consent over the phone. Non-responders, eligible participants
      who the study team has not been able to reach by phone and for whom a voicemail was left, are
      automatically enrolled in an abbreviated arm of the study after two weeks of non-response.
      Those enrolled in both the full study PEATs group and abbreviated PEATs group will be sent
      the PEATs materials two days before an appointment with their primary care clinician.
      Participants may choose to opt out of any arm of the study.

      Data collection: Upon enrollment in the fully study, investigators will send patients an
      enrollment questionnaire, which includes questions on education, language proficiency, and
      health literacy. At this point, investigators will also send the two PROMIS questionnaires
      (pain interference and physical function) via REDCap. The study team has programmed the
      surveys to be sent via automatic email in REDCap. The email will contain a link where
      participants can access the questionnaire and redeem their Amazon gift card instantly. The
      total time to take this questionnaire is 2 minutes.

      All enrolled participants will receive monthly PROMIS questionnaires during the 12-month
      intervention period. Enrolled patients who have any follow-up visits during this intervention
      period in both full study arms will be sent the Communication Questionnaire (COMRADE) via
      REDCap one day after each office visit with their PCP.

      For participants enrolled in the abbreviated arm of the study, the study team will have
      access to medical records that will allow for a retrospective pull of relevant
      patient-reported outcome measures and PCP satisfaction data collected by the health system.
    
  