
    
      Pulse-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) was considered the reference standard to determine
      transmission events of extended-spectrum Beta-Lactamase (ESBL) producing E.coli . However,
      this technique lacks the resolution to differentiate closely related strains, which is needed
      to identify ESBL-transmission. Furthermore, PFGE is not able to distinguish mobile genetic
      elements. In contrast, whole genome sequencing (WGS) allows the identification of
      single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) that differentiate bacterial strains and mobile
      genetic elements, such as plasmids at the highest possible resolution, therefore enabling
      investigation of their relatedness by phylogenetic analyses and ultimately detailed
      exploration of transmission pathways. As WGS is now readily available and affordable, the
      investigators aim to reinvestigate transmission events in the 24 index-contact patient-pairs
      identified after cessation of contact precautions by reassessing the genetic relatedness of
      both strains and mobile genetic elements by sequencing all 48 recovered ESBL- E.coli strains.

      The investigators hypothesize that the number of transmission events as defined by
      transmission of ESBL-producing E. coli strains may have been overestimated by PFGE as
      compared to WGS, as PFGE lacks the resolution to differentiate closely related strains.
      However, transmission of mobile genetic elements may have been missed by PFGE as this
      technology is not able to identify the genetic relatedness of plasmids, genes and other
      mobile genetic elements. Thus WGS may reveal additional transmission events defined as the
      transmission of mobile genetic elements.

      Different sequencing approaches may yield different results in terms of detection of
      transmission events.

      The investigators hypothesize that short-read sequencing may suffice to reliably detect
      relatedness of strains but that additional long-read sequencing approaches are needed to
      detect transmission of mobile genetic elements.
    
  