
    
      Primary Objectives:

      To compare the pathological complete response (pCR=ypT0 ypN0) rates of neoadjuvant treatment
      of nab-paclitaxel with solvent-based paclitaxel as part of neoadjuvant treatment of operable
      or locally advanced primary breast cancer

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  To assess the pCR rates per arm separately for the stratified subpopulations.

        -  To determine the rates of ypT0/is ypN0; ypT0 ypN0/+; ypT0/is ypN0/+; ypT(any) ypN0; and
           regression grades.

        -  To determine the response rates of the breast tumor and axillary nodes based on physical
           examination and imaging tests (sonography, mammography, or MRI) after treatment in both
           arms.

        -  To assess clinical response rate after taxane in both groups

        -  To determine the breast conservation rate after each treatment.

        -  To assess the toxicity and compliance.

        -  To assess the time of onset of grade 3 neuropathy

        -  To assess the time of resolution of grade 3/4 neuropathy to at least grade 1

        -  To determine loco-regional invasive recurrence free survival (LRRFS),
           distant-disease-free survival (DDFS), invasive disease-free survival (IDFS), and overall
           survival (OS) in both arms and according to stratified subpopulations.

        -  To assess regional recurrence free survival (RRFS) in patients with initial
           node-positive axilla converted to negative at surgery and treated with sentinel node
           biopsy alone.

        -  To determine the pCR rate and local recurrence free survival (LRFS) in patients with a
           clinical complete response (cCR) and a negative core biopsy before surgery.

        -  To examine and compare pre-specified molecular markers such as SPARC, gp60, calveoline 1
           and other markers potentially differentially predicting efficacy of nab-paclitaxel and
           solvent-based paclitaxel on core biopsies before, during and after chemotherapy.

      Objectives of Substudies:

        -  To assess, characterize, and correlate circulating tumor cells and proteins with the
           effect of treatment (CTC Substudy).

        -  To correlate Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNPs) of genes with the associated
           toxicity and histologically assessed treatment effect (Pharmacogenetic substudy)

        -  To assess ovarian function measured by amenorrhea rate in correlation with changes in
           E2, FSH, LH , Anti-Müller Hormone, ultrasound-follicle count in patients aged < 45
           years.
    
  