
    
      The safety of a novel drug product containing a new chemical entity should be assessed in an
      extensive post marketing safety surveillance program. It is also prudent to assess both, the
      safety outcomes that relate specifically to the targeted population, as well as those that
      could potentially be related to the special pharmacological characteristics of the novel drug
      product. Differentiating between the inherent background population risk and a potential
      incremental risk due to treatment is often challenging. Active safety surveillance using
      valid epidemiological study designs has been proven to be a pertinent and reliable method to
      approach this endeavour.

      The primary objective of the study, the European Active Surveillance Study of Women taking
      HRT (EURAS-HRT), is to compare incidence rates of serious adverse events in users of all
      types of newly prescribed oral continuous combined HRT products. This active surveillance
      study will assess pertinent cardiovascular outcomes in new HRT users over a study period of
      up to 8.5 years. Also, all other serious adverse events will be reported.

      The new drug product under surveillance in the EURAS - HRT study contains the novel synthetic
      progestagen drospirenone (DRSP) combined with estradiol.

      As estrogen/progestagen combinations increase the risk for thromboembolism, all new drug
      products that contain a novel estrogen or progestagen should be investigated for their
      influence on venous and arterial thromboembolic events rates. A large, prospective,
      controlled cohort study of OC users (EURAS OC study), which compared DRSP-containing OC users
      with other OC users, demonstrated that DRSP is not associated with an increased incidence for
      any of the above-mentioned adverse events in OC users. However, because OC users are two to
      three decades younger than the typical HRT user the results of the OC study can only
      partially be extrapolated to older age groups.

      The participating women will complete a baseline survey using a self-administered
      questionnaire to describe the baseline risk. After 6 months, 12 months, and then on an annual
      basis, they will fill out a questionnaire in which they record complaints and events during
      the use of the prescribed HRTs. All adverse outcomes (including cancer) occurring during the
      observational period will be evaluated additionally. Reported serious adverse events will be
      validated and analyzed. As study participants may switch from oral continuous combined
      products to other oral or non-oral HRT products the outcomes for these preparation are
      recorded too. However, these results represent not the scientific focus of the study.

      Based on experience obtained in previous HRT studies, complex sources of bias and confounding
      are expected. Multivariate methods will therefore be used to adjust for confounding.
    
  