
    
      Hypertension is a major risk factor for cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. The ultimate
      goal of hypertension treatment is to lower blood pressure (BP) and thereby reduce
      cardiovascular risk. Despite the risks of hypertension and availability of effective
      treatment, a substantial number of patients have uncontrolled BP. Systematic reviews have
      shown that Home Blood Pressure Monitoring (HBPM) produces modest improvements in BP control
      and that HBPM yields greater benefits when combined with other interventions such as remote
      titration change or adherence-enhancing strategies.

      The effectiveness of HBPM is tempered because many patients with access to home BP monitors
      fail to regularly measure their BP or respond appropriately to high readings. New technology
      has made tele-monitoring of patient health feasible and has allowed for measurement and
      transmission of patient BP and other patient information from the home to a health care
      provider. An additional strategy to further improve the compliance of the patients with their
      hypertension management plan is to provide them with a clearer short term benefit, rewarding
      compliance. For example, those who achieve BP within the target range could receive a
      financial incentive.

      The investigators' strategy to improve the effectiveness of HBPM to reduce BP is to use the
      full potential of wireless and mobile technology to create automatic feedback loops between
      the patient and the health care provider. The investigators propose a 6-month randomized
      controlled trial with 224 hypertensive patients with uncontrolled BP from the SingHealth
      Polyclinics in Bedok and Marine Parade, Singapore. The proposed trial will be a parallel
      study with one control arm and two intervention arms in ratio of 2:3:3 with the objective of
      measuring the incremental effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of an intervention with
      Wireless HBPM System, with and without financial incentives, compared to non-wireless HBPM
      alone.

      Specifically, the investigators have the following primary aims and hypotheses:

      A1: Determine whether a Wireless HBPM System with and without financial incentives is
      effective at reducing systolic blood pressure (SBP) compared to a non-wireless HBPM that
      relies on patient self-reporting and best practices (Usual Care, UC).

      H1a: The average reduction in SBP at 6 months will be greater for the patients in the
      intervention arms (Wireless HBPM System with and without Incentives) compared to UC patients.

      H1b: The average reduction in SBP at 6 months will be greater for the patients in the
      Wireless HBPM System with incentives arm compared to those in the Wireless HBPM System
      without incentives arm.

      As well as the following secondary aims and hypotheses:

      A2: Determine whether a Wireless HBPM System with and without financial incentives is
      effective at reducing diastolic blood pressure (DBP) compared to a non-wireless HBPM that
      relies on patient self-reporting and best practices (Usual Care, UC).

      H2a: The average reduction in DBP at 6 months will be greater for the patients in the
      intervention arms (Wireless HBPM System with and without incentives) compared to UC patients.

      H2b: The average reduction in DBP at 6 months will be greater for the patients in the
      Wireless HBPM System with incentives arm compared to those in the Wireless HBPM System
      without incentives arm.

      A3: Quantify the incremental cost-effectiveness of Wireless HBPM System without incentives
      compared with UC, and of Wireless HBPM System with incentives compared to Wireless HBPM
      without Incentives.

      H3a: The Incremental Cost-Effectiveness Ratio (ICER) of Wireless HBPM System without
      incentives compared to UC will be favorable relative to international benchmarks for
      cost-effectiveness analysis.

      H3b: The ICER of Wireless HBPM System with incentives compared to Wireless HBPM System
      without incentives will be favorable relative to other published RCTs with primary aim of
      reducing SBP.

      A4: Determine whether a Wireless HBPM System with and without financial incentives is
      effective at decreasing patient non-adherence to BP self-monitoring and hypertensive
      medicines compared to a non-wireless HBPM that relies on patient self-reporting and best
      practices (Usual Care, UC).

      H4a, H4b: The average number of missing BP measurements (H4a) and percentage of medication
      doses not taken (H4b) during the last month of the study will be smaller for the patients in
      the intervention arms (Wireless HBPM System with and without incentives) compared to UC
      patients.

      H4c, H4d: The average number of missing BP measurements (H4c) and percentage of medication
      doses not taken (H4d) during the last month of the study will be smaller for the patients in
      the Wireless HBPM System with incentives arm compared to those in the Wireless HBPM System
      without incentives arm.

      A5: Determine whether financial incentives framed as health capital is effective at
      decreasing patient non-adherence to BP self-monitoring compared to financial incentives
      framed as a reward.

      H5: The average number of missing BP measurements over the intervention period will be
      smaller for the patients in the Health Capital sub-arm compared to those in the Instant
      Reward sub-arm.
    
  