
    
      Spinal anesthesia has many advantages such as reducing the metabolic stress response to
      surgery, reduction in blood loss, decrease in the incidence of venous thromboembolism,
      reduction in pulmonary compromise (particularly in patients with advanced pulmonary
      disease),return of bowel function rapidly, allow hospital discharge early and the ability to
      monitor the patient's mental status, but the limited duration of action is one of its
      disadvantages. Intrathecal α2-agonists prolong the duration of action of local anesthetics
      and reduce the total required dose.(1, 2) Dexmedetomidine is a centrally acting highly
      specific α2 -agonist and its α2/α1 selectivity are 8 times higher than that of clonidine.(3)
      It is commonly used as a sedative, preemptive analgesic,(4) to decrease the incidence of
      postoperative nausea, vomiting (PONV)(5) and to maintain stable hemodynamics(6). It also has
      been used as an additive to local anesthetics in peripheral nerve blocks, brachial plexus
      block7, subarachnoid anesthesia and caudal anesthesia (8).

      Local anesthetics have been widely used in medical practice to produce anesthesia, analgesia
      and for pain management. Nowadays, minor surgical operations have been done under local
      anesthesia outside the operating theaters, in this area monitoring and resuscitation
      facilities of the case are suboptimal compared to operating rooms. The complications of local
      anesthesia are different from localized reactions such as urticaria, edema, and dermatitis to
      systemic absorption leading to severe cardiovascular collapse and neurological toxicity. The
      incidence of local anesthetics to produce systemic toxicity decreased in the past 30 years,
      from 0.2 to 0.01 %.( 9) Recently, patient safety changes a clinician's perspective on
      understanding the pharmacology of drug interactions and complications of local anesthetics.
      The safety of local anesthetic usage has improved owing to the introduction of newer agents
      (eg; Ropivacaine and Levobupivacaine). (10) Levobupivacaine is a long-acting local anesthetic
      similar to that of Bupivacaine in a pharmacological structure. Bupivacaine, a widely used
      local anesthetic in regional anesthesia presents in a commercial preparation as a racemic
      mixture (50:50) of its two enantiomers, Levobupivacaine, S (-) isomer and destroy-
      bupivacaine, R (+) isomer.

      Levobupivacaine has been shown to have a safer pharmacological profile (11) with less cardiac
      and neurotoxic adverse effects. (12) Small doses of dexmedetomidine 5µg used in combination
      with Levobupivacaine, in humans for spinal anesthesia has been shown to produce a more rapid
      onset of motor block, and a longer duration of motor and sensory block with preserved
      hemodynamic stability and lack of sedation2.
    
  