
    
      RELIANCE is a U.S.-based pragmatic clinical trial funded by the Patient-Centered Outcomes
      Research Institute (PCORI) to compare long-term use of roflumilast vs. azithromycin in up to
      3,200 patients. It is intended to support hospital efforts to reduce the risk of all-cause
      hospitalization and reduce pre-mature deaths in individuals with chronic obstructive
      pulmonary disease (COPD) who have been hospitalized in the prior year for a COPD
      exacerbation. The COPD Patient Powered Research Network (PPRN) and affiliated investigators
      will conduct the trial in sites in the U.S.

      Both roflumilast and azithromycin have been shown to reduce the risk of COPD exacerbations
      compared to placebo. However, there has not been a head-to-head comparison of the two
      medications. So, the relative harms and benefits of the two medications are unknown. Eligible
      patients will be randomized (1:1) to receive either a prescription for roflumilast or a
      prescription for azithromycin, and will be followed for at least 6 and up to 36 months. The
      primary endpoint is the combined outcome of all-cause hospitalization or death; the secondary
      endpoints include premature treatment discontinuation, patient-reported adverse effects, and
      physical, social, and emotional health. Patients will be enrolled at participating clinical
      sites and follow up data will be collected via an online patient portal or via a call center.
      Baseline and outcome data will also be collected from site medical records and
      administrative/claims databases.

      Pragmatic, non-inferiority trial using an intention-to-treat analysis to evaluate whether
      daily azithromycin is non-inferior to daily roflumilast in patients at high risk of COPD
      exacerbations. The investigators will randomize individual patients to receive prescriptions
      for roflumilast or azithromycin (1:1 ratio), stratified by site and current smoking status
      (yes/no).
    
  