
    
      Pre- or perimenopausal women are treated with tamoxifen, alternatively with an LHRH analogue
      in combination with an aromatase inhibitor (only women). Postmenopausal women receive an
      aromatase inhibitor.This treatment is given for 4 weeks. In cases with uncertain menopausal
      status (previous hysterectomy and equivocal gonadotropins), postmenopause age limit is
      defined as 55 years or older.

      Ki67 is determined by FNA or core biopsy before start and after 2 weeks of treatment. After
      the initial 4-week period, patients with signs of response in terms of decrease of Ki67 by
      ≥20% are randomized to endocrine treatment either alone or in combination with the cdk 4/6
      inhibitor palbociclib (arm A and B). Patients with tumors with stable disease, defined as
      <20% decrease or increase of Ki67 and without radiological indication of tumor progression at
      the 4-week evaluation are offered continuous endocrine treatment with the addition of
      palbociclib (arm C).

      Dose regimen after 4 weeks of endocrine pretreatment:

      Arm A: Pre- or perimenopausal women are treated with tamoxifen, alternatively with an LHRH
      analogue in combination with an aromatase inhibitor (only women). Postmenopausal women
      receive an aromatase inhibitor. The preoperative treatment is continued for further 12 weeks,
      provided that re-evaluation after 6 and 10 weeks of the preoperative treatment does not
      indicate progression. Upon progression (PD), individualized management, preferentially
      surgery, is the primary option.

      Arm B: Patients receive the same endocrine treatment as in arm A together with palbociclib
      125 mg orally days 1-21, followed by a 7-days rest period. The combined treatment is
      continued for further 12 weeks, if re-evaluation after 6 weeks, week 10 of the preoperative
      treatment, does not indicate progression. Upon progression (PD), individualized management,
      preferentially surgery, is the primary option.

      Arm C: Treatment according to the schedule as described for arm B.

      Postoperative chemotherapy is recommended to patients with either residual lymph node
      metastases >2mm (macro metastases) or primary tumor size >30mm in combination with Ki67>15%.
      Adjuvant endocrine treatment and radiotherapy is offered according to standard guidelines.
      Structured follow-up visits yearly for five years include reporting of persistent
      treatment-related toxicity, HRQoL, recurrence and death.

      All patients are recommended adjuvant endocrine treatment for at least 5 years.

      The trial contains also a translational subprotocol:

        1. PET-CT using FDG, confined to the chest, is performed before start of the first
           treatment period and after 10 weeks, i.e. 6 weeks after treatment allocation (functional
           imaging, optional).

        2. Core biopsies from the tumor are collected before start of the first treatment period
           and after 10 weeks, i.e. 6 weeks after treatment allocation. Further tissue samples are
           collected from the surgical specimen.

        3. Blood samples are collected repeatedly during the ongoing treatment and yearly
           follow-up.

        4. FNAs from metastases in case of recurrence during follow-up.
    
  