
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the effects of hepatic enzyme-inducing drugs, such as anticonvulsants, on the
           pharmacokinetics of celecoxib in patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme
           undergoing radiotherapy.

        -  Determine the effects of steroids on the pharmacokinetics of celecoxib in these
           patients.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the safety of celecoxib in these patients.

        -  Determine the duration of survival of patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 groups based on anticonvulsant therapy.

        -  Group A: Patients treated with any of the following anticonvulsant drugs that induce
           hepatic metabolic enzymes:

             -  Phenytoin

             -  Carbamazepine

             -  Phenobarbital

             -  Primidone

             -  Oxcarbazepine

        -  Group B: Patients treated with any of the following anticonvulsant drugs that cause
           modest or no induction of hepatic metabolic enzymes OR no anticonvulsant drug:

             -  Gabapentin

             -  Lamotrigine

             -  Valproic acid

             -  Levetiracetam

             -  Tiagabine

             -  Topiramate

             -  Zonisamide

             -  Felbamate

        -  Induction therapy: Patients in both groups receive oral celecoxib twice* daily on weeks
           1-11 and undergo radiotherapy 5 days a week on weeks 2-7.

        -  Maintenance therapy: Patients receive oral celecoxib twice daily. Courses repeat every 4
           weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      NOTE: *Patients receive only 1 dose on the first day of celecoxib administration.

      Patients are followed every 2 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 44 patients (22 per group) will be accrued for this study
      within approximately 8 months.
    
  