
    
      Background

      Drug misusers present to addiction services a wide range of problems with the most serious
      consequence of drug overdose being the threat to life. Accurately predicting the risk of
      suffering a drug overdose therefore plays a crucial role in effective prevention of drug
      overdose. So far, most effect have been focused on investigating predictive variables that
      are related to drug misusers' subjective perceptions of coping abilities and measures of life
      experience or treatment history. However, very little attention has been directed to the
      factors that are associated with the aspects of the addiction consultation process, where
      clinicians have a greater degree of control over patient interaction.

      Some initial empirical evidences suggest that clinicians' and patients' facial expressions
      were predictive of suicidal reattempt. It was found that doctors showed a higher frequency
      and intensity in frowning working with suicide repeaters than with non-repeaters. In
      addition, repeater patients were found to have a higher activity of the mouth and to look
      downwards significantly more often. This line of study has laid some foundation for a new way
      of prediction through observation of clinician-patient interactions. We are therefore
      interested in exploring some non-verbal behaviours of both clinicians and patients during the
      consultation process that are potentially predictive of a patient's risk of suffering a drug
      overdose.

      Regarding how verbal communicative behaviours during the consultation process might influence
      patient care outcomes, findings from other healthcare communication areas have consistently
      demonstrated that patient-centred communication is positively correlated with improved
      patient health outcomes. One key feature of a patient-centred consulting style is clinicians'
      ability to verbally recognize and address individual patients' emotional distress. To our
      knowledge, it is the first time to investigate how clinicians manage patients' emotional
      distress affects patient care outcomes in a drug service setting.

      No validated coding schemes so far have been developed to explore the relationship between
      aspects of interaction and drug service outcomes. In other areas of healthcare communication,
      the Verona Coding Definitions of Emotional Sequences (VR-CoDES) has been frequently used to
      code patient expressions of emotional distress and provider responses. Although it has been
      widely used in a variety of contexts from psychiatric contexts to dental settings, it has not
      yet been used in consultations involving drug users. We are therefore interested to test the
      applicability of the system in a drug service setting after a suitable modification. Drug
      addiction consultation is usually an emotion-provoking environment and accurate perception of
      patient emotions has become a precondition for empathic responses. The modification of a
      validated coding scheme to be suitable for the drug service context will be the first useful
      tool to help clinicians to recognize patients' emotional concerns and thereby improving the
      quality of patient care.

      With the modified version of the VR-CoDES as an analysis tool, we aim to identify factors
      that are associated with aspects of the consultation process, particularly the verbal and
      non-verbal behaviours of both clinicians and patients, to improve our understanding of drug
      misusers' risk of suffering a drug overdose. The main research questions are summarized
      below.

      Research questions

        -  What communicative behaviours observed in the interaction between clinicians and drug
           user patients are predictive of patent's risk of suffering a drug overdose? In other
           words, we are interested in exploring what verbal and non-verbal behaviours of both
           clinicians and patients during the consultation process predict a patient's risk of
           suffering a drug overdose.

        -  We are also interested in exploring how clinicians respond to patients' expressions of
           emotional distress during the consultation process and how successful management of
           emotional worries might be related to improved patient satisfaction. Furthermore, we are
           keen to investigate whether the Verona Coding Definitions of Emotional Sequence
           (VR-CoDES) can be reliably applied to the drug consultation context after suitably
           modified. In other words, whether patients' expressions of emotional cues and concerns
           and clinicians' responses to them can be identified and reliably coded using the
           modified VR-CoDES.

      Research design

      It will be a one year, pilot observational study with video recording of clinician-patient
      consultation within a single site of NHS Fife Addiction Services, based in the Whyteman's
      Brae Hospital in Kirkcaldy. In the future, more sites may be considered to achieve a larger
      sample size when this pilot study is complete on NHS Fife single site, largely due to the
      time constraint.

      The Overdose Risk Assessment Questionnaire (ORA) and the Treatment Outcomes Profile
      Questionnaire (TOP) are two questionnaires that have already been routinely used by the
      Addiction Nurses within the NHS Fife Addition Services. We hope to exert a minimum extra
      workload to the staff participants and will respect their normal implementation procedure of
      the questionnaires. Two pieces of information obtained from the ORA questionnaire will be
      included in the analysis. First, the overall risk assessment score on the first assessment
      with a key worker before the video observation will be used to compare with the behavioural
      factors emerged from the interactions for predicting patient drug overdose risk. For example,
      high risk assessment scores might be correlated with a high frequency of patient 'looking
      down' non-verbal behaviour. Second, some relevant information, such as depression and
      emotional abuse, will be used as predictors for patient expressions of emotional distress
      during consultation. Therefore some regression and correlational analysis will be conducted.

      Similarly, only two pieces of information selected from the TOP questionnaire will be
      included for analysis for this study. First, the number of days patients injected
      non-prescribed drugs in the past four weeks obtained one months after the video recorded
      session. This information will be used as an indicator of a patient risk of suffering a drug
      overdose, as the primary outcome of the study. Frequency and duration of some behavioural
      data gathered from the consultation interaction (e.g., clinician's 'frowning', patient's
      'looking down') will be correlated with this outcome variable (i.e., the number of days
      patients inject drugs). Second, patient's rating of overall quality of life obtained from the
      TOP questionnaire will be used to measure patient satisfaction as the secondary outcome of
      the study. Patient satisfaction will be also measured by a specifically developed
      questionnaire immediately after consultation. Again, some multiple regression analysis will
      be employed to explore relationship between predictor and outcome variables.

      Methods

      • Main ethical issues The main ethical issues involved in this study relate to the recording
      and storage of the images of clinicians and drug user patients and anonymity and
      confidentiality of participants' information. We have taken every possible steps to address
      these ethical issues and included some additional safeguard actions to deal with unexpected
      incidents. First, initial raw data recorded on DVDs will be locked in a metal case for
      temporary storage in the field and they will be secured in a locked cabinet in the University
      of St Andrews once transportation from the field to the University is complete. Second, each
      of the raw DVD files (i.e., each patient consultation) will be assigned a unique code and
      then be digitalized and stored on a university computer internal hard disc for coding and
      analysis. Third, these digitalized files will then be permanently removed from the computer
      once the coding and analysis is complete. They will be exported, after face images being
      digitally blurred, onto an external hard drive that will have all data encrypted and access
      to data files password protected. These encrypted data will be stored for two years following
      the end of the study and the original raw data on DVDs will be permanently destroyed at the
      end of the project. An audit record will be compiled to allow inspection of the progress of
      video data files from video DVD to computer hard disc for coding and then exporting to
      external media for safe long-term storage. Audit will be monitored by the School Ethics
      Committee on a 6-month basis.

      It is important to note that the faces of participants on the video data will be permanently
      digitally obscured after the coding has been completed. We will only display video files to a
      wider audience (e.g., at conferences) after face images have been blurred and informed
      consent from the relevant participants have been obtained.

      In order to protect anonymity of personal details and confidentiality of information provided
      by participants, we will assign a unique code to each participant so that participants will
      not be identified on the data files. This coding book will be locked in a secure place and
      only the research team members will have access.

      • Participants Sampling framework: In order to answer the research question of how aspects of
      clinician-patient interaction during addiction consultation predict drug misusers' risk of
      suffering a drug overdose, it seems that the population of interest is all clinicians and
      patients providing and using the addiction services in the UK. In practice, the ideal random
      sample or a proportionate stratified sample drawn from the population is often not feasible
      due to limited resource or time constraints. The sampling procedures adopted for the current
      study is a mix of opportunity and purposive sampling. Opportunities presented themselves in
      the form of patients being referred to the NHS Fife Addiction Services and all eligible staff
      members and patients based in the Whyteman's Brae service site will be invited to take part.
      Sampling is also purposive in that only the first session with a CDAS Addiction Nurse, where
      the patient is naive to the Addiction Nurse with regard to interaction experience, will be
      used to study the interaction. It is also considered important that sample patient
      participants should include approximately equal proportions of men and women; and the age
      profile should have representation from young and middle aged groups. Additionally, it is
      also important to consider some demographic information such as age, sex and working
      experience when sampling staff participants.

      Inclusion and exclusion criteria: All CDAS Addiction Nurses, who provide a one-to-one
      consultation service to patients, based in the Whyteman's Brae Hospital as part of the NHS
      Fife Addiction Services will be eligible. All patients referred to the NHS Fife Addiction
      Services by a Fife wide triage contact point or their GPs, who are to have a first session
      with their CDAS Addiction Nurses, will be eligible. Patient with mental health problems as
      well as those whose first language are not English will be excluded.

      Recruitment procedures: Staff participants are recruited through a combination of top-down
      and bottom-up approach. Meetings with head of the service and team leaders (top-down
      approach) and discussions with staff members (bottom-up approach) will take place
      simultaneously, to introduce the project and encourage participation. At the staff team
      meeting, information about the project and consent form with an opt-in reply slip will be
      left with them after the meeting so that they have time (about 3-4 days) to decide whether
      they are willing to participate. The consent forms will be returned to the research assistant
      in a prepaid and addressed envelope. We need a minimum number of 16 staff participants
      preferably with four male and four female between 25-65 years old. Newly qualified stff
      members are encouraged to participate as well as those more experiences ones.

      Obtaining patient consent will be achieved mainly through the help of the addiction services.
      An invitation package is delivered to all potential patient participants from the Addiction
      Services on behalf of the research team. As we need a minimum number of 16 consultation
      sessions (eight clinicians with two patients per clinician), the patient participants will
      preferably be eight women (four between 18-40 years old and four between 41-65 years old) and
      eight man (four between 18-40 years old and four between 41-65 years old). The invitation
      package will include an invitation letter, a project information sheet and a consent form.
      Patients will be also given 3-4 days before they decide to participate. The consent forms
      will be returned to the research assistant in a prepaid and addressed envelope.

      • Procedures of data collection Observations of clinician-patient interactions during the
      addiction consultation will take place at the consultation room at the Whyteman's Brae
      Hospital in Kirkcaldy in the form of audio-visual recording. The whole process of recording
      will take about 30 minutes depending on the complexity of individual cases. It is not
      expected that the presence of the camera and researchers will have any detrimental effect on
      the clinicians' delivery of the service, nor will this likely to upset the patients. We will
      use a small sized digital camera and place it in a good distance (approximately 2m from the
      clinician and the patient). The operation of the recording system will be well practised and
      the setup will be completed in good time to minimize any possible disturbance to the
      participants. The recording and storage of video files will strictly follow the ethical
      procedures described in the main ethical issues in this application form, such as digitally
      obscure the face images of relevant participants and secure data files in a locked cabinet.

      According to the research design (to collect a minimum of 16 consultation sessions with about
      eight staff participants with two patients per staff member) and the availability of the
      Addiction Nurses at the Whyteman's Brae Hospital, which is about 10 up to the date of this
      proposal, we expect that each Addiction Nurse will participate in an average number of
      approximately two video recording sessions, which will last about 60 minutes in total. This
      average 60-minute total observation time for each Addiction Nurse could spread out in 5 or 6
      days depending on the appointment with his/her patients. The total participation time for
      each patient participant in the video recording session is about 30 minutes depending on the
      complexity of the case. If either the clinician or the patient feels unhappy with the
      recording at any point of the observation, the recording will be stopped immediately and any
      recorded data will be destroyed.

      The Overdose Risk Assessment Questionnaire and the Treatment Outcomes Profile Questionnaire
      will be implemented as part of the routine practice by the Addiction Nurses. The Patient
      Satisfaction Survey, specially developed for this study, is handed to the patient by the
      research assistant before the video observation. It can be completed within 5 minutes at the
      end of the consultation. Patients are advised to complete the survey with the absence of
      their clinicians and return it to the letter box placed at the Reception. This is to avoid
      possible pressure to provide positive comments in front their clinicians and protect
      confidentiality of the information. There will be no follow-up questions after this initial
      survey has been completed.

      • Data analysis All video data will be analysed using the Observer XT system. First, all
      verbal and non-verbal behaviours of both clinicians and patients will be coded using the
      modified VR-CoDES coding scheme. Both inter- and intra-coder reliabilities will be checked to
      a satisfactory level (i.e., Kappa ≥ .70). Second, frequency or duration of certain behaviours
      will be calculated to identify possible relationships between certain behaviours and outcome
      variables (i.e., risk of suffering a drug overdose and/or patient satisfaction). Third,
      sequential analyses will be employed to detect patterns of behaviours and identify more
      complex behavioural relationships. In addition, some coded behaviours will be exported to
      other statistical packages for further analyses such as SPSS. Data gathered from the survey
      method, such as patient satisfaction with the consultation and patent previous depression
      will be used as either outcome or predictor variables to be correlated with behavioural
      variables from the interactions.
    
  