
    
      Short-term effects of barefoot and simulated barefoot running have been widely discussed in
      recent years. Consequences of adopting barefoot running for a long period, e.g. as training
      strategy, still remain unknown. The present study evaluated the influence of 16 weeks of
      progressive barefoot running training on impact force and muscle activation in habitual shod
      runners. Habitual shod runners were tested barefoot (BF) and shod (SH), before and after 16
      weeks of progressive barefoot running training. During the 16 weeks of training, participants
      kept their normal running training routine (wearing shoes), while they were introduced
      progressively to BF condition. Three training sessions were performed per week. Barefoot
      training started with 5% and ended with 20% of their weekly training volume (WTV) being
      performed without shoes. Soft surfaces (i.e. sand and grass) were adopted in the beginning of
      training (week 1 to 8). From week 9 to 16, participants mixed soft with harder surfaces, as
      treadmill and asphalt, to accomplish the training. Training sessions were prepared by
      professionals, researches and participants together. All training sessions were supervised by
      the researchers. Tests consisted of running on instrumented treadmill at 9 km/h, for 10
      minutes in each experimental condition. Each session test started with participants
      performing a maximum voluntary isometric contraction (MVIC) test for each muscle of interest.
      The MVIC protocol consisted of 4 movement trials for each muscle: 2 submaximal trials of 10
      seconds; 1 maximal trial of 5 seconds; and 1 maximal trial of 10 seconds. Then, a 5-minute
      period of warm-up at self-selected speed was performed on a treadmill. After that,
      participants ran (at 9km/h) during 10 minutes on an instrumented treadmill in both barefoot
      and shod conditions. Participants had a 2-minute interval between each trial while
      experimental condition was changed. The VGRF of both legs and EMG signal of tibialis anterior
      (TA), gastrocnemius lateralis (GL), long head of biceps femoris (BCF), rectus femoris (RF)
      and vastus lateralis (VL) of the right leg of each volunteer were obtained. These muscles
      were chosen due to their importance and contribution to running. For shod trial, runners wore
      their own habitual running shoes. All shoes were in good conditions of use and had similar
      characteristics of construction.
    
  