
    
      State of the art Physical exercise, though absolutely beneficial for human well-being, is a
      well-known trigger to induce bronchoconstriction. Aretaeus of Cappadocia described the first
      cases of asthma triggered by exercise, already in the second century AD. Exercise can provoke
      bronchoconstriction in subjects with pre-existing asthma but can also induce
      bronchoconstriction in otherwise healthy subjects. The latter phenomenon is called
      exercise-induced bronchoconstriction (EIB). EIB is frequent in the general population and
      might affect between 5 and 10% of them, although population based reports are scarce. EIB is
      most prevalent in individuals performing endurance sport disciplines, such as long distance
      running, duathlon and triathlon, cycling and cross-country skiing. Due to frequent intense
      physical training, its incidence is higher in elite athletes compared to non-elite athletes.
      Its prevalence in elite athletes within these endurance sport disciplines is estimated to be
      up to 13%. The percentage in aquatic endurance sports was surprisingly even higher and
      reached 20% in the Olympic games of 2008. Besides intense physical training, environmental
      factors such as chlorine or cold air exposure are therefore also linked to the appearance of
      EIB.

      The mechanism of exercise-induced bronchoconstriction is not fully clear: airway cooling
      resulting from conditioning of inspired air and post-exercise rewarming of airways have been
      proposed as "thermal" mechanism. However, airway dehydration as a result of increased
      ventilation, resulting in "augmented osmolarity" of the airway-lining fluid, seems to be a
      major cause. This augmented osmolarity is thought to trigger the release of mediators, such
      as histamine, cysteinyl leukotrienes and prostaglandins, from airway inflammatory cells,
      which leads to airway smooth-muscle contraction and airway edema. Last but not least, recent
      evidence, including data from the investigator' s laboratory, points to "epithelial damage"
      due to the high ventilation rate, with subsequent release of epithelial cell mediators, as
      underlying mechanism. This damage, which can be more pronounced if additional triggers are
      present, might lead to uncontrolled airway inflammation, can exacerbate the process and
      increase exercise-induced bronchoconstriction, potentially leading to persistent asthma. It
      is suggested that airway inflammation differ between subjects/athletes with pre-existing
      asthma (in whom airway eosinophils and Th2 inflammation are present) and those with EIB that
      developed during their career (in whom neutrophils and Th17 inflammation are present). If
      symptoms develop during their career, a causal relationship between the intense exercise and
      EIB can easily be suspected. In order to determine the exact moment of EIB development during
      their career, longitudinal studies, starting before EIB is present, are needed. Indeed, most
      adolescent elite athletes start their intense training protocols long before they start to
      perform at the highest international level.

      If diagnosing EIB in adult elite athletes is difficult, its diagnosis in elite high-school
      athletes is a terrible challenge. Indeed, different diagnostic tests have been suggested by
      the International Olympic Committee-Medical Commission (IOC-MC) to identify EIB in adult
      elite athletes. If upon symptoms, classical diagnosis of asthma (e.g. by performing
      reversibility test after Salbutamol® inhalation) is excluded, airway hyperresponsiveness
      should be documented with the use of bronchoprovocation testing. These tests include direct
      challenges (e.g., with inhaled methacholine), which act on airway smooth muscle to cause
      bronchoconstriction, and indirect challenges, such as Eucapnic Voluntary Hyperpnea (EVH)
      particularly recommended for athletes, hyperosmolar tests with saline or mannitol, and
      laboratory or field exercise tests. However, athletes may have a positive response (with a
      drop in Forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1) above the cited cut-off) to only one of
      these types of tests. Therefore, more than one type of test may be needed, and ideally the
      testing should be performed during a period of intense training.

      The investigators recently adapted the EVH test, gold standard diagnostic test recommended by
      IOC-MC to diagnose EIB in elite athletes for its use in teenagers. Instead of the maximal
      voluntary ventilation (MVV) of 85% during 6 minutes, usually requested in adult subjects
      (which is 30XFEV1, but would mean an unrealistic performance of 100% of MVV in adolescents),
      a ventilatory target of 70% which corresponds to 21 x FEV1 in young athletes is feasible for
      the majority of athletes (see table 1). Therefore the test aims at a ventilation target of
      70% during 6 minutes. Moreover, to exclude exhaustion as a cause of artificial FEV1 drop, the
      change in Tiffeneau index (TI=FEV1/FVC) was also calculated. Only if TI at the time of
      maximal fall minus TI at baseline was below zero, the fall in FEV1 is thought to reflect true
      airway obstruction.

      With those small adaptations, the test can be performed in almost all high-school elite
      athletes aged 12-14 years. Surprisingly, 23% percent of basketball players (3/13), 21% of
      football players (4/19) and up to 54% of swimmers (6/11) aged 12-14 years, had a positive EVH
      test at enrollment to an elite sport program compared to 13% of control subjects. During the
      longitudinal observation (registered at clinicaltrials.gov (NCT02432183) unpublished
      results), two out of four football players with a positive EVH test, terminated their
      high-school elite program early. Although sport technical reasons might also be the limiting
      factor to continue the program, their EIB can also explain impaired performance that can
      ensue if preventive measures are not taken. It is however not yet clear which medical
      treatment ideally should be used in those elite athletes. Nevertheless, several treatment
      opportunities exist, which might at least enable them to perform their sports in optimal
      conditions.

      Performing EVH tests as a screening test yearly in all high-school athletes is
      labor-extensive and at high cost. The investigators therefore studied whether questionnaires
      might help to indicate young (12-14 years) athletes at risk to have a positive EVH test. They
      were able to test the validated AQUA (Allergy Questionnaire for Athletes) Questionnaire for
      adults and adolescents, in a young elite athletes cohort. By performing skin prick tests in
      those subjects to search for allergy, if the AQUA score was ≥ 5, the test predicted atopy
      with a specificity of 78% and a sensitivity of 62.5%

      % Of MVV Adults Adolescents (12-14 y) 100% 35 × FEV1 30 × FEV1 85% 30 × FEV1 70% 21 × FEV1
      60% 21 × FEV1

      Table 1 Comparison of maximal ventilatory capacity between adults and adolescents

      The investigators found that atopic individuals in the cohort had increased risk to test
      positive for EIB (Fisher exact test p=0.04). However, due to the high number of subjects with
      a positive EIB test but negative AQUA questionnaire, the AQUA questionnaire by itself can't
      be used to predict EIB (p=0.4). However, one out of five questions added by our group to this
      questionnaire ("Do you suffer from wheeze during exercise?") by itself predicted EIB with 93%
      specificity and 24% sensitivity. Adding a second question to this ("Has a doctor ever
      diagnosed you with an allergic condition?") increased the specificity to predict a positive
      EIB test to 99% but lowered sensitivity to 15% only (manuscript in preparation).

      Question 1 Do you suffer from wheeze during exercise ? Question 2 Do you experience shortness
      of breath during exercise? Question 3 Has a doctor ever diagnosed you with an allergic
      condition? Question 4 Do you frequently suffer from upper respiratory tract infections or
      fever? Question 5 Is anyone in your family allergic?

      Table 2. Questions added to AQUA questionnaire in screening protocol of 12-14y high-school
      elite athletes

      These findings formed basis for the current idea about how to screen for EIB in young elite
      athletes A/ If the young athlete answers positive to question 1, "Do you suffer from wheeze
      during exercise ?", A.1 asthma has to be excluded (by Salbutamol reversibility test) A.2 EIB
      can be searched for by EVH test. B/ If the child has a positive AQUA score (>5), B.1. atopy
      might be present and can be searched for by CAPtest and/or SPT. B.1.a If atopy tests are
      positive, EIB can be tested by EVH test. B.1.b If atopy tests are negative, a watch-full
      waiting strategy can be chosen

      Those questionnaires can easily be repeated yearly

      However, although this would be a great advantage in the screening process of young athletes,
      this pilot study should at least be repeated in an older age group of athletes (13-18 years).
      Moreover, the question still remains whether we need to perform different tests to diagnose
      EIB and whether a hierarchical structure in those tests can be chosen. Indeed, in daily
      routine, EVH test at the UZ Leuven is restricted for those subjects in whom histamine
      provocation test is negative but EIB is highly suspected, based on clinical history. It is
      not known whether all subjects with positive histamine provocation test also have positive
      EIB.

      Finally, sputum IL-1beta-low subjects, in the absence of atopy, had a very low chance to have
      positive EVH testing (Fisher exact test p=0.0088; compared to 0.04 for atopy alone, see
      higher). Adding sputum cytokine IL-1beta mRNA detection to the screening protocol might
      therefore increase the negative predictive value of the flow chart. However, performing
      induced sputum is also challenging and cytokine mRNA detection in the samples (though
      routinely performed in the investigator's laboratory) is still no routine procedure.

      Hypotheses The investigators hypothesize that the findings in the first young cohort will be
      similar or even more pronounced in the slightly older cohort of athletes. This means that

        1. they hypothesize that AQUA questionnaire can also predict atopy in this age group

        2. they hypothesize that atopy will be a risk factor for EIB in that age group

        3. they consider EVH test (in the absence of asthma) to be the best test to detect EIB (in
           comparison to histamine provocation test) in that age group

        4. they hypothesize that a positive AQUA score and/or a positive score to question 1 and 3
           of table 2 can be used to screen for EIB (as outlined in figure 2)

        5. they hypothesize that adding sputum cytokine mRNA detection might increase the negative
           predictive value of the screening protocol

      Aim of the study Therefore the aim of the study is to study the existence of EIB in high
      school elite athletes as well as athletes performing at least 12 hours sport a week aged
      13-18 years (n=50). More specifically the investigators want

        1. to compare the proportion of EIB positive subjects (defined as ≥10% fall in FEV1 at
           least 5' after EVH provocation) between those athletes and age matched controls (n=20).

        2. to correlate the answers in the questionnaires with the existence of EIB in the cohort

        3. to correlate the PC20 (by histamine provocation test) with the % max fall in EVH test in
           the cohort

        4. to study sputum mRNA levels in correlation to the presence of EIB in the cohort

      Material and method

      young athletes (swimmers, indoor and outdoor athletes) performing at least 12 hours sport a
      week and controls performing less than 6 hours sport a week will be recruited. To that aim,
      the investigators have a close collaboration with the Sport Medical Advice Center (SMAC UZ
      Leuven) screening all high-school elite athletes from 'topsportschool' Leuven, as well as
      with the medical coordinators of the Flemish Swimming Federation, Basketball federation and
      Football federation. Controls will be recruited amongst children and relatives from
      personnel.

      Questionnaires (AQUA and table 2), skin prick tests for common environmental allergens,
      venous puncture, sputum induction, reversibility test after Salbutamol inhalation, FENO
      measurement, histamine provocation test, EVH test and/or exercise field test will be
      performed in these subjects.

      Specific IgE to allergens will be measured by CAPtest. Biomarkers such as serum CC16 will be
      measured by ELISA. Sputum differential cell count will be done by cytospin and cytokine mRNA
      detection by RT-PCR. Merocell obtained nasal lavage fluid biomarkers will be studied by
      ELISA. All tests together will take +/-1.30h. If trainers from a specific discipline consider
      this too busy, we can omit one or more of the following: sputum induction, Merocell and/or
      skin prick tests. In case of the latter, allergy diagnosis will be based on CAPtest only.
      This will be discussed in advance with trainers and sport doctors and manually added to the
      IC/assent documents, if this is the case.

      Spirometry, EVH test and histamine provocation test are routinely performed in the hospital.

      Statistical analysis Sample size calculation has not been done, as all Flemish elite
      high-school athletes within the cited sport disciplines (which are the largest branches in B)
      will be invited. Prior studies revealed that more than 95% of them are willing to
      participate. Based on the results of the previous study in the younger age group in an even
      smaller sample size, the investigators consider the current sample size sufficient for this
      study.

        1. Fisher exact test (or Chi-square in case of the different disciplines separately) will
           be used to study whether the proportion of athletes with positive EVH test (at the cited
           cut-off) is significantly different from its proportion in healthy subjects

        2. Differences in absolute maximal fall in FEV1, serum biomarkers, specific sputum cytokine
           mRNA levels and sputum cellular counts between athletes and controls after EVH
           provocation will be studied by two-tailed (one-tailed where appropriate) non-parametric
           Mann-Whitney-U test (or if normality test is passed, by parametric t test). Differences
           amongst the sports branches will be studied by Kruskall-Wallis (or ANOVA if normality
           test is passed) with adequate post-tests.

        3. Sensitivity, specificity, PPV and NPV (as well as ROC curves) to study the usefulness of
           the AQUA questionnaire and/or the cited 5 questions and/or IL-1beta-low sputum mRNA
           levels, to predict atopy on the one hand and positive EVH test on the other hand, will
           be calculated.

        4. Correlation between PC20 and max fall in FEV will be studied by Spearman correlation
           test without or with prior data (e.g. log) transformation.

      Statistical analysis will be performed by Prism Graph 7

      Expected result

      The investigators expect to be able to repeat the findings observed in the younger age
      groups. Moreover, they expect to be able to increase sensitivity of the screening protocol
      and increase the negative predictive value of the screening test. To that latter aim, sputum
      IL-1beta mRNA measurement might be of help.

      Potential risk

      Because only a limited group of 13-18 year old athletes (n=50) is studied, the study might
      lack power to obtain the goal. Power analysis has not been performed, as the study is limited
      by the number of elite high-school students in the 'topsportschool'.

      Feasibility

      FWO-TBM study granted
    
  