
    
      This study is part of the current global emergency scenario due to infection with
      Coronavirus, SARS-CoV-2 as indicated by the international taxonomy. Study aim is to
      investigate the possibility of the presence of the virus within the seminal fluid and in the
      urine of infected patients, both during the acute phase and remotely. Current evidences show
      that Coronaviruses can be present inside the testicle and sperm in other species, such as in
      feline and avian models.

      In human beings, current researches have mixed results regarding the presence of SARSCoV-2 in
      urine, as several studies with a large sample found no traces of the same with Real-Time
      Reverse method Transcriptase - Polymerase Chain Reaction or with method of nucleic acid
      amplification. By contrast, in just over 6% of 58 patients with Real Time Polymerase Chain
      Reaction method have found the presence of SARS-CoV-2 in the urine, even at a distance from
      the last negative nasopharyngeal swab.

      Given the topicality of the problem, our study has the objective of specifically researching
      the presence and possible persistence over time of SARS-CoV-2 in seminal fluid and urine.

      A saliva sample will also be collected as a control. At the moment there are no studies in
      literature that tested this possibility. If confirmed, it would lead to find out another
      potential method of transmission, the sexual one, in asymptomatic patients or apparently no
      longer infectious with negative buffer.

      According to results obtained, follow up will be tailored to patients (assessment for COVID
      19 infections and/or further analysis/folliow-up in case of abnormal findings) The rationale
      for our study is the evidence that in other species this type of transmission by
      coronaviruses is possible and that at present it has not been verified in mankind.

      The relevance of the study would be both in the case of a negative result, as the first study
      in its generally, both in the case of a positive result, due to the possibility of
      introducing new prevention measures in the long run.
    
  