
    
      The Fast Assessment of Stroke and Transient ischemic attack to prevent Early Recurrence
      (FASTER) is a randomized clinical trial designed to investigate the effect of hyper-acute
      initiation of stroke prevention treatments in patients with a minor stroke or transient
      ischemic attack (TIA).

      This group of individuals has been recognized as being at high risk of recurrent events.
      Johnston et al. (2000) were the first to suggest that the risk of stroke after TIA was
      front-loaded in the first few days. This has been confirmed elsewhere with Lovett et al.
      (2003) having shown in the Oxfordshire Community Stroke Project that the 7-day risk of
      recurrent stroke was 8.6%, and a 30-day risk of 12.0%. These findings are similarly found in
      the Oxford Vascular Study; 8.0% and 11.5% respectively for a recurrent event (Coull et al.,
      2004). The NASCET (North American Symptomatic Carotid Endarterectomy Trial) study also
      supports the finding of high risk of early recurrent stroke. 8.5% of patients with a
      hemispheric TIA suffered a recurrent stroke within one week rising to 20% at 90-days
      (Eliasziw et al., 2004). This data suggest that patients with carotid stenosis are at the
      highest risk of early recurrent stoke.

      Only one in four patients with acute ischemic stroke presenting within three hours of symptom
      onset are being treated with t-PA (Barber et al., 2001). The most common reason for exclusion
      from treatment is that a patient's deficit will be too mild for treatment or will have
      completely resolved thereby not meriting the risks of treatment with tPA. These are the
      patients that have a higher risk of early recurrence. The clinical imperative is to identify
      hyper-acute treatment strategies to minimize that risk.

      FASTER is a double blind, randomized controlled trial with a 2x2 factorial design with
      patients followed for 90-days. Patients will be randomized within 24 hours of symptom onset
      to one of four possible treatment arms:

        -  Aspirin

        -  Aspirin and Clopidogrel

        -  Aspirin and Simvastatin

        -  Aspirin and Clopidogrel and Simvastatin

      Study Hypotheses

      A. A rapid commencement of clopidogrel plus aspirin within 24 hours of acute TIA or minor
      stroke is more effective than aspirin in reducing the 90-day risk of stroke by an absolute
      difference of 2%.

      B. A rapid commencement of simvastatin plus aspirin within 24 hours of acute TIA or minor
      stroke is more effective than aspirin in reducing the 90-day risk of stroke by an absolute
      difference of 2%.

      C. A rapid commencement of clopidogrel plus aspirin plus simvastatin within 24 hours of acute
      TIA or minor stroke is more effective than aspirin alone in reducing the 90-day risk of
      stroke by an absolute difference of 4%.

      D. The incidence of adverse events is not different among treatment groups.
    
  