
    
      B-HAPPY is an implementation science project that will introduce and evaluate the
      implementation of PrEP among over 1000 men who have sex with men (MSM), in eight
      municipalities in Yunnan, China. The project aims to compare the effectiveness of two
      implementation strategy bundles: 1) Standard Implementation: comprising the strategies that
      the Yunnan Center for Disease Control and Prevention would usually use to introduce HIV
      prevention innovations in the absence of the proposed study; and 2) Enhanced Implementation:
      standard implementation enhanced by a SIC-guided approach to plan and implement PrEP.

      This study will use a stepped-wedge design, where sites will go through four study periods: a
      Pre-Baseline Period (Routine Service with no PrEP Implementation), a Baseline Period
      (Standard Implementation of PrEP), an Experiment Period (Enhanced Implementation of PrEP),
      and a Post-Experiment-Observation Period. Sites are randomized to the timing of the
      intervention initiation, with 2 sites moving from Standard Implementation to Enhanced
      Implementation every 6 months. The intervention condition changes over time and the
      intervention effect is the difference in outcomes between the Baseline and Experiment
      Periods, and the Post-Experiment and Baseline Periods.

      The specific aims of the proposed study are:

        1. To evaluate whether the addition of SIC-guided PrEP delivery (Enhanced Implementation)
           to standard health system PrEP delivery improves services outcomes. Through a
           stepped-wedge randomized trial across eight Yunnan municipalities, within site change
           over time will be examined; timing of introduction of Enhanced Implementation will be
           randomized across four cohorts of two sites each. Client-services outcomes include
           progress to achieving the "Five-80s" (patient PrEP awareness, screening, offering,
           initiation, continuation).

        2. To examine the implementation process and efficiency of the Enhanced versus Standard
           implementation approaches. Using the Stages of Implementation Completion (SIC) and Cost
           of Implementing New Strategies (COINS) tools, sites will be monitored for implementation
           process and resource use. Outcomes will include proportion of implementation activities
           completed; duration of each implementation phase; and cost and resource allocation for
           completion of each implementation phase.
    
  