
    
      The current standard for assessment of rejection in heart transplants is an endomyocardial
      biopsy (EMB) interpreted by histology according to ISHLT guidelines. This has considerable
      error rates, many due to the high disagreement among pathologists in assessing lesions and
      diagnoses. To address the unmet need for precision and accuracy, the Alberta Transplant
      Applied Genomics Centre (ATAGC, University of Alberta) has developed a new diagnostic system
      - the Molecular Microscope速 Diagnostic System (MMDx), which uses microarrays to define the
      global gene expression features of rejection and injury. Now a new screening test is being
      introduced: the monitoring of donor-derived cell-free DNA (DD-cfDNA) released in the blood by
      the heart during rejection. The Natera Inc DD-cfDNA Prospera速 test is based on the massively
      multiplex PCR that targets 13,392 single nucleotide polymorphisms and targeted sequences are
      quantified by Next Generation Sequencing. The Prospera速 test has been done on kidney
      transplant recipients and detected "active rejection" and differentiated it from borderline
      rejection and no rejection. However, Prospera速 test was not examined (the DD-cfDNA results)
      in heart transplant recipients. DD-cf-DNA test for heart transplants must now be calibrated
      against MMDx that is based on global gene expression, the new standard for biopsy
      interpretation. The present study will calibrate centrally measured (Natera Inc) DD-cfDNA
      levels obtained at the time of an indication or protocol biopsy against the MMDx measurements
      of T cell-mediated rejection (TCMR), antibody-mediated rejection (ABMR) and early and late
      tissue injury. The present study will compare DD-cfDNA and MMDx in 300 prospectively
      collected biopsies for clinical indications and protocol, and accompanying 600 blood samples,
      to calibrate the DD-cfDNA (Natera Inc.) levels against the MMDx biopsy diagnoses of TCMR,
      ABMR (and its stages), and acute (early) and chronic (late) injury. This study is an
      extension of the INTERHEART ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT02670408
    
  