
    
      Although people with hematological malignancies have to endure long stages of treatment and
      inactivity that are known to reduce their physical performance levels, it is still common
      practice to rest and avoid intense exercise. Although physical activity and exercise are
      important approaches in many diseases, their effects on cancer have been studied recently.
      There are still not enough studies in this area and it is not widely used. In recent studies,
      it is thought that exercise may benefit the symptoms that develop due to treatment in cancer
      patients. Even in the presence of severe myopathy and fatigue, skeletal muscle provides great
      adaptation when there is an appropriate exercise stimulus. In addition, exercise can increase
      immune functions, so it is thought that exercise practices in hematological cancer patients
      can specifically improve cellular functions such as microbial phagocytosis, T-cell
      proliferation, vaccine response, and killing tumor cells. There are various studies and
      approaches that try to create a different strategy and include physical exercise in the
      treatment strategy of hematological malignancies. These exercise programs generally include
      aerobics, flexibility and resistance training methods. The necessity of developing
      alternative methods to exercise is emphasized in the literature due to the development of
      complications that affect participation in basic exercise such as walking. Neuromuscular
      electrical stimulation (NMES) has proven efficacy in improving muscle strength in a variety
      of populations. NMES training also has applicability for the cancer population to prevent
      treatment-related complications and improve health-related quality of life. However, there is
      still no high-level evidence to support the administration of NMES in cancer patients. It is
      known that the use of corticosteroids, which are among the drugs given during chemotherapy
      applications, causes steroid myopathy. In our study, we aimed to evaluate the effect of NMES
      applications on muscle strength in hematological cancer patients who developed steroid
      myopathy during chemotherapy. In addition, we aimed to evaluate the effect of NMES training
      on fatigue, mobility and quality of life in hematological cancer patients.
    
  