
    
      The purpose of this study is to conduct a small pilot clinical trial of stimulant medication
      treatment (i.e., methylphenidate (MPH)) in children with DS+ADHD to inform sample size
      estimates and power calculations for a larger clinical trial. In sum, this study will
      directly address issue related to under-utilization of stimulant treatment in children with
      DS+ADHD, and it has the potential to significantly improve the outcomes of approximately
      45,000 children with DS+ADHD nationwide.

      To achieve this, 30 children with DS+ADHD, between the ages of 6.00-17.99 years, will be
      invited to participate in a pilot clinical trial across two sites. Following pre-screening to
      determine study eligibility, children with DS+ADHD will be assessed at 14 different times
      points. The first pre-medication visit will include baseline intelligence, diagnostic,
      behavioral, cognitive, health, and functioning assessments. The second through sixth visits
      will begin Phase 1 of the pilot clinical trial, and during this time, participants will begin
      the lowest dose of MPH and titrate incrementally upward per pediatric guidelines based on the
      participant's height and weight. Weekly diagnostic and health assessments will be conducted
      to monitor the safety and efficacy of MPH during this phase. Further, this weekly monitoring
      will ultimately guide the selection of the participant's optimal dose. At the seventh visit,
      participants will enter Phase 2 of the pilot clinical trial where they will be randomized to
      receive an optimal dose of MPH (as determined by the assessments conducted throughout the
      titration phase) or the placebo. This visit will involve a repeat of most of the baseline
      measures. The eighth visit will initiate Phase 3 of the pilot clinical trial in which
      participants will crossover to the study intervention not previously assigned during Phase 2.
      For example, a participant who was assigned his or her optimal dose during Phase 2 will
      receive the placebo during Phase 3, and vice versa. Further, this visit will involve a repeat
      of the assessments conducted during Phase 2 which allows each participants to serve as his or
      her own control, contributing data both while on an optimal dose of MPH and while on the
      placebo.

      Prior to commencing Phase 4, MPH non-responders or placebo responders will be removed from
      the study and referred for non-study (clinical) treatment. Participants for whom MPH is
      judged to be effective and tolerable based on clinician ratings and parent/teacher reports
      will be invited to undergo an open label trial with their optimal MPH dose for a six-month
      maintenance period. During this phase, participants will undergo monthly diagnostic and
      health assessments to monitor the safety and efficacy of his or her optimal dose of MPH. The
      final visit (week 31) will include diagnostic, behavioral, cognitive, functioning, and health
      assessments to evaluate change across time.
    
  