
    
      Context: Enlarged skull circumference in patients with hydrocephalus might alter bispectral
      index (BIS) values; as distorted skull contour distances sensors from a shifted cerebral mass
      as well as mental dysfunction as a result of disrupted Cerebrospinal fluid circulation.

      Objectives: Investigators tested the hypothesis that BIS values are altered in pediatric
      patients with hydrocephaly. Investigators also tested the hypothesis that BIS values are
      altered in adult post cerebral hemorrhage patients with hydrocephaly undergoing
      ventricular-peritoneal shunt placement.

      Methods: After ethics committee approval participants, or their next of kin, who gave written
      informed consent were recruited in the study. Investigators excluded potential participants
      suffering from hepatic disease. In the first study 15 pediatric patients with hydrocephaly
      and 15 pediatric control patients at approximately the same age group were included in the
      study.

      In the second study 15 post cerebral hemorrhage adult patients undergoing
      ventricular-peritoneal shunt placements and 15 adult control patients were included in the
      study.

      2 BIS sensors were placed on patients' forehead and connected to BIS-Vista monitors. In a
      quiet anesthesia induction room investigators recorded BIS-Vista for 10 min before induction.

      Remifentanil 4 ng ml-1 was started and propofol TCI was kept constant at 4 microg ml-1 with
      no adjustments for a 1 h anesthesia maintenance study-recording period when time of surgery
      allowed. Investigators also noted BIS values immediately before and after a patent
      ventricular-peritoneal shunt was successfully installed. After conclusion of surgical
      procedures, remifentanil and propofol infusions were terminated and this marked the beginning
      of the recovery phase of the study where we recorded BIS values for another 20 min emergence
      from anesthesia.
    
  