
    
      This project will test adaptations of the Chronic Disease Self-Management Program (CDSMP)
      designed to increase the likelihood of widespread use in workplace settings. CDSMP, which has
      been proven efficacious in community trials, is a six-week program that is designed to help
      individuals better manage their chronic disease and its many complications. Although there is
      considerable interest among worksite health promotion practitioners for a chronic disease
      program, CDSMP has not been adapted and tested in workplace settings. In this study, we will
      determine a) if the CDSMP program tailored to worksites can be efficacious, b) the
      comparative effectiveness of the worksite tailored CDSMP when compared to the original CDSMP
      and c) the cost-effectiveness (average and incremental) and return on investment of the two
      interventions. The participating sites are seven organizations from a rural county in
      Southwest Georgia. Our partner for the project is the local YMCA. YMCA staff will be trained
      to implement the program which will foster sustainability. Participants will be randomly
      assigned to 1) workplace-tailored CDSMP, 2) 'usual care' CDSMP, and 3) control group. Data
      will collected at baseline, 6-month follow-up and 12-months follow-up. The control group will
      be a delayed intervention group that will be randomly assigned to an intervention group after
      taking the 6 month survey. The primary outcome measures include blood pressure, cholesterol,
      blood glucose, BMI, diet, physical activity and tobacco use and the secondary measures
      including patient-provider communication, quality of life, medical adherence, and work
      performance and productivity. An average cost-effectiveness analysis will compare
      interventions to control and an incremental cost-effectiveness analysis will be conducted
      comparing each intervention to one another. The hypotheses will be tested using a growth
      modeling approach examining changes over time. This will enable us to maximize the
      dissemination and implementation of CDSMP across worksite populations by using approaches
      which are realistic for most work organizations.
    
  