
    
      Maternal plasma ccfDNA testing examines fragments of maternal and fetal (placental) DNA that
      are normally found in the mother's circulation. For any targeted chromosome (e.g., chromosome
      21) an excess of fragments from that chromosome can strongly suggest trisomy in the fetus
      (e.g., trisomy 21 or Down syndrome). This technology has been available since late 2011 but
      is mainly offered in the 'high-risk setting with motivated patients, intensive education by
      genetic counselors and maternal-fetal medicine professionals, and low patient volumes. As a
      secondary screening test in high-risk women, this testing can reduce the frequency of
      invasive procedures by 90% or more compared to conventional serum screening. Since CVS and
      amniocentesis are associated with procedure-related fetal loss (an important factor among
      women refusing these procedures), the use of ccfDNA testing may result in an increase in the
      prenatal identification of affected fetuses in the high-risk population. However, this
      technology has not been studied in the general risk group where women usually have no known
      risk factors when presenting for prenatal care. The investigators' aim is to observe how
      prenatal practices in Rhode Island are able to offer this technology in place of conventional
      serum/ultrasound screening as early as 10 weeks of pregnancy. The investigators expect that
      clinicians and office staff will be challenged by this paradigm shift, as will their
      patients. The investigators intend to develop an education program for offices and introduce
      the new test - DNAFirst- methodically in the Women & Infants Hospital catchment area. The
      test uptake rate, reaction to its availability, and response to screen positive results will
      be monitored, along with other measures relevant to implementation and test performance. The
      investigators also will be surveying by telephone 100 women who have agreed to DNAFirst
      testing and to being contacted to determine their understanding of and satisfaction with the
      new test. Many factors may complicate this introduction and these will all need to be
      addressed. For example, a screen positive result on the DNAFirst test is associated with a
      much higher risk of aneuploidy(e.g., 1:2) than conventional serum screening. The DNAFirst
      test is also associated with a higher rate of test failure than serum screening. The DNAFirst
      testing protocol includes testing a buccal sample from the father of the baby when available.
      It will be important to gauge how offices and patients perceive and accept these changes.

      Secondary screening in high-risk women using ccfDNA is becoming more commonplace and is more
      often covered by insurers. With expected price reductions due to improvements in sequencing
      technology, it is likely that in 12-18 months, insurance coverage for ccfDNA testing will
      become more routine. In such a setting expected test uptake and patient decision-making would
      not be influenced by the limited insurance currently available. The investigators want to
      simulate the patient's cost of ccfDNA testing to be similar to that currently encountered for
      serum screening. Towards that end, Natera, Inc., a Clinical Laboratory Improvement Act
      certified laboratory in San Carlos, California, has agreed to underwrite the cost of ccfDNA
      testing during the study period. By identifying factors influencing patient acceptance and
      understanding how patients and providers view this new paradigm compared to established serum
      and sonographic screening, this project will provide unbiased evidence regarding
      implementation of ccfDNA testing in a general pregnancy population that could translate into
      nationwide practice.
    
  