
    
      The primary objective of this study is to compare the health status and functional outcomes
      of patients who have undergone total hip arthroplasty (THA) utilizing the direct superior
      (DS) approach to those who have undergone THA utilizing the posterior approach (PA). The aim
      is to quantify changes in functional status using accelerometer-based gait analysis and
      self-reported questionnaires, and to assess peri-operative recovery including narcotic use,
      length of stay, blood loss, complications and readmission for any reason.

      It is hypothesized that patients who undergo THA utilizing the DS approach will have more
      favorable results in terms of health status and functional outcomes when compared to those
      who receive the PA approach. It is expected that patients in the DS group will display an
      earlier improvement in gait postoperatively, will have a shorter length of stay in hospital,
      and will have decreased postoperative pain as measured by narcotic use. No measurable
      difference in the position of the THA implants is expected between groups.

      The proposed clinical study is a prospective randomized trial of 80 patients undergoing total
      hip arthroplasty utilizing either a PA or DS approach. Postoperative outcomes including
      narcotic use, length of stay and complications will be abstracted from the chart and any
      readmissions will be documented. Follow-up exams will occur at 6 weeks, 6 months, 12 months
      and 24 months from time of surgery. Radiographic evaluation will be performed at each
      interval to assess the position of the implants. Gait symmetry data will be collected
      pre-operatively as well as at 6 months, 12 months, and 24 months and will be assessed for
      longitudinal changes in characteristics such as stride frequency, envelope, surge, lurch and
      functional leg length discrepancy. Health status, functional outcome, and patient quality of
      life measures will be recorded at all follow-up intervals. Joint function will be assessed
      before and after surgery using the EuroQol questionnaire, Oxford 12 Hip questionnaire,
      Self-Administered Comorbidity Questionnaire (SCQ), visual analogue scales (VAS) for pain and
      satisfaction, and UCLA Activity Level Scale. Rates of infection, instability and revision for
      any cause will be monitored for the duration of the 2 year follow-up.

      Pre-operative subject characteristics will be compared between groups using Student's t-tests
      (unpaired, two-sided). For the post-operative follow-up questionnaire and radiographic data,
      two-way repeated measures analyses of variance (ANOVA) for group differences will be used to
      analyze data collected at multiple time points. Gait data will be analyzed using Gaitview
      software.
    
  