
    
      Mental arithmetic task (MAT) is frequently used stressor to induce and assess stress by
      efficiently. However, this method not standardized until today, it is due to different
      environmental and psychological factors on the experimental condition. Different protocol
      designs used in various stress assessment studies are elaborated

      Previous protocol details using MAT based stress induction

      (Lundberg & Melin, 1994) 62 subjects & SBP (Systolic Blood Pressure), DBP (Diastolic Blood
      Pressure), Heart rate and EMG.

        -  A series of addition and subtraction of 1 digit numbers.

        -  Subject pronounces the answer and errors will be recorder by tape recorder.

        -  Soft music was played to relax the subject and physiological and psychological
           parameters were measured.

      (Ushiyama, et al., 1991) 26 subjects, blood samples, BP and ECG. Initially, 20 minute
      relaxation

        -  7 subtractions from 700 within 2.5 min after the relaxation. Finally 3 minute
           relaxation.

        -  ECG continuous measure for complete duration

        -  Blood samples, blood pressure for discrete variable only once on each task.

      (Tomaka, Blascovich, & Swart, 1994b) 41 subjects & heart rate, skin conductance response
      (SCR), stroke volume (SV), SBP and DBP

        -  Mental arithmetic task with two type, with silent phase, and aloud phase.

        -  Initially, 10 minute rest before electrode placement and 4 minutes relaxation after the
           electrode placement and calibration.

        -  Type1, rapid serial addition by 13 from 2549. Duration 4 minutes with 5 minute final
           relaxation.

        -  Type 2, rapid serial subtraction by 7 from 2549. Duration 4 minutes with 5 minute final
           relaxation.

        -  The subject is vocalizing the answer in a loud phase and silent phase subject to be
           silent and should perform the task.

      (Ring, Drayson, Walkey, Dale, & Carroll, 2002) 24 subjects & SBP, DBP and pulse rate.

        -  4 seven minute series addition with presentation rate of 3.5, 3.0, 2.5 and 2.0s
           respectively.

        -  Addition of two sequentially presented single digit numbers (from1 to 9) in audio.

        -  Answers should be retained in the memory for next addition that presented on the audio
           tape recorder.

        -  SBP, DBP and pulse rate is a discrete variable taken from a certain interval of time.

      (Linden, 1991) 61 subjects & DBP, SBP heart rate.

        -  Four different kind noise distraction during MAT. Subtraction of 2000 from 6,7, 8,9
           consecutively, calculation time is 5 Sec per one step.

        -  Verbally pronounce the answer.

        -  No noise task (the task performed without any noise).

        -  Variable real life noise ( siren, car engine warm up, thunder getting closer, background
           noise of train station etc.,).

        -  Steady real life noise (coffee and bar shop background noise).

        -  Variable meaningless noise task(white and pink noise).

      (Von Dawans, Kirschbaum, & Heinrichs, 2010) 25 subjects & ECG

        -  Mental arithmetic task (serial subtraction) of 8 min.

        -  The task performed in between other stress inducing task.

      (Seraganian, Szabo, Brown, & Behavior, 1997) 20 subjects & ECG.

        -  11 problems requiring two serial arithmetic operations with integers (e.g., 14* 6-17).

        -  Subject should perform arithmetic and also rate the difficulty level 10 point scale.

        -  Task were presented in tape recorder in counter balanced order

        -  Heart rate was continues measure.

      Protocol design information

      In this work, MAT is designed to induce and increase the stress level from one level to
      another by creating and increasing mental demand from easy to hard. Here, the mental
      arithmetic task is designed with audio distraction to reduce the cognition while in mental
      demand or load. This continuous exposure is reason to induce the stress of the participants.
      The protocol consist of 4 different levels such as relaxation with soft music, low level (low
      difficulty), medium level (medium difficulty), high level (high difficulty). Each level has
      30 arithmetic problem addition, subtraction, multiplication and division or combination of
      these. Complexities of problem between levels are designed according to the low, medium, and
      high. 10 randomly selected real time noises (generator, siren, motor sound etc) are added
      with every 10 problems of each level in order to reduce the concentration and increase the
      mental demand. According to the data collection environment, the noises are calibrated and
      controlled.

      Physiological measures

      Non-intrusive measurement Electrocardiogram Electromyogram Galvanic skin response Skin
      temperature Electroencephalogram

      Subject information

      Normal subjects and open invitation will be given to select the volunteers
    
  