
    
      Following the success of the NEI-funded Convergence Insufficiency Treatment Trials (CITT),
      the next logical and important research issue is to determine if the successful treatment of
      symptomatic convergence insufficiency (CI) (i.e., improvement of symptoms and ophthalmic
      signs) impacts function (reading and attention).

      It is well documented that children with symptomatic CI report significantly more symptoms
      when reading and doing close work (e.g., blurred vision, headaches, double vision, loss of
      concentration, frequent loss of place, trouble remembering what was read), manifest more
      academic-impairing behaviors (e.g., difficulty finishing assignments), and score worse on
      parent ratings of attention compared to children with normal binocular vision. Because
      reduction of symptoms and adverse academic behaviors are established outcomes of successful
      treatment of CI, we propose to test the hypothesis that resolution of these symptoms and
      behaviors leads to improved reading performance and attention. Previous studies have found
      improvements in reading comprehension reading speed and accuracy after successful treatment
      of CI. In a recent pilot study, investigators also found significant improvement in reading
      comprehension and attention after 16 weeks of successful treatment of symptomatic CI with
      office-based vergence/accommodative therapy; however, there was no control group. To
      definitively determine whether the successful treatment of symptomatic CI positively impacts
      reading and attention requires a placebo-controlled randomized clinical trial.

      Objective: We propose a multicenter, placebo-controlled, randomized clinical trial (RCT) of
      324 children ages 9 to <14 years (Grades 3-8) with symptomatic CI. [we will restrict
      recruitment to children who do not have significant single word reading deficits.]
      Participants will be randomized to 16 weeks of treatment with either [a] office-based
      vergence/accommodative therapy with home reinforcement (OBVAT) or [b] office-based placebo
      therapy with home reinforcement (OBPT). Outcomes (reading and attention) will be assessed
      after 16 weeks of treatment. In addition, we will test the long-term effects on outcomes at 1
      year after treatment completion. All analyses will test the null hypothesis of no difference
      in outcomes between the two treatment groups.

      Specific Aim 1 - Reading Performance: To compare reading comprehension outcomes for children
      with symptomatic CI who receive 16 weeks of OBVAT and OBPT treatment. The primary outcome
      measure of reading performance is the Wechsler Individual Achievement test (WIAT-III) reading
      comprehension subtest score. In secondary analyses, we will examine the effects of the
      treatment on word reading, pseudoword decoding, oral reading fluency, and listening
      comprehension. We also will examine the correlation of changes in CI symptoms and ophthalmic
      signs with reading outcomes. Analysis of the 1-year follow-up data will be used to determine
      if any gains in reading performance observed after 16 weeks of treatment are sustained.

      Specific Aim 2 - Attention: To investigate the effect of treatment on teacher- and
      parent-rated measures of attention for children with symptomatic CI who receive 16 weeks of
      OBVAT and OBPT intervention. The primary outcome measure of attention is the score on the
      Strengths and Weaknesses of ADHD Symptoms and Normal Behavior Scale (SWAN). In secondary
      analyses, we will examine the effects of treatment on a second parent-rated attention scale
      called the SNAP. We also will examine the correlation of changes in CI-symptoms and
      ophthalmic signs with attention outcomes. Analysis of the 1-year follow-up data will be used
      to determine if any gains in attention observed after 16 weeks of treatment are maintained.

      Scientific and Clinical Impact: The relationship between the treatment of symptomatic CI and
      its effect on reading and attention in children is unknown. The results of the proposed study
      will contribute to a better understanding of these relationships and help to resolve
      controversy surrounding this issue. The results will have important implications for
      educators, psychologists, eye professionals, and other health care providers who care for
      children with reading and attention problems and guide hypothesis development for future
      scientific investigations on evidence-based relationships between visual disorders and other
      developmental disorders in children.
    
  