
    
      This study plans to address the issue of whether increasing the duration of therapy from 24
      weeks to 48 weeks with PegIFNα2b 1.5mg/kg/week and using weight-based ribavirin (15mg/kg) may
      reduce relapse rates and thereby increase SVR rates in patients infected with genotype 3 who
      fail to achieve an RVR but do achieve a complete cEVR defined as undetectable HCV RNA (ie.
      <50 or <15 IU/ml by 12 weeks). This study is necessary because although most patients with
      genotype 3 ultimately become HCV RNA undetectable during treatment, relapse after
      discontinuation of therapy remains a major cause of failure to achieve SVR. This is a very
      important issue given that to date none of the new small molecule drugs appear effective
      against genotype 3 meaning that at the present time patients with genotype 3 infection have
      no other options. Relapse is particularly common in patients with advanced liver disease but
      it has been shown that if SVR can be achieved in patients with advanced disease, the risk of
      liver failure is significantly reduced, as may be the risk of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).
      As a consequence the need for liver transplantation is diminished and survival is improved.
      Identifying strategies to reduce relapse and improve rates of SVR are therefore critical.

      Certain individuals are at greater risk of infection with genotype 3. In the Western world,
      the main risk groups are current or former drug users (IDU) and immigrants raised in South
      Asia (India and Pakistan) where infection likely occurs early in childhood due to exposure to
      contaminated instruments, needles, etc.

      A second potential benefit of achieving SVR is reduction in the rate of diabetes. Diabetes
      has been demonstrated to be more common in those infected with Hepatitis C than in the
      general population - this observation was made by examination of the NHANES population based
      database. The prelude to the development of Type 2 diabetes is insulin resistance. Insulin
      resistance (IR) is present in about one third of patients chronically infected with HCV - the
      rate being highest in those with cirrhosis and in those who are overweight or obese. Early
      data indicates that although the presence of insulin resistance impairs interferon
      responsiveness if SVR can be achieved, insulin resistance is lost. Studies of IR in
      individuals infected with genotype 3 HCV are lacking. Independent of HCV infection, being
      born South Asian is a risk factor for Type 2 diabetes.

      The issue of insulin resistance and the effectiveness of antiviral therapy in chronic
      hepatitis C has been addressed exclusively in Caucasians infected with genotype 1. Recent
      data from Japan indicates that in patients with diabetes and hepatitis C successful
      eradication of HCV RNA may simultaneously prevent subsequent diabetes and presumably the
      systemic complications of this disease.

      There is little data on the rate of RVR in the South Asian population as few therapeutic
      trials in patients with genotype 3 infections have been reported from Pakistan and India.
      Estimates can only be obtained from studies performed in Caucasians from Northern Europe and
      North America. In the trial by Shiffman the rate of RVR in those with genotype 3 infection
      was 62% and preliminary report from the trial of Albuferon in those with genotype 2 and 3
      indicate RVR rates ranged from 44-60% in Asians -this figure included all Asians.

      There are several reasons to specifically address ways to improve the outcome of antiviral
      therapy in patients infected with genotype 3 CHC. Firstly virtually all treatment studies
      report on a combined rate of SVR achieved in genotypes 2 and 3 even though the evidence has
      suggested that the response to therapy is different between these two genotypes. Within
      populations of patients with genotype 3 infection, there may be differences as well. South
      Asians are predominantly infected with genotype 3a, while injection drug users typically have
      genotype 3b infection. There are no formal trials published in the English literature of
      antiviral therapy in South Asians or comparing subtypes of genotype 3.

      In patients infected with genotype 1 slow response to antiviral therapy i.e. lack of RVR, is
      associated with a significantly higher rate of relapse in those who go on to achieve
      undetectable HCV RNA at 12 weeks rather than at 4 weeks into treatment. Extending treatment
      for a further six months reduces this relapse rate considerably. By extending treatment in
      patients infected with genotype 3 who had previously relapsed following only 14 weeks of
      therapy to 24 weeks reduced relapse rates. Thus, it is anticipated that by extending
      treatment from 24 to 48 weeks in those who fail to achieve a RVR (i.e. slow responders) but
      who do achieve a complete EVR we hope to prevent relapse off treatment. A potential added
      benefit of achieving SVR in this patient population, many of whom are already at high risk of
      T2DM, is that it may reduce the virally mediated component of IR.
    
  