
    
      The period from August 2015 to April 2016 was designated to clinical trial design and to its
      submission/approval by the Human Research Ethics Committee. The recruitment of subjects and
      the study evaluations following described will be only initiated after registration and
      publication on the ClinicalTrials.gov platform.

      Pulmonary function tests:

        -  Lung function will be tested using a total body plethysmography (Eric Jaeger, Germany),
           and the calibration will be checked before each evaluation. Spirometry will be performed
           in accordance with American Thoracic Society and European Respiratory Society (ATS/ERS)
           standards (Miller et al., 2005; Wanger et al., 2005). The predicted values will be
           calculated with the equations derived from Brazilian population (Pereira et al., 2007;
           Neder et al., 1999).

        -  SVC maneuver: IC will be measured with the patient in the sitting position, using a
           portable spirometer (NDD Medical Technologies®, Switzerland), before and 1 minute after
           the tests, by the SVC maneuver starting from a stable end-expiratory volume, in
           accordance with ATS/ERS standards (Miller et al.,2005). A minimum of three maneuvers
           (maximum of eight) will be performed and, in order to be considered reliable, two curves
           could not vary more than 5% or 150 ml. The higher value of two reproducible curves will
           be used for analysis (O'Donnell et al., 2001). This outcome will be collected by a third
           evaluator blinded for the SCC or non-SCC application.

      Six-minute step test (6MST): The patients will be instructed to walk up and down the step in
      order to perform the largest number of steps during six minutes. The walking speed will be
      selected by the patient (da Costa et al., 2014;. Pessoa et al., 2014). Two 6MSTs will be
      conducted by two evaluators: the main evaluator will be responsible for conducting the tests
      and the other will count the number of steps performed by the patient.

      Dyspnea: Before and after the completion of each 6MST and each 6MWT, patients will be asked
      about their perception of dyspnea, using the modified Borg scale. Immediately after
      completion the SCC (or not), patients will be asked again about the dyspnea score. This
      outcome will be collected by a third evaluator blinded for the SCC or non-SCC application.

      Peripheral muscle oxygenation: During the tests, before and after the completion of each
      6MST, it will be measured the peripheral muscle oxygenation by near-infrared spectroscopy
      (NIRS) (Artinis Medical Systems®, Netherlands). The device will be positioned over the vastus
      lateralis muscle of dominant leg.

      Slow chest compression: The patient will receive in a randomized order the application or not
      of SCC for one minute immediately after 6MST. During the SCC, the patient will remain in the
      sitting position; a bimanual slow compression on his/her upper chest will be performed always
      by the same evaluator, who will stand behind the patient. This compression will be done only
      in the expiratory phase, during one minute, in all respiratory cycles, respecting the chest
      mobility of each patient. For all patients, during SCC, it will be given a standardized
      verbal command: "Exhale all the air". After the test in which the patient will not receive
      the SCC, he/she must remain seated, at rest, for one minute without any interventions,
      although it will be given the same standardized verbal command.
    
  