
    
      This study is a continuation of two CTSN randomized trials --- the Severe Ischemic Mitral
      Regurgitation (SMR) Trial (NCT00807040) and the Moderate Ischemic Mitral regurgitation (MMR)
      Trial (NCT00806988) --- for the purpose of assessing the long-term outcomes of the index
      surgical therapies. Key clinical outcomes will be collected utilizing electronic medical
      records, patient and/or family input, public records, and healthcare- and vital
      status-related databases. Extended follow-up data will be obtained on up to 199 SMR and 270
      MMR trial participants, who were alive at their 2-year follow-up evaluation. Patients will be
      followed for a minimum of 5 years and up to 10 years after randomization (the time of index
      surgical procedure). This follow-up data collection will be conducted by the Cardiothoracic
      Surgical Trials Network (CTSN) primarily utilizing the minimal PHI necessary to link data
      obtained from the MMR and SMR trials to other healthcare- and/or vital status-related
      databases.

      Because the design of surgical trials for ischemic mitral regurgitation that would use
      mortality as a primary endpoint requires the enrollment of thousands of patients, the
      selected primary endpoint for the CTSN SMR and MMR trials was an echocardiographic measure of
      left ventricular remodeling. Secondary endpoints included, among others, survival, adverse
      events, readmissions and costs over a 2-year period. The SMR trial showed no difference in
      left ventricular reverse remodeling, but the rate of moderate or severe mitral regurgitation
      recurrence was significantly higher with mitral valve repair, resulting in more heart
      failure-related adverse events and cardiovascular admissions. Longer-term follow-up will be
      critical to assess whether this observed trend amongst SMR patients will continue and whether
      a survival difference will manifest over time. In moderate ischemic mitral regurgitation,
      mitral valve repair provided a more durable correction of mitral regurgitation than coronary
      artery bypass grafting (CABG) alone, but repair did not improve survival or reduce overall
      adverse events or readmissions, and was associated with an early hazard of neurological and
      supraventricular arrhythmic events. Longer-term follow-up of MMR patients will provide
      insights into whether the higher degree of recurrent mitral regurgitation with CABG alone
      will be associated with differences in adverse events, readmissions and survival.
      Additionally, the benefits of alternative surgical treatments for ischemic mitral
      regurgitation, which have differential upfront risks and costs, will likely extend beyond 2
      years. Cost-effectiveness analysis will delineate the long-term cost-benefit trade-offs
      between mitral valve repair versus replacement for SMR, and of CABG with repair versus CABG
      alone for MMR, which should inform surgical decision making, and examine how differences in
      life expectancy and risk profiles of different patient groups affect cost-effectiveness over
      time. This extended follow-up should provide important clinical and health policy insights.
    
  