
    
      Approximately 66 million informal caregivers care for someone who is ill, disabled, or aged.
      These caregivers experience significant distress associated with caregiving, which may be
      particularly salient in the context of inherited conditions. Previous studies have not
      examined caregiving from a network perspective, nor have they considered how cognitive and
      emotional responses, such as caregivers worry for themselves and relatives acquiring the
      disease or guilt related to the genetic etiology of their child s illness, as possible
      stressors; the current project fills this literature gap.

      Caregiving processes may vary across type of illness and the life course. In illnesses that
      impact children, parents and grandparents may take on caregiving roles whereas in conditions
      that impact adults, spouses and adult children may provide care. Caregivers must adapt to the
      strain of caring for their affected relatives and this adaptation may differ depending on
      caregiver roles. The caregiver s support network may influence adaptation, impacting the
      health and well-being of patients, their caregivers, and other relatives.

      This project, comprised of 5 substudies, will examine social contexts surrounding families
      involved in caring for individuals with chronic inherited conditions from a relational
      perspective. Surveys and interviews will assess participants cognitions and emotions about
      the disease, caregiving burden and caregiving/support network systems. In addition,
      biomarkers will be considered in 2 substudies to examine how caregiving roles and
      expectations impact health among caregivers. As part of our current inquiry, we have

      developed an assessment tool aimed at understanding caregiver experiences related to dietary
      practices in the context of metabolic conditions. To evaluate the psychometric properties of
      this scale, we propose a fifth substudy under the current protocol.

      We aim to recruit at least 5550 participants through residential/daycare centers, advocacy
      groups, and the NIH Clinical Center. We will recruit formal caregivers, multiple biological
      and non-biological adult relatives of affected individuals and typically developing controls
      to construct and evaluate caregiving/support network systems. This project will use a social
      network framework to develop and adapt common measures of caregiving roles to evaluate
      burden, perceptual bias, and unmet expectations in caregiving. The psychometric properties of
      these new measures, characteristics of family caregiving and support networks, and how these
      network characteristics are associated with caregiving strain and well-being, including
      biomarkers of physical health, will be investigated. The moderating role of family members
      cognitions and emotions and disease context will be considered. Findings will guide future
      research to develop network-based interventions promoting positive adaptation to the presence
      of inherited conditions in families through improved social environments and coping skills.
    
  