
    
      Analgesia through thoracic epidural is the gold standard technique for post-sternotomy pain
      control. in spite of its serious complications such as epidural hematoma with or without
      paraplegia that enhanced by heparin administered during cardiac bypass surgery..

      Paravertebral blockade is comparable to Thoracic epidural analgesia in cardiac surgery but it
      may cause complications such as vascular injuries and pneumothorax.

      Erector spinae block is recently implemented technique for treatment and analgesia of
      thoracic neuropathic pain and post mastectomy syndrome. ESP block is an easy technique
      compared to paravertebral block and less hazardous than thoracic epidural.

      This study will compare continuous bilateral erector spinae block guided by ultrasound versus
      intravenous analgesia for pain management in cardiac surgery Patients will be enrolled in the
      study will be divided into two groups In Group A: 20 patients will receive fentanyl after
      induction and intubation in the dose of ( 3-52mcg/kg ) according to the patients haemodynamic
      parameters and the decision of the anaesthesia team at skin incision, before starting
      Cardiopulmonary bypass and again after bypass and before sternal closure. Once the surgical
      procedure is ﬁnished, patients will be transferred to ICU. After ICU transfer acetaminophen 1
      gm/6hrs will be given regularly and NSAID if there is no contraindication after extubation.
      morphine 0.5mg/kg as rescue analgesia will be started upon arrival till extubation.

      In Group B: 20 patients will have bilateral ESP block will be done under general anaesthesia
      bolus dose 15 ml of 0.25% bupivacaine will be injected in each of the catheters followed by a
      continuous infusion of 0.125% plain bupivacaine at the rate of 8 ml/h starting in ICU for 48
      h after extubation. patients will receive intraoperative boluses of fentanyl according to the
      patients' haemodynamic and the decision of the anaesthesia team at skin incision, before
      starting Cardiopulmonary bypass and again after bypass and before sternal closure. Once the
      surgical procedure is ﬁnished, patients will be transferred to ICU morphine 0.5mg/kg as
      rescue analgesia will be started upon arrival till extubation. Infusion rate will be titrated
      according to haemodynamics, pain assessment, and complications. After extubation
      acetaminophen 1gm/6hrs will be given regularly.
    
  