
    
      Program ACTIVE II is a study funded by the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and
      Kidney Diseases (R18DK092765) designed to test the combined effectiveness of two behavioral
      treatments for depression in people with type 2 diabetes: individual counseling (cognitive
      behavioral therapy; CBT) and exercise. While each of these treatment approaches has been
      tested individually in people with depression, no study has tested the combination of these
      approaches for people with major depression and type 2 diabetes. These approaches have the
      potential to work synergistically as a win-win strategy to improve both T2DM and depression
      outcomes while extending the reach of formal health care treatment strategies for diabetes.

      Two primary study aims will be addressed by Program ACTIVE II: 1) to compare changes in
      glycemic control across intervention groups to UC at POST and 6- and 12-month follow-up
      assessments; and 2) to compare changes in MDD outcomes across intervention groups (i.e. CBT,
      EXER, CBT+EXER) to usual care (UC) following intervention (POST) and 6- and 12-month
      follow-up assessments.

      The primary hypotheses are:

        1. Diabetes Outcomes. Based on the investigators' pilot data, mean glycemic control (as
           measured by HbA1c) is expected to improve .4% in participants in the EXER and CBT+EXER
           treatment conditions at POST compared to baseline [de Groot et al 2009]. Participants
           assigned to the CBT+EXER treatment are expected to show the greatest improvement in
           HbA1c followed by those in the EXER group in comparison to the CBT group. No improvement
           is expected among those assigned to the UC condition.

        2. Depression. Participants in the CBT, EXER and CBT+EXER conditions will show clinically
           significant improvements in BDI and diagnosis of MDD at POST and 6- and 12-month
           assessments with the greatest improvements expected among those in CBT+EXER condition.
           Based on pilot data, a) 66% reduction in the number of people who meet DSM-IV criteria
           for MDD is expected at POST compared to baseline; b) 86-90% percent of cases with MDD
           remission at POST are expected to remain remitted at the 6-month follow-up; c) severity
           of depression, as measured by the BDI-II, will significantly decrease from baseline to
           POST and baseline to follow-up assessments, after co-varying the effect of gender,
           number of T2DM complications, and exposure to treatment. It is anticipated that
           participants in the CBT+EXER condition will show the longest remission rates of
           depression followed by those in EXER and CBT.

           The secondary hypotheses are:

        3. Changes in CVD risk factors in the intervention groups compared to UC over time.
           Physical activity capacity, as measured by the 6-minute walk test (6MWT), will
           demonstrate the greatest improvements in the CBT+EXER arm, closely followed by the EXER
           arm at follow-up assessment compared to baseline. Participants in the CBT and UC arms
           are not expected to show significant improvements. LDL-C is expected to improve at POST
           in the EXER and CBT+EXER conditions consistent with pilot data.

        4. Cost Effectiveness Analyses. The predicted incidence of complications, particularly
           coronary heart disease (CHD), will be lower among those who receive CBT+EXER condition
           compared to the CBT, EXER and UC conditions. Further, the costs of this intensive
           intervention will be offset by a decrease in complication incidence.
    
  