
    
      Part 1:

      Primary Objectives

      1. To describe the social determinants of health in a cross-section of patients with WHO
      Grade 2-4 gliomas using a group of validated instruments including the PRAPARE instrument,
      the Accountable Health Communities Health-Related Social Needs Screening Tool (AHC HRSN), and
      supplementary questions.

      Secondary Objectives

        1. To compare social determinants of health between patients residing in economically
           disadvantaged and advantaged communities as defined in our prior study (low income
           communities vs high income county communities, by zip code).

        2. To compare social determinants of health between patients residing in economically
           disadvantaged and advantaged communities as defined by other means including county (low
           income communities vs high income communities, by county), by urban vs rural (urban vs
           rural, by city), and by area deprivation index (see Section 5.2).

        3. To quantify and compare the patient- and community-level social determinants of health
           present in the cohort and by community (low income community vs high income community).

        4. To compare the time to presentation, time to treatment initiation, and extent of surgery
           for patients from economically disadvantaged and advantaged communities as described
           above.

      Part 2:

      Data from our preliminary study revealed differences in survival for patients from low income
      communities compared to high income community zip codes. The overarching goal of Part 2 is to
      further characterize the social factors that characterize low income community and high
      income communities and may contribute to the differences in outcome.

      Primary Aim

        1. To identify, compare, contrast, and contextualize the patient- and community-specific
           social determinants for patients residing in (1) low income communities and high income
           community zip codes and (2) urban and rural communities.

        2. To explore how patients perceive communication with their providers about social and
           community factors that contribute to health outcomes and understand the barriers,
           challenges, and opportunities to improve patient-provider communication.
    
  