
    
      An objective of the study is to perform the entire ablation procedure from subject
      preparation through confirmation of bidirectional conduction block entirely under magnetic
      resonance guidance. However, at the investigator's discretion, the preparation of the subject
      may occur in a conventional electrophysiology laboratory followed by transferring the patient
      to the magnetic resonance suite for the ablation procedure. Additionally, if bidirectional
      conduction block is not achieved within 90 minutes from the initial catheter placement, the
      subject may be transferred from the magnetic resonance suite to a conventional
      electrophysiology lab to complete the procedure. Clinical success is bidirectional conduction
      block regardless of the environment within which the ablation occurs.

      The study will be conducted at a single center, Herzzentrum Leipzig University Hospital, in
      Germany, and a maximum of 30 subjects meeting inclusion/exclusion criteria will participate
      in the study. This study requires the use of investigational products from two independent
      manufacturers: Imricor and Philips. Imricor has developed the ablation catheter with related
      accessories, introducers, and recording system. Philips has developed an image guidance and
      mapping system that is compatible with the Imricor products. The Vision Ablation Catheter
      will be used in conjunction with the following investigational products: Vision Ablation
      Catheter Cable Set (accessory sterile cable), Vision Hemostasis Introducer, Vision
      Dual-Deflect Sheath, Horizon recording system, and the interventional MRI Suite (iSuite)
      image guidance and mapping system. With the exception of iSuite, which is manufactured by
      Philips, Imricor will provide all investigational devices used in the study. Each procedure
      will utilize the following two single-use products: two Vision Ablation Catheters and an
      accessory Catheter Cable set. At the discretion of the investigator, Vision Hemostasis
      Introducers may be used for femoral access and a Vision Dual- Deflect Sheath and may be used
      in conjunction with the Vision Ablation Catheter Cable Set. Ablation for the treatment of
      arrhythmia is an inherently complex procedure. Use of the investigational products listed
      above under magnetic resonance guidance is a new approach to performing the interventional
      electrophysiology procedure. The study population will consist of adult patients requiring
      ablation for type I atrial flutter.

      Study subjects will require a follow-up visit or telephone call at 7 days post procedure.

      Accordingly, the expected total study duration is approximately six months with study start
      planned for October 2014.
    
  