
    
      Alcohol use is associated with a number of adverse health and economic effects. Problem
      drinking is associated with increased mortality rates and with premature mortality. As a
      result of these findings, the testing of the effectiveness of alcohol abuse prevention
      strategies has become an important national research priority. Secondary prevention of
      alcohol problems covers the methods used for early detection and treatment of people with
      excessive alcohol consumption. These preventive methods are referred to as brief
      interventions. Brief intervention is a short-term counseling strategy based on motivational
      enhancement therapy that concentrates on changing patient behavior and increasing patient
      compliance with therapy. It has been shown to be effective for helping socially stable
      problem drinkers to reduce or stop drinking, for motivating alcohol-dependent patients to
      enter long-term alcohol treatment, and for treating some alcohol-dependent patients for whom
      the goal is abstinence. The aims of this study are to examine the outcomes of a brief
      intervention to reduce alcohol consumption by problem drinkers among medical inpatients in
      general hospital setting. The study design is a randomized controlled clinical trial.
      Patients will be recruited from adult patients who are admitted to medical or surgical wards
      of a general hospital. All adult inpatients of a general hospital, aged 18 to 65 years, will
      be consecutively screened with the Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test for identifying
      the problem drinkers. All patients who screen positive and who have signed a consent form
      will be contacted by a researcher and invited to participate in a face-to-face interview to
      determine their eligibility for the trial. The inclusion criteria are problems drinkers,
      defined as men who drank more than 21 units a week and women who drank more than 14 units a
      week. Patients will be excluded from participation in the study if they are younger than 18
      years or older than 65 years, and have attended an alcohol treatment program in the last 3
      months. Screened positives will then be interviewed using the instrument of SCAN to confirm
      the diagnosis of alcohol use disorders. The patients who fulfill the criteria will be
      randomized into one of the three following groups: (1) control group will be provided with
      routine inpatient usual care; (2) experimental group 1: physicians and nurses in charge will
      be informed of the results of alcohol consumption screening, in addition to providing routine
      inpatient usual care; (3) experimental group 2 will receive brief intervention, in addition
      to treatment protocols provided for experimental group 1. Brief intervention, offered twice
      by well-trained therapists, is 15-minute short-term individual consultation, giving alcohol
      health education, increasing their motivation to alcohol abstinence, teaching alcohol
      abstinence principle, and in order to ameliorate the over-drinking problems in these cases.
      The main outcome measures are alcohol use measures, which will be evaluated at 12-week after
      the study recruitment.
    
  