
    
      Although several therapeutic options exist for patients with metastatic pheochromocytoma, all
      options are limited and there is no cure. Reduction of tumor size palliates symptoms, but a
      survival advantage of debulking is unproven. A reduced tumor burden can facilitate subsequent
      radiotherapy or chemotherapy. External-beam irradiation of bone metastases and radio
      frequency ablation of lesions are treatment alternatives. Chemotherapy with a combination of
      cyclophosphamide, vincristin, and dacarbazine can provide tumor regression and symptom relief
      in up to 50% of patients, but the responses are usually short-lived. To date, 131I-labeled
      MIBG therapy is the single most valuable adjunct to surgical treatment of malignant
      pheochromocytomas. As a single agent, 131I-labeled MIBG has a limited efficacy of cure, and
      there is no consensus on what doses to use for treating either bone or organ metastases.
      Multicenter studies are required to reach a consensus on the efficacy of high-dose versus
      fractionated medium doses of 131I-labeled MIBG and monotherapy versus combination therapy
      with other radio nuclides or modes of chemotherapy.

      The PI3-K/Akt/mTOR pathway is dysregulated in many cancers and is activated by several
      upstream proteins, such as ras, TCL1, and bcr-abl, and membrane receptor tyrosine kinases,
      including vascular endothelial growth factor receptor, platelet-derived growth factor
      receptor, c-kit, and Flt3. Increased expression and constitutive activation of the catalytic
      subunit of PI3-K and Akt and/or decreased or absent PTEN protein expression have been
      reported in many types of cancer. Activating mutation in PIK3CA, the gene for the catalytic
      subunit of PI3-K have been reported in 25% of gastric cancer.

      Upstream in the growth-promoting pathways that converge on mTOR are critical molecules that
      are often deregulated in cancer. These deregulated molecules precede inappropriate signals
      that activate the mTOR switch, driving the growth and proliferation of the cancer cell.
      Because the number of potential defects that can cause inappropriate activation of mTOR is
      large and one or another is common to most cancer cells, blocking their effect at the point
      of convergence is a rational approach.

      According to Martin F et al, AKT is highly phosphorylated in phenochromocytoma but not in
      benign adrenocortical tumors.

      Although mTOR is clearly an attractive therapeutic target in tumor, no clinical study on mTOR
      inhibition by RAD001 have been conducted in pheochromocytoma or extra-adrenal paraganglioma.

      So we conduct this phase II study of RAD001 in this disease And we also include the
      nonfunctioning carcinoid in this study.
    
  