
    
      Background: The World Health Organization recommends that antimalarial treatment policies be
      evaluated every few years to check their efficacy. P. vivax malaria is the most common
      species in Brazil and cases are concentrated in the Amazon Region in Brazil.

      Objectives: Assess the efficacy of 3 different regimens of chloroquine and primaquine for the
      treatment of P. vivax infections in Cruzeiro do Sul, Acre, Brazil.

      Methods: An in vivo drug efficacy study will be conducted in Cruzeiro do Sul, Acre State,
      Brazil. A total of 257 study participants ≥5 years of age with parasitologically confirmed P.
      vivax monoinfections will be included. Patients will be divided in 3 different groups:
      treatment with regular dose of primaquine (0.5 mg/kg per day for 7 days) with directly
      observed therapy; regular dose of primaquine without directly observed therapy; and increased
      total dose of primaquine (0.5 mg/kg per day for14 days) with directly observed therapy. All
      patients will receive chloroquine (CQ) for three days at a daily dose of approximately 25
      mg/Kg in accordance with the Brazilian National Malaria Control guidelines. Primaquine will
      be given for 7 or 14 days under supervision or not, depending on the study group. Clinical
      and parasitologic parameters will be monitored over a 28-day follow-up period to evaluate
      drug efficacy and for a total period of 168 days (24 weeks) to evaluate chances of
      recrudescence, relapse, or reinfection. Blood samples will be taken to measure the CQ levels
      in blood on Day 7 and day of failure, if occurring in the initial 28 days of follow up. In
      addition, a blood sample will be collected on filter paper on first day and on day of
      suspected failure to help differentiate parasite genotypes using techniques based on
      polymerase chain reaction. Results from this drug efficacy study will be used to assist the
      Brazilian Ministry of Health in assessing their national malaria treatment policy for P.
      vivax malaria.
    
  