
    
      Dilated forms of cardiomyopathies present with left ventricular enlargement and reduced
      ejection fraction. Myocardial fibrosis as assessed by gradient echo sequences after contrast
      application ("late enhancement") has been proven to be of outstanding value for the detection
      of small irreversibly injured lesions and has been used to accurately characterize scarred
      tissue in infarcts (Kim et al, Circulation 1999), myocarditis (Mahrholdt et al., Circulation
      2004), and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (Moon et al., J Am Coll Cardiol 2004). Whereas
      fibrosis pattern have been described for non-ischemic cardiomyopathies (Mahrholdt et al., Eur
      Heart J 2005), little is known about the specific regional distribution of fibrous tissue
      within the group of dilated forms. McCrohon et al. have described a mid-mural and a patchy
      pattern in patients with global LV dysfunction and no evidence of relevant coronary artery
      disease (McCrohon et al., Circulation 2003). This study however, did not include right
      ventricular cardiomyopathy patients and patients with isolated non-compaction as two
      important dilated forms of cardiomyopathy.

      Justification/relevance/purpose

      The presence of fibrosis in dilated forms of cardiomyopathy may be predictive of progression
      of left ventricular dysfunction over time, as it may represent irreversible damage.

      Gadobutrol will be used as the only contrast agent in this study; the significantly higher
      relaxivity as compared to other contrast agents will potentially allow the visualization of
      small, focal areas of irreversible injury in the myocardium, thus increasing sensitivity of
      the method to identify even localized fibrotic areas.

      Objective, hypothesis

      We attempt to define disease-specific patterns of extent and spatial distribution of
      irreversible tissue injury within the group of dilated forms of cardiomyopathies.

      We hypothesize that in patients with dilated cardiomyopathies certain patterns of late
      enhancement can be identified, which are useful for a more specific phenotyping.

      We also hypothesize that the use of Gadobutrol (Gadovist®) as the only contrast agent
      identifies small areas of irreversible tissue injury better than standard contrast agents and
      may be beneficial for diagnosing small fibrotic changes.
    
  