
    
      Significance and Specific Aims of Project

      Men who have sex with men (MSM) continue to be disproportionately affected by the HIV
      epidemic in the United States. However, the experimental research designed to advance our
      knowledge of the causal link between alcohol use and risky sex has disproportionately focused
      on heterosexual men and women. Experimental studies are needed to test established theories
      and explore new mechanisms linking alcohol to HIV risk among MSM. This proposed project will
      experimentally test if sex-specific delay discounting (SSDD) is a mechanism of action
      underlying the association between alcohol and risky sexual behavior among MSM. More
      specifically stated, the aims are to:

        1. Examine the pharmacological effect of alcohol on sex-specific delay discounting in MSM,
           with the prediction that individuals who consume alcohol will display greater sexual
           impulsivity

        2. Examine the expectancy effect of alcohol on sex-specific delay discounting in MSM, with
           the prediction that those who receive placebo will evince greater sexual impulsivity
           than true controls

        3. Test whether sex-specific delay discounting mediates the effects of alcohol on risky
           sexual decision making in MSM, using the CMM as a theoretical base for hypothesis
           testing

      Participant Population

      The participant population will consist of males age 21 to 35 years who are able to read and
      communicate in English. Eligible participants are: 1) single (i.e., not in a mutually
      monogamous relationship for at least 3 months); 2) sexually active as defined by any anal sex
      (i.e., receptive or insertive) with another man in the past 12 months; and 3) have had
      condomless anal sex with a male partner in their lifetime; 4) have had at least one sexual
      encounter with a male partner met online in their lifetime; 5) characterized as a current
      heavy drinker, as defined by self-report of one or more episodes of heavy drinking (i.e., ≥5
      standard drinks in a single occasion) during the past 30 days; and 5) HIV negative, based on
      self-report.

      Non-drinkers, light to moderate drinkers, and individuals with current alcohol problems (as
      indexed by an AUDIT score ≥16) or drug problems (as indexed by a DAST score ≥6) will be
      excluded. Given that this is a study of MSM, females will be excluded. Furthermore,
      individuals who do not meet the relationship status and sexual activity criteria above will
      be excluded. Lastly, individuals who participated in Phase 1 of this research program will be
      excluded from Phase 2 Based on recruitment rates from studies at Brown, the investigators
      estimate that one quarter of participants completing the screening consent will be eligible
      for the study. As such, the investigators plan to obtain screening consent from approximately
      600 to 800 individuals with the hope of yielding 150 to 180 participants eligible for the
      experimental session.

      Recruitment and Screening

      Participants will be recruited using established and approved methods that have been applied
      in our community, including online advertisement through the Brown CAAS and Brown Alcohol
      Research Center on HIV (ARCH) websites, flyers posted at CAAS- and ARCH-affiliated clinical
      and community centers, and flyers posted at public venues and organizations in the local
      community. In addition to these direct recruitment strategies, this study will employ chain
      referral sampling (i.e., "snowball sampling"), in which project staff will ask men who
      respond to our advertisements if they would be willing to inform others about our study.

      Project staff will also contact individuals who have completed the online survey for our
      research participant pool. The participant pool survey provides an efficient means to
      identify individuals who are interested in participating in research studies on sexual
      minority men's health. The HRPP confirmed that the procedures necessary for creating and
      managing this participant pool do not constitute human subjects research, and therefore do
      not require IRB review. The participant pool survey includes items that are sufficient to
      determine whether an individual meets preliminary screening criteria for the current study.
      As with our other recruitment strategies, all individuals recruited through the participant
      pool will be asked to complete the dedicated screening consent and survey to determine full
      eligibility for this study.

      Methodology and Procedures

      Screening. Upon contact, potential participants will be given a brief description of the
      study and will receive a link to our online screening consent form and screening survey. Upon
      completion of the screening survey, those who do not meet the inclusion criteria will be
      notified of their ineligibility online. Eligible participants will be contacted by a research
      assistant to describe the experimental session further and confirm their interest in
      participating. Eligible participants will be informed that the experimental session will last
      2.5 hours, plus the time it takes for BrAC to fall to .02%. Participants will be told not to
      drive to the session; public transportation or cab vouchers will be provided if necessary.
      Participants will be asked to bring photo identification to their session, to avoid using
      alcohol or drugs that are not prescribed (including over-the-counter drugs) for 24 hours
      prior to their appointments, and to fast for 3 hours before their appointments. Participants
      agreeing to these terms will be scheduled for the experimental session.

      Informed Consent Procedure. All experimental sessions will be conducted at CAAS in
      Providence, RI. Our labs are designed to facilitate studies involving alcohol administration.
      When participants arrive to the lab, the research assistant will review photo identification
      to verify the participant's age, then they will collect a BrAC to ensure that they are .000%.
      Those with a BrAC above .000% will be rescheduled. Next, the research assistant will review
      all sections of the informed consent document with the participant. The research assistant
      will ask the participant if he understands the key component involved in participation, and
      will answer any remaining questions before obtaining the participant's signature on the
      appropriate documentation. After obtaining consent, the research assistant will review a
      standard medical condition agreement, which asks participants to indicate whether they have
      any medical conditions or are taking any medications for which alcohol use is
      contraindicated. RAs will emphasize that questions are being asked of participants to ensure
      their safety, and inquire about whether there are any safety reasons why they should not
      participate. Lists of affected conditions and medications will be provided.

      Experimental Session Protocol. Participants will be randomly assigned to one of three
      potential conditions described above. The research assistant will collect measures of the
      participant's weight and height for determining the volume of beverage to be administered.
      This includes determining the appropriate dose of alcohol for those assigned to the alcohol
      condition. Dose amounts will be calculated using a well-validated algorithm. Next
      participants will be asked to complete a baseline assessment battery via computer-delivered
      self-report questionnaire. Finally, the research assistant will encourage the participant to
      use the restroom prior to initiating experimental procedures.

      After completing the baseline measures, participants will undergo the beverage administration
      protocol, which will be identical for all participants so as to avoid bias due to potential
      timing effects. Duration and timing of beverage administration and post-drinking assessment
      is based on pharmacokinetic assumptions that peak blood alcohol is approximately 60 minutes
      after consumption. Participants in the alcohol condition will consume a volume of alcohol to
      reach a peak BrAC of .080g%. The total volume will be divided into three drinks to be
      consumed over the course of 15 minutes. Following consumption, BrAC will be measured every
      5-minutes, and post-drinking assessment will be initiated when the participant's BrAC is
      .035g%, as this corresponds with the initiation of stimulant effects of alcohol. The
      estimated absorption period to reach this level is 10 to 20 minutes. Initiation of post-drink
      assessment for placebo and true control participants will be determined using a yoked control
      design, such that each control participant is assigned to undergo the same waiting period and
      the same number of breath tests as a corresponding alcohol participant.

      Upon reaching a BrAC of .035g% (or comparable time for placebo and control), participants
      begin the post-drinking assessment protocol, comprising an arousal prime, two measures of
      sex-specific delay discounting, followed by the MSM stimulus story. The instructions for each
      of these tasks will be computer-delivered, and participant responses will be collected via
      computer-based self-report questionnaires. Within the MSM scenario, participants are asked in
      open-ended format to respond to other character in the story or to describe what happens
      next. These responses will be audio recorded using a digital recording device set to
      automatically record when the participant begins speaking. Throughout this protocol, which
      will last approximately 35-45 minutes, BrAC will be measured every 10-15 minutes for all
      participants independent of condition. To evaluate the success of the experimental
      manipulation, subjective intoxication (e.g., "how intoxicated do you feel?") will be measured
      every 10-15 minutes as well.

      Following the assessment phase, participants in the placebo and control conditions will be
      debriefed and provided with a taxi home. Participants in the alcohol condition will begin the
      recovery period, in which they will be able to eat a snack, use the restroom, and wait
      comfortably. BrAC will be assessed every 15-20 minutes until it is verified at .02g% or
      below, at which point they will be debriefed and provided with a taxi or public
      transportation home.
    
  