
    
      This is a randomized (1:1) double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group study of
      ibudilast in hospitalized COVID-19 subjects at risk for developing ARDS receiving standard of
      care including anticoagulation. The study will consist of a Screening Phase followed by a
      Treatment and Follow-up Phase. Following the Screening Phase, if the subject meets
      eligibility criteria, subject will be administered treatment with MN-166 (ibudilast) or
      placebo. Subjects will receive ibudilast 100 mg/d (50 mg b.i.d) or placebo every day for 7
      days. Upon completion of the 7-day Treatment Phase, subject will be followed-up at Day 14 and
      at Day 28 post baseline. Subjects discharged prior to Day 7 will be given the remainder of
      their study medication to be taken at home twice daily and will be given a pulse oximeter to
      measure their oxygen levels once daily until Day 14.

      The following screening assessments will be performed upon signing the ICF:
      inclusion/exclusion criteria review, physical exam, assess vital signs and O2 use, clinical
      status using the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases scale, 12-lead ECG,
      draw blood for plasma biomarkers that include: migration inhibitory factor (MIF),
      (interleukin 1-beta (IL-1β), interleukin 6 (IL-6), tumor necrosis factor (TNFα), and
      C-reactive protein (CRP). A complete blood count (CBC), comprehensive metabolic panel (CMP),
      D-dimer and coagulation tests will also be drawn. A serum pregnancy test will be done in
      pre-menopausal females. Prior concomitant medications taken within the last 7 days prior to
      study drug administration will be recorded.

      During the Treatment Phase, hospitalized subjects will be treated with MN-166 or placebo for
      a 7-day period. During the Treatment Phase, subjects will undergo study-related procedures
      including physical exam, ECG, Oxygen use assessment, biomarkers and pharmacokinetic samples
      draw, CBC, CMP, D-dimer blood collection, clinical assessment using the NIAID scale, and
      information on adverse events and concomitant medications will be recorded.

      On Study Day 14, conduct physical examination, clinical status, vital signs and oxygen use,
      ECG, CBC, CMP, D-dimer, and coagulation tests, biomarkers, AE and concomitant medications
      review. On Day 28, subject's clinical status and survival status will be recorded.
    
  