
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the incidence of 6-month disease free survival. The primary laboratory
           objective is the measure of in vivo expansion of umbilical cord blood (UCB) derived
           natural killer cells (NK) after a fully ablative preparative regimen.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the incidence of transplant-related mortality at 6 months after NK UCB +
           double UCBT

        -  Evaluate the pattern of chimerism after NK UCB + double UCBT

        -  Determine the incidence of neutrophil engraftment at day 42 after NK UCB + double
           umbilical cord blood transplantation (UCBT)

        -  Determine the incidence of platelet engraftment at 6 months after NK UCB + double UCBT

        -  Determine the incidence of acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) grade II-IV and grade
           III-IV at day 100 after NK UCB + double UCBT

        -  Determine the incidence of chronic GVHD at 1 year after NK UCB + double UCBT

        -  Determine the disease-free survival at 1 after NK UCB + double UCBT

        -  Determine the incidence of relapse at 1 after NK UCB + double UCBT

      OUTLINE: This is a single arm, nonrandomized, open-label study.

        -  Myeloablative conditioning regimen: Patients receive fludarabine intravenously (IV) over
           1 hour on days -18 to -16 and cyclophosphamide intravenously (IV) on days -18 and -17.
           Patients undergo total-body irradiation twice daily on days -16 to -13.

        -  Haploidentical umbilical cord blood (UCB) natural killer (NK) cell therapy and
           aldesleukin: Patients undergo haploidentical UCB-enriched NK cell (CD3- depleted)
           infusion on day -13. Patients then receive aldesleukin subcutaneously on days -13, -11,
           -9, -7, -5, and -3. Some patients may also receive methylprednisolone IV on days -1 and
           0.

        -  UCB transplantation (UCBT): Patients undergo a single or double UCBT on day 0. Beginning
           on day 1, patients receive filgrastim (G-CSF) IV once daily until blood counts recover.

        -  Graft-vs-host disease (GVHD) prophylaxis: Patients receive cyclosporine IV over 2 hours
           2-3 times daily beginning on day -1 and continuing until day 100, followed by a taper
           until day 180. Patients also receive mycophenolate mofetil IV or orally 2-3 times daily
           beginning on day -1 and continuing until day 30 (or 7 days after engraftment) in the
           absence of acute GVHD.
    
  