
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether every-12-week therapy with zoledronic acid is not inferior to
      every-4-week therapy for patients with metastatic breast cancer, metastatic prostate cancer,
      or multiple myeloma involving bone, as measured by the proportion who experience at least one
      skeletal related event within 24 months after randomization.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare pain scores (Brief Pain Inventory) of patients with metastatic breast cancer,
      metastatic prostate cancer, or myeloma involving bone receiving every 12 week dosing of
      zoledronic acid to those receiving every 4 week dosing.

      II. To compare the functional status (Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group [ECOG] performance
      status) of patients with metastatic breast cancer, metastatic prostate cancer, or myeloma
      involving bone receiving every 12 week dosing of zoledronic acid to those receiving every 4
      week dosing.

      III. To compare the incidence of osteonecrosis of the jaw in patients with metastatic breast
      cancer, metastatic prostate cancer, or myeloma involving bone receiving every 12 week dosing
      of zoledronic acid to those receiving every 4 week dosing.

      IV. To compare the incidence of renal dysfunction in patients with metastatic breast cancer,
      metastatic prostate cancer, or myeloma involving bone receiving every 12 week dosing of
      zoledronic acid to those receiving every 4 week dosing.

      V. To compare the skeletal morbidity rate of these patients, defined as the number of
      skeletal-related events per year, of patients receiving every 12 week dosing to those
      receiving every 4 week dosing.

      VI. To compare the suppression of serum markers of bone resorption of patients with
      metastatic breast cancer, metastatic prostate cancer, or myeloma involving bone receiving
      every 12 week dosing of zoledronic acid to those receiving every 4 week dosing.

      VII. To determine whether every 12 week therapy with zoledronic acid is not inferior to
      every-4-week therapy for each subgroup of patients with either breast cancer, prostate
      cancer, or multiple myeloma, as measured by the proportion who experience at least one
      skeletal related event within 24 months after randomization.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive zoledronic acid intravenously (IV) over at least 15 minutes every 4
      weeks for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive zoledronic acid IV over at least 15 minutes every 12 weeks for up to
      2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 4 weeks for 2 years from
      registration.
    
  