
    
      1.0 Background Surgical procedures are high risk events and patients may suffer complications
      or die post operatively. A report from an on-going patient safety campaign "In Safe Hands"
      lead by the Norwegian Knowledge Centre for the Health Services reveals that approximately 16
      % of all Norwegian hospital admissions in 2010 involved an adverse event (AE) (Deilkås,
      2011). A review study on AEs in 2008 included a wide range of in-hospital patients from
      Australia, Canada, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, and the United States of America (US) (de
      Vries et al., 2008). 9 % of the patients experienced an AE, with 7. 4 % of these ending
      fatally. The majority of the AEs occurred during surgical treatment or was related to drug
      administration. The authors claimed that almost half of these could have been prevented if
      checklists covering the entire surgical pathway had been used (de Vries et al., 2008).
      Implementation of such a system, called the Surgical Patient Safety System (SURPASS) did in
      fact result in a reduction of in-hospital morbidity (from 27.3% to 16.7%) and mortality (from
      1.5 % to 0.8 %) (de Vries, 2010).

      Patient safety checklists have been introduced and recommended as a standard of surgical care
      (Birkmeyer, 2010; de Vries et al., 2011). Studies based on data from electronic patient
      administrative systems show that checklist use may reduce mortality and morbidity in surgery
      (de Vries et al., 2010; van Klei et al., 2012; Haynes et al., 2009). Safe Surgery checklists
      have been recommended by the World Health Organization (WHO) since 2008 as a strategy to
      avoid adverse events (AE) during surgery. More than 6000 hospitals have implemented Safe
      Surgery checklists in their operating theatres (OTs)
      (http://www.who.int/patientsafety/safesurgery/en/), including Haukeland University Hospital
      (HUH).

      This multicentre research project will also introduce a system of patient safety checklists
      at each point of care during the surgical patients' stay, not only in the operating theatres
      (OTs). The system combines new checklists on patient care (parts of SURPASS) with the already
      established Safe Surgery checklist (WHO) in the OTs. At the same time securing reliability,
      validity and quality of the patient, morbidity and mortality data will be an essential part
      of the study.

      Today the discharging physician reviews the medical journal and makes a medical summary
      including coding diseases and complications relevant for the current admission. International
      Classification of Diseases (ICD-10) codes are used to set diagnoses for clinical,
      epidemiological and quality purposes
      (http://www.who.int/classifications/icd/ICD10Volume2_en_2010.pdf). The ICD-10 codes are also
      used for registrations on national mortality and morbidity in the Norwegian National Patient
      Register (NPR). Questions have been raised as to the accuracy and quality of the data in such
      registers in Norway, e.g. in patients with sepsis (Flaatten, 2004), and intensive care
      patients (Aardal et al., 2005). In a Danish study on relations between ICD-10 coding in the
      National Registry of Patients and the hospitals' discharge summary and medical records, a
      high reliability between ICD-10 scores and co-morbidity was found (Thygesen et al., 2011). To
      our knowledge similar studies have not been done in Norway. As a crucial part of this
      investigation we concurrently will evaluate the reliability and validity of our patient
      administrative data by comparing the post discharge ICD-10 codes to actual data available
      directly from medical journal systems as documented by health care personnel in the journal
      texts.

      2.0 Objective

      The main objectives of this study are to:

        -  Perform a systematic review of published studies on effects of safety checklists in
           medicine.

        -  Explore effects on morbidity and mortality after implementing a system of patient safety
           checklists at each point of care during the surgical patients' stay (elements of SURPASS
           and the WHO Safe Surgery list combined), in a cohort of surgical patients in different
           surgical departments in one hospital, with patients from departments not having the
           system introduced serving as controls from three hospitals.

        -  Investigate the validity of the post discharge ICD-10 codes for complications compared
           to actual information found in medical journal systems texts.

      3.0 Methods 3.1 The projects and design

        1. Systematic review A systematic review on effects of safety checklists in medicine was
           done on May 29th, 2012 in the databases MEDLINE, Cochrane library, EMBASE and Web of
           Science, limited to only humans. The criteria were pre-set and included all time
           published quantitative studies in any language in the in-hospital and pre-hospital
           setting where safety checklists were the sole intervention, and effects of using
           checklists, generated as measurable outcomes. 7408 singular articles were found. To
           ensure the transparency of the reviewing process we used the PRISMA guidelines (Liberati
           et al., 2009). 34 studies met our inclusion criteria. The majority of the included
           studies measured effects pre-and post-intervention and was classified as having an
           observational design. . This systematic review has identified that safety checklists can
           be effective safety tools in various clinical settings. Their use has reduced patient
           mortality and morbidity. In addition, safety checklist use has been associated with
           better human performance, improved compliance with evidence-based practices, promoted
           consistency of care, and reduction of technical omissions. None of the included studies
           reported that safety checklists have negative effects on patient safety issues.

        2. Implement the new patient safety checklist system and measure effects on morbidity,
           mortality and length of hospital stay.

           A prospective stepped wedge trial design (Brown & Lilford, 2006; Brown et al., 2008)
           will be used when implementing the validated patient safety checklist system in the
           Neurosurgical Department, the Orthopaedic Clinic and the Department of Gynaecology and
           Obstetrics at HUH. Patients from departments not using the patient safety checklist
           system serve as controls, this includes the Head and Neck Clinic (HUH), the Thoracic
           Surgery Section of the Heart Department (HUH) and two hospitals outside our own
           municipality (Health Trust Førde, and Health Trust Fonna - Haugesund Hospital). Primary
           end-points to be measured prospectively include length of hospital stay and morbidity
           and mortality utilizing the ICD-10 codes for complications collected electronically from
           the hospital patient administrative systems.

        3. Validation of morbidity and mortality data Today ICD-10 codes are produced by
           discharging physicians to summarize diagnoses at discharge and any complications having
           occurred during patient stay. In order to validate HUH's and Health Trust Førde's ICD-10
           coding on patient morbidity and mortality we will randomize inclusion for quality check
           comparing the ICD-10 codes used at discharge to all actual information on morbidity and
           mortality as documented in the electronic patient journal (EPJ) - DIPS. This validation
           should include approximately 700 patients, all having undergone major surgery. Such a
           comparison is essential to gain knowledge on the quality of generated ICD-10 data and
           thus important to the quality of results in this study.

      3.2 Intervention study sample Three surgical units at HUH (Department of Neurosurgery,
      Orthopaedic Clinic, and Department of Gynaecology and Obstetrics) will have the checklist
      system implemented. Approximately 3700 patients will be included before and 3700 patients
      after checklist implementation. The Control Group includes 7400 patients.

      3.4 Data collection For the study on mortality and morbidity we will extract ICD-10 codes
      used at discharge from the hospitals NPR file, as all Norwegian hospitals report their ICD-10
      codes and procedure codes to NPR. In addition to registering all ICD-10 codes on each
      patient, we will collect demographic data (age, gender, height and weight), American Society
      of Anaesthesiologists Physical Health Classification (ASA), dates of admission and discharge,
      and all surgical procedures and major treatments. Data will be processed through Webport
      using a system previously developed locally for the WHO Surgical Safety Checklist project.

      The primary end points, morbidity and mortality, are registered during hospitalization and
      postoperatively up to 30 days. Morbidity will be registered as major complications according
      to the American College of Surgeons' National Surgical Quality Improvement Program
      (http://www.facs.org/cqi/outcomes.html): organ/space surgical site infection, wound
      dehiscence, deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, pneumonia, re-intubation, ventilator
      use longer than 24 hours, cardiac arrest, myocardial infarction, sepsis, shock, coma longer
      than 24 hours, prosthetic/graft failure, and bleeding. Additional complications to these, as
      reported by de Vries (2010) will be included in order to make comparisons possible.

      The study investigating reliability and validity of the ICD-10 codes will be done in detail:
      A prospective random selection of 700 patients, 200 patients from Health Trust Førde and 500
      patients from the HUH, all having undergone major surgery. Present knowledge should suggest
      one or several major complications caused by procedures or iatrogenic causes in at least 17 %
      the surgical patients (de Vries, 2010). Then an inclusion of 700 patients is needed in order
      to find such complications in 119 cases. We will identify all post discharge ICD-10 codes for
      each patient. These codes will be thoroughly reviewed for accuracy and completeness by
      comparing to the actual information as documented by physicians and nurses in the EPJs
      throughout the total hospital stay. Primary outcome is here to investigate that registered
      ICD-10 codes have adequate sensitivity and specificity compared to the information in the
      patients' medical journal.

      3.5 Statistics Descriptive and inferential statistical methods will be used to analyse data.
      Confidence intervals (95% CI) for sensitivity and specificity will be calculated using the
      normal approximation for the standard error of proportions.

      Mortality and morbidity will be analysed as to time of measurement, e.g. pre and post
      intervention, and surgical unit, i.e. using or not using the checklist. Multiple regression
      analysis and other appropriate statistical tools will be used to adjust for covariates to
      mortality and morbidity. Calculation of sample size and power, with an expected mortality
      rate decrease (0.015 vs. 0.008) requires a sample size of 3641 patients in both baseline and
      post intervention groups with an alpha (0.05, 2-tailed), power is 80%. To calculate sample
      size and power for morbidity mitigation from 27% to 17% (de Vries et al., 2010) requires a
      much smaller sample size of 234 in baseline and post intervention groups to constitute an 80%
      power with alpha at 0.05, 2-tailed. Statistical analysis will be conducted with appropriate
      statistical software e.g. Statistical Package for the Social Sciences, Stata or R.
    
  