
    
      Although there are more than 100 different kinds of arthritis, the three most common are
      gout, osteoarthritis (OA) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA).Gout occurs in response to the
      presence of monosodium urate (MSU) crystals in joints, bones and soft tissues, and is usually
      treated by non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), oral or intravenous colchicines,
      and oral, intravenous or intraarticular glucocorticoids. All these drugs can abort acute
      attacks, but they also may have severe side effects. OA results from articular cartilage
      failure induced by a combination of genetic, metabolic, biochemical and biomechanical
      factors. OA is normally treated with analgesics such as acetaminophen and opioids, NSAIDs,
      and intraarticular therapies such as glucocorticoids and hyaluronans.

      In RA, 75% of the sufferers are women, suggesting the importance of hormones in the etiology
      of the disease. Smoking and stress are also thought to contribute to this disease, which is
      characterized by joint stiffness and swelling, often in a symmetrical pattern on both sides
      of the body. The goals of management of patients with RA are to control pain and swelling,
      delay disease progression, minimize disability, and improve quality of life. For pain control
      and swelling, treatment includes analgesics such as acetaminophen and opioids, NSAIDs, and
      intra-articular therapies such as glucocorticoids. In addition, disease modifying
      anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs) are used to modify the clinical and radiological course of RA.
      Examples include methotrexate (MTX), sulfasalazine, leflunomide, hydroxychloroquine and newer
      therapies such as anti-tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-a therapy (etanercept, infliximab and
      adalimumab), anti-CD20 therapy (rituximab) and abatacept However, all of these agents are
      associated with numerous side effects Promising evidence has been found for the effective use
      of some herbal preparations in the treatment of arthritis. Furthermore, evidence suggesting
      that some herbal preparations reduce consumption of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. It
      has been evident that some herbal preparations (Tripterygium wilfordii Hook F) monotherapy is
      not inferior then methotrexate and in combination with methotrexate showed better result than
      alone. In addition, adverse effect associated with trials of herbal preparation for arthritis
      is not only fewer but also minor. Evidence-based complementary and alternative medicine
      treatments are remarkably successful in addressing not only chronic but acute health issues
      as well. It is strongly perceived that different complementary and alternative medicine
      treatments exerts their healing potential by influencing immune system.
    
  