
    
      The purpose of this study is to determine whether the new meningococcal conjugate vaccine
      (MCV4) can reduce asymptomatic carriage of meningococcal bacteria, and thus decrease the
      transmission of these bacteria in the population.

      Neisseria meningitidis is a leading cause of bacterial meningitis in the United States. A new
      tetravalent (A, C, Y, W-135) meningococcal conjugate vaccine ([MCV4], MenactraTM manufactured
      by Sanofi Pasteur Inc.) has been approved by Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in January
      2005. This vaccine is recommended by ACIP for routine vaccination of young adolescents at the
      pre-adolescent visit (11-12 years old), adolescents at high school entry (15 years old), and
      college freshmen living in dormitories. Prevention of asymptomatic nasopharyngeal carriage of
      meningococci is important to interrupt person-to-person transmission and to induce herd
      immunity, when lower transmission results in lower disease rates among those people who are
      not vaccinated. No studies have yet been done to evaluate the impact of this new vaccine on
      carriage.

      This is a randomized study designed to evaluate the effect of MCV4 on meningococcal carriage.
      Several high schools will be randomized into the intervention and control groups. Students in
      intervention group will receive MCV4 at the beginning of the study, students in the control
      group will be offered MCV4 after the study completion. Three specimens of throat secretions
      (similar to swabs for Strep throat) will be collected from the students enrolled in the
      study: before vaccination of intervention group students (at the start of the school year), 8
      weeks post-vaccination, and 9 months post-vaccination (at the end of the school year).
      Questionnaire administered at the time of swabbing will assess potential risk factors for
      meningococcal carriage. Meningococcal bacteria isolated from the throat specimens will be
      serogrouped and molecularly typed. Approximately 2,000 students in each group will be needed
      for the study. Anticipating 35% refusal rate and 25% loss to follow-up, approximately 4,200
      high school students will need to be approached in each group.

      This study will answer an important question whether those who are vaccinated are protected
      not only from disease, but also from being asymptomatic carriers of meningococci. If so,
      those who are vaccinated will not be able to carry and transmit bacteria to unvaccinated
      individuals. Meningococcal conjugate vaccines may become available in the near future to
      other age groups, including infants and children. Determining the efficacy of MCV4 against
      meningococcal carriage will be important for policy decisions regarding vaccination with this
      and future conjugate vaccines in different age groups.
    
  