
    
      Overactive bladder (OAB) syndrome is characterized by the symptom complex of urinary urgency,
      usually with associated frequency and nocturia, with or without urgency urinary incontinence
      in the absence of infection or other pathology. OAB affects approximately 31% of women over
      the age of 65. Vaginal estrogen, a well-documented treatment for OAB in hypoestrogenic women,
      has been shown to improve symptoms of frequency, urgency and urgency urinary incontinence
      (UUI). Several theories have been proposed to explain the mechanism underlying estrogen's
      effect on lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS). The investigators propose that estrogen
      treatment influences bacterial communities (microbiomes) in the vagina and bladder and alters
      urothelial and vaginal (AMPs) thereby improving OAB symptoms in hypoestrogenic women.

      Long-standing medical dogma has been replaced by clear evidence that a female urinary
      microbiome (FUM) exists. The investigators recently reported that the FUM in women without
      OAB is less diverse than the FUM of women with OAB. The investigators soon will report that
      FUM status stratifies women with OAB into treatment response groups and women with less
      diverse FUMs are more likely to respond to anti-cholinergic OAB therapy (Thomas-White et al.,
      in preparation). This suggests that the FUM is a factor in lower urinary tract symptoms
      (LUTS) and that FUM diversity contributes to LUTS and treatment response, like the vaginal
      microbiome and its contribution to vaginal symptoms.

      In hypoestrogenic women, the vaginal microbiome shifts from low diversity communities,
      commonly dominated by Lactobacillus, to more diverse communities dominated by anaerobes; this
      change can be reversed with estrogen treatment. Since the FUM of women with OAB includes
      bacteria similar to those of the vaginal microbiome (e.g. Lactobacillus, Gardnerella, and
      diverse anaerobes), the investigators reason the FUM would respond similarly to estrogen and
      become less diverse. Although transvaginal medications likely alter nearby bacterial niches
      (e.g. the bladder), no study has reported the urinary microbiomic response to vaginal
      estrogen.

      While almost nothing is known about urinary/vaginal microbiome interplay, even less is known
      about immune response modulation in the bladder and vagina. However, estrogen reduces the
      subsequent urinary tract infection (UTI) rate in hypoestrogenic women affected by recurrent
      UTI, and estrogen induces urothelial antimicrobial peptide (AMP) expression. Since AMPs
      exhibit microbicidal activity, stimulate inflammation, and facilitate epithelial barrier
      homeostasis, estrogen may work through AMPs as mediators to optimize microbial equilibrium.

      The investigators hypothesize that, following estrogen treatment of hypoestrogenic women with
      OAB, symptom improvement will be associated with 1) reduced FUM diversity, 2) alteration of
      other FUM characteristics and 3) increased AMP levels. The investigators propose two specific
      aims:

      Aim 1: To compare pelvic floor microbiome (PFM) diversity and AMP levels before and after
      estrogen treatment in hypoestrogenic women with OAB symptoms.

      Aim 2: Determine if FUM characteristics correlate with OAB symptoms.
    
  