
    
      Prostate cancer screening programs have led to thousands of sexually healthy and continent
      men being diagnosed with prostate cancer every year. Recent literature suggests that up to
      80% of these cancers are confined to the prostate gland. Currently, radical prostatectomy
      (RP) remains the best option for management of clinically localized prostate cancer in men
      with life expectancy greater than 10 years. Despite providing optimal cancer control, surgery
      can lead to quality of life (QOL) problems such as urinary incontinence and erectile
      dysfunction (ED). Refinement of surgical technique have improved sexual and continence
      outcomes; however erectile function lags behind other QOL measures by 1-2 years, and quality
      of returning erections is often inferior. This can have profound biological, marital, and
      psychological consequences in potent men undergoing RP.

      ED is the inability to develop and maintain an erection for satisfactory sexual intercourse
      or activity. ED after nerve-sparing RP is related to a certain degree with functional
      impairment of cavernous nerves (CN) that travel along the prostate to the penis. This
      neuropraxia can last as long as 2 years. Pro-erectile nerve stimulus is vital for
      replenishment of corporal oxygen supply and other metabolic needs. Several histological
      analyses have demonstrated decreased smooth muscle number, cell-cell contact, venous leakage,
      collagen deposition, and additional harmful effects to corporal tissue after injury to CN.

      Awaiting post-surgical neuropraxia recovery, urologists have proposed a proactive approach to
      use of oral, intraurethral or injectable pharmacotherapy, neuromodulation, or vacuum-assisted
      regimens in erectile rehabilitation programs. Several studies demonstrate variable functional
      improvement in erectile function. Unfortunately, prohibitive costs of medications, poor
      response, and pain from injectables or intraurethral application often lead to high dropout
      rates.

      In addition to ED, a significant proportion of men after surgery develop and suffer from
      urinary incontinence (Stress, Urge, Mixed) requiring wearing pads with bothersome complaints
      persisting for months, even years after RP.

      The primary objective is to assess the role of penile vibratory stimulation by the Viberect
      device in enhancing the recovery of erectile function/rigidity and urinary continence after
      RP for clinically localized prostate cancer. The difference in penile length will be compared
      in each arm.

      The secondary objective is to obtain a formal risk analysis (RA). Other objectives are to
      assess the ease of use and acceptability of vibratory stimulation at home.
    
  