
    
      One of the major challenges of motor control is to understand how the central nervous system
      controls the degrees of freedom of the body. This is particularly evident in cerebral palsy
      (CP), which is the most prevalent chronic childhood motor disability and is one of the most
      disabling and costly chronic disorders of children and adults. Deficits in postural control
      and sensorimotor integration are hallmarks of CP. Although postural control of the trunk for
      independent sitting creates the foundation for all other motor tasks, surprisingly little is
      known about how children with CP use sensory input to guide their development of upright
      control (which occurs in typically developing infants by 8 months of age). This lack of
      knowledge limits our ability to effectively assess and treat children with neuromotor
      deficits in trunk control.

      The objectives of this project are to identify sensory reliance and sensory re-weighting in a
      study of children with moderate-to-severe CP (4-12 years of age) before and after Targeted
      Training for Trunk Control. A novel trunk support device will enable testing of participants
      who lack (or are still developing) stable sitting. In experiments, kinematics of the head and
      trunk will be measured. Sensory reliance and re-weighting will be identified from postural
      trunk responses to sensory conflict stimuli consisting of tilts of a visual surround and/or
      tilts of a surface which participants sit upon. Generally, participants with a high reliance
      on vestibular feedback will remain upright with respect to gravity during all tests; whereas
      a high reliance on cutaneous or visual feedback will produce trunk sway away from upright and
      toward the surface or visual surround tilt, respectively. To tease apart biomechanical,
      physical, and neurological contributions to trunk sway, sensorimotor integration modeling
      will be used to complement data interpretation.
    
  