
    
      Introduction. The association between periodontal disease and cardiovascular disease is
      already established. Chronic inflammation of periodontal tissues primes the release of
      inflammatory markers such as: PCR, IL-1, IL-6 and TNF alpha and also,an even more accurate
      marker, procalcitonin (PCT).

      Aim. The aim of this study is to examine effects of dental treatments, surgical (extractions)
      and non-surgical procedures (non-surgical periodontal therapy), on serum levels for PCR, WBCs
      and PCT in patients needing a dental remediation before undergoing cardiac surgery.

      Materials and methods. This study is designed to be a clinical trial. 38 patients will be
      recruited at the Cardiological Center at Cattinara Hospital (ASUITS) and they will be treated
      in Maxillofacial Surgery and Stomatology Clinic at Major Hospital (ASUITS). Inclusion
      criteria: adult age, consciousness and willingness to sign an informed consent, anamnestic
      history of cardiovascular disease, also needing cardiac surgery and dental reclamation, stage
      3-4 grade B-C for periodontal disease diagnosed . Exclusion criteria: pregnancy, genetic
      dysmorphisms which have an impact on the periodontal health status (Down Syndrome), diabetes
      or immune system disorders, HIV, hardly smoking, blood disorders, urgent cardiac surgery or a
      too large dental remediation to be performed in just 2 dental sessions, patients who
      underwent dental treatments in the previous 2 months. At baseline, all patients will undergo
      blood tests (blood cell count, PCR, PCT and WBC count), periodontal analysis (FMPS, FMBS and
      PISA index recording), orthopantomography and anamnestic record. Afterwards they will be
      assigned, randomly following a 1:1 ratio to Gruppo1 (fullmouth disinfection therapy +
      extractions all in one session) or Gruppo2 (fullmouth disinfection therapy and after one week
      extractions). All patients will undergo blood chemistry tests (CPR, PCT, WBC) after 1, 7 and
      14 days.

      Statistical analysis. All data will be presented as a mean and standard deviation, unless
      another method will be specified. After the control of parametric data distribution we will
      proceed with the statistical analysis of the different biomarkers recorded over time by ANOVA
      for repeated measurements and by t-test between the different groups in the same time
      intervals.
    
  