
    
      Depression, cognitive impairment, and disability often coexist in older adults and can lead
      to patient suffering and family disruption. Moreover, many depressed, cognitively impaired
      older adults have slow, poor, or unstable response to antidepressant drugs. Despite the need
      for treatments other than medication, most psychotherapy research focuses on either
      cognitively intact patients with limited disability or on dementia patients with pronounced
      disability. Thus, the available treatments do not fully address the needs of the large number
      of depressed elders with intermediate cognitive impairment and disability. Previous studies
      with cognitively impaired psychiatric populations have taught participants compensatory
      strategies to overcome their behavioral and cognitive limitations. This study will evaluate
      the efficacy of Problem Adaptation Therapy (PATH) a type of psychotherapy using a problem
      solving therapy (PST) approach, specially tailored compensatory strategies and environmental
      adaptations and caregiver involvement in treating depressed, cognitively impaired older
      adults.

      All participants in this single-blind study will undergo initial evaluations, including a
      2-hour interview to assess depression, memory, and physical functioning; questions about
      medical history; and a neuropsychological exam. Participants will then be randomly assigned
      to one of two treatment groups: PATH or ST-CI. Participants assigned to PATH will receive 12
      weekly sessions conducted at the home of the participants. During these sessions, a therapist
      will identify the participant's difficulties in life related to depression and physical
      functioning and will provide strategies to overcome these difficulties. The goal of treatment
      is to improve adaptive functioning in the home environment, which in turn may reduce
      depression and disability. The first session will last between 1 and 2 hours, and the
      remaining 11 sessions will last 1 hour. Participants assigned to ST-CI will also receive 12
      weekly treatment sessions with a therapist conducted at the home of the participants. During
      supportive therapy sessions, the therapist will help participants to express feelings and to
      focus on their strengths and abilities when working through difficulties and transitions. For
      all participants, initial assessments will be repeated at Weeks 4, 8, 12, and 24.
    
  