
    
      Selected Drugs

      Hydroxychloroquine (an analog of chloroquine) has been demonstrated to have an anti-SARS-CoV
      activity in vitro. Hydroxychloroquine clinical safety profile is better than that of
      chloroquine (during long-term use) and allows higher daily dose and has fewer concerns about
      drug-drug interactions. Hydroxychloroquine has long-term safety (600 mg/day for 12 to 18
      months was safe). Hydroxychloroquine effectively inhibited both the entry, transport and the
      post-entry stages of SARS-CoV-2, similar to the chloroquine, and one study found
      Hydroxychloroquine to be a more potent agent than chloroquine in inhibiting SARS-CoV-2 in
      vitro. Hydroxychloroquine acts as a weak base that can change the pH of acidic intracellular
      organelles including endosomes/lysosomes, essential for the membrane fusion. Besides, the
      significant decrease in the production of pro-inflammatory markers and cytokines with
      Hydroxychloroquine has made this agent a successful disease modifying anti-inflammatory agent
      in the treatment of various autoimmune diseases. An additional issue to be considered in
      severely sick patients is cytokine storm associated with disease severity of SARS-CoV-2.

      There are no currently available data from randomized clinical trials (RCTs) to inform
      clinical guidance on the use, dosing, or duration of Hydroxychloroquine for prophylaxis or
      treatment of SARS-CoV-2 infection. Although optimal dosing and duration of Hydroxychloroquine
      for treatment of COVID-19 are unknown, some U.S. clinicians have reported anecdotally
      different Hydroxychloroquine dosing such as 400 mg twice daily on day one, then daily for 5
      days; 400 mg twice daily on day one, then 200 mg twice daily for 4 days; 600 mg twice daily
      on day one, then 400 mg daily on days 2-5. In a recent clinical trial, Hydroxychloroquine
      sulfate 200 mg, three times per day during ten days was used in patients with COVID-19.

      Nitazoxanide is originally developed as an antiprotozoal agent and has a broad-spectrum
      antiviral activity undergoing development for the treatment of influenza and other viral
      respiratory infections. In addition to its antiviral activity, Nitazoxanide inhibits the
      production of pro-inflammatory cytokines TNF-α, IL-2, IL-4, IL-5, IL-6, IL-8 and IL-10 in
      peripheral blood mononuclear cells. Nitazoxanide could improve outcomes in patients infected
      with MERS-CoV by suppressing overproduction of pro-inflammatory cytokines, including IL-6.
      Nitazoxanide has been tested in clinical setting for the treatment of acute uncomplicated
      influenza, where the subjects received either 600 or 300 mg of Nitazoxanide or placebo orally
      twice daily for five days and were followed for 28 days. Subjects who received Nitazoxanide
      600 mg twice daily experienced shorter times to alleviation of symptoms compared with
      subjects who received 300 mg Nitazoxanide twice daily, which in turn, was shorter than
      placebo.

      According to the National Health Commission of the People's Republic of China, there is lack
      of effective antiviral therapy against COVID-19. Nearly all patients who suffered from
      COVID-19-associated pneumonia accepted oxygen therapy and WHO recommended extracorporeal
      membrane oxygenation (ECMO) to patients with refractory hypoxemia. Rescue treatment with
      convalescent plasma and immunoglobulin G are delivered to some critical cases according to
      their condition.

      The rationale of the use of Hydoxychloroquine and Nitazoxanide combination for treatment of
      COVID-19 infected patients is based on the antiviral and anti-inflammatory activity of the
      selected drugs. Since the two drugs exhibit different modes of action, it would be of value
      in containing the viral infection through targeting different sites in the pathophysiology of
      the disease.

      Diagnostic criteria

      The viral research institution in China has conducted preliminary identification of the
      SARS-CoV-2 through the classical Koch's postulates and observing its morphology through
      electron microscopy. So far, the golden clinical diagnosis method of COVID-19 is nucleic acid
      detection in the nasal and throat swab sampling or other respiratory tract samplings by
      real-time PCR and further confirmation by next-generation sequencing.

      Side effects of Hydroxychloroquine

        -  The most common adverse effects are mild nausea and occasional stomach cramps with mild
           diarrhea, reduced appetite and vomiting

        -  The most serious adverse effects are retinopathy and heart problems

        -  Long term use may cause liver toxicity Contraindications of Hydroxychloroquine

        -  Heart conditions, diabetes or psoriasis.

        -  The drug transfers into breast milk so should be used with care by pregnant or nursing
           women

      Interactions of Hydroxychloroquine

        -  Antacids may decrease the absorption of Hydroxychloroquine.

        -  Both neostigmine and pyridostigmine antagonize the action of Hydroxychloroquine.

        -  There may be a link between Hydroxychloroquine and hemolytic anemia in those with
           glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency.

        -  Digoxin; concomitant administration with Hydroxychloroquine may result in increased
           serum digoxin levels.

        -  Insulin or antidiabetic drugs; concomitant administration with Hydroxychloroquine may
           enhance the effects of the hypoglycemic treatment.

        -  Hydroxychloroquine prolongs the QT interval and may increase the risk of inducing
           ventricular arrhythmias if used concurrently with other arrhythmogenic drugs.

        -  Mefloquine and other drugs that lower the convulsive threshold, when co-administered
           with Hydroxychloroquine, there may be an increased risk of convulsions.

        -  Concurrent use of Hydroxychloroquine with antiepileptics may impair the antiepileptic
           activity.

        -  Cyclosporin when used concomitantly with Hydroxychloroquine, an increased plasma
           cyclosporin level was reported.

      Side effects of Nitazoxanide

      The most common adverse effects are GIT as nausea and occasional stomach cramps with mild
      diarrhea, reduced appetite and vomiting. Nervous system side effects as headache, dizziness,
      somnolence, insomnia, tremor, and hypesthesia have been reported in less than 1% of the
      patients.

      Contraindications of Nitazoxanide

      There are no data on the excretion of Nitazoxanide into human milk. The manufacturer
      recommends that caution be used when administering Nitazoxanide to nursing women.

      Tizoxanide (the active metabolite of Nitazoxanide) is highly bound to plasma protein (>
      99.9%). Therefore, it is necessary to monitor for adverse reactions when administering
      Nitazoxanide concurrently with other highly plasma protein-bound drugs with narrow
      therapeutic indices, as competition for binding sites may occur (e.g., warfarin).

      Warning

      Nitazoxanide should be used with caution in patients with significant renal and hepatic
      impairment.

      Research Objectives

      The pandemic disease COVID-19 is particularly of major importance in Egypt where a heavy
      population lives. There is an acute need for comprehensive, continuous, and cost-effective
      health care delivery for infected people. Early detection and strategies for prevention of
      progression of COVID-19 would make a major difference for these patients and would also be
      economically beneficial for a resource-constrained country.

      This research proposal was employed as a practical strategy for providing a suitable drug
      combination for possible treatment of COVID-19 infected patients. This drug combination may
      help to prevent the progression of respiratory complications. This can be achieved through
      different goals as follows:

        1. Screening of different drugs related to different pharmacological classes depending on
           its possible activity against COVID-19 virus.

        2. Providing cost-effective and easy-to-implement treatment strategy for infected patients
           and/or patients with high risk of developing respiratory failure.

        3. Finally, this clinical strategy remains an important goal in improving the Egyptian
           health state which can save people life and save a lot of money.

      Scope of Work

      The scope of work will be conducted through:

        1. Use of new drug combination of Hydroxychloroquine and Nitazoxanide for treatment of
           COVID-19 infected people. Since the two drugs exhibit different modes of action, it
           would be of value in containing the viral infection through targeting different sites in
           the pathophysiology of the disease.

        2. Evaluation of the effect of new drug combination on the symptomatic treatment of newly
           diagnosed COVID-19 patients through a clinical trial designed according to WHO (clinical
           management of severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) when COVID-19 disease is
           suspected) interim guidance published at 13 March 2020.

        3. Investigating the impact of new drug combination on the prevention of severe
           compilations such as acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS).
    
  