
    
      Participants will be randomly placed to one of two groups. This random placement allows our
      research study to be more significant when the study team checks the results. In one group,
      the "control" group, participants will attend their usual clinic visits with their provider
      every 3 months for a year. At each clinic visit participants will be asked to fill out 3
      short surveys (each takes less than 3 minutes). Participants will have a gynecologic exam
      like they routinely would for cancer surveillance, and confidential notes will be made
      regarding their exam to assess for improvement or worsening over time.

      In the other group, the "intervention" group, participants will attend one focused Sexual
      Health Clinic visit, where a provider specialized in sexual health for cancer patients will
      review a focused history and physical, and will provide education, as well as recommend any
      helpful treatments.

      This provider may or may not recommend follow up with her again after this initial visit.
      Participants will otherwise continue the usual every 3 month clinic visits with their
      Gynecologic Oncologist for a year. At each clinic visit participants will be asked to fill
      out 3 short surveys (each takes less than 3 minutes). Participants will have a gynecologic
      exam like they routinely would for cancer surveillance, and confidential notes will be made
      regarding their exam to assess for improvement or worsening over time. Participants will not
      need any additional blood draws or procedures. During their gynecologic exam, a swab will be
      collected to test participants vaginal pH - a test to see the health of their vaginal flora.

      In brief, participants will have their usual 4 clinic visits: one at 3 months, 6 months, 9
      months, and 12 months. At each visit, participants will fill out 3 surveys and have a
      gynecologic exam performed as they usually would, but with a vaginal swab for vaginal pH.
      This swab will be assessed in the clinic by their provider as the swab will change colors to
      show pH at the time of exam. This result will be noted in the participants' chart and the
      swab will be discarded.
    
  