
    
      ○ Chronic pain affects over 100 million adults in the US, resulting in disability, loss of
      work productivity, and overall reductions in health, making chronic pain a major public
      health problem with an economic burden estimated at $560-635 billion annually. Opioids, the
      most frequently prescribed class of drugs to control pain, lack evidence supporting their
      long-term efficacy and carry a 15-26% risk of misuse and abuse among pain patients,
      highlighting a critical need to develop effective non-pharmacological interventions for pain.
      Guided imagery (GI), a cognitive-behavioral technique for guiding patients to create
      multisensory, imagined scenes to increase well-being, is an effective non-pharmacological
      intervention for reducing pain. However, its effectiveness is limited by patients' imaging
      abilities. The long-term objective of this project is to reduce chronic pain and opioid use
      by developing an at-home virtual reality (VR)-GI intervention to improve chronic pain
      management using the Limbix VR Kit. Given the enhanced immersiveness and interactivity of VR,
      VR-GI is expected to reduce pain and reliance on opioids, as well as improve functional
      outcomes and mood, compared to traditional audio-only GI and usual care. The specific aims
      are to evaluate feasibility and usability of an at-home VRGI intervention in a 2-week
      clinical trial. Two 15-min VR-GI experiences that guide patients through psychoeducation,
      relaxation exercises, and interactive virtual worlds that allow them to control their
      experience of pain will be evaluated. To assess feasibility of an at-home VR-GI intervention,
      36 patients with chronic pain (18 with chronic back pain, CBP, and 18 with complex regional
      pain syndrome, CRPS) will complete a 2-week intervention with at-home daily practice of VR-GI
      (n = 24) or audio-only GI (n = 12). Pre-post treatment measures of pain intensity, opioid
      use, functional outcomes, and mood will be collected. Intervention feasibility and patient
      satisfaction will be evaluated post-treatment via questionnaire and qualitative interview.
      This research directly addresses the need to improve pain treatment to prevent opioid use
      disorder.
    
  