
    
      **Please note that as a consequence of the COVID-19 pandemic, and after consultation with the
      appropriate research oversight, regulatory and monitoring entities, screening and enrollment
      has been placed on temporary administrative hold as of 04/30/2020. Temporary suspension due
      to COVID-19 pandemic. Intervention must be done in person and in group which is prohibited at
      this time**

      The VA Office of Patient Centered Care and Cultural Transformation launched the Whole Health
      initiative to transform the Veterans Health Administration into a healthcare system in which
      providers and Veterans develop holistic, personalized, proactive, patient-driven healthcare
      plans that center on realizing meaningful life goals and improved functioning. Whole Health
      promotes the use of complementary and integrative health (CIH) approaches with traditional
      medical care to achieve these aims - consistent with psychosocial rehabilitation's emphasis
      on recovery-oriented, community-based functional outcomes. Equine-facilitated therapy (EFT),
      an animal-assisted form of CIH, is increasingly available to Veterans within the VA. Horses
      are prey animals with extreme sensitivity to the emotional states, behaviors, and intentions
      of their herds and other animals, including humans, and mirror body language and respond to
      subtle nonverbal cues. As such, horses have the capacity to provide immediate feedback about
      a person's emotional and behavioral states (e.g., pinning ears back when someone is angry or
      relaxing them forward when a person is calm). As a person interacts with horses, this
      capacity affords him or her an opportunity to become more emotionally self-aware and, with
      guidance from EFT facilitators, learn how to regulate emotions and become calmer and more
      patient, attentive, and confident to gain the horses' cooperation. With EFT, emotion
      regulation is the key mechanism for social interaction with horses, and participants in EFT
      are encouraged to apply what they have learned from their equine experiences to their
      relationships with people. Since high quality social functioning depends on effective
      regulation of one's emotions, EFT offers a novel way in which to improve the social
      functioning of Veterans with mental health concerns. In fact, in the VA, EFT has been used to
      address a variety of diagnostic issues commonly experience by Veterans, including PTSD,
      depression, anxiety, substance use and eating disorders. However, peer-reviewed published
      quantitative and qualitative research on EFT as a CIH for mental health is very limited, of
      poor methodological quality, and focused on school-age children and adolescents, not adults.
      None of it targets social functioning as a main outcome. Given VAs increasing embrace of EFT
      as a CIH, carefully conducted research that aims to systematically develop and study EFT for
      Veterans is sorely needed to ensure that EFT is feasible to study, acceptable to Veterans and
      clinicians, and clinically promising.

      The investigators propose to pilot test an innovative EFT called The Equus Effect (TEE) as a
      complement to Veterans' existing VA mental health services to improve social functioning. TEE
      aims to improve Veterans' social functioning by developing their emotion regulation and
      interpersonal skills through therapeutic interactions with horses. In line with
      recommendations for pilot investigations, the investigators will conduct a randomized pilot
      study to 1) evaluate the feasibility of study procedures, assessments, and outcomes, 2)
      demonstrate experimental and control interventions can be delivered with fidelity, and 3)
      examine the acceptability of the interventions. To accomplish these goals, the investigators
      will enroll a transdiagnostic cohort of 40 Veterans involved in VA mental health services
      with social dysfunction and emotion dysregulation. Participants will be randomized to receive
      either 1) TEE or 2) attention control (AC), both group interventions. Each week, the
      4-session TEE will include 1) mindfulness activities, 2) emotion regulation and interpersonal
      skills education, 3) experiential activities with horses incorporating opportunities to
      develop emotion regulation and interpersonal skills, and 4) between-session application of
      lessons learned from the equine activities. AC will have similar elements without equine
      features. Intervention outcomes will be measured at 4- and 16-weeks post randomization.
      Specifically, using mixed quantitative-qualitative methods, the investigators aim to:

      Aim 1: Determine the feasibility of recruitment, randomization, retention, assessment
      procedures, and implementation of TEE and AC. Hypothesis: Rates of recruitment will be at
      least 8 participants per month, and Veterans randomized to TEE will attend intervention
      sessions, remain in the study, and experience clinically significant changes in social
      functioning and emotion dysregulation at rates equal to or superior to AC.

      Aim 2: Demonstrate TEE and AC can be delivered with fidelity. Hypothesis: Facilitators will
      deliver each intervention consistently and as intended across sessions.

      Aim 3: Establish acceptability of TEE and AC by assessing intervention credibility and
      satisfaction and the usefulness of TEE as a complementary mental health intervention using
      mixed quantitative-qualitative methods. Hypothesis: Veterans will find TEE and AC credible
      and satisfying and Veterans and their mental health clinicians will qualitatively report the
      therapeutic benefits of TEE as a CIH for mental health treatment.
    
  