
    
      Subjects who are undergoing a percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG) tube insertion as
      part of their standard of care will be asked if a skin and adipose sample may be collected
      for research during the procedure. After a participant has signed the informed consent, the
      sub-investigator from the Department of Gastroenterology will collect a skin and adipose
      sample during the procedure. Individuals with a diagnosis of definite ALS and disease
      controls (i.e. stroke, head and neck cancer, spinal cord injury, etc.) will be included in
      this study.

      The coded skin and adipose sample will be taken to the Carolinas Neuromuscular/ALS Research
      Laboratory in the Cannon Research Center for processing. The skin and adipose will be
      separated from each other and divided into halves. Each half of skin and adipose will be
      submerged in preservative and either shipped to ALS-TDI or retained at -80°C in the Carolinas
      Neuromuscular/ALS Research Laboratory. The research staff at the Carolinas
      Neuromuscular/ALS-MDA Center will be responsible for shipping the sample to the ALS-TDI for
      either RNA isolation using the Qiagen RNAEasy kit (Qiagen) or for purification of protein.
      Subsequently, gene expression profiling on Affymetrix Genechips or Mass Spec based proteomics
      on a Thermo Orbitrap LC-MS/MS instrument will be performed, respectively. The discovery
      effort (if all participants are working at capacity) should not take more than 12 months.

      In addition to the above procedures, a member of the study team will review the medical chart
      to obtain additional information on the participant's medical and family history. For ALS
      patients, past ALSFRS-R scores or FVC scores will be provided to the "ALS-TDI Skin and
      Adipose Biomarker Study" to enhance the usefulness of the information for research.

      Samples will not be stored with any patient identifiers. Samples will be retained and
      continued to be studied as new techniques become available. Data from the study may be
      published in scientific journals. Publications will not include any patient identifiers.
    
  