
    
      This study consists of 3 cohorts. Participants will be assigned to 1 of 3 dose cohorts with a
      minimum of 24 hours between dosing of each participant. Initially, 2 participants will be
      dosed in a cohort, with up to a total of 5 participants if the cohort is expanded based on
      safety and activity levels data.

      Dose escalation: After dosing first 2 participants in cohort 1 the decision will be made on
      the following: If week 4 FVIII activity levels of both participants are less than (<) 2%,
      then dose escalation to cohort 2 will be triggered with no further dosing in cohort 1. If
      FVIII activity levels >=2% are observed in at least 1 participant among the 2 participants
      the decision to escalate dose or expand the cohort with dosing of additional participants
      will be based on all available data through Week 14.

      Dose expansion: After dose escalation and administration of BAX 888 to the first 2
      participants in 3 cohorts: If sustained Week 14 FVIII activity levels are >=30% are not
      achieved in both participants (first 2 participants in cohorts 1 and 2) then escalation to
      immediate next cohort will be triggered after Data Monitoring Committee (DMC) review of all
      available safety and FVIII activity levels data. For cohort 3 dosing of additional
      participants will be paused until further review of available data. If sustained Week 14
      FVIII levels are >=30% in at least 1 of the 2 participants (first 2 participant in cohort 1,
      2, 3) then expansion of cohorts 1, 2 (with up to 5 participants), 3 (with up to 3 additional
      participants) will be initiated with dosing or study could be completed with no further
      dosing.

      23 APRIL 2020: Enrollment of new patients into this study has been paused due to the COVID-19
      situation. The duration of this pause is dependent on the leveling and control of the
      COVID-19 pandemic.
    
  