
    
      Overview:

      Congenital heart diseases (CHD) are the most common birth defects, occurring in nearly 1% of
      live births. Every year, an estimated 40,000 infants born in the U.S. suffer from CHD.
      Despite advances in surgical management, CHD requiring neonatal surgery is associated with
      poor outcomes; national registry data demonstrates post-operative major morbidity in 23% and
      10% do not survive to hospital discharge.

      Poor outcomes after neonatal heart surgery are often attributable to a severe systemic
      inflammatory response to cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB). CPB is necessary for most neonatal CHD
      surgeries. Therefore, to reduce the post-CPB inflammatory reaction, many surgeons administer
      pre-or intra-operative steroids. Steroids have been shown to reduce inflammatory markers
      after neonatal heart surgery. However, steroids also have potential harmful effects including
      an increased risk of post-operative infection. The recent SIRS trial evaluated the safety and
      efficacy of steroids after CPB in adults and demonstrated no beneficial effect of steroids
      but increased risk of post-CPB myocardial infarction and other major adverse events.

      Adult trial results cannot be reliably extrapolated to neonates because the neonatal response
      to CPB is markedly different to that seen in adults; neonates demonstrate both a more
      pronounced inflammatory reaction and a different post-operative complication profile. For
      these reasons approximately 2/3rds of congenital heart surgeons continue to administer
      perioperative steroids to neonates undergoing heart surgery. Yet this practice is not
      evidence based as no safety/efficacy trial has ever evaluated steroids in neonates undergoing
      heart surgery with CPB. Several smaller steroid trials (all enrolling < 75 patients) have
      focused on surrogate outcome measures, but none have provided conclusive data.

      The major barrier to performing a steroid trial in neonates with CHD has been the high cost
      associated with trial conduct for these relatively rare defects. To overcome this barrier,
      the investigators will use a novel approach leveraging existing registry infrastructure at
      CHD surgical sites that participate in the Society of Thoracic Surgeons Congenital Heart
      Surgery Database (STS-CHSD). Sites participating in the STS-CHSD collect data into their
      institutional databases using standardized case report forms so that the data can be exported
      to the STS-CHSD. These sites already employ data coordinating specialists to capture patient
      demographics, procedural variables, and post-operative outcomes (including a list of over 60
      complication variables) using strict and consistent data element definitions. By leveraging
      these site-specific resources the investigators project that the investigators can reduce
      trial costs by >75%.

      Background:

      Some surgeons/centers currently administer perioperative high dose (20mg to 60mg) intravenous
      methylprednisolone before neonatal heart surgery with CPB. In a national registry study of >
      3000 neonates with data capture spanning 2004 to 2008, 62% of neonates undergoing surgery
      with CPB received perioperative methylprednisolone while 38% did not. Of those receiving
      methylprednisolone, 22% received methylprednisolone on both the day before, and day of
      surgery, 12% on the day before surgery only, and 28% on the day of surgery only. Results of a
      survey of surgeons from the Congenital Heart Surgeon's Society were similar; 28% did not
      routinely use steroids for neonatal heart surgery. Of the 72% that did routinely use
      steroids, ~1/3rd administered steroids pre-operatively and intra-operatively and the
      remainder gave intra-operative steroids only.

      Several previous small translationally focused clinical trials have evaluated the safety and
      efficacy of methylprednisolone. In the largest contemporary trial, neonates scheduled for
      cardiac surgery were prospectively randomized to receive either 2-dose (8 hours
      preoperatively and operatively, n = 39) or single-dose (operatively, n = 37)
      methylprednisolone at 30 mg/kg IV per dose in a prospective double-blind trial. Neonates
      receiving pre-operative methylprednisolone therapy demonstrated significantly reduced
      pre-operative pro-inflammatory cytokines including interleukin-6 and 8. There were no
      differences between the two groups in post-operative pro-inflammatory markers and no
      differences in the incidence of post-operative low cardiac output syndrome.
      Methylprednisolone was well tolerated with no adverse drug reactions. The overall incidence
      of post-operative infection was 13% (10/76) and 4% (3/76) received a post-operative insulin
      infusion for hyperglycemia.

      A meta-analysis evaluated six previous steroid trials in children undergoing heart surgery
      with CPB. The combined enrollment of these six trials was 232 participants including 116
      receiving peri-operative steroids; two of these studies used methylprednisolone at doses of
      30mg/kg IV per dose (n=67 patients). The results of this meta-analysis demonstrated a
      nonsignificant trend of reduced mortality in steroid-treated patients (11 [4.7%] vs 4 [1.7%]
      patients; odds ratio, 0.41; 95% CI, 0.14-1.15; p = 0.089). Steroids had no effects on
      mechanical ventilation time (117.4 ± 95.9 hr vs 137.3 ± 102.4 hr; p = 0.43) and ICU length of
      stay (9.6 ± 4.6 d vs 9.9 ± 5.9 d; p = 0.8). Perioperative steroid administration reduced the
      prevalence of renal dysfunction (13 [54.2%] vs 2 [8%] patients; odds ratio, 0.07; 95% CI,
      0.01-0.38; p = 0.002). There were no significant differences in the adverse event profiles
      for patients receiving steroids versus placebo.

      The conclusions of the aforementioned studies, as well as several associated editorials have
      all been that a large, randomized, controlled trial is needed to evaluate the safety and
      efficacy of perioperative steroids for neonatal heart surgery with CPB.

      Design:

      This study is a prospective, double-blind, multi-center, placebo-controlled safety and
      efficacy study of methylprednisolone in neonates undergoing heart surgery with CPB. The study
      will enroll up to 1500 neonates (< 30 days of age) and the total study duration is expected
      to be approximately 48 months. An ancillary PK/PD/Biomarker study will enroll subjects at
      select centers. This study is unique in that it is designed to leverage existing registry
      infrastructure at participating sites so as to reduce trial costs. Participants will be
      randomized and will receive a randomization ID. This ID will also serve as a unique patient
      identifier allowing us to crosslink datasets. Participants will then receive two doses of
      study drug/placebo. The first dose will be administered 8 to 12 hours before anticipated
      heart surgery and the second dose will be administered into the pump prime during
      cardiopulmonary bypass. All study participants will then receive routine post-operative care.
      Participating centers will enter all demographic, preoperative, operative and outcomes data
      into their existing institutional databases for submission to the STS-CHSD as they currently
      do. These data will be used to evaluate trial outcomes.
    
  