
    
      Whole genome sequencing (WGS) and whole exome sequencing (WES) services are currently
      available to and are being utilized by physicians and their patients in both research and
      clinical settings. The widespread availability and use of WGS and WES in the practice of
      clinical medicine is imminent. In the very near future, sequencing of individual genomes will
      be inexpensive and ubiquitous, and patients will be looking to the medical establishment for
      interpretations, insight and advice to improve their health. Developing standards and
      procedures for the use of WGS information in clinical medicine is an urgent need, but there
      are numerous obstacles related to integrity and storage of WGS data, interpretation and
      responsible clinical integration. MedSeq™ seeks to develop a process to integrate WGS into
      clinical medicine and explore the impact of doing so.

      We believe that WGS will be used in many ways, including two distinct and complementary
      situations. In generally healthy patients, physicians will use the results of WGS to derive
      insight into future health risks and inform prevention and surveillance efforts, a category
      we refer to as General Genomic Medicine. In patients presenting with a family history or
      symptoms of a disease, physicians will use the results of WGS to interrogate particular sets
      of genes known to be associated with the disease in question, a category we refer to as
      Disease-Specific Genomic Medicine.

      Beginning in fall 2012, we will enroll 10 primary care physicians and 100 of their healthy
      middle-aged patients to evaluate the use of General Genomic Medicine, and 10 cardiologists
      and 100 of their patients presenting with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) or dilated
      cardiomyopathy (DCM) to evaluate the use of Disease-Specific Genomic Medicine. We will
      randomize physicians and their patients within each of the above models to receive clinically
      meaningful information derived from WGS versus current standard of care without the use of
      WGS.

      MedSeq™ is comprised of three distinct but highly collaborative projects. Project 1 will
      enroll physicians and patients into the protocol, educate the physicians on basic genomic
      principles and safely monitor the use of genomic information in clinical practice. Project 2
      will use a WGS analysis/interpretation pipeline to generate a genome report on each patient
      randomized to receive WGS in this protocol. Project 3 will examine preferences and
      motivations of physicians and patients enrolled, evaluate the flow and utilization of genomic
      information within the clinical interactions, and assess understanding, behavior, medical
      consequences and healthcare costs associated with the use of WGS in these models of medical
      practice.

      In an extension phase of the study, we will 1) recruit approximately 10-15
      patient-participants who self-identify as African or African American, whose physicians deem
      to be healthy. All will be placed in the whole genome-sequencing arm of the study. They will
      undergo the same activities as traditional MedSeq participants except for randomization. 2)
      We will conduct a targeted phenotype assessment on MedSeq Project patient-participants who
      are identified to have a monogenic finding. We plan to perform additional analysis by
      reviewing their medical records and looking specifically with their variant in mind to see if
      features associated with the variants were known prior to the study or were identified by
      further testing or by their physical during the course of the study.

      This initiative will significantly accelerate the use of genomics in clinical medicine by
      creating and safely testing novel methods for integrating information from WGS into
      physicians' care of patients.
    
  