
    
      The most common reason for contact lens drop out is ocular discomfort, with patients
      identifying dryness as the major reason. Currently, many patients with contact lens dry eye
      (CLDE) utilize rewetting drops to relieve their symptoms. The problem with rewetting drops is
      that they fail as they are transient, and do not address the inflammatory component of
      contact lens discomfort. Lifitegrast 5.0% ophthalmic solution was approved and is now
      marketed as Xiidra, for the treatment of signs and symptoms of dry eye disease. Lifitegrast
      works by reducing inflammation, which suggests that it may be effective in patients with
      contact lens dry eye. More specifically, lifitegrast may work by blocking the interaction
      between ICAM-1 and LFA-1, which leads to a decrease in the activation and recruitment of
      T-cells, and a decrease in pro-inflammatory cytokines.

      The safety and efficacy of Xiidra has been studied in four, 12 week clinical trials involving
      over 2,100 patients. Each study assessed the effects of Xiidra on symptoms using an Eye
      Dryness Score (EDS), which is a visual analogue ranging from 0 (no discomfort) to 100
      (maximal discomfort). In two of those studies, lifitegrast was shown to improve symptom
      relief at weeks 2, 6, and 12 compared to the placebo
      (https://www.xiidra-ecp.com/efficacy-symptom-improvement).

      Each of the four clinical trials mentioned above also assessed clinical signs of dry eye
      disease, with a particular focus on inferior corneal staining graded on 0.5 unit increments
      on a 0 (no staining) to 4 scale (coalescent). In three of the four clinical trials,
      lifitegrast reduced inferior corneal staining by week 12, compared to placebo
      (https://www.xiidra-ecp.com/efficacy-treating-signs).

      Contact lens dry eye is mediated by significant symptoms of ocular surface dryness, in
      addition to similar clinical signs of dry eye disease such as corneal staining and
      inflammation. Thus, the purpose of this interventional study is to examine the effect of
      lifitegrast ophthalmic solution in subjects with contact lens dry eye.
    
  