
    
      Participants & Procedure

      Women will be approached while in the waiting room of various clinics at the Detroit Medical
      Center. Clinic staff will inform patients of the study and its goals via a flyer that will be
      distributed at the reception window as women arrive for their appointments. If the women are
      interested, they will answer some questions and provide their contact information on the back
      of the flyer. Then they will place the flyer in a ballot box that is locked and only can be
      accessed by the Research Staff. Research staff may also be at the clinic to recruit women
      from the waiting room. When the research staff meets with potential participants. The study
      will be briefly described, and those indicating tentative interest will be screened for age
      and language ability (informally). Those indicating tentative interest, reporting age of at
      least 18 years, gestation 27 weeks or less, and demonstrating adequate ability to speak and
      understand spoken English will be brought to a nearby private room.

      First, informed consent for screening will be obtained using an information sheet; this sheet
      will describe the purpose of the screening, and will emphasize that participation in the
      initial screening is anonymous. Those who agree will be given a very brief demonstration of
      the use of the computer, after which they will complete the brief (10-item) screener. All
      interactions with the computer will involve a touch-screen and headphones for private
      presentation of all information aurally as well as visually; in many previous studies,
      including pilot testing at this clinic, the software has been proven extremely easy to use,
      even for women lacking any prior computer experience. Those who endorse smoking cigarettes
      (even a puff) in the past week will be told of the full study in detail, and written informed
      consent will be sought (with a brief quiz to assure understanding). Those who provide consent
      will again interact directly with the computer.

      Intervention

      The computer itself will perform randomization and will gather all research data except for
      baseline breath CO (which is higher among persons who smoke), which will be obtained (via a
      Micro Smokerlyzer® from Bedfont Scientific Ltd.) and entered into the computer by the
      research staff. The entire process, including consent, will take approximately 40 minutes
      regardless of experimental condition (to which the research staff will be blind). Research
      staff will tell clinic staff of the patient's whereabouts so that the patient is not passed
      over when staff call her to an exam room; unfinished study procedures will be completed in
      the exam room prior to the physician's entrance, and/or after the appointment is completed.

      Women (N = 110) who report smoking cigarettes (even a puff) during pregnancy will be randomly
      assigned to computer-based brief intervention alone, CM alone, brief intervention plus CM, or
      attention control conditions. Women randomly assigned to the computer-based intervention
      condition will receive an approximately 20-minute intervention modeled after motivational
      interviewing (MI).

      Women randomly assigned to the CM condition will be told that, if they choose, they can ask
      to be tested (via provision of a urine sample) for smoking, up to five times, at a regularly
      scheduled prenatal visit. Research staff will conduct these tests.

      8-Week Follow-Up

      Women who enroll in the study will be contacted via mail and telephone, as necessary, to
      schedule a 8-week follow-up at the PI's lab or at the prenatal clinic, depending upon the
      participant's preference. Research staff completing follow-up testing will be kept blind to
      intervention condition. The primary outcome measure will be urinary cotinine-verified
      abstinence at follow-up; birth outcome data will also be gathered from hospital records. At
      follow-up, participants will (a) complete all measures on the computer again, (b) provide
      breath CO; (c) provide a final urine sample for testing of urinary cotinine (evidence of
      smoking).
    
  