
    
      In Singapore, breast cancer accounts for approximately 30% of all new cancer cases. With an
      overall 10-year age-standardized survival rate of 50%, it is estimated that 900 BCS will
      require dedicated cancer survivorship care in Singapore annually. However, the current
      oncologist-centric survivorship model adopted in Singapore will not be sustainable to respond
      to the rising demand for survivorship care services. This inability to cope with the growing
      demand poses a major challenge to the health system and accentuates an emerging need for an
      alternative evidence-based care model to support BCS and healthcare providers in achieving
      efficient and effective cancer survivorship care.

      The American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) advocates a collaborative survivorship care
      model involving the transition of cancer survivors from specialist to primary care setting
      via a risk-stratified approach. While the proposed collaborative model is promising and
      appealing, its feasibility and applicability in the local Asian setting considering cultural
      and socioeconomic factors is unknown. Furthermore, two major gaps exist: (i) there is a lack
      of comprehensive evaluation of structural factors in care coordination and clinical outcomes
      determination; and (ii) the potential of community pharmacists in cancer survivorship care is
      not maximized.

      The main objective of the study is to assess the feasibility and acceptability of the BASIC
      care model for implementation amongst BCS and healthcare providers. The secondary objective
      addresses the effectiveness of BASIC model by providing robust parameters estimation for the
      physical symptom distress burden and quality of life outcome measures that will be used for
      sample size calculation in the eventual main trial.

      This will be a pragmatic, randomized, controlled, pilot trial conducted at the National
      Cancer Centre Singapore (NCCS), participating SingHealth polyclinics and Watsons community
      pharmacies over a period of 2 years. Participants will be randomized into the
      multidisciplinary collaborative care arm or attentional control arm in a 1:1 ratio,
      stratified by the absence versus presence of comorbidities. In the multidisciplinary
      collaborative care arm, participants will experience a 12-month cancer follow-up schedule via
      a shared-care approach. In the attentional control arm, participants will continue with usual
      care.
    
  