
    
      Introduction:

      Shoulder pain arises to be one of the most common musculoskeletal complaints. The mechanism
      of an increased risk of painful shoulders is multifactorial and the role of the suprascapular
      nerve in development and management of shoulder pain has been highlighted recently. In recent
      years, high resolution ultrasound has been widely applied on evaluation of entrapment
      neuropathy, and its reliability on assessing the cross-sectional area of suprascapular nerves
      has been validated. As the suprascapular nerve is crucial for conducting shoulder motion and
      sensation, it is of clinical importance to measure the size of suprascapular nerve. Our study
      is aimed to explore the difference of the suprascapular nerves between the participants with
      and without shoulder pain and to investigate potential factors that may influence the nerve's
      size using high-resolution ultrasound.

      Material and methods:

      Study design:

      This was a cross-sectional study investigating suprascapular nerves in the asymptomatic and
      painful shoulders of participants. All the participants were required to ambulate
      independently, have normal cognitive function and complete the given questionnaires. Both
      groups included at least 60 participants.

      Detail of the investigation

        1. High-resolution ultrasound evaluation of the shoulder region to recognize the biceps
           tendon, subscapularis tendon, supraspinatus tendon, and infraspinatus tendon.

        2. High-resolution ultrasound evaluation for the C5, C6 and C7 nerve roots and the
           suprascapular nerve over the supraclavicular fossa, in the supraspinatus fossa and in
           the infraspinatus fossa to obtain the nerve cross-sectional image.

        3. Collecting the shoulder pain-related information, including physical examination results
           (bicipital groove tenderness, Speed test, Yergason's test, Empty can test, Neer test,
           Hawkins-Kennedy test and painful arc test) and status of disability using Shoulder Pain
           and Disability Index (SPADI).

        4. The measurements of the nerve cross-sectional area were conducted by another specialist
           with the image processing software (Image J). For the most proximal section of the
           suprascapular nerve, the cross-section of the nerve fascicles inside the hyperechoic
           epineurium were measured. In the segment over the supraspinatus and infraspinatus
           fossae, the whole nerve's cross-section including its epineurium were measured.

        5. The identification for the images of the rotator cuff lesions or biceps tendon lesions
           were conducted by another specialist.

        6. Comparison of age, body height, body weight, and CSA across various age and sex groups
           were conducted.

      Statistical analysis:

        1. Continuous variables: Mann Whitney u test

        2. Categorical variables: Chi-square test
    
  