
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine if allogeneic natural killer (NK) cells infused following
           chemoimmunotherapy can be safely expanded in vivo with aldesleukin.

      Secondary

        -  To determine if interleukin-15 production at day 0 correlates with NK cells expansion.

        -  To determine overall response rate at 3 months.

        -  To determine time to progression and overall survival.

        -  To characterize the quantitative and qualitative toxicities of this treatment plan.

        -  To determine the incidence of donor products that do not meet release criteria and the
           NK cell numbers infused.

        -  To correlate clinical response with donor/recipient KIR ligand matching status, FcG
           receptor 3A genotype, and NK cells phenotype and function

        -  To determine pharmacodynamic and pharmacogenomic markers and correlate them with NK cell
           expansion and disease response.

      OUTLINE:

        -  Conditioning regimen: Patients receive rituximab intravenously (IV) over 6-8 hours on
           days -8, -1, 6, and 13; fludarabine IV on days -6 to -2; and cyclophosphamide IV on day
           -5.

        -  Allogeneic natural killer (NK) cell administration: Patients receive
           aldesleukin-activated haploidentical NK cells IV over less than 1 hour on day 0. Within
           4 hours after allogeneic NK cell infusion, patients receive aldesleukin subcutaneously
           (SC) 3 times a week for 6 doses. Patients also receive filgrastim (G-CSF) SC beginning
           on day 14 and continuing until absolute neutrophil count (ANC) is > 2,500/mm³ for 2
           consecutive days.

      Patients who achieve a complete or partial response at 28 days are eligible for allogeneic
      stem cell transplantation. Patients who achieve initial response at 3 months, clinically
      benefit from treatment, but subsequently relapse are eligible for retreatment provided all
      eligibility criteria are met.

      Blood samples are collected periodically for correlative laboratory studies. Patients with
      chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) also undergo bone marrow aspiration periodically for
      correlative laboratory studies.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for up to 1 year.
    
  