
    
      Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is a serious and eventually fatal disease damaging the
      lungs and the heart. It results from narrowing and eventual blockage of small blood vessels
      in the lung, due to abnormal proliferation of cells in the blood vessel (arterial). Patients
      with PAH suffer from fatigue, shortness of breath, low oxygen levels, blood clots and heart
      failure. No therapies reverse the disease process in the lung arteries, however there are
      three approved drugs that can temporarily dilate the vessels and improve symptoms. However,
      all three drugs have significant side effects and toxicities, they do not work effectively in
      many patients, survival remains on average only 2 to 3 years once symptoms begin, and none of
      these drugs prevent the underlying disease process in the small arteries of the lung.

      PAH is known to develop in patients with a pre-existing class of bone marrow diseases called
      myeloproliferative disorders (MPDs). We and others have recently shown that patients with PAH
      have bone marrow changes similar to those seen in patients with MPDs, even without other
      signs and symptoms of those bone marrow diseases such as anemia or high platelet and white
      blood cell counts. Compared to healthy volunteers, patients with PAH have a higher frequency
      of immature stem and progenitor cells able to produce blood cells and vascular wall cells in
      their bone marrow. They also have higher circulating numbers of these cells in the blood, and
      increased localization of these cells in the lung blood vessels. When immature bone marrow
      cells from PAH patients and normal volunteers were infused into mice, the mice receiving PAH
      marrow cells developed similar lung and heart problems to PAH patients, suggesting that the
      bone marrow problem is a primary cause of the lung problems, and that the increased numbers
      of immature bone marrow cells in the bone marrow and blood of PAH patients causes the lung
      blood vessel disease.

      The drug hydroxyurea is used to inhibit the abnormally high level of bone marrow cell
      proliferation in patients with MPDs. It has been shown to reduce the numbers of circulating
      immature bone marrow cells in patients with MPDs. Hydroxyurea has been available for almost
      fifty years, and has been used to treat patients with MPDs, sickle cell anemia, and
      congenital heart disease for very prolonged periods of time, up to twenty or more years in
      individual patients. It has an excellent long-term safety profile and few side effects and is
      generally well tolerated. It does not appear to result in an increased rate of leukemia even
      with many years of treatment.

      In the current protocol, we hypothesize that treating patients with PAH with hydroxyurea will
      decrease the level of circulating immature bone marrow cells and interrupt the abnormal
      narrowing and occlusion of lung arteries. We will treat patients with moderately severe
      primary (no known underlying cause) PAH with 6 months of hydroxyurea, carefully monitoring
      side effects and adjusting dosage as necessary, and measure the effect on circulating
      immature cells, lung blood vessel pressures, other blood markers of active PAH, and exercise
      tolerance.
    
  