
    
      This is an open-label, sequential enrollment study characterizing the pharmacodynamic (PD),
      pharmacokinetic (PK) and safety of HSP-130 in subjects with non-metastatic breast cancer who
      have not previously received chemotherapy at any point prior to enrollment in this study
      (ZIN-130-1504).

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effects and safety of single and multiple doses
      of HSP-130 in subjects with non-metastatic breast cancer. This study will determine the dose
      to move forward for future clinical trials.

      There are two aspects of the study. In the initial part of the study, 6 subjects will be
      sequentially enrolled to receive HSP-130 treatment (3 mg , or 6 mg by subcutaneous injection)
      during the period between biopsy and definitive surgery. This will determine whether 3 mg and
      6 mg have similar or different effects on the PD variables (absolute neutrophil counts and
      CD34+ cell counts). This part of the study is referred to as Cycle 0 since study subjects
      will receive no chemotherapy while receiving HSP-130 until the effect of HSP-130 on the PD
      variables is known. A total of 12 subjects may be enrolled in Cycle 0.

      The objective of Cycle 1-4 is to determine the dose to be taken forward to Phase 3 clinical
      trials. Cycles 1-4 subjects will receive HSP-130 after their definitive breast surgery at the
      time they receive TAC chemotherapy (docetaxel, doxorubicin, and cyclophosphamide). Subjects
      will receive up to 4 cycles of every 3 week TAC chemotherapy with HSP-130 given on Day 2 of
      the chemotherapy regimen.

        -  If the 3 mg dose is found to be inferior (potentially subtherapeutic) to the 6 mg dose
           in Cycle 0, only the 6 mg dose will be studied in Cycles 1-4 (n=12), when subjects
           receive concomitant chemotherapy.

        -  If the 3 mg dose is found to be comparable to the PD results obtained in Cycle 0 with 6
           mg, the 3 mg dose (n=12) will also be studied in women receiving TAC chemotherapy.

      Data from the HSP-130 6 mg regimen (plus 3 mg, as appropriate) will be analysed, discussed
      with the FDA and determination if a dose greater than 6 mg is appropriate to study (e.g., 12
      mg). If all three doses are studied, a total enrollment of up to 36 subjects is projected for
      Cycles 1-4.
    
  