
    
      The incidence and nature of central auditory dysfunction in combat soldiers who are exposed
      to high-explosive blasts have not been determined. Using a battery of behavioral and
      neurophysiological auditory tests, we propose to evaluate central auditory function in
      soldiers who recently have been exposed to explosive blasts while deployed in Iraq or
      Afghanistan. In collaboration with the Army Audiology & Speech Center at Walter Reed Army
      Medical Center (WRAMC), the research will be coordinated at the National Center for
      Rehabilitative Auditory Research (NCRAR) at the Portland VA Medical Center, and data
      collection will take place both at the NCRAR and at WRAMC. The study objectives are to
      determine if specific central auditory processing disorders are often associated with
      exposure to high-explosive blasts, and if these disorders spontaneously recover or remain
      over time. One hundred patients who have suffered a blast exposure, but have either no brain
      damage or mild traumatic brain injury (TBI), will be recruited at WRAMC to participate in
      this research study. A battery of central auditory processing tests will be administered to
      participants as soon as possible after their arrival at WRAMC. Patients who demonstrate
      aspects of central auditory processing disorder will be invited to participate in further
      testing nine to twelve months later. Those subjects will be brought to the NCRAR at the
      Portland VA Medical Center or will return to WRAMC for two days of auditory testing, where
      they will undergo the same battery of tests administered initially. Control subjects who do
      not have a history of blast exposure and who are matched in age, gender, and audiometric
      configuration with the experimental subjects will also be tested at the NCRAR site. Data
      extracted by interview and from medical records, including details of the blast exposure,
      scores on overall tests of brain function administered by the WRAMC TBI team, presence or
      absence of post traumatic stress disorder, as well as self-report questionnaires regarding
      quality of life, presence of tinnitus and/or balance problems, will be used in the
      interpretation of results.
    
  