
    
      This is a Phase 3b, multicenter, open-label, single-arm study to evaluate the safety and
      efficacy of acalabrutinib 100 mg bid in approximately 600 participants with chronic
      lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Participants will be enrolled into 3 cohorts: treatment-naive
      (TN) (minimum of 300 participants), relapsed/refractory (R/R) (approximately 200
      participants), and prior bruton tyrosine kinase inhibitor (BTKi) therapy (up to 70 to 100
      participants). Assessment of response and progression will be conducted by the investigator
      in accordance with the International Workshop on Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (IWCLL) 2018
      criteria. Overall response assessments will be based on evaluation of physical examinations,
      recording of symptoms, radiologic evaluations, and hematologic evaluations. Study treatment
      (acalabrutinib 100 mg bid) will be administered until disease progression, unacceptable
      toxicity, 48 cycles of study treatment, withdrawal of consent, loss to follow-up, death, or
      study termination by the sponsor, whichever comes first (each cycle is 28 days). In-clinic
      visits will occur every cycle for the first 6 cycles, and then every 3 cycles for the next 6
      cycles. After 12 cycles "in-clinic visits" will occur every 6 cycles. Safety follow up visits
      will occur approximately 30 days from the last dose of study treatment. If a participant
      continues to derive benefit from treatment at the end of 48 cycles, they will continue to be
      provided with study treatment. This may include, but not be limited to, transition to a
      long-term extension trial, continuous supply in this trial (for eg in countries where
      regulatory approval is not obtained, or drug is not reimbursed) or switching to commercial
      drug as permitted by local regulations. Participants who remain in the trial after the
      completion of 48 cycles will be followed for disease progression, description of all
      subsequently administered anticancer therapies, and IWCLL indication for initiation of
      subsequent anticancer therapies q24w via standard practice until transition to regulatory
      approved off-study acalabrutinib, withdrawal of consent, lost to follow-up, death, or study
      termination by the sponsor. Participants who switch to off-study acalabrutinib will be
      considered as having completed the study and therefore will not have any additional study
      assessments, including the disease follow-up period. The duration of the study will be
      approximately 72 months from the first participant enrolled. This duration includes an
      estimated 24-month recruitment time and an assumed 48 cycles of study treatment (28 days per
      cycle).
    
  