
    
      The research is a randomized controlled, experimental, prospective study conducted to examine
      the effect of kangaroo care at birth on feeding with breast milk only and nutritional status
      and growth-development of the baby according to attachment theory. The research was carried
      out at the Republic of Turkey, Ministry of Health, Izmir Provincial Health Directorate, Buca
      Women Birth and Child Diseases Hospital. The population of the study consisted of all
      pregnant women who were between 36-38 weeks of gestation and referred to the pregnant
      outpatient clinic between March 2017 and February 2019 (N.8079).Power analysis was carried
      out to determine the sample group that would represent the population in the research. In the
      power analysis, the sample was determined by evaluating the reference studies related to the
      feeding rate of only with breast milk in the first nine months, and the expected growth
      development level in the first nine months, which were the dependent variables of the
      research. For the first nine months, the 2.4% value stated in TNSA 2013 regarding feeding
      with breast milk rate was taken as reference (TNSA, 2013). Studies of Çelik et al. (2014)
      were taken as reference for the evaluation of growth and development. The number of samples
      to be taken for each group was determined as a result of the power analysis made according to
      these values. As a result of the evaluation made with power analysis, the expected effect
      factor with growth and development was calculated as two-times. Accordingly, it was
      determined that 48 samples should be taken for each group. Forecasting that data loss may
      occur in multi-monitoring studies, more than 10% of the sufficient sample size was included
      in the study (n: 214). The sample of the study consisted of pregnant women who applied to the
      Ministry of Health, Izmir Provincial Health Directorate, Buca Women Birth and Child Diseases
      Hospital pregnant outpatient clinic between March 2017 and February 2019, who were between
      36-38 weeks of gestation and who met the inclusion criteria (n:132). After determining the
      sample number of the research, it was decided to make randomization according to the last
      numbers of the pregnant women's protocol numbers, and to which group the odd and even numbers
      would be included was determined by the method of a draw. As a result of the draw, the last
      digit of the protocol number ending with an odd number was included in the control group, the
      last digit of the protocol number, ending with an even number, was included in the
      intervention group
    
  