
    
      The desire to reproduce is both a powerful urge and a basic human right for women regardless
      of mental health status. Deinstitutionalised treatment for mental illness, better
      pharmacotherapies, and generally higher expectations for a normal quality of life have the
      potential to raise the incidence of pregnancy in women with psychosis (Miller, Bloom &
      Resnick, 1992). The right of women with mental illness to become parents places
      responsibility upon health care professionals to ensure sound antenatal and ongoing care is
      available.

      Ethical duty of care aside, good antenatal treatment appears prudent given the greater risk
      of obstetric complications in women with schizophrenia (Sacker et al, 1996). In a meta
      analysis of studies examining outcomes for pregnant women with and without schizophrenia,
      evidence exists of a small but statistically significant increase in the risk of low birth
      weight and inferior neonatal condition in infants of the schizophrenia cohort (Sacker et al,
      1996). A recent meta analysis (Webb, et al, 2005) summarized that exposure to maternal
      psychotic illness is associated with a "higher than expected" risk of perinatal and infant
      mortality, including an almost twofold chance of fetal death or stillbirth (p.1052).
      Jablensky and colleagues (2005) further discovered that women whose psychiatric illness
      commenced before the birth of their child were significantly more likely to experience
      obstetric complications than women whose first admission for mental illness was after the
      delivery. Moreover, the offspring of women with schizophrenia carry with them an increased
      risk for developing psychosis (Mednick, Parnas & Schulsinger, 1987). This observation has
      driven the neurodevelopmental hypothesis about the aetiology of schizophrenia, which posits
      that alterations to early fetal brain development in utero might lead to a predisposition to
      the formation of schizophrenia later in life (Lewis & Murray, 1987). Such perinatal
      contributions to adult mental health outcomes points to the necessity to provide pregnant
      women who have psychosis, with proper and specialized treatment.

      Despite these clear arguments for a thorough understanding of the needs of pregnant women
      with schizophrenia, current research is limited. In particular, there is currently very
      little evidence regarding the use of antipsychotic medication in pregnancy upon fetal
      development and maternal health. Over the last four decades, intermittent studies have sought
      to investigate the teratogenicity of the older or typical antipsychotics upon fetal
      development. Earlier reports were generated from pregnancy outcomes of women treated with
      these medications for hyperemesis gravidarum, not from women with schizophrenia (Kerns,
      1989); as such, it is difficult to extrapolate initial findings across these two cohorts with
      confidence. Limb defects in children born to women who were given large doses of haloperidol
      in early pregnancy are outlined in case reports (Goldberg & Nissam, 1994). Patton and
      colleagues (2002) also reviewed three other larger studies and concluded that a significant
      increased chance exists for babies exposed to phenothiazines to develop congenital
      malformations, compared with the incidence within the general population.

      The newer or second generation antipsychotics (SGAs) have not been studied in any great
      detail; to date, to our knowledge, there have been no blinded or randomized studies examining
      birth outcomes in women taking SGAs, and these are unlikely given ethical considerations.
      Prescribing guidelines laid out in MIMS (2003) for all current SGAs include pregnancy as a
      "special precaution" and despite the gravity of associated risks of teratogenesis, there are
      few publications examining atypical antipsychotic medication use in pregnant women. In their
      review, Patton and colleagues (2002) cite four studies on the outcome of clozapine use,
      noting that for a total five cases no congenital abnormalities were reported, although one
      infant experienced low grade fever and seizure, with gastroesophageal reflux. Grigoriadis and
      Seeman (2002) suggest that the increased risk of agranulocytosis and seizures in babies,
      coupled with the identification of both pregnancy and clozapine as potentially increasing the
      likelihood of thromboembolisms, render this a medication to be avoided during pregnancy.
      Twenty-three Olanzapine-exposed pregnancies were observed by Goldstein and colleagues (2000),
      who found there was no increased risk of spontaneous abortion, stillbirth, prematurity or
      major malformation. The authors were, however, swift to assert that studies of greater sample
      sizes and over a protracted time period are necessary before olanzapine can be declared
      "safe" with confidence.

      Thus, clinicians remain in a conundrum; although in general today's antipsychotic drugs
      produce fewer side effects, are better tolerated by the patient, and more effectively target
      the symptoms of psychosis, little evidence has been presented to reassure prescribers that
      their impact upon fetal development is minimal. A proven, evidence based method for achieving
      a balance between maternal mental health with minimal risk to the fetus must be researched
      and evidenced. Therefore, we have established The National Register of Antipsychotic
      Medication in Pregnancy (NRAMP) as a non-interventional means of providing information about
      pregnancies and outcomes for women with psychosis, and their babies. Not only is NRAMP
      seeking to record large scale obstetric information in a prospective fashion, including
      pharmacotherapy during pregnancy and beyond, it is also capitalizing on the opportunity to
      track alterations to mental health symptoms of women during pregnancy and in the post partum
      period, and to gather valuable insights into the attitudes of this cohort as they make the
      transition into parenthood.

      The combination of poor psychosocial history, existing involvement with child protection
      agencies, psychiatric diagnoses and admissions, medications and substance abuse, present many
      issues affecting outcomes for both mother and child during the perinatal period. Our study
      involves extensive collaboration between many different clinical groups, and will culminate
      in an important best-practice resource to improve the quality of life for both present and
      future generations. The identification of a history of serious mental illness and a planned
      management strategy are therefore essential if we are to improve outcomes for mother and
      baby.

      This then, is the driving force behind the establishment of The National Register of
      Antipsychotic Medication in Pregnancy (NRAMP), and is a much-needed strategy to improve the
      management of serious mental illness for women who become pregnant.

      This investigator initiated study has been funded by Janssen-Cilag, AstraZeneca, Hospira,
      Lilly and the Australian Rotary Health Research Fund. NB: AstraZeneca provided funding up to
      and including 250 consented participants. The study continues to recruit.
    
  