
    
      Strict adherence to ART regimens is necessary for viral suppression and to avoid development
      of viral resistance, yet average ART adherence among HIV-positive individuals in North
      America is only 55%. Focused prevention efforts are key to reduce secondary HIV transmission
      to sexual and needle-sharing partners, yet many HIV patients do not receive counseling about
      these behaviors from their providers. Despite the global pandemic and a rising HIV incidence
      among some US populations, few health promotion interventions have integrated ART adherence
      with transmission risk reduction for people living with HIV. Most of the efficacious
      adherence or prevention interventions to date are not practical to scale up, as they require
      intense staff training and quality assurance and can be delivered to relatively few
      individuals at any one time.

      An interactive health communication tool promises the possibility of a cost-effective adjunct
      to existing human-delivered counseling, or a stand-alone intervention when no other
      counseling would otherwise be offered.

      This RCT of one such tool -- CARE+ --will provide empiric evidence of the benefits and limits
      of a computerized health promotion intervention to integrate ART adherence with transmission
      prevention for individuals with HIV. CARE+ is a .NET based application on tablet computers
      that comprises risk assessment, medication monitoring, tailored feedback, stage-based
      skills-building videos, motivational interviewing counseling, an integrated health promotion
      plan, and printout with referrals. Evidence-based approaches (pharmacist education,
      self-efficacy/importance scaling exercises, and consequence-framing) are incorporated.

      Comparison: The CARE+ longitudinal RCT compares clinical and behavioral outcomes of CARE+
      users to a control arm which assesses audio computer-assisted self-interview risk behaviors
      only. Participants were recruited and enrolled at two study sites, 1) an urban outpatient HIV
      clinic and 2) a community based AIDS Service Organization.

      Aim 1: Identify common elements of adherence and transmission behaviors, health communication
      needs, and technology attitudes (n=30 interviews); incorporate into CARE+ and test software
      usability (n=30). Aim 2: Randomized clinical trial of HIV-positive adults on ART. Arm 1:
      CARE+ (n=120); Arm 2: computer risk assessment only (n=120). Arms 1 and 2 perform baseline,
      3-, 6-, and 9-month session. Compare outcomes: a) ART adherence by plasma HIV viral load,
      CD4, self-report and b) HIV transmission sexual risk behaviors at follow-up. Aim 3: Provide
      data for HIV transmission dynamics impact modeling.
    
  