
    
      The Brain Physiology and Metabolism Section (BPMS) of the National Institute on Aging (NIA)
      and the Clinical Neuroscience Program (CNP) of the National Institute of Neurological
      Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) propose to study regional brain phospholipid metabolism in young
      and old normal volunteers and in patients with Alzheimer disease. The method to be employed,
      developed from animal studies, involves the intravenous injection of a radiolabeled
      polyunsaturated fatty acid, [11C]arachidonic acid and measuring regional brain radioactivity
      using positron emission tomography (PET). A mathematical model is used to calculate regional
      brain incorporation coefficients k* of [11C]arachidonate into brain. These reflect brain
      signal transduction and membrane turnover involving phospholipids and the signal transduction
      and membrane turnover involving phospholipids and the activation of the enzyme, phospholipase
      A2. PET also will be used in the same subjects to measure regional cerebral blood flow
      (rCBF), a marker of brain energy metabolism, with radioactive water ([150]H20). The
      literature reports that rCBF and energy metabolism decline with age and are markedly reduced
      in Alzheimer disease. We hypothesize that (a) we will be able to quantify and image
      incorporation of [11C]arachidonate into the human brain for the first time, (b) in normal
      volunteers, k* for arachidonate will be correlated on a regional basis with rCBF, (c) rCBF
      will be reduced in the older compared with the younger normal volunteers, and markedly
      reduced in Alzheimer disease patients compared with the older volunteers (controls), (d) the
      normal coupling (regression) relation between k* and rCBF will be disturbed in Alzheimer
      disease.

      This protocol originally proposed to measure brain incorporation of two labeled fatty acids,
      [11C]arachidonate and [11C]palmitate, as well as rCBF, in young and old normal volunteers,
      and in patients with Alzheimer disease, Niemann-Pick Type C disease and brain tumors. Eleven
      patients with Alzheimer disease have been scanned using [11C]arachidonate and [150]H20,
      compared with 10 volunteers. The current amendment proposes to use only [11C]arachidonate and
      [150]H20 in 16 additional normal volunteers, and to compare the results between old and young
      groups and patients with Alzheimer disease. A request to study only 16 additional normal
      volunteers was approved by the NINDS IRB at the Continuing Review in 1999, and has not
      changed since then.
    
  