
    
      The investigators will conduct a mixed-methods study that will include a community cluster
      randomized trial, followed by focus group discussions in both intervention and control
      villages after completion of the trial. This trial will be performed in 16 villages in
      conjunction with a voluntary medical male circumcision outreach campaign that is being
      offered by the Tanzanian Ministry of Health in the northwest of the country. The campaign
      brings a team of clinicians to perform free male circumcisions in 2-3 villages at a time. The
      campaign routinely provides male circumcision and voluntary HIV counseling and testing to
      between one hundred to two hundred men per day and typically remains in a village for 3-6
      weeks until demand for circumcision decreases.

      The unit of randomization in the cluster randomized trial will be the village. The
      investigators will work in partnership with the male circumcision outreach campaign to
      identify eligible village pairs that are located within 60 kilometers of one another and will
      be targeted by the male circumcision outreach campaign at the same time. The investigators
      believe that the geographic proximity of the paired villages and the start date of the male
      circumcision outreach campaign in the village will be the two most important factors
      affecting uptake of male circumcision in the villages. The geographic proximity is important
      for the assumption that baseline rates of male circumcision and other village characteristics
      are likely similar. The start date of the campaign is important because: (1) uptake of male
      circumcision is likely to be higher during the dry season, when there is less farming work
      for men to do, and (2) the investigators predict that uptake of male circumcision may
      increase over time as more and more men are circumcised in the Mwanza region and it
      increasingly becomes a societal norm.

      The investigators will restrict our inclusion criteria to rural villages that have clear
      boundaries so that the male population is stable without influx as would be common in an
      urban area. In these rural regions, dirt roads and poor infrastructure lead to minimal
      contact between villages so it is predicted that little information will be shared between
      intervention and control villages.

      Both intervention and control villages will receive the standard community outreach events to
      promote male circumcision that are provided by the Tanzanian Ministry of Health during their
      male circumcision outreach campaign. This may include community meetings, public education
      sessions by health care workers, drama, broadcast announcements by cars with megaphones, and
      distribution of health informational brochures. However, the standard education does not work
      specifically with religious leaders. Among the members of the male circumcision outreach
      team, only one clinician, who will provide medical teaching at the educational seminar for
      religious leaders, will be aware of a village's assignment as an intervention or control
      group.

      The additional intervention that will be given to villages that are randomized to receive the
      intervention will be a one-day educational seminar for church leaders of that village. The
      seminar will focus on male circumcision and will address religious, cultural, and health
      implications of this practice. It will also provide teaching and tools for church leaders to
      use in discussing male circumcision with their congregations.

      After the completion of the male circumcision outreach campaign in a village, our study team
      will enroll individual church leaders. Leaders from both intervention and control villages
      will participate in separate groups and will be led in a discussion of their perceptions of
      male circumcision. Church leaders, who will be invited from a variety of denominational
      backgrounds, will provide written informed consent for participation in the focus group
      discussions.
    
  