
    
      Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is one of the leading causes of hospital admission, clinic
      attendance and mortality in some provinces of Sri Lanka. In central and southern provinces
      increased incidence is attributed to type-2 diabetes and hypertension; however, this is not
      the case in North Central Province (NCP) where CKD of unknown aetiology (CKDu) is the
      commonest diagnosis. A recent World Health Organisation (WHO) investigation concluded that at
      least 8,000 people have CKDu2.

      First recognized in the early nineties, much work has been done to try to characterise the
      disease however results are conflicting. Most suggest male paddy farmers working in rural
      areas of the NCP are worst affected, presenting in their fifth decade with end stage renal
      failure. However, a recent WHO study revealed higher prevalence in females, although more
      severe renal impairment was more common in men.

      Risk factors include inhabiting NCP > five years, inhabiting the 'dry zone', reduced BMI,
      lower socio-economic class, and exposure to agrochemicals. There has been suggestion of a
      genetic link although positive family history is limited to one generation, with no evidence
      of mendelian progression. Epidemiological studies reveal a clustered geographical
      distribution with areas such as Medawachchiya, Padaviya and Girandurukotte most affected.
      High prevalence areas encompass a well-developed irrigation system used for agricultural
      purposes.

      Renal biopsies show tubulointerstitial disease with tubular atrophy, interstitial mononuclear
      cell infiltration, interstitial fibrosis but no immune-complex deposition on
      immunofluorescence. This supports a toxin-mediated process.

      Many aetiologies have been considered including exposure to heavy metals (cadmium, arsenic)
      and their chelation by herbicides, fluro-aluminium complexes, agricultural pesticides,
      mycotoxins, and herbal medicines. Selenium deficiency and genetic susceptibility may be
      predisposing factors. The true aetiology is likely multifactorial.

      The multi-system impact of CKDu has yet to be fully realised. Epidemiological and clinical
      data show that damage to large arteries contributes to the increased cardiovascular risk
      observed in CKD. Atherosclerosis is the most frequent cause of arterial damage but the medial
      calcification seen in CKD also leads to arterial stiffening. This stiffening causes elevation
      in systolic blood pressure, increasing left ventricular workload with the gradual development
      of LVH, and also a fall in diastolic blood pressure impairing coronary blood flow. Arterial
      calcification and stiffness are independent predictors of all-cause and cardiovascular
      mortality in patients with CKD. Arterial stiffness will be compared in CKDu patients, healthy
      Sri Lankan controls and CKD patients both in Sri Lanka and Scotland.

      We will perform a prospective observational study of up to 250 patients with CKDu presenting
      to renal clinics in Teaching Hospital, Anuradhapura. Patient history, basic anthropometric
      measurements, and simple non-invasive tests (e.g. blood pressure and arterial stiffness) will
      be performed. Urine, serum and plasma samples will be collected for quantitative PCR, and
      further analysis for biomarkers of renal injury, exosomes, proteomics and any DNA-adducts.
      Patients will be graded using the WHO CKDu grading system. When a renal biopsy is performed,
      a copy of the light microscopy findings will be obtained. Comparisons of interest will be
      tested via paired t-tests with statistical significance taken at 5%.
    
  