
    
      Stroke is a very serious medical condition, classically categorized as a neurological
      disorder that occurs due to obstructed blood flow to specific parts of the brain, and
      resultant death of that area. This obstructed blood supply results in compromised function of
      that part of the brain, resulting in paralysis or interference with the normal function of
      the body controlled by that specific region of the brain. Stroke is usually of two types i.e.
      Ischemic and hemorrhagic. Ischemic stroke results in reduced or complete obstruction in blood
      flow in the vessels resulting in ischemia, while a hemorrhagic stroke occurs due to rupture
      of blood carrying vessels and results in clotting. Both types reduce the supply of oxygen to
      the parts of the brain and result in cognitive and physical disabilities. Most common
      physical disabilities e.g. moving certain parts, swallowing, speaking, bowel bladder,
      coordination & balance. Other commonly occurring underlying disabilities range from
      cognitive, emotional to behavioural issues. Constrained Induced Moment Therapy (CIMT) is a
      therapeutic intervention involving the family of techniques, used most commonly to treat
      physical disabilities in patients of stroke. These techniques involve restraint of the intact
      or normal limb over an extended period, in combination with several movement repetitions of
      task-specific training by the affected limb and lead to improved functional status. Frequency
      and duration of tasks performed by affected limbs can affect outcomes effectively.
      Physiologically brain has characteristics of plasticity, which is the basis for CIMT as a
      treatment. The neurophysiological mechanism that is believed to be underline treatment
      benefits of CIMT includes overcoming learned outcomes and plastic reorganization of the
      brain. The brain changes itself when effected extremity is used intensively and repetitively.
      The physiological effects of CIMT are explained as cortical reorganization, dendritic
      branching, redundancy learned and synaptic strength Evidence on CIMT interventions for lower
      limb was quite rare. But many pieces of research supported that CIMT can be used as an
      equally effective intervention for a lower limb as it is being used for the upper limb.
      Constraining the lower extremity was difficult and complex as compared to the upper
      extremity. Improved functional status of the lower limb by treating with CIMT was accompanied
      by less balance, coordination and short stepped gate. Some researchers focused on repetitions
      while others focused on forced movements. All the evidence showed improved functional level
      in the post-stroke lower limb.

      Stroke can be managed by a variety of different techniques, one of which is
      constraint-induced movement therapy (CIMT). This form of rehabilitation focuses on the
      intensive use of the affected limb while restricting the use of the unaffected limb. The
      types of restraints used include a splint, a sling, a glove, a mitt and a combination of a
      sling and a resting hand splint. CIMT has been more commonly practised in the upper limb but
      after positive results were obtained from the upper extremity protocol, a protocol was
      developed for the lower extremity as well. A vast number of studies have shown the success of
      CIMT in treating the reduction of upper limb use in the practical world after traumatic brain
      injury, cerebral palsy, multiple sclerosis and stroke. A specially adapted form of CIMT for
      the lower limb has also been successful in treating deficits in the lower limb after spinal
      cord injury and stroke
    
  