
    
      Highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) has greatly improved mortality and morbidity
      rates associated with HIV and AIDS. However, many HIV-1 infected individuals are unable to
      access HAART. It is therefore important to develop a safe and effective therapeutic vaccine
      to improve immune control of viral replication and reduce the need for antiretroviral
      medication. This study will evaluate the safety and immunogenicity of the HIV-1 DNA vaccine
      VRC-HIVDNA009-00-VP in treating HIV-1 infected individuals who initiated antiretroviral
      therapy during acute infection. This study will involve a supervised treatment interruption
      (STI) in order to determine whether therapeutic vaccination results in improved immune
      control of viral replication.

      Participants in this study will be randomly assigned to receive either the therapeutic
      vaccine or placebo in addition to their regular HAART regimens. During the first part of the
      study, participants will receive 4 vaccinations at Weeks 0, 4, 8 and 24. All individuals
      completing the therapeutic vaccination phase (defined as completing at least 3 immunizations,
      including the Week 24 immunization) will be given the opportunity to participate in the
      second part of the study and undergo a supervised discontinuation of HAART. At Week 30, these
      participants will discontinue all antiretroviral treatment and will be closely monitored.
      Participants will restart HAART if they experience a significant decline in their CD4 count,
      an increase in their viral loads, or if their physicians recommend they resume HAART. At Week
      52, all other participants can restart HAART at the discretion of their primary physician.

      21 study visits will occur over a period of 52 weeks. After Week 52, monthly study visits
      will occur through Week 72. Study visits will last approximately two hours and will include
      physical exams and blood and urine collection.
    
  