
    
      Background:

        -  Epithelial ovarian cancer requires neovascularization for growth and metastasis.
           Anti-angiogenesis agents have been shown to have promise in the treatment of recurrent
           disease. Expression of vascular endothelial growth factor 2 (VEGFR2) and epidermal
           growth factor receptor (EGFR) has been demonstrated in ovarian cancer specimens in
           stroma and tumor. Blocking autocrine and paracrine loops acting through these receptors
           may inhibit downstream phosphorylation targets in the mitogen activated protein kinase
           (MAPK) and AKT pathways, thereby influencing disease progression and patient outcome.

        -  The multi-kinase inhibitor ZD6474 (vandetanib, AstraZeneca, Zactima) blocks angiogenesis
           by targeting VEGFR2, and shows in vitro activity against a number of other receptor
           tyrosine kinases including resonance energy transfer (RET), vascular endothelial growth
           factor 3 (VEGFR3) and EGFR.

        -  Clinical efficacy of ZD6474 (vandetanib) in women with refractory or relapsed epithelial
           ovarian cancer is unknown, but preclinical data suggests potential value.

        -  The maximum tolerated dose of ZD6474 (vandetanib) has been determined at 300mg/day,
           limited by the dose-responsive adverse effect of prolonged (Q wave, T wave)QT interval.

      Objectives:

        -  To assess the clinical activity (CR - complete response, PR - partial response, or
           disease stabilization) of the VEGFR2 inhibitor ZD6474 (vandetanib), 300mg/d, in women
           with ovarian, fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cancer.

        -  To study target signal events: quantity and activation of VEGFR2, EGFR, AKT and
           extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERK).

      Eligibility:

        -  Women with biopsy-proven epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cancer
           that is relapsed and/or refractory to prior therapy.

        -  Women must have measurable disease by NCI Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors
           (RECIST) criteria and a sentinel lesion adequate for core biopsy through percutaneous
           biopsy.

        -  Women must have had no more than four prior treatment regimens.

      Design:

        -  Women will receive 300mg of ZD6474 (vandetanib) daily, orally in 28-day cycles until
           disease progression, excessive toxicity, or withdrawal from study.

        -  Biopsy of tumor will be performed prior to starting ZD6474 (vandetanib) and after six
           weeks of treatment. The quantity of phosphorylated VEGFR2, EGFR, ERK and AKT in the
           biopsy tissue will be analyzed.

        -  Clinical outcome and toxicity will be measured and correlated with target inhibition.

        -  Women will also undergo serial imaging with dynamic contrast-enhanced MRI to estimate
           tumor blood flow.

        -  Research blood samples will be taken to assess changes in circulating cytokine
           concentrations.

        -  Quality of life will be assessed during treatment.
    
  