
    
      Chronic delta hepatitis is a serious form of chronic liver disease caused by infection with
      the hepatitis D virus (HDV), a small RNA virus that requires farnesylation of its major
      structural protein (HDV antigen) for replication. Based on previous and ongoing clinical
      trials demonstrating effectiveness against HDV, we propose to treat 26 adult patients with
      chronic delta hepatitis using the combination of the farnesyltransferase inhibitor (FTI)
      lonafarnib (LNF), the protease inhibitor ritonavir (RTV) and peginterferon lambda-1a(lambda).
      In this phase 2a open label study, the safety and antiviral effects of triple therapy with
      LNF, RTV and lambda for a period of 6 months. After dosing, all patients will be monitored
      for 24 weeks off therapy. Nucleos(t)ide analogue therapy will be instituted/continued during
      this study to prevent the possibility of HBV reactivation/flare for the duration of
      participation in this clinical trial. Patients with quantifiable HDV RNA in serum will be
      enrolled. At each clinic visit, patients will be questioned about side effects, symptoms and
      quality of life, undergo focused physical examination, and have blood drawn for complete
      blood counts, HDV RNA, and routine liver tests (including ALT, AST, alkaline phosphatase,
      direct and total bilirubin, and albumin). At the end of the treatment, patients will be
      admitted to the clinical center and will undergo repeat liver biopsy and HVPG measurements,
      repeat physical examination, assessment of symptoms (using a symptom scale questionnaire),
      complete blood counts, routine liver tests, and hepatitis B and D viral markers. The primary
      therapeutic endpoint will be a decline of HDV RNA viral titer of 2 logs at the end of
      therapy. The primary safety endpoint will be the ability to tolerate the drugs at the
      prescribed dose for the full course of therapy. This clinical trial is designed as a phase 2a
      study assessing the antiviral activity, safety and tolerance of fixed doses of lonafarnib,
      ritonavir and peginterferon lambda.
    
  