
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine whether Lactobacillus brevis CD2 lozenges are effective in reducing oral
           mucositis (OM)-related pain in patients undergoing chemoradiotherapy (CRT) for head and
           neck squamous cell carcinoma, as measured by the area under the curve (AUC) of Mouth and
           Throat Soreness (MTS) score (Oral Mucositis Daily Questionnaire [OMDQ] question 2)
           measured daily during CRT and daily for 4 weeks after completion of CRT.

      Secondary

        -  To assess whether L. brevis CD2 lozenges reduce OM as assessed by the provider using the
           WHO OM scale, Oral Mucositis Assessment Scale (OMAS), and Common Terminology Criteria
           Adverse Events (CTCAE).

        -  To assess whether L. brevis CD2 lozenges reduce the impact of OM on the ability to
           swallow, drink, eat, talk, and sleep, as assessed by the MTS-Activity Limitations
           (MTS-AL).

        -  To assess whether L. brevis CD2 lozenges improve quality of life, as assessed by the
           Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Head and Neck (FACT-HN).

        -  To assess whether L. brevis CD2 lozenges reduce opioid requirements.

        -  To assess whether L. brevis CD2 lozenges improve radiotherapy compliance.

        -  To assess whether L. brevis CD2 lozenges reduce weight loss and the need for a feeding
           tube.

        -  To assess whether L. brevis CD2 lozenges affect disease-free survival (DFS) at 12 months
           after treatment.

        -  To evaluate the effect of L. brevis CD2 lozenges on salivary biomarkers, including
           metabonomic and inflammatory markers, as measured at baseline, week 3 of CRT, and during
           the last week of CRT. (exploratory)

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind study. Patients
      are stratified according to primary disease site (oral cavity/oropharynx vs nasopharynx vs
      hypopharynx/larynx), context of chemoradiotherapy (CRT) (definitive vs post-operative),
      cisplatin schedule (every 3 weeks [100 mg/m^2] vs every week [30-40 mg/m^2]), and use of
      intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) (yes vs no). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2
      treatment regimens.

        -  Arm I: Patients dissolve in mouth 1 lozenge of Lactobacillus brevis CD2 every 2-3 hours
           (total of 6 per day) daily during CRT (comprising cisplatin and radiotherapy [RT]) and
           for 4 weeks after, including weekends.

        -  Arm II: Patients dissolve in mouth 1 lozenge of placebo every 2-3 hours (total of 6 per
           day) daily during CRT and for 4 weeks after, including weekends.

      Patients complete questionnaires about their quality of life and pain at baseline and daily
      during study treatment.

      Saliva is collected from some patients before starting RT, during week 3 of RT, and during
      the last week of RT for NMR-spectroscopic metabolomic analysis and future cytokine analysis.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 12 months.
    
  