
    
      The study will be conducted in a prospective randomized design on the patient population of
      the Surgical Intensive Care Unit (SICU) at Yale New Haven Hospital. All SICU patients in whom
      the indication for arterial catheterization has been established by the attending physician
      will be eligible for consented randomization to either the "Palpation" or the "Ultrasound"
      group.

      Once consent from the patient or his/her surrogate has been obtained, eligible patients will
      be randomized to either the "Palpation" or the "Ultrasound" group. Sequentially numbered
      sealed envelopes will be maintained in the SICU.

      Catheter insertion: The side of insertion (left/right arm) is chosen by the operator. The
      wrist is positioned by the operator, the skin disinfected and the area draped in a sterile
      fashion. "Palpation" group": The artery is punctured after location by palpation only.
      "Ultrasound" group": The artery is punctured under real-time ultrasound only with the probe
      draped in a sterile sheath. The time from the first skin puncture to confirmed intra-arterial
      position of the catheter by observing blood return from the catheter is measured with a
      chronometer by a second person. An arterial pressure waveform must be observed on the monitor
      to validate intra-arterial catheter placement.

      Radial artery cannulation will be performed using the "Radial Artery Catheterization Set with
      Integral Needle Protection" (Ref. RA-04020-SP, Arrows International Inc., Reading PA 19605,
      USA) containing a 20G catheter on a 22 gauge (22G) puncture needle and a 0.46 mm spring-wire
      guide.

      For ultrasound-guided catheter insertion, operators will use the "Site-Rite 6 Ultrasound
      System" with a linear vascular access probe (5-10 MHz) (Bard Access Systems Inc., 605 North
      5600 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, USA).

      Operators: RA catheterization is a typical teaching procedure frequently performed in the
      ICU. In our unit, arterial lines are placed by either post graduate year 2 (PGY-2) residents
      (surgery & anesthesia) rotating through the SICU on a monthly basis, or by mid-level
      providers who are in the unit for indeterminate periods of time. For our study, this will be
      an important point, as one of our goals will be to demonstrate a learning effect, which is
      less likely to be observable among the PGY-2 residents who will be present in the unit for a
      month only.

      All operators will get instructions (lecture and hands-on training on vascular phantom at the
      beginning of their SICU rotation) on the use of ultrasound for vascular access and will at
      all times have the opportunity to exercise their skills on a vessel phantom. Each successful
      vessel puncture on the vessel phantom must be recorded by the operator, including time and
      date. For each operator performing the ultrasound-guided insertion on a patient, one of the
      investigators will be present for supervision and data collection, but not for assistance
      with insertion, unless required for failure after having used both methods.

      Cross-over: After three failed attempts at catheterization with the allocated first method,
      the alternative method must be used; the operator can opt to puncture the RA on the opposite
      arm. Timing of the first method ends when the operator decides to abandon the third attempt.
      Timing for the new method starts at the new first skin puncture.

      Follow up: All catheters will be monitored daily and on days 1 and 3 with clinical and
      ultrasound examination for the development of complications. The catheter will be followed
      daily for functional outcomes defined as the quality of the arterial waveform on the monitor
      and the ability to draw blood from the catheter. The day on which the catheter ceases to
      function for each of these purposes will be recorded as well as the day of catheter removal.
    
  