
    
      The purpose of this research is to create a manual wheelchair propulsion-training program
      (MWPTP) that emphasizes propulsion techniques that improve the manual wheelchair users stroke
      pattern and efficiency. It is our hope that the design of a manual wheelchair-training
      program can help to minimize the upper extremity pain and injury often associated with manual
      wheelchair propulsion.

      The MWPTP will exist in three forms, and will be given to three randomly assigned groups of
      subjects. An instruction only group (IO) will receive general instructions on how to best
      propel their wheelchair. A feedback group (FB) will receive additional instruction in
      wheelchair propulsion using a monitor displaying a random combination and amount of
      biomechanical feedback variables, such as cadence and proportion of time spent in propulsion.
      Subjects will be coached to develop an appropriate propulsion style that minimizes all of the
      predetermined feedback measures, which indicate poor technique and maximize all of the
      graphical measures indicating good propulsion technique. A control group (CG) will receive
      only testing which will be identical to the testing procedures followed by the IO and FB
      groups.

      Participation in this study will consist of four visits to the Human Engineering Research Lab
      (HERL) for the FB, IO and CG. Visits 1-4 will be the same, except visit 4 will not include
      training for any of the groups. All subjects will use their own wheelchair and cushion;
      however researchers will attach SMART Wheels TM to the subjects' wheelchair in place of their
      current wheels. The SMART Wheels TM are used to record the forces and moments that occur
      during propulsion and will not alter the dimensions or feel of the subjects current
      wheelchair. During each visit, all subjects will be asked to push over a real life course
      that includes various grades and surfaces. Then they will be asked to push on a wheelchair
      dynamometer at 1 meter/sec for one minute, 2 meter/sec for one minute, and a self selected
      speed for one minute. During this time, data will may also be collected with use of an
      Optotrak kinematic measurement system that incorporates a camera 3D-motion analysis system.
    
  