
    
      Background

      Previous studies have shown that Diabetes Mellitus type I (DMI) and II (DMII) is associated
      with an increased risk of bone fracture. Paradoxically DMII patients have higher Bone Mineral
      Density (BMD) than average, while DMI patients have lower BMD than average. Even the low BMD
      of DMI cannot fully explain the extent of fractures found. Known risk factors and BMD
      underestimate the risk of fracture amongst DM patients using the 10 year fracture risk tool
      'Fracture Risk Assessment Tool' (FRAX). It is well-known that increased levels of biochemical
      bone markers predict low-energy fractures. However bone markers in DM patients show both
      heterogeneity and inconsistency. Because of this, the predictive value of bone markers is
      still uncertain in DM patients. Part of the pathology of DM is a higher blood glucose level
      than found in non-diabetics. This high level of blood glucose could potentially influence
      bone turnover and thereby bone markers. It is, however, still uncertain whether glucose per
      se influences the fracture risk of DM patients. Among young healthy individuals, an Oral
      Glucose Tolerance Test (OGTT) reduces the concentration of both resorptive and formative bone
      markers. This reduction can be counteracted by the somatostatin analogue, octreotide.
      Therefore the effect of glucose on bone markers may be indirect and linked to gut hormone
      release. It may also be caused by a direct effect on osteocytes or a change in the chemical
      configuration of bone markers, which render them undetectable by standard assays. To examine
      this, we have conducted preliminary in vitro trials where glucose was added to serum. This
      does not change the level of bone markers and it is therefore unthinkable that glucose per se
      affects the assay or causes changed bone marker configuration. The effect of an Intravenous
      Glucose Tolerance Test (IVGTT) on bone markers has never been examined. Subcutaneous and
      parenteral injection of the gut hormone glucagon-like peptide 2 (GLP-2) dose-dependently
      reduces resorptive bone markers, while parenteral GLP-2 entails no change in formative bone
      markers. This shows that GLP-2 has an uncoupled effect on bone turnover, where resorption is
      inhibited, and formation remains the same.

      There is an association between bone turnover, inflammation and glucose. Chronic inflammation
      in patients with inflammatory bowel disease increases bone resorption through an increase in
      the Receptor Activator of Nuclear factor Kappa beta Ligand/Osteoprotegrin (RANKL/OPG) ratio,
      and the same may be the case in DMII. Human endothelial cells augment production of the
      inflammatory marker MCP-1 when glucose levels are continuously elevated. RANKL also induces
      MCP-1 production in human osteoclasts. An in vitro trial shows, that at blood glucose level
      of 24 mM, osteoblasts increases expression of RANKL, production of inflammatory markers,
      including MCP-1, and expression of mRNA for the formative bone marker osteocalcin. It has not
      yet been examined whether MCP-1 correlates with formative and resorptive bone markers in
      vivo. It is therefore still uncertain whether glucose has a direct effect on bone turnover or
      an indirect effect via. either GLP-2 or inflammatory processes.

      Aim

      The aim of this project is to examine whether IVGTT reduces bone marker levels in the same
      degree as OGTT does. Also, we examine whether the effect of the glucose load is direct or
      indirect through either GLP-2 or inflammatory processes reflected by inflammatory markers.

      Perspective

      This project will determine whether the effect of glucose on bone markers is direct or
      indirect. This knowledge can then be used to explore whether glucose is 'the missing link' in
      the present fracture prediction score for DM patients.

      Methods

      In this project 12 healthy male subjects will undergo both oral glucose tolerance test and
      intra venous glucose tolerance test. During the tests bone markers will be measured at
      different time intervals and compared to each other. Using these methods it is possible to
      distinguish whether glucose acts directly on bone and bone markers or through an intestinal
      or inflammatory pathway. Subjects will be recruited from advertising. After signing a consent
      form, subjects will fill out a questionaire concerning lifestyle (smoking, alcohol, diet and
      exercise), previous fracture and familiar disposition to DM, osteoporosis and thyroid
      disease. Bloodpressure, height and weight will be measured.

      Statistics

      Paired t-test and repeated measurement analysis will be used for the statistical analyses, as
      well as linear and logistical regression for adjustment for potential confounders.
    
  