
    
      Background:

        -  Prostate cancer is one of the most common malignancies occurring in men. While many men
           will qualify for active surveillance (AS), those with intermediate risk disease are
           often recommended definitive therapy despite the morbidity.

        -  Focal therapy for prostate cancer has been promoted as an alternative to the standard
           paradigm of immediate radical prostatectomy (RP) versus AS for prostate cancer
           management. Focal therapy treats the areas of cancer selectively, leaving the remainder
           of the prostate intact.

        -  While focal therapy offers great promise in terms of minimizing side effects and helping
           prostate cancer patients avoid radical therapies, careful patient selection is required.

        -  The Oncotype DX Genomic Prostate Score (GPS) assay was developed using the ability to
           extract and amplify RNA of sufficient quantity and quality from the very small amounts
           of prostate tumor tissue from biopsy samples. Using these samples, a discovery study
           identified 12 cancerrelated genes associated with multiple clinically relevant endpoints
           including adverse pathology, biochemical recurrence, clinical recurrence, and prostate
           cancer associated death.

        -  The GPS assay uses these 12 genes and 5 reference genes to construct an algorithm giving
           a score from 0-100 to predict the likelihood of adverse pathology.

        -  The goal of this study is to evaluate how GPS may be useful in conjunction with MRI to
           improve patient selection for focal therapy of prostate cancer.

      Objectives:

      -To determine if there is a positive association between continuous GPS score and occult high
      risk and/or non-organ confined disease on whole mount prostatectomy specimens where an MRI
      was performed less than 6 months before diagnostic biopsy, and the biopsy was less than 6
      months before RP and the lesion was not identified on multiparameter MRI (mpMRI)

      Eligibility:

        -  Samples and images from men, over 18 years old, who were diagnosed with NCCN low or
           intermediate risk prostate cancer and were managed with radical prostatectomy at the
           Urologic Oncology Branch, National Cancer Institute and collaborating centers

        -  Biopsy Gleason Score <= 7

        -  Multiparametric MRI, with images available for review, within 6 months prior to the
           prostatectomy

        -  Availability of adequate diagnostic biopsy tissue specimen for GPS analysis

      Design:

        -  This multisite study will be a prospective analysis of retrospective data.

        -  Samples and images will be obtained from will consist of approximately 277 evaluable
           patients who were diagnosed with NCCN low or intermediate risk prostate cancer and were
           managed with RP at the Urologic Oncology Branch, National Cancer Institute and
           collaborating centers.

        -  In the interest of a demographically diverse cohort, samples and images from patients
           from UAB will be identified, working in reverse chronological order until the cohort is
           complete or eligible specimens are exhausted; remaining cases will then be selected from
           the NCI patient population, also working in reverse chronological order.

        -  Tumor tissue from the highest-grade lesion will be tested with the Oncotype DX Genomic
           Prostate Scor for generation of the GPS.

        -  Clinical characteristics including but not limited to age at diagnosis, race, PSA,
           biopsy results, Prostate MRI PIRADS score, and surgical pathology results will be
           collected and merged with GPS results.
    
  