
    
      Middle aged patients with advanced cancer report more distress, and active search for meaning
      and personal growth than older and/or early stage patients. Nonetheless, such positive growth
      is far from typical and interventions help. Expert-guided life review reduced distress for
      hospice patients, but is not widely accessible-and many patients lack the energy or skill to
      write their own life story. Online cancer information and support expert systems improve
      quality of life. Patients are increasingly developing their own social networks, but many
      lack the skills to do so. Moreover the effects on social networking on patient well-being
      have not been studied.

      "My Living Story" elicits a dignity-enhancing life story via a telephone interview (based on
      Chochinov, JAMA 2002), and delivers the edited transcript on the patient's personal
      miLivingStory social network. miLivingStory links to a life review education website (called
      miStory) with links to high quality cancer information, support and interactive planning
      tools.

      We hypothesize that telling, revising and sharing the life story with one's selected social
      network will improve the patient's existential well-being and reduce their distress.
      Furthermore, we hypothesize that these effects will be mediated by My Living Story's effects
      on improving the patient's sense of legacy (generativity) and the quality of their
      relationships. Our exploratory observational analyses of each individual miLivingStory
      network will contribute to an understanding of how social network configuration and
      communication patterns correlate with measured outcomes

      We will recruit and randomize 100 patients with advanced cancer. The control group will
      receive a personalized web portal (called miOwnResources) with links to high quality cancer
      information, social support and interactive planning tools, and a feature to add their own
      links. All participants will sign informed consent forms, complete a pre-test survey and
      post-tests at tow and four months.
    
  