
    
      Age-related physical and cognitive decline, as well as the risk of neurological diseases, are
      increased by the effects of psychosocial stress. Psychosocial stress triggers neuroendocrine,
      metabolic, cardiovascular, and inflammatory changes in the body. These changes vary in nature
      and magnitude between individuals, and are associated with long-term disease risk. However,
      the biological determinants of the stress response are not well understood.

      This project aims to translate the preclinical findings (how mitochondria regulate the
      different organ systems and major stress response axes are activated during psychological
      stress) by studying a population of individuals with varying degree of mitochondrial
      dysfunction, and to test potential neural mechanism, and why some individuals respond more
      strongly than others to the same stressor.

      Each participant will be studied over two consecutive days. Participants will be housed on
      campus to standardize study conditions. On Day 1, participants will donate blood and saliva,
      undergo a neuropsychological assessment, and complete questionnaires to assess psychosocial
      functioning and psychiatric symptoms. After lunch, the investigator will monitor dynamic
      changes in mental health-related biological outcomes (positive and negative affect,
      circulating levels of the inflammatory cytokine IL-6, and salivary cortisol) in response to a
      standardized laboratory challenge. On Day 2, participants will undergo a medical evaluation
      to assess clinical symptoms and undergo a whole brain neuroimaging session where both resting
      and stress elicited activity will be measured. A variant of the same stressor as on Day 1
      will be used in the neuroimaging session. Participants will then be debriefed, concluding the
      individuals participation in the study. Participants also complete a home-based saliva and
      stool collection to examine diurnal variation in salivary hormones, and to examine microbiome
      composition. This translational project will generate a unique combination of complimentary
      molecular, cellular, and neuroimaging data that will advance our understanding of the links
      between mitochondria, the brain, and mental health-related outcomes.
    
  