
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To compare progression-free survival (PFS) of chemoembolization alone to sorafenib
      (sorafenib tosylate) in combination with chemoembolization.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare overall survival (OS) of chemoembolization alone to sorafenib in combination
      with chemoembolization.

      II. To evaluate extra-hepatic versus intra-hepatic patterns of failure. III. To determine the
      rates of toxicity related to sorafenib in combination with chemoembolization.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To analyze the pharmacogenetic and pharmacokinetic properties of sorafenib including
      angiogenesis, monooxygenases, polymorphisms and multidrug resistance (MDR).

      II. Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG)-American College of Radiology Imaging Network
      (ACRIN) secondary imaging objective: site versus (vs.) central evaluation of PFS.

      III. To determine the inter-reader concordance for response characterization at four and
      eight months by the European Association for the Study of Liver (EASL) criteria.

      IV. To determine the value of objective tumor response at four and eight months by the EASL
      criteria to predict PFS (by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors [RECIST]) and OS.

      V. To evaluate the effects of intra-hepatic vs. extra-hepatic progression on OS.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive sorafenib tosylate orally (PO) twice daily (BID) in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning within 2 weeks after a stable dose of
      sorafenib tosylate is reached, patients undergo transarterial chemoembolization (TACE)
      comprising doxorubicin hydrochloride, mitomycin C, and cisplatin (closed to accrual as of
      10/1/2010); conventional chemoembolization comprising doxorubicin hydrochloride only; or
      chemoembolization comprising doxorubicin-eluting beads. Treatment with TACE repeats
      approximately every 4 weeks for up to 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive placebo PO BID in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Beginning within 2 weeks after a stable dose of placebo is reached, patients
      undergo TACE as in Arm I.

      MAINTENANCE THERAPY: After completion of chemoembolization, patients receive sorafenib
      tosylate or placebo as in Arm I and II in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 4 years.
    
  