
    
      The proposed study, a 4-arm randomized control trial, tests three novel incentive systems
      intended to promote the daily use of computer programs designed to improve memory and mental
      acuity among residents of retirement communities. Three outcome measures will be used to
      assess the effectiveness of the incentive programs: number of activities completed using the
      software (primary outcome of interest), performance on the activities, and differences
      between pre and post measures of mental acuity (using a standardized test of mental
      functions). Incentives to use the software will be offered to individuals in the experimental
      conditions for the first month of the 4 month study. After the initial month of incentives,
      all individuals will have continued access to the software, however, no incentives will be
      provided for use.

      Incentives: Three incentive structures will be tested against one control group:

        1. Control: Access to software programs, but no rewards for use.

        2. Atomistic: Each individual is rewarded for his or her individual participation

        3. Altruistic: Participants will be paired with an individual at a different retirement
           community and will be rewarded according to the other individual's participation

        4. Combination cooperative/competitive: Individuals will be paired in teams which will
           compete against each other. Each team will be rewarded according to relative
           participation, but members within a team will receive the same amount.

      Pairs will be matched on gender, age, and education, and then pairs will be randomly assigned
      to the different incentive conditions. Rewards in all incentive conditions will range to a
      maximum of $5 per day, and will be awarded differently depending on the incentive condition.
      Although participants will be informed of their winnings each day (to give frequent positive
      reinforcement), they will be paid cumulated amounts once a month (to reduce transactions
      costs and to ensure that actual payments are substantial). The number of activities completed
      using the software (up to 10 daily, or approximately 30 minutes of use) will be the basis for
      daily incentive payments to reward effort and avoid discouraging those who are not highly
      skilled. Cognitive testing will be done with the NueroTrax Mindstreams cognitive testing
      software.

      Subjects: Roughly 400 participants will be recruited from local retirement communities which
      offer computing services to their residents. Subjects will be between the ages of 55 and 85
      and will be required to sign informed consent forms before they are admitted to the study.
      Due to our focus on a population facing cognitive declines, extra care will be taken to
      ensure that all participants understand the information provided in the informed consent
      document. We will not enroll potential participants who are not able to verbalize
      understanding of the contents of the consent form. Participants will be trained in basic
      computer use and operation of the software using the Carnegie Mellon University mobile
      research van (see http://www.cmu.edu/news/archive/2007/June/june20_datatruck.shtml).

      This pilot study will serve as the basis for a larger-scale study of financial incentives for
      elderly individuals to engage in mentally challenging tasks that help them improve cognitive
      function. In addition, this research will help us determine the relative effectiveness of
      different types of incentive designs that could be used in further studies of the use of
      financial incentives to encourage the elderly to engage in a variety of other healthy
      behaviors.
    
  