
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the tolerability of topotecan and carboplatin with or without filgrastim
           (G-CSF) in patients with extensive stage small cell lung cancer.

        -  Determine response and survival rates in patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. The first 12 patients are assigned to 1 of 2 treatment
      regimens (6 per regimen). The next 33 patients receive treatment based on the toxicity
      experienced by the first 12.

      Regimen A:

        -  Patients receive oral topotecan once daily on days 1-5, carboplatin IV over 30 minutes
           on day 5, and filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously once daily beginning on day 6 or 7 and
           continuing for up to 10 days or until blood counts recover.

        -  Patients are evaluated after the first 3-week course of chemotherapy. If no patient
           experiences unacceptable toxicity or febrile neutropenia, or no more than 1 patient
           experiences an absolute neutrophil count of less than 500/mm3 for more than 5 days, the
           next 6 patients begin treatment on regimen B. Otherwise, all patients receive treatment
           as in regimen A.

      Regimen B:

        -  Patients receive topotecan and carboplatin as in regimen A.

        -  Patients are evaluated after the first 3-week course of chemotherapy. If no patient
           experiences unacceptable toxicity or febrile neutropenia, the next 33 patients receive
           treatment as in regimen B; otherwise, patients receive treatment as in regimen A.

      Treatment for all patients repeats every 3 weeks for up to 6 courses in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with disease progression limited to
      CNS only interrupt chemotherapy to have whole-brain radiotherapy (WBRT). Once WBRT is
      complete, chemotherapy resumes.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline and at the beginning of each course of chemotherapy.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 3 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 49 patients will be accrued for this study within 13.5 months.
    
  