
    
      Cardiovascular disease is the single most common cause of death in hemodialysis (HD)
      patients. Most HD patients have left ventricular hypertrophy(LVH), a significant predictor of
      death in this population. LVH is related to extracellular volume expansion and hypertension,
      both of which are amenable to dietary sodium restriction. However, dietary change is widely
      known to be difficult to achieve and sustain. Controlling dietary sodium is particularly
      difficult for HD because many foods are naturally high in sodium, and most
      prepared/prepackaged foods have significant amounts of sodium added to enhance taste and
      shelf-life. Research on behavioral methods that are effective in reducing dietary sodium
      intake in HD is very limited. The purpose of this study is to test, in a randomized clinical
      trial of 200 HD patients, a behavioral intervention, paired with personal digital assistant
      (PDA)-based dietary self-monitoring, to enhance adherence to dietary sodium restrictions.
      Specifically the investigators will: (a) Assess the impact of the intervention on average
      daily interdialytic weight gains (IDWG-A). (b) Examine the impact of the intervention on
      self-reported dietary sodium intake. The study hypotheses are that compared to the control
      group, the intervention group will: (1) demonstrate a statistically significant decline in
      IDWG-A over the 4-month intervention period, and (2) experience a greater decline in dietary
      sodium intake. Secondarily, the investigators will explore the impact of the intervention on:
      (a) pre-dialysis pulse pressure and mean arterial blood pressure, (b) hemodialysis dietary
      self-efficacy, and (c) intradialytic and postdialytic symptoms and general health-related
      quality of life. In addition, the investigators will characterize the barriers/facilitators
      to adherence to the HD dietary regimen and patient experience of the intervention through the
      use of qualitative methods. The intervention is based on Social Cognitive Theory (SCT).
      Self-monitoring within the context of the intervention is operationalized as PDA-based
      dietary recording using BalanceLog software. Participants randomized to the attention control
      will receive computerized dietary education. Attention control participants will be offered
      an abbreviated version of the intervention after the 4-month study period concludes.
      Differences in IDWG-A, pulse pressure, and mean arterial pressure will be examined using a
      random intercept linear regression modeling. Self-reported dietary sodium, self-efficacy,
      symptoms, and quality of life will be assessed at baseline, 6 weeks, and 4 month and
      differences will be examined using repeated measures modeling using GEE. Qualitative analysis
      of narrative data will be performed.
    
  