
    
      The description of Lyme disease in 1976 and subsequent characterization of its mode of
      transmission, causative organism and treatment is one of the most remarkable advances in
      medicine in the last 25 years1-3. Nevertheless, Lyme disease continues to grow as a public
      health problem4. While Lyme disease affects all age groups, children have one of the highest
      rates4. Prevention remains a challenge in this group. The Lyme vaccine has been withdrawn
      from the market in February 20025, 6, and educational strategies among at-risk school
      children have been inadequately evaluated and none have been institutionalized.

      We will target school-aged children living in Nantucket, Dukes County and Essex County. We
      have collaborated with the teachers and administration in many of the schools. We have
      collaborated with the teachers and administration in many of the schools.

      The intervention will be delivered by a member of our staff in conjunction with the teacher
      as well as a health education entertainer ('Screaming with Pleasure Productions'). Research
      assistants will distribute the enrollment questionnaires and "goody" bags. The basic content
      of the educational message has been designed by Drs. Shadick, Liang, DeJong and the late Dr.
      Daltroy, and has been used extensively on the Nantucket ferry study and in the "Feel Find
      Free" Program. The timing takes advantage of the classroom audience, is humorous and
      entertaining and the message is relevant to anticipated outdoor activities.

      Primary Outcome: The educational intervention will reduce the incidence of Lyme Disease among
      children and families living in an endemic area.

      Secondary Outcomes: The educational intervention will improve the children's self-confidence
      (behavioral self-efficacy), intention to perform, and actual practice of Lyme disease
      prevention behaviors.
    
  