
    
      Acute hypoxemic respiratory failure due to parenchymal disfunction is one of the main
      complications of immunocompromised hematological patients. In these cohort of patients
      mechanical ventilation is frequently needed in order to restore oxygenation and normocapnia.
      Since every positive-pressure ventilation regimen may potentially determine pulmonary
      complications, due to alteration in pressure and volume lung homeostasis and diaphragm
      activity, also diaphragm function has to be assessed not to worsen ventilator-induced lung
      injury (VILI). Main targets of VILI are pulmonary interstitium and diaphragm.

      Pulmonary interstitium is frequently involved in different mechanism of injury, that derive
      both from induced tidal volume and positive end expiratory pressure (PEEP). Indeed, large
      tidal volumes generated during assisted spontaneous breathing may configure non-protective
      ventilation regimens and the so called "pendelluft phenomenon", that is the intrinsic flow of
      air within the lung from nondependent to dependent regions without changes in tidal volume,
      may affect inadequate PEEP values.

      Positive-pressure ventilation may also alter diaphragm activity. Recent data show that
      diaphragm disfunction, considered as an enhanced or reduced thickening fraction, occurs in
      about 65% of patients undergoing mechanical ventilation.

      Since the potential harm of positive-pressure ventilation, the optimization of mechanical
      ventilation is pivotal to ensure an adequate time-to-recovery without concurring to the onset
      of further lung and diaphragmatic injury. Neurally Adjusted Ventilatory Assist (NAVA) is a
      recent modality of mechanical ventilation that delivers ventilatory assistance according to
      the respiratory effort of the patient, measured by electrical activity of the diaphragm
      (EAdi). NAVA works proportionally with EAdi values, ensuring a better neuroventilatory
      efficiency compared to other mechanical ventilation modes and also reducing
      patient-ventilator asynchrony. According to these features NAVA protocol may be useful in
      preserving gas exchanges and diaphragm function both in invasive and non-invasive
      ventilation.

      Therefore the evaluation of basal diaphragm activity, the choice of the device for oxygen
      support administration and the setting of ventilatory parameters may influence hospital stay
      and outcome of patients affected by acute hypoxemic respiratory failure.

      The aim of this study is to evaluate the basal diaphragm activity of acute hypoxemic
      respiratory failure patients admitted in Intensive Care Unit (ICU) and to record diaphragm
      activity modifications during the ICU stay in relation to the optimization of medical therapy
      and, if necessary, according to the need of ventilatory support (invasive or non-invasive
      ventilation delivered with NAVA protocol).

      This study intends to register also daily diaphragm thickening fraction, daily arterial blood
      gas analysis, failure frequency of non-invasive ventilation, frequency of tracheal
      intubation, length of mechanical ventilation, length of hospital stay and hospital mortality.
    
  