
    
      The investigators will obtain HPV vaccine series completion data from the Indiana State
      Department of Health Immunization Information System (IIS) registry. The data will include
      all children 9 through 14 years of age who received the 1st dose of HPV vaccine during the
      2017 and 2018 calendar years. A minimum of 18 months after 1st dose administration will be
      allowed for follow-up evidence of two-dose series completion. For comparison purposes, the
      investigators will also request Tdap, MenACWY, and HepA administration coverage. Tdap,
      MenACWY, and HepA vaccines are all required for middle-school-entry in the state of Indiana.
      The investigators already have data on missed opportunities for the 1st dose of HPV vaccine
      during the 2017 calendar year. Again, for comparison purposes, the investigators will request
      similar data for 2018. Tdap, MenACWY, and HepA administration rates will focus on children
      11-14 years of age. County-level data will include measures of population density, primary
      health care providers per capita, mean household income, child insurance coverage, children
      living in poverty, length of work commute, participation in health screening behaviors, and
      other sociodemographic, health, and quality of life factors covered in
      CountyHealthRankings.Org.

      the primary variable of interest is 2-dose series completion for HPV vaccination, measured
      via IIS data. All children and adolescents ages 9-14 years who received their first dose of
      vaccine during the 2017 and 2018 calendar years will be followed for series completion. For
      comparison purposes IIS data on Tdap, MenACWY, HepA, and HPV vaccine (missed opportunities
      for 1st dose) also will be derived from the IIS. Potential predictors of HPV vaccine series
      completion will be derived from CountyHealthRankings.Org. The County Health Rankings program
      is a collaborative effort of the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation and the University of
      Wisconsin Population Health Institute. Multiple health and sociodemographic indices measured
      at the county level are compiled and made publicly available on the website. As noted above,
      county-level measures derived from this program include population density, primary health
      care providers per capita, mean household income, child insurance coverage, children living
      in poverty, length of work commute, participation in health screening behaviors, and other
      sociodemographic, health, and quality of life factors covered in CountyHealthRankings.Org.
    
  