
    
      This is an experimental, randomized, prospective, double blind study, in which will compare
      two groups. First group of participants who will be non urgent operated of an open
      gastrointestinal surgery, where an opening of the gastrointestinal lumen occurs (bile duct,
      stomach, small bowel or colon), who will be infiltrated in the total thickness of the
      abdominal wall (Peritoneum-muscle fascia- Subcutaneous tissue) with 0.5% Bupivacaine, every 1
      cm, on each side of the surgical wound; Second group of participants who will be non urgent
      operated of an open gastrointestinal surgery, where an opening of the gastrointestinal lumen
      occurs, who will be infiltrated in the total thickness of the abdominal wall with 0.9% Saline
      Solution, every 1 cm, on each side of the surgical wound.

      In all participants undergoing to the protocol will make basic maneuvers to decreasing
      surgical site infection, which has already been standardized in the Institute. These
      maneuvers consist of administering prophylactic antibiotic 30 minutes before the incision,
      shaving of the abdominal wall with clipper in the OR, preoperative skin preparation with
      chlorhexidine gluconate 4%. All participants will get glucose control (<200 mg / dL),
      maintenance of the normothermia by putting hot air in the areas not exposed to the surgery
      field, heating fluids and getting intraoperative hyperoxia. Blood and components will be
      avoided as possible.

      At the moment of closing of the abdominal wall, all the surgical personal will change the
      surgical gloves, also all the material that will be used should be sterile. The surgical
      nurse will pass the solution that will be injected, the investigator will not know the
      contents. 1 ml of the solution will be applied for each centimeter of the wound, covering the
      total thickness of the wall, on each side of the wound. After the closure of the fascia, the
      subcutaneous tissue will be washed with 1 liter of 0.9% saline solution. The skin will be
      closed with metal skin staples. The total administered dose of Bupivacaine should not be
      greater than stated as toxic (3mg/kg).

      In all participants a 0.9% saline with 200 mg of Tramadol will be indicated for 24 hours.
      Participants may also receive IV Tramadol bolus of 25 mg, with a maximum of 4 in a day (top
      dose of 300 mg/day); in those participants in whom analgesia fails to control, the
      investigator may use other drugs like morphine of NSAIDs. No epidural or subarachnoid
      analgesia will be used.

      All participants will be assessed 2 times per day for the presence of pain, this will be done
      with a numerical verbal scale from 0 to 10, when 0 is none pain, and 10 is the greatest pain
      that can reaches. The investigator will review the surgical wound once daily. The participant
      will be assessed every 7 days once discharged from hospital, in the outpatient clinic, until
      30 days after the surgical procedure.

      The sample size was calculated based on the incidence of surgical site infections in the
      Institute, which is 5%. The sample side required to demonstrate an expected reduction of 5%
      to 1%, with a power of 80% and a type 1 error of 5%, is 285 participants per group.

      Randomization will be done electronically, which will be assigned 285 participants in each
      group.The investigators will annotate the number that will be given by the program in the
      participant expedient. The list of the numbers will be blind for investigators, and only the
      attending anesthesiologists will have it. The attending or resident anesthesiologist will
      give the syringe with the contents, being a blind study for the investigator and participant.

      Statistical analysis will be performed using SPSS version 20.0 IBM, Microsoft Excel and
      numbers of iWorks for Macintosh. Statistical analysis according to the type of scaling of the
      variables analyzed will be performed. For comparison of dimensional variables will make a
      Student t test and ANOVA. For categorical variables a test of Kendall tau and chi square will
      be performed. Investigators will consider statistically significant any value equal or less
      than 0.05 or 5% for a hypothesis test two-tailed.
    
  