
    
      Although health professionals must be equipped to promote healthy lifestyles and serve as
      resources for the public's health information, many gaps in the education and training of
      residents exist. Health professional students readily admit to deficiencies in their training
      (i.e. lack of learning principles of prevention, health promotion, behavior change and risk
      reduction), yet, curricular changes have been slow [1,2]. A 1997 AAMC Medical School
      Graduation Questionnaire revealed that almost one quarter of graduates felt instruction time
      devoted to health promotion and disease prevention was inadequate [3, 4, 5, 6]. Mandates for
      competency-based, post-graduate training by the ACGME Outcomes Project and competency
      expectations by the AAMC Medical Schools Objectives Project (MSOP) require all residency
      programs and medical schools to develop innovative approaches to teaching clinical skills.

      We believe the resident continuity experience is the perfect venue to implement and practice
      clinical guidelines and Bright Futures concepts. Past studies have documented that residents
      in academic, hospital-based sites, similar to those in CORNET, experience the most continuity
      and longitudinal relationships with their patients [7, 8, 9]. Longitudinal learning is a
      basic tenet of successful interventions and is easily accomplished during resident continuity
      practice. Pediatrics in Practice provides key resources for enhancing knowledge in
      family-centered oral health promotion and responding to the present gaps in medical education
      and training. Both residents and pediatricians in practice have limited knowledge of Bright
      Futures and its tenets. Bright Futures: Guidelines for Health Supervision of Infants,
      Children, and Adolescents represents the framework of providing contextual care to children
      that fosters partnerships among families, health professionals, and communities and increases
      knowledge about health education and prevention [10, 11, 12]. Although more competency-based
      curricula are being designed to promote skills and knowledge in health promotion and
      preventive services, there has been very little research into their efficacy in trainees.
    
  