
    
      The research is being conducted at the Department of Gynecology of a referral hospital in the
      state of Ceará, Brazil in the period October 2011 to February 2012. Women will be referred
      from Primary Care and Health scheduled for evaluation in the sector of Urogynecology Cesar
      Cals General Hospital, Department of Health of the State of Ceará. During the study period
      200 patients will be treated with complaints of urinary incontinence or pelvic organ prolapse
      in the sector. Included in the study women who were postmenopausal, who are not taking
      hormone therapy in the last six months. Women with urinary loss, which does not have
      non-inhibited contraction of the detrusor proven by urodynamic study. Will be compared with a
      group of women without pelvic floor dysfunction confirmed by clinical history and
      gynecological examination with the same characteristics in relation to postmenopausal status,
      all from the general gynecology outpatient clinic. Will be used for data collection
      socioeconomics an interview administrated questionnaire adapted from the Brazil Economic
      Classification Criterion - 2011 (CCEB) The CCEB is an instrument of economic segmentation
      that uses the survey of household characteristics (presence and quantity of some items of
      comfort and home schooling level of household head) to differentiate the population. The
      criterion assigns points according to each household characteristic and performs the sum of
      these points. Then will be made a match score of the test strips and layers of economic
      status defined by A1, A2, B1, B2, C1, C2, D, E. This criterion was designed to define broad
      classes that meet the needs of segmentation (by purchasing power) of most companies. To
      evaluate Quality of Life in Urinary incontinence and pelvic organ prolapse women we used the
      KHQ questionnaire, QoL-P respectively. To evaluate the Overall Quality of Life, SF-36. For
      functional evaluation of the pelvic floor (AP) bidigital evaluation was performed using the
      classification of Ortiz (1996) and schema PERFECT Oxford (1990). Will be used the application
      EpiInfo version 6.04, Atlanta, USA. Will be studied the socioeconomic variables (age,
      educational level, economic status and income), health perception variables (the impact of
      incontinence / prolapse, the limitations of performance tasks, physical limitation, social
      limitation, personal relationships, the emotions, sleep and energy and gravity measurements).
      Will be used the prevalence of urinary incontinence as a measure of the occurrence and
      chi-square test and test of Pearson to evaluate the statistical significance considering p
      <0.05. Exploratory analysis will also performed to describe the frequency distribution of
      socioeconomic variables.
    
  