
    
      Hip hemiarthroplasty is a very common operation. The investigator's organisation (RBH)
      performs approximately 140 Cathcart Hemiarthroplasty procedures each year and over 500
      Cathcart/Corail have been implanted since their introduction to the department in March 2010.
      The clinical outcome is good with a low mortality rate at both 30 days and one year. The
      implant is well established in the department and there has been a reduction in the need for
      revision procedures compared with the previously used cemented Exeter Trauma Stem (ETS).

      Elevated serum metal ion levels (cobalt and chromium) are well recognised in metal-on-metal
      (MoM) articulations in total hip arthroplasty. The Medicines and Healthcare Products
      Regulatory Agency have issued guidelines on follow up of all patients who underwent either
      MoM total hip replacement or resurfacing. All patients must undergo serum metal ion levels
      testing with recommended upper limits of 119 nmol/L for cobalt and 134.5 nmol/L for Chromium.
      Above those levels further surveillance or revision is required. It is not known whether the
      large diameter Cathcart head on the Corail stem also results in elevated serum metal ion
      levels (above the MHRA guidelines). Research published in 2012 has demonstrated that there is
      excessive wear and corrosion between the trunnion and taper of the ASR XL head, which is
      similar in design to the Cathcart head, utilising a taper insert within the head. Concern has
      therefore been raised that there may be excessive wear, and increased serum metal ion levels,
      in patients who have undergone Cathcart hemiarthroplasty.

      The investigators propose to measure serum cobalt and chromium metal ions (normal levels are
      under 30nmol/l) in participants who have received a Cathcart Hemiarthroplasty greater than
      one year ago and ask each participant to complete the twelve question Oxford hip score .This
      is to identify whether the levels are elevated and whether clinical scores are able to detect
      those patients who may have a problem related to increased metal ion levels, and to obtain a
      normal distribution. It is known that metal ion levels are elevated at one year and the
      increase can be maintained for several years subsequently following metal-on-metal total hip
      replacements.

      From a statistical perspective, this is a pragmatic study to see if there is an association
      between Cathcart Hemiarthroplasty and raised serum metal ion levels.

      The procedure will involve writing to the patient to invite them to enter the study. If they
      are interested (through return of the reply slip or telephone call from the patient to the
      orthopaedic office) an appointment at the hospital will be arranged. Non return of the reply
      slip or no telephone contact from the patient will be regarded as the patient not wishing to
      take part. In clinic they will be assessed and further clarity given or any questions
      answered before informed consent is sought. Once consent has been obtained, the patient will
      complete the Oxford Hip Score questionnaire and a blood test for metal ion levels will be
      taken.

      In year 2, a letter will be sent to General Practitioner (GP) requesting whether they would
      be able to perform a blood test for the study. At this time the patient's status would also
      be established. If the GP is willing to do the blood test a reminder letter will be sent to
      the patient inviting them to go to the GP or hospital for the second blood test. If the GP is
      unable to do the blood test, the letter to the patient will only give the option of going to
      the hospital for the blood test.

      As the investigators have a large cohort of patients it may also be possible to identify an
      association between head diameter, clinical outcome and the risk of having elevated metal ion
      levels. This is important as smaller resurfacing components (diameter less than 51 mm) are at
      increased risk of elevated metal ion levels and the majority of fractured neck of femur
      patients are female who often require small components.

        -  Primary outcome: Serum Cobalt and Chromium Levels at one and two years.

        -  Secondary outcomes: Whether there is an association between i) Oxford Hip Score at one
           year, and, ii) head diameter and metal ion levels.
    
  