
    
      Symptom-based pre-test probability (PTP) scores that estimate the likelihood of obstructive
      CAD in stable chest pain have moderate accuracy. Appreciating and integrating the myriad risk
      predictors in an individual patient is a challenge for the clinician. To date, efforts to
      improve risk-stratification by using CCTA have largely relied upon luminal stenosis severity.
      The emphasis placed on this variable over others is in alignment with prior studies using
      invasive coronary angiography but ignores an array of other parameters important in the CAD
      pathogenic process, including coronary artery geometry, coronary calcium content, plaque
      composition, and plaque burden. As an increasing number of CCTA variables along with all
      clinical and metabolomic variables affecting risk need to be considered, the complexity of
      assessment increases, making it more difficult for a clinician to draw an overall conclusion
      regarding risk in an individual patient. Furthermore, the potential influence of unexpected
      interactions between several weaker predictors in an individual patient is often overlooked.
      In this study, we are seeking to develop an Artificial Intelligence (AI)-based model,
      utilizing clinical and metabolomic risk factors, serum biomarkers, CCTA imaging biomarkers,
      coronary artery calcium score and ECG stress testing variables, to predict the presence and
      the complexity of CAD. Moreover, we are trying to introduce an easy to use, cost-effective,
      clinical decision supporting tool. In clinical practice, the utilization of such an approach
      could improve risk stratification and help guide downstream personalized management. Briefly,
      the research objectives of the study are: 1. predict the risk of obstructive coronary artery
      disease, 2. quantify the burden and complexity of coronary atherosclerosis, 3. evaluate the
      prognostic risk in individual patients with suspected CAD, 4. provide more accurate diagnosis
      and risk stratification, 5. provide an easy to use, cost-effective clinical decision support
      tool, 6. improve decisions in low to intermediate risk patients regarding the need for
      further testing such as cardiac SPECT and invasive coronary angiography, as well as for the
      need for preventive therapies and finally, compare three diagnostic strategies in patients
      with suspected CAD in terms of efficacy and cost-effectiveness.

      The "DATASET-PRECISE" is a prospective, multi-center, open-label, 3-arm parallel randomized
      study. Following clinical consultation, participants will be approached and randomized 1:1:1
      to receive standard care plus ECG-stress testing or standard care plus ECG-stress testing and
      CACS or standard care plus ≥ 64-multidetector CCTA and CACS (Collaborating Organizations: 1st
      Cardiology Department of AUTH, 1st Cardiology Department of NKUA, Lefkos Stavros-The Athens
      Clinic & Affidea Kozani Cardiac Imaging Center). Randomization will be conducted using a
      web-based system to ensure allocation concealment. The trial will enroll consecutive patients
      with stable symptoms and suspected CAD admitted to study clinical sites over a period of 12
      months. Patients with a previous history of CAD and/or prior revascularization will be
      excluded. Subjects will undergo screening during the first day of examination, a 5ml blood
      sample will be collected one minute prior examination for metabolomic analysis (collaboration
      with the Lab. of Bioanalysis & Toxicology, School of Medicine, AUTH) and will be followed for
      18 months afterwards. The overall recruitment period is expected to last 12 months. The
      estimated total duration of the study from first patient screened to last patient last visit
      is 30 months.

      Based on previous studies for 80% power at a two-sided P value of 0.05, we will need to
      recruit about 250 patients per group to detect a relative reduction in the combined MACE rate
      (cardiac death, non-fatal myocardial infarction, revascularization or chest-pain
      rehospitalization) of 10% in the CCTA arm. A sample size of N = 900 patients is a pragmatic
      approach for such a first clinical study in the Greek population. Health service costs will
      be assigned to the type and intensity of resource use, measured by the number of diagnostic
      and therapeutic procedures or interventions, medications, hospital clinic attendances and
      hospitalization episodes from randomization to 18 months of follow-up. Costs will be
      attributed to the need for: 1. additional invasive or noninvasive imaging, 2. drug therapy,
      3. coronary revascularization and 4. hospitalization for chest pain.
    
  