
    
      Patients will be grouped into one of four treatment arms. Treatment intent must be specified
      at the time of registration.

      OLIGOMETASTATIC ARM- The first treatment arm will be for patients with oligometastatic
      disease, which will be defined as a treatment with curative intent to less than or equal to
      six sites of disease on initial presentation of metastatic disease or within the context of
      the initial combined modality treatment regimen (e.g., after a chemotherapy or surgical phase
      of therapy). Patients in this treatment arm will receive a definitive, ablative dose of
      radiation intended to eradicate all residual gross tumor of "all" sites of disease. A variety
      of acceptable ablative fractionation schemes with variable ability to prevent normal tissue
      toxicity will be allowed. Further planned systemic therapy or surgery does not eliminate
      stratification into this group so long as the overall intent is curative.

      CONSOLIDATION ARM- The second treatment arm will be for consolidation following systemic
      therapy. This approach is akin to the experience with consolidation with radiation with
      conventional radiation after systemic therapy for tumors like bulky lymphomas, etc. In this
      context, treatment will be directed towards PET-avid residual disease assuming them to harbor
      residual active disease or disease more resistant to systemic therapy. The treatment doses
      will be sub-ablative yet will still maintain radiobiologic potency for local control with the
      option in the future for further systemic therapy.

      NORTON-SIMON ARM- The third treatment arm will enroll patients prior to receiving systemic
      therapy who require initial debulking of gross disease to enhance chemotherapy efficacy per
      the Norton-Simon hypothesis. (Patients who initially receive systemic therapy, with gross
      residual disease in less than or equal to 6 sites of disease, who then receive SBRT with
      planned further systemic therapy (targeted or cytotoxic) immediately following SBRT will be
      enrolled onto this arm)

      RE-IRRADIATION ARM- The fourth treatment arm will enroll patients if they have had prior
      irradiation and suffered disease recurrence or failure within a previously irradiated volume.
      Prior irradiation can consist of external beam irradiation- conventional treatment,
      hypofractionated treatment, stereotactic radiation, or even brachytherapy
    
  