
    
      Sample Size:

      Calculations resulted in a sample size of 10 participants for each of the three groups to
      detect a significant difference with 80% power at a significance level of 0.05 (G*Power 3.1).
      To account for missing data and loss to follow-up, the sample size was increased by 15% such
      that each of the three groups will consist of 12 participants for a total of 36 participants.

      Participant honorariums:

        -  All participants will receive $15 for each of the three testing sessions

        -  Participants randomized to either of the intervention groups (practice or training) will
           receive $5/ visit (excluding the testing session) to partly compensate for their travel
           cost.

      Assessment for Eligibility:

      Participants interested in participating in this study will be screened for eligibility over
      the phone to ensure that they meet the age and weight requirements, do not have injuries to
      the upper limbs, and that they understand the potential time commitment. Participants will be
      told that they will need to fill out one questionnaire to confirm their eligibility when they
      come in for their first appointment. Participants will complete the Mini Mental Exam after
      providing informed consent to screen for cognitive impairment.

      Demographics descriptive information (baseline):

      Variables that are important in describing the participant population will be collected at
      baseline including: age; height; sex; exposure to family members or friends that use a manual
      wheelchair.

      Physical participant information (baseline, post-intervention, and two-weeks
      post-intervention):

      Physical variables that are required for the testing procedures or that may influence the
      outcomes will be measured at each point of data collection, including: weight; grip strength;
      upper limb joint flexibility; and self-perceived physical fitness rating.

      Assessments:

      Measurements will be taken before intervention (baseline), four weeks and at 6 weeks
      post-baseline. One trained assessor will administer all of the assessments.

      Randomization:

      As participants are enrolled they will be randomly assigned to either the Motor
      learning-based training, practice, or control groups by a randomization algorithm.

      Data Collection:

      After providing informed consent and demonstrating approval to exercise by a physician-signed
      copy of the Physical activity readiness medical examination (PARMED X) if over 69 y or the
      Physical activity readiness questionnaire (PAR-Q+) if under 69 y, participants will complete
      a demographics questionnaire including sex, height, weight, age, general fitness level, and
      manual wheeling experience.

      After completing the questionnaires, participants will be fitted to an appropriately sized
      Elevation wheelchair (Instinct Mobility, Vancouver, BC). Participants will be fitted so that
      their elbows form an angle of approximately 100 degrees when their hands are placed at the
      top of the wheel while they are seated in the wheelchair. To ensure consistency across
      measurement points, details of the wheelchair fitting will be recorded and reproduced during
      post-testing to minimize bias. The instrumented measurement wheel for collecting kinetic and
      temporal variables (SmartWheel -Three Rivers Holdings, Mesa, AZ) will be exchanged with the
      right wheel of the wheelchair and an inertia-matched dummy wheel will be applied to the left
      side of the wheelchair. Tire pressure will be inflated to the recommended level of 100 psi.

      A drag test will then be performed to determine the drag force of the wheelchair-user system
      on the treadmill (Max-Mobility). During the drag test, the participant will sit passively in
      a fitted-laboratory wheelchair, which is connected by a rope to a force transducer. At a
      constant speed (1.1 m/s or 4.0 km/h), the angle of the treadmill will be increased in 10
      steps (by 0.5% grade), and at each angle, the drag force will be determined. These 10 force
      measurements will be used to calculate the power output (PO) for each angle of inclination on
      the treadmill. A linear regression will be used to determine PO (calculated by multiplying
      the drag force with velocity according to PO (W) = drag force (N) · belt velocity (m/s)). The
      drag test takes approximately 5 minutes to complete.

      Safety straps located on the sides of the wheelchair treadmill will be attached to the front
      of the Elevation wheelchair (on the metal frame above the front caster wheels). Prior to the
      data collection, participants will have five minutes to become acquainted with the wheelchair
      treadmill and will gradually be brought up to the set velocity of 1.1 m/s (4.0 km/h) that
      will be used for data collection. Previous research has used the speed of 1.1m/s for
      biomechanical testing because it is the minimum speed required to cross some intersections in
      the United States. To ensure that all participants perform the same amount of work for the
      testing trials, the power output will be standardized to 0.15 W/kg at an incline of 0.7%
      because an incline of 0.7% produced results most similar to over ground wheeling at speeds of
      4-6 km/h. Resistance will be applied to the back of the wheelchair via a pulley system to
      ensure that the PO is 0.15 W/kg. The oxygen cost of wheelchair propulsion is affected by the
      PO, therefore standardizing the PO allows us to remove differences in drag force resulting
      from differences in bodyweight and wheelchair configuration. Standardizing the PO also will
      account for variations in participants' weight from pre-testing to post-testing to one-month
      post-testing.

      After the participant is comfortable wheeling on the treadmill, the mouthpiece and nose plug
      for the Parvo Medics' TrueOne 2400 metabolic measurement system will be fitted to the
      individual. Ten minutes of baseline (resting state) data will be collected to ensure
      participants are breathing normally (i.e., not hyperventilating) and their respiratory
      exchange ratio value is appropriate (less than 0.9). Participants will then begin wheeling
      with the speed gradually increasing to 1.1 m/s, once the achieved speed is reached
      (approximately 15 s) the five minutes of data collection will begin.

      Kinetic and spatial-temporal characteristic:

      Data from the SmartWheel will be collected at 240 Hz using proprietary software and filtered
      using a 4th order low-pass Butterworth filter with a cut-off frequency of 20 Hz. Variables
      collected with the SmartWheel™ will include three dimensional forces, total force
      (√(Fx2+Fy2+Fz2)), tangential force (force acting on forward propulsion), cadence (cycles/s),
      push angle, and velocity.

      Wheeling pattern Two Optotrak 3020 (NDI, Waterloo, ON) position sensors will be used to
      record sagittal-plane 2D kinematic data of the position of the 3rd metacarpophalangeal joint.
      The marker placed on the 3rd metacarpophalangeal joint will be used to define the wheeling
      strategy for each subject. Kinematic data will be collected at a sampling frequency of 200
      Hz. All data will be filtered using a fourth order, 7 Hz low-pass Butterworth filter.

      Data analysis:

      Kinetic and kinematic wheeling data will be synchronized by an external trigger pulse,
      divided into cycles based on initiation of force applied to the push rim, and normalized in
      time to 100% of the cycle. Data from wheeling cycles that occur within the final 5th minute
      will be averaged for each participant.

      Hand trajectory profiles of wheeling cycles that occur within the final 5th minute will be
      used to categorize the wheeling pattern into one of four categories. Two investigators,
      blinded to the participants group allocation will independently categorize the wheeling
      strategies according to their definitions. Wheeling strategies will be compared between two
      investigators to ensure consistency.

      Motor learning-based training intervention:

      Motor learning-based training will be administered by 1 trainer. She has over 6 years of
      experience studying wheelchair propulsion and has experience providing other ML-based
      training relating to manual and power wheelchair skills. Three trained volunteers will assist
      with pre and post-testing as well as the one-month retention testing on a rotating schedule.
      Volunteers will undergo 3 hours of training on the testing protocol. Participants will be
      asked to participate in 6 x 20 minute one-on-one training sessions over a 3 week period (2
      sessions/ week). Six sessions have been selected because improvements in biomechanical
      variables have been observed in as little as 12 minutes of training, however improvement in
      movement efficiency of other continuous skills has been observed within 6 sessions.

      The motor learning-based training will focus on some of the core concepts in the field of
      motor learning. The motor learning concepts will include variable practice with respect to
      speed, feedback (both intrinsic and extrinsic but focusing on extrinsic), feedback focusing
      on three main variables (wheeling pattern, speed of hand when contacting push rim, push
      angle), sequential learning (specifically relating to wheeling pattern), and mental imagery
      (during the rest breaks).

      Practice intervention:

      The practice intervention will be administered by 1 trainer. She has over 6 years of manual
      wheelchair propulsion research experience. Participants will be asked to participate in 6 x
      20 minute one-on-one training sessions over a 3 week period (2 sessions/ week). Six sessions
      have been selected because improvements in biomechanical variables have been observed in as
      little as 12 minutes of training, however improvement in movement efficiency of other
      continuous skills has been observed within 6 sessions.

      Although general practice offers experience through exposure and the repetition obtained from
      practice can be considered as an element of motor learning, it is important to determine if
      there is an added benefit to one-on-one training with an emphasis on motor learning
      principles over what an individual could perform on their own. It is anticipated that some
      'motor learning' will occur during the practice intervention, however it is postulated that
      it will occur to a lesser extent.

      Motor learning-based training and practice scheduling and equipment:

      For this study, the training will be held in Vancouver at the Blusson Spinal Cord Centre at
      the Human Mobility Laboratory. The Blusson Spinal Cord Centre is a community-based facility
      that has a spine medical clinic as well as several research labs.

      Control group:

      The control group will not receive any training but will be tested at the same time points as
      the intervention groups.

      Other:

      Participants will be provided with a brief overview of the practice or motor learning-based
      training, depending on which of the two groups they are assigned to, after completing the
      pre-testing. Participants will be informed that there is a 'motor learning-based training'
      and 'control' group, however the fact that we are exploring two different types of training
      will not be disclosed so that the practice group does not feel that their training is
      inferior to the motor learning-based training group.

      Upon completion of the practice or motor learning-based training, participants will be asked
      to complete an open-ended exit questionnaire about what they liked and disliked about the
      training and whether they thought it would be useful for a new wheelchair user.

      Data synthesis and analysis:

      Descriptive Statistics will be synthesized for demographic and physical information.

      The effectiveness of the motor learning-based training on the primary outcome (gross
      mechanical efficiency as well as the secondary outcomes will be estimated using a 3 x 3 mixed
      factorial repeated measures Analysis of Variance (ANOVA). An adjusted p-value will be used to
      correct for multiple comparisons between baseline characteristics. A chi-square test will be
      used to determine differences in the categorical variable (propulsion technique) pre and post
      testing based on training exposure. Significance will be alpha = 0.05.
    
  