
    
      Background

      Cardiac synchronization therapy (CRT) is recognized as effective adjunctive therapy for heart
      failure; however, up to 40% of patients who undergo CRT device placement do not have a
      favorable response to therapy and are labeled non-responders. The lateral wall of the left
      ventricle (LV) is generally regarded as the optimal site for LV lead placement and some
      non-responders with LV leads not on the lateral wall can be converted to responders by
      repositioning the LV lead to the lateral wall. However, recent studies indicate that in some
      patients LV lead placement at a site other than the lateral wall may result in a better
      response to CRT. In such circumstances, empiric lateral wall lead positioning/repositioning
      may expose patients to the risks of another invasive procedure (including an increased risk
      of infection); in the case of lead repositioning to improve response to CRT the additional
      risk is doubled, as there is no certainty that the new position will be superior to the old.

      Several investigators have used the acute hemodynamic response to biventricular pacing to
      determine the optimal LV lead position. To make these measurements some groups used a Millar
      pigtail catheter (Millar Instruments, Houston, Texas) while other groups used real-time
      pressure volume loops with a combined pressure-conductance catheter (CD Leycom, Zoetermeer,
      the Netherlands). One criticism of this method is that acute hemodynamic measurements may not
      correlate to long term response. However, Delnoy et al demonstrated that acute improvements
      in LV function as measured by pressure-volume loops during implantation corresponded to
      clinical and echocardiographic improvement during follow-up. In addition, Duckett et al
      demonstrated that the acute dP/dt response to LV pacing is useful for predicting which
      patients are likely to remodel in response to CRT, for both dilated and ischemic
      cardiomyopathy.

      Despite these observations, few practitioners routinely utilize acute hemodynamic
      measurements for LV lead placement at the time of device implantation. Many practitioners
      believe targeted LV lead placement is impractical due to the time required to determine
      hemodynamic response to CRT and reposition the LV lead, and that venous anatomy, phrenic
      nerve pacing, and high pacing thresholds severely limit options for LV lead placement.

      Study Hypothesis

      It is hypothesized that it is both safe and feasible to use an interventional approach to LV
      lead placement (placing the LV lead guided by acute hemodynamic measurements), and that the
      LV lead can be placed in a position that is superior to the initial empiric lateral wall LV
      lead location in less than 30 minutes without significant risk to patients. The time from RV
      capture to LV activation correlates with the optimal pacing site based on stroke volume &
      dP/dt measurements.

      Study Purpose

      The purpose of this study is to determine whether utilizing the CD Leycom
      pressure-conductance catheter to measure dP/dt and pressure volume loops at the time of LV
      lead implant (whether for the initial CRT implant or revision of an existing system) is both
      safe and feasible. It is hoped that the study will determine whether it is possible to use a
      patient's hemodynamic response to pacing to locate an LV pacing site that provides better
      hemodynamic response to CRT than the empirically selected lateral wall pacing site without
      significant patient risk (in terms of radiation exposure, amount of contrast received,
      procedure time, potential injury).
    
  