
    
      Hysteroscopic permanent sterilization with Essure速 is increasingly performed in the
      outpatient setting. No optimal outpatient analgesia regimen has been identified for the
      Essure速 procedure. The investigators propose a study of inhaled nitrous oxide administered
      with oxygen, hereafter referred to as nitrous oxide (NO), as an intervention to lower pain
      experienced during the in-office procedure. The investigators hypothesize that, compared to
      standard oral medications, inhaled NO will decrease patient anxiety associated with the
      in-office procedure, as well as increase patient satisfaction and provider perceived ease of
      device insertion.

      Women presenting to the clinic for family planning will receive our standard counseling on
      all forms of contraception, including short and long acting reversible contraception, and
      methods for permanent sterilization. Once the patient decides to have a sterilization
      procedure with the transcervical approach (Essure速 procedure), she will undergo the standard
      pre-procedure evaluation, which includes a complete history, appropriate physical examination
      including pelvic examination, and urine pregnancy test.

      Eligible women interested in sterilization will be advised of the study as an investigation
      evaluating nitrous oxide as an alternative to our current oral sedation pain management for
      in-office procedures. If they choose hysteroscopic sterilization, they will undergo informed
      consent for the Essure速 procedure. Providers will assess patient eligibility criteria for
      possible enrollment into the study. If patients are eligible and choose to participate in the
      research study, consent for participation will be obtained. At this time patients will be
      randomized to treatment group based on a predetermined randomization scheme. For this
      research study comparing the use of NO versus oral pain medications, the NO group will
      receive two placebo pills and the standard group will receive one 5/325 mg oral tablet of
      Vicodin and one 1 mg oral tablet of lorazepam 30 minutes prior to the procedure. The standard
      care group will receive oxygen (instead of NO) during the procedure. All participants will
      receive 30 mg of intramuscular ketorolac 30 minutes prior to the procedure.

      NO or oxygen will be administered via a scented nasal mask to blind patients to the
      intervention. NO can be titrated up to a concentration of 70% nitrous oxide and 30% oxygen
      based on desired analgesic effects per a predetermined sedation scale as part of the
      University of New Mexico Center for Reproductive Health (UNM CRH) nitrous administration
      protocol. All patients will be monitored with a pulse-oximeter. The patient will be fitted to
      their mask once the procedure is ready to begin. A single nurse will administer nitrous oxide
      and oxygen for all procedures. Every study patient will receive a minimum of 3 minutes of
      oxygen at the end of the procedure to minimize the side effects of NO. Additional oxygen will
      be administered as needed if a patient is experiencing residual effects of NO.

      Prior to the procedure and study medications, patients will complete patient information and
      demographics questionnaire and will receive instruction on the 0-100mm visual analogue scale
      (VAS) and Spielberger State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI). A baseline pain score will be
      recorded using the 0-100mm VAS with anchors 0 equals no pain and 100 equals worst pain
      imaginable, as well as baseline anxiety level using the STAI. At placement of the
      paracervical block and deployment of the second device coil, pain will be assessed again with
      the same 0-100mm VAS. At 3 to 5 minutes following completion of the procedure, maximal pain
      experienced during transcervical sterilization will be assessed by the patient. Prior to
      discharge from the clinic, the patient will rate her pain level using the same 0-100mm VAS,
      rate her level of anxiety with the procedure using the same STAI, and rate her overall
      satisfaction with the procedure measured using a 5-point Likert scale.

      Immediately after the procedure, the physician will complete a 0-100mm VAS on ease of
      insertion of the sterilization devices with anchors 0 equals no difficulty and 100 equals
      very difficult. The physician will also complete a 0-100mm VAS on hysteroscopic procedure
      difficulty with anchors 0 equals no difficulty and 100 equals very difficult.

      The standard transcervical sterilization procedure is not being evaluated in this study.
      After patients complete the procedure, they are contacted approximately 75 days from the
      procedure date to schedule a confirmatory test, hysterosalpingogram, which is required at 90
      days to demonstrate successful sterilization.
    
  