
    
      This will be a randomized single-blind placebo controlled trial to evaluate the efficacy and
      safety of autologous Platelet-rich Plasma (PRP) for the treatment of vulvar lichen sclerosus.
      Thirty patients with a diagnosis of biopsy proven active vulvar lichen sclerosus will be
      recruited from one center. This study will consist of a two-week screening period and a
      12-week treatment period. At the beginning of the screening period, a 4 millimeter punch skin
      biopsy sample will be collected from each patient to confirm the diagnosis of active lichen
      sclerosus and to rule out the diagnoses of lichen planus, psoriasis, candidiasis, and vulvar
      intraepithelial neoplasia. In addition, vulvoscopy will be performed at the screening visit
      and after the 12-week treatment period to rule out vulvar carcinoma. All eligible patients
      will be randomized to receive either placebo (saline injections) (10 subjects) or two
      separate treatments of PRP separated by 6 weeks (20 subjects). Each treatment would consist
      of an injection of 5 ml of autologous platelet-rich plasma (PRP) injected subdermally and
      intra-dermally, infiltrating the areas of the vulva affected by active lichen sclerosus. A
      repeat biopsy will be performed adjacent to the original biopsy site at the 12 week visit.

      The preparation of autologous PRP is as follows: 60 cc of whole blood will be removed via
      venopuncture. Preparation of PRP is done using a proprietary, FDA approved, centrifuge which
      uses a laser and a closed sterile system to identify and isolate the most platelet rich
      fraction of 60ml of whole blood. [Magellan® Autologous Platelet Separator System. Arteriocyte
      Medical Systems. Hopkinton, MA USA].

      The PRP will be collected in a blackened syringe so that neither Dr. Goldstein (the physician
      administering the PRP) nor the patient will know if she is receiving the PRP or placebo.

      After isolation of the PRP, calcium chloride (0.7ml) will be added to the 5 ml of PRP isolate
      to activate the thrombin cascade, thereby causing degranulation of platelets, releasing
      growth factors and cytokines, and starting the transformation of the PRP to platelet rich
      fibrin matrix (PRFM).

      The primary efficacy variable will be performed by a blinded dermatopathologist who will
      evaluate the inflammatory infiltration on biopsy specimens obtained during the screening
      period and at the Week 14 visit (1 to 4 scales). A secondary endpoint will be changes from
      baseline in the "Clinical Scoring System for Vulvar Lichen Sclerosus" (CSS) a validated
      instrument that assessment both an investigator's impression of the severity of disease and a
      patient's impression of the severity of her disease.

      All adverse events will be recorded, including serious adverse events. A physical examination
      will be performed at each visit.
    
  