
    
      Quality improvement (QI) is an increasingly important element of delivering health care.
      Learning and feeling confident in using QI methods is an essential part of healthcare
      practice. eLearning is a cost effective way of capacity building to a large cohort of health
      care professionals and service users. National Institute of Health Research Collaboration for
      Leadership in Health Research and Care Northwest London has developed a suite of eLearning
      modules (QI4U) to support an introductory understanding of technical aspects of QI. This
      protocol describes a trial to evaluate the experience of learning, knowledge gained, change
      in behaviour, and impact of eLearning of QI methods.

      Participants will belong to one of three Groups of learners over the course of 12 months:
      learners using only QI4U (group 1); people using only facilitated learning (Group 2); and
      learners using a combination of QI4U and facilitated learning (Group 3). The Kirkpatrick
      model will be used to evaluate the learning. The primary outcome of interest will be transfer
      of knowledge gained from learning into clinical practice for service improvement by
      individuals (level 3). Secondary outcomes will include reaction or experience of QI4U,
      knowledge gained, and the results or impact of learning through QI4U on service improvement
      (levels 1, 2 and 4).

      Transfer of knowledge into clinical practice will be assessed by interviews with individual
      learners. Experience of eLearning and knowledge gained will be assessed using feedback forms,
      questionnaires, time spent doing QI4U and reflective logs. Impact will be assessed by
      interviews with organisational leads with a high prevalence of QI4U learners.

      This study will provide evidence on the effectiveness of using eLearning as a means for
      learning QI. It will serve to evaluate learners' experience of using eLearning and the impact
      of various training methods within the context of learning QI.
    
  