
    
      Background: Alcohol dependence (AD) is a biologically, genetically based disease, yet the
      majority of clinically accepted treatments are behaviorally or psychosocially based. PTSD and
      alcohol use disorders (AUDs) commonly co-occur. This comorbidity is associated with more
      severe clinical impairment, shorter times to relapse, more treatment recidivism, overall
      greater use of treatment services, and greater treatment costs.

      Neuropharmacology of alcohol and prazosin: Emerging pre-clinical evidence shows that
      noradrenergic systems are involved in brain processes relevant to AD, such as arousal,
      reinforcement, and stress responsivity. However, virtually no work to date has attempted to
      translate this knowledge into clinically effective biological interventions. The
      investigators have adopted the novel, promising strategy of reducing adrenergic activity by
      blocking noradrenaline binding to post-synaptic alpha-1 receptors via the non-selective,
      alpha-1 antagonist, prazosin. Preclinical studies have demonstrated that prazosin decreases
      reinstatement of alcohol consumption, and preliminary clinical data suggest that prazosin
      reduces alcohol use in humans with AD and reduces PTSD-related nightmares and other symptoms,
      though it has not been tested in individuals with comorbid AD and PTSD. Prazosin, FDA
      approved to treat hypertension, typically has few side effects, and is inexpensive.

      Design: Randomized double-blind placebo-controlled clinical trial. Participants: 60
      individuals with both AD and PTSD (25% women) with stated goal to abstain from alcohol use.

      Intervention: Either prazosin titrated per study protocol or matched placebo for 6 weeks with
      Medical Management (MM) based on the COMBINE Study procedures and a final study visit two
      weeks after medication discontinuation.

      Measures: The primary outcomes are alcohol use during the 12-week medication phase of the
      study and reports of craving during the same time period. Daily, prompted Interactive Voice
      Response (IVR) telephone monitoring will be done throughout the 8-week study to assess the
      primary outcomes and to provide information on affect and medication adherence. Such daily
      monitoring provides more accurate reports of alcohol use than standard retrospective outcome
      measures. Analyses: Hierarchical linear modeling to test for main effects of prazosin+MM
      versus placebo+MM on alcohol use and PTSD symptoms over time, and to evaluate whether
      reductions in PTSD mediate the effect of prazosin.

      Findings to date: Participants randomized to prazosin had a greater reduction in percent days
      drinking per week and percent days heavy drinking per week between baseline and week 6 than
      did placebo participants. No significant differences were detected within or between groups
      in change from weeks 1 to 6 in total PTSD symptoms. Participants in the prazosin condition
      reported drowsiness on significantly more days than those in the placebo condition. Public
      health implications: There is a paucity of safe, tolerable, inexpensive, and efficacious
      drugs currently available for the treatment of AD and PTSD. Consistent with the extant
      research evaluating medications for comorbid PTSD/AD, the current evaluation of prazosin also
      found decreased alcohol consumption but no medication effect on PTSD symptomatology.
    
  