
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Assess the antitumor effect of wild-type reovirus (Reolysin®), in terms of tumor response
      rate and clinical benefit rate (i.e., partial response and complete response), in patients
      with metastatic melanoma.

      II. Assess the toxicity profile of Reolysin® in these patients.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Assess the progression-free survival and overall survival of these patients. II. Assess
      viral replication in metastatic melanoma deposits after intravenous administration of
      Reolysin®.

      III. Assess the impact of pre-existing anti-reoviral immunity (as represented by p38
      expression in pretreatment tumor specimens) on the efficacy and toxicity of Reolysin®.

      IV. To measure the effect of Reolysin® on the immune system, in terms of dendritic cell
      activation, T-cell activation, presence of Treg cells in tumor specimens, and the frequency
      of T cells, B cells, NK cells, and peptide specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes reactive against
      melanoma differentiation antigen peptides (gp100, MART-1, and tyrosinase).

      V. To assess the induction of melanoma specific immune response, in terms of the presence of
      melanoma differentiation antigens (gp100, MART-1, and tyrosinase) in tumor specimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive wild-type reovirus (Reolysin®) IV over 60 minutes on days 1-5. Treatment
      repeats every 28 days for up to 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      Some patients undergo tumor tissue samples collection at baseline and at 1 week after
      initiation of treatment for correlative laboratory studies. Tissue samples are analyzed for
      p38/MAPK activation status by IHC; reoviral replication in metastatic deposits by electron
      microscopy; and immunologic parameters by IHC. Blood samples are collected at baseline and
      periodically during the study. Blood samples are analyzed for immunologic parameters by
      tetramer and ELISPOT technology and for neutralizing antibodies against reovirus.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 6 months for 2 years and
      then annually for up to 5 years.
    
  