
    
      Despite the clear importance of adolescence in the emergence of a number of disease states
      and processes, there is surprisingly little known about how the endocrine and metabolic
      events accompanying puberty in humans impact normal developmental neurobiology. Epidemiologic
      studies have identified sexual dimorphisms in the prevalence of several neuropsychiatric
      disorders, including depression, schizophrenia, and substance abuse. Many of these sex
      differences emerge during or shortly after puberty and are maintained until the 5th-6th
      decade of life. For example, the two-fold greater risk of unipolar depression in women
      compared with men does not appear until adolescence, and prior to puberty girls are not at
      increased risk relative to boys. Puberty is a structured, transitional process that can be
      influenced by both nutritional factors and environmental stressors; nonetheless, the
      variability in the timing and duration of puberty is largely determined by oligogenic
      inheritance. Basic neuroscience research has demonstrated that hormonal events accompanying
      puberty impact on many of the physiologic systems involved in the regulation of brain
      function (e.g., the appearance of new neurons in a brain-region specific pattern, neuronal
      remodeling, and the pruning of cortical connectivity). Additionally, not only does stress
      during puberty increase the risk of disturbances in affective adaptation during adulthood,
      but the events accompanying puberty modify stress responsivity (e.g., alterations in the
      duration and peak response of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal [HPA] axis hormones to
      stressors). Moreover, animal work has demonstrated that neural connectivity differs in a
      brain regional specific manner according to the stage of puberty (i.e., early versus late).
      In humans, puberty also occurs in stages, and although the endocrinology of puberty,
      surprisingly, has not been fully characterized with longitudinal data, studies have
      documented that the physical changes measured by Tanner stages I to V are accompanied by
      progressive increases in the secretions of both gonadal and adrenal steroids. Nonetheless,
      there remains considerable variability in the timing and duration of this otherwise highly
      structured reproductive transition.

      We propose to perform a longitudinal, naturalistic study examining changes in brain structure
      and function, behavior, and stress responsivity in boys and girls across the pubertal
      transition. Because the pubertal transition is defined by a complex series of physiologic
      events that emerge sequentially over several years and involve changes in multiple endocrine
      and growth systems, and because there is also considerable variability in the timing of these
      events reflecting the influence of both genetic and environmental factors, puberty cannot by
      delineated by age of the participants as has been done in most imaging and other
      neurobiological studies of adolescence. The present study will formally bridge this gap by
      defining pubertal events per se in participants.

      Participants will include healthy boys and girls whose pubertal status will be assessed, and
      in whom endocrine, metabolic, and brain imaging measures will be evaluated at eight - ten
      month intervals from age eight years (pre-puberty) until age 17 years (post-puberty). We will
      screen children in the clinic at age seven however will delay their first regular study visit
      until they are eight years old. Reproductive endocrine, metabolic, and physical measures will
      be employed to characterize the stage and duration of pubertal development. Outcome measures
      will be derived via multimodal neuroimaging techniques, cognitive/behavioral assessments,
      metabolic measurements, and evaluations of HPA axis function. Additionally, the impact of
      genetic variation on the developmental trajectory of these parameters (both reproductive and
      CNS) will be determined.

      This cross-institute proposal will employ a multidisciplinary approach to evaluating the
      effects on CNS function of the process of puberty in both boys and girls. This work will not
      only serve to inform research on the mechanisms by which sexual dimorphisms in
      neuropsychiatric disorders develop, it will also have important implications for the
      prevention and treatment of these disorders.
    
  