
    
      This is an open-label pilot study of vaginal estrogen therapy in postmenopausal participants
      with vulvovaginal atrophy. The investigators seek to evaluate the effects of vaginal estrogen
      therapy on the vaginal, urinary, and rectal bacterial communities (microbiomes) and assess
      the (i) quantitative change in relative abundance of Lactobacillus among the community
      composition of bacteria in the vagina, and (ii) to evaluate the vaginal maturation index
      (VMI), vaginal pH, and vaginal inflammatory biomarkers: IL-1B, IL-4, IL-6, IL-8, IL-10,
      TNF-a, MCP-1, GM-CSF and correlate any notable changes with changes noted in the vaginal
      microbiome, and (iii and iv) observe for quantitative and qualitative changes in the
      distribution of operational taxonomic units (OTUs) among the bladder and rectal microbiomes.
      These changes will also be compared to the results yielded from the vaginal microbiome
      analysis. Additionally the investigators will assess for quantitative changes in the bladder
      and rectal inflammatory biomarkers (IL-1B, IL-4, IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, TNF-a, MCP-1, GM-CSF) and
      correlate these findings with any notable changes in the bladder and rectal microbiomes.
      Furthermore, changes in these biomarkers will be compared with the data (inflammatory and
      microbial) yielded from vaginal sampling. Bio-specimens and patient questionnaires will be
      assessed at baseline and again after eight weeks of vaginal estrogen therapy.

      20 participants will receive the intervention (vaginal estrogen therapy) for 8 weeks. 5
      participants who meet the same inclusion/exclusion criteria will not receive the intervention
      and will be sampled at the same time points. The additional 5 participants are intended to
      serve as a control cohort to demonstrate stability of the microbiome over the study period.
      The 5 participants may be compared to the 20 participants receiving therapy but that is not
      part of the primary or secondary outcomes.

      The investigators believe that examining the dynamic relationships of the
      genitourinary-rectal region is innovative and vital to validating the investigator's
      understanding and assumptions of the pathophysiology and treatment approaches of this
      disorder.
    
  