
    
      COVID-19 in-person visit hold has been removed- screening and actively enrolling. We are not
      currently performing sublingual darkfield microscopy because of the need for close
      face-to-face contact with an open-mouthed patient for several minutes in the setting of
      COVID-19 pandemic.

      Patients with heart failure (HF) account for over 1,200,000 VA outpatient visits per year,
      and HF remains the most common cause for hospital admission in the VA. Approximately 1/3 of
      Veterans with HF have 'preserved' ejection fraction (HFpEF), or relatively normal contractile
      function of the heart; such patients suffer functional decline and poor quality of life, and
      half die within 5 years after diagnosis. Risk factors for developing HFpEF are more common in
      Veterans than the general population, and the burden of HFpEF to the VA system will rise in
      the years ahead as these Veterans age. Preventive efforts are critical, but are hampered by
      gaps in knowledge related to HFpEF pathophysiology. The long term goal of this proposal is to
      prevent the onset of HFpEF in at-risk Veterans. Hypertension (HTN) confers the highest
      population-attributable risk for HFpEF, particularly when accompanied by the metabolic
      syndrome, a constellation of obesity, insulin resistance, and dyslipidemia. Animal models of
      HTN and metabolic syndrome develop HFpEF due to microvascular oxidative stress and
      inflammation induced by high sodium intake. Recent data from cardiac biopsies confirm similar
      mechanisms in human HFpEF. Dietary sodium restriction is widely recommended to prevent
      HTN-associated heart disease in humans, but this advice is now controversial. Few studies
      have examined how individual differences in response to sodium intake affect risk.
      "Salt-sensitive" persons have blood pressure (BP) that changes in parallel with sodium
      intake, and commonly develop cardiovascular abnormalities associated with HFpEF. The overall
      objective of this proposal is to evaluate salt-sensitivity as a novel, diet-responsive risk
      factor for incident HFpEF in Veterans with HTN and metabolic syndrome. The central hypothesis
      is that the sodium-restricted Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension (DASH/SRD) eating
      pattern will improve cardiovascular functional and structural risk factors for HFpEF in
      Veterans with the salt-sensitive phenotype. Guided by findings in experimental models, cohort
      studies, and strong preliminary evidence from the investigators' research group, this
      hypothesis will be tested in a two-phase study and by pursuing three specific aims: 1)
      Determine effects of DASH/SRD on functional and structural cardiovascular HFpEF risk factors
      in salt-sensitive vs. salt-resistant Veterans, 2) measure the effect of an
      electronically-delivered tailored-messaging intervention on DASH/SRD adherence, and 3)
      determine effects of DASH/SRD intervention and adoption on microvascular function and assess
      the endothelial glycocalyx as a biomarker of cardiovascular response to DASH/SRD. Phase 1 of
      the study is a crossover-randomized comparison of DASH/SRD vs. control diet for two weeks
      each, and Phase 2 a 6-month extension to promote DASH/SRD adherence. The salt-sensitive
      phenotype will be defined by between-diet changes in 24-hour mean BP during Phase 1. In Phase
      2, the efficacy of motivational interviewing-based counseling and the Women's and Men's
      Hypertension Experiences and Emerging Lifestyles Intervention (WHEELS-I), a tailored
      messaging program, to sustain DASH/SRD adherence, will be compared. Echocardiography and
      arterial tonometry will be used to assess HFpEF-related cardiovascular parameters during
      short- and longer-term dietary modification and their interaction with salt-sensitivity. In
      vivo microscopy and novel blood testing will assess microvascular function and the integrity
      of the endothelial glycocalyx, a blood vessel lining that is sodium-responsive and may
      mediate the adverse effects of salt-sensitivity. This proposal is innovative because it
      represents the first study to examine salt-sensitivity as a factor promoting HFpEF in
      Veterans with HTN and metabolic syndrome, the highest risk group for incident HFpEF.
      Moreover, it aims to link microvascular dysfunction, an important pathway in human HFpEF,
      with endothelial glycocalyx damage, a potential biomarker for sodium-mediated vascular risk.
      The proposed research is significant because it will vertically advance the investigators'
      understanding of how dietary factors contribute to the pathophysiology of HFpEF, a major and
      growing health threat to Veterans.
    
  