
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the response rate in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer treated with
           erlotinib hydrochloride and panitumumab with versus without irinotecan hydrochloride as
           second-line therapy .

      Secondary

        -  Determine time to disease progression and time to treatment failure in patients treated
           with these regimens.

        -  Determine the safety of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Determine the effect of these regimens on downstream targets of EGFR in skin rash
           associated with pharmacologic EGFR inhibition (exploratory).

        -  Determine the association between KRAS mutations and response to EGFR inhibition
           (exploratory).

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to wild-type Kras
      tumors ( 6/6 UGT1A1 vs 6/7 UGT1A1), and are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms. Patients
      with wild-type Kras tumor 7/7 UGT1A1 receive treatment in arm III.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oral erlotinib hydrochloride once daily on days 1-14,
           panitumumab IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1, and irinotecan hydrochloride IV over 90
           minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks in the absence of disease progression
           or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive oral erlotinib hydrochloride once daily on days 1-14 and
           panitumumab IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks in the
           absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Upon disease progression,
           patients receive irinotecan hydrochloride as in arm I.

        -  Arm III: Patients receive erlotinib hydrochloride and panitumumab as in arm II. Skin
           biopsies and blood samples may be collected for further analysis.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed every 6 weeks.
    
  