
    
      Patients suffering from coronary artery disease undergo coronary artery bypass grafting
      surgery (CABG) as the standard of care. The selection of which vessels to bypass is usually
      at the discretion of the surgeon forming an opinion based on the pre-operative angiographic
      imaging. Intra-coronary physiology (iFR measurements) is more accurate to determine the level
      of damage to the coronary arteries; however, currently it is not used for CABG
      pre-assessment, but only for percutaneous intervention also known as stenting as it has been
      shown to improve outcomes. Although, the use of intracoronary physiology has not been
      extensively studied or validated in patients undergoing CABG.

      Patients with multi-vessel coronary artery disease (CAD) who are planned for surgical
      revascularization with coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG), will have iFR measurement
      taken during invasive coronary angiography as part of standard care, they will undergo CABG
      and will have echocardiography at 3 and 12 months and computed tomography coronary
      angiography (CTCA) at 12 months.

      Early graft failure will be assessed by the presentation of any clinical symptoms, major
      adverse cardiovascular and cerebrovascular events (MACCE) and echocardiography at 3 and 12
      months. The endpoint will be graft patency as assessed by CT coronary angiography at 12
      months.

      Anticipated recruitment is 12-13 months. Follow-up with echocardiography at 3 and 12 months
      and a CTCA at 12 months. Quality of Life questionnaire will be completed by the patient at 3
      months during the follow-up appointment.

      Patients will continue on optimal medical therapy. Clinic visit and quality of life scale
      questionnaires will be recorded at 3 and 12 months and echocardiography will be assessed at 3
      and 12 months. Graft patency at 12 months will be assessed with a CT coronary angiography.
    
  