
    
      1. INTRODUCTION

           Brain metastases occur in roughly 30% of all cancer patients during their course of
           disease. Their incidence is believed to rise due to the aging population that develops
           more cancer per se, an increase in overall survival due to more effective extracranial
           therapies but with only few (novel) substances crossing the blood-brain barrier and more
           broadly available and more advanced imaging techniques.

           Neurosurgical treatment remains a cornerstone in the management of brain metastasis,
           especially for lesions causing mass effects or neurological deficits or in case tissue
           is necessary to establish a diagnosis. As local recurrence rates are as high as 50-60%
           after surgical resection alone, adjuvant therapies to prevent such are necessary.

           Whole brain radiotherapy (WBRT) does not influence survival but rather impairs
           neurocognitive functions and, as histologic in-depth exams of cavity borders showed that
           most brain metastases infiltrate only 0.3-1.2 mm into the surrounding healthy brain
           tissue, therefore treatment is to date usually confined to the cavity margin. Thus, the
           currently recommended standard of care is post-operative stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS)
           to the resection cavity. One of the drawbacks of this modality is the incidence of
           radionecrosis, especially in large tumor volumes. As an alternative to radiosurgery,
           hypofractionated local radiotherapy is also used, reducing the risk of radionecrosis in
           large volumes. There are no prospective randomized studies comparing both techniques.

           The need to find a modality of radiotherapy that achieves al least the efficacy of
           radiosurgery or hypofractionated local radiotherapy, without the disadvantages thereof,
           makes IORT as a possible treatment alternative.

           The objective of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of IORT in patients
           with surgical excision of brain metastases at a dose of 20 Gy is at least as effective
           and safe as other forms of radiation therapy in patients with resection of brain
           metastases.

        2. OBJECTIVES

           Primary Objective

             -  Median local progression free survival (lPFS), defined as time span (in months)
                between surgery and recurrence within a 0,5 cm margin around the resection cavity,
                assessed by serial MRI scans and RANO response assessment criteria for brain
                metastases .

             -  Radiation-related (acute / late) neurotoxicity, assessed by regular neurological
                examinations and serial MRI scans.

           Secondary objectives

             -  Median regional PFS (rPFS), resembling the time (in months) from surgery to any
                progression outside of the 0,5 cm margin around the resection cavity, assessed by
                serial MRI scans and RANO response assessment criteria for brain metastases .

             -  Global PFS (gPFS), defined as the time (in months) from surgery to any intra- and
                extracranial tumor progress.

             -  Median overall survival (OS), defined as the time (in months) from surgery of brain
                metastases to death from by any cause.

        3. DESIGN

      This trial is an open, single arm, single institution, prospective trial to determine the
      efficiency and safety of IORT with low-energy photons to the cavity after resection of brain
      metastases. A total of 25 patients will be included.
    
  