
    
      Blood samples will be collected from patients that have been diagnosed with RA based on ACR
      classification criteria. The study will include 200 donors. The total number of subjects are
      divided into two groups to yield a power of 95% at a type I error 5% level [determined based
      on the preliminary data]. In the first group, 200 donors will be treated with methotrexate,
      plaquenil and/or prednisone (Disease modifying anti rheumatic drugs; DMARDs) that either
      achieve remission (Disease activity score, DAS28<2.6) or do not achieve remission
      (DAS28>2.6). 50 donor will be utilized as they respond to DMARDs and achieve remission
      (DAS28<2.6) and 150 donors that do not respond to DMARDs will be transferred to second group.
      In the second group, 150 donors will be treated with methotrexate, plaquenil and/or
      prednisone and Cimzia® (provided to us by UCB).

      In the first group of patients, blood samples will be obtained from RA patients treated with
      Disease modifying anti rheumatic drugs (DMARDs) such as methotrexate, plaquenil and/or
      prednisone that achieve remission (DAS28<2.6). The patients that achieve remission
      (DAS28<2.6), blood will only be taken once at the patients routine visit.

      The second group will consist of RA patients that did not respond to "DMARDs". These patients
      will further receive (DMARDs) such as methotrexate, plaquenil and/or prednisone as well as
      Cimzia® (provided to us by UCB) free of charge. Cimzia® is a FDA approved drug and is a
      standard of care. Blood samples will be obtained from the patients treated with DMARDs
      including methotrexate, plaquenil, and/or prednisone and Cimzia® (provided to us by UCB) that
      have inactive remission (DAS28<2.6). In this group, blood samples will be collected onset of
      the study as well as 3 and 6 months after treatment with Cimzia at patient's visit through
      our collaboration with the aforementioned rheumatologists. Patients receiving intra-articular
      steroid injections will be excluded from the study.

      PB mononuclear cells will be isolated from RA whole blood and drawn into Blood collection
      tubes and isolated by Histopaque gradient centrifugation. Monocytes will be isolated from RA
      PB mononuclear cells by negative selection (as shown in the preliminary data) and half of the
      monocytes will be differentiated to macrophages for 7 days. The expression levels for IL-7
      and IL-7R will be determined by real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction
      (RT-PCR) and flow cytometry analysis.

      In our statistical analysis, we will first perform a stratified analysis to evaluate the
      differential expression levels in RA patients with active and inactive disease, controlling
      for the type of treatment. Data analysis will be performed in collaboration with an UIC
      Center for Clinical and Translational Science statistician. Specifically, we will perform the
      comparison of IL-7 and IL-7R expression among RA patients with active (DAS28>2.6) vs.
      inactive disease (DAS28<2.6) for DMARDs group (group 1). We will then perform a similar
      comparison for the DMARDs and Cimzia® therapy group (group 2). The stratified analysis can
      adjust for the potential confounding effect of treatment received and allows for the
      detection of the potential differential relationships between expression levels of IL-7 or
      IL-7R and disease status. We will also perform a pooled regression analysis in which the
      expression logarithm of IL-7 or IL-7R from patients is regressed on the treatment group
      indicator [DMARDs (group 1) versus on DMARDs plus Cimzia® therapy (group 2)] and disease
      status (active or inactive disease) which would demonstrate the interaction between treatment
      groups and disease activity. Such an analysis pools subjects from two treatment groups
      together and can therefore increase the sample size, and hence potentially the power of
      detecting the relationships between biomarkers and disease status. The RA samples will be
      collected over a 2 year period and the data will be analyzed in the last year of the
      proposal.
    
  