
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Asthma is a complex disease that often starts early in life. Exacerbations can be triggered
      by a number of agents such as allergens, respiratory infections, environmental tobacco smoke
      and pollutants, drugs, chemicals, exercise, cold air, infections and strong emotion making
      asthma therapy difficult and sometimes complicated. Multiple medications are often required
      to treat symptoms (bronchodilator agents such as beta-2 adrenergic agonists, theophylline,
      and anticholinergics), as well the underlying disease process (anti-inflammatory agents such
      as inhaled and systemic corticosteroids, cromolyn sodium and nedocromil; and leukotriene
      modifiers).

      The prevalence of asthma is increasing in all age groups, but most particularly in children
      under the age of 18 years. In 1992, the prevalence of self-reported asthma among persons
      under 18 years of age was 7.2 percent, compared to 5.1 percent among all persons. The most
      rapid increase in asthma has occurred in children under 5 years old, with rates increasing
      over 160 percent over the past 15 years. Among all ages, over 450,000 hospitalizations, 5,000
      deaths, and more than 100 million days of restricted activity are due to asthma every year.
      Yet the burden of asthma disproportionately affects children. For example, asthma
      hospitalization rates are highest among persons age 0-4 years, and have increased over 28
      percent in the last 15 years; mortality rates increased faster among those aged 5 to-12 years
      than among those age 15-34 years and neither changes in disease coding nor improved
      recognition of asthma fully explain these increases. Nearly one third of children restrict
      their activities due to asthma, including participation in physical education and sports.

      Despite major advances in understanding the etiology and pathophysiology of asthma and the
      development of new therapeutic modalities to control symptoms and prevent exacerbations,
      effective therapies are not widely used in the pediatric health care community. Further, the
      long term effects and side effects of asthma medications in children, especially children
      under the age of 12 years, are not well understood. Much remains to be learned about the
      impact of asthma therapy at different ages and at different points in the natural history of
      the asthma in altering the progression, chronicity, or severity of the disease.

      There is an urgent need to rapidly evaluate new and existing therapeutic approaches for
      children with asthma, and to disseminate the findings to health care professionals, patients
      and the public. There are several reasons why a pediatric asthma clinical research network
      will accelerate clinical research and meet this need. The highly variable and sometimes
      complicated clinical manifestations of asthma often make it difficult to accumulate a large
      number of comparable patients in one center. Further, uniformity in treatment protocols may
      reduce the number of patients needed at each clinical center. Also, the network mechanism
      will help pool the necessary clinical expertise and administrative resources to facilitate
      the conduct of multiple and novel therapeutic trials in a timely, efficient manner. This, in
      turn, would promote rapid dissemination of research findings to health care professionals.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Prevention of Early Asthma in Kids (PEAK) began recruitment in January 2001 and evaluated
      whether administering inhaled corticosteroids to 24-48 month old children at risk of
      developing asthma prevented the development of persistent asthma. All subjects were expected
      to be randomized prior to December 2001 with study completion by September 2004. The study
      was a double blind, randomized, placebo controlled, parallel comparison of inhaled
      fluticasone to placebo. There was a four week run-in period to qualify and characterize
      children. A total of 285 children were randomized to one of two treatment groups; one
      receiving active treatment, the other placebo. The study was based on a continuous treatment
      schedule for a period of twenty-four months, followed by an observation period of one year
      during which the main outcomes were assessed. The primary outcome measure was the number of
      asthma-free days. Secondary outcomes included number of exacerbations, use of asthma
      medications, and lung function. There were three specific objectives of the study: 1) To
      assess if chronic therapy with inhaled corticosteroids initiated in children four years or
      less at high risk of developing asthma can prevent the development of significant asthma at
      four to six years of age, 2) To determine if asthma therapy as described above can prevent
      both losses in lung function and the development of bronchial hyperresponsiveness (BHR)
      associated with early onset asthma, and 3) To assess potential side effects that may be
      associated with long term use of inhaled steroids in early life. PEAK study outcomes were
      presented at the 2005 annual meetings of the American Academy of Allergy, Asthma, and
      Immunology and the American Thoracic Society. A manuscript has been submitted for publication
      by the New England Journal of Medicine.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "Completed Date"
      entered in the Query View Report System (QVR).
    
  