
    
      Comparison Between Drug-Eluting Bead vs conventional TACE.

      Drug-eluting bead group : TACE using DC bead loading Doxorubicin. Conventional TACE group :
      TACE using Doxorubicin/Lipiodol emulsion and gelatin sponge/PVA particle.

      cTACE group was chosen by concurrent matched patients (age, sex, tumor stage, and Child-Pugh
      class are matched)

      5.7 Technically considerable aspects of DC bead TACE group

        1. Planned dose of doxorubicin. Each vial of DC Bead (2 ml of beads) should be loaded with
           70-75 mg doxorubicin (loading dose, 35-37.5 mg doxorubicin / ml of beads).

             -  Early-stage HCC. As a general rule, each single treatment should include a planned
                dose of up to 75 mg doxorubicin loaded into one vial of DC Bead.

             -  Medium-sized (less than 8cm) / multinodular HCC. As a general rule, each single
                treatment should include a planned dose of up to 150 mg doxorubicin loaded into two
                vials of DC Bead.

             -  In large tumors (more than 8cm), even if unilobar, the separate treatment including
                two sessions 2-4 weeks apart is recommended.

             -  In bilobar tumors, both hepatic lobes should be treated in separate treatment
                sessions 2-4 weeks apart, in the absence of complications requiring a longer time
                interval between the two sessions. Obtaining confirmation that the liver enzymes
                did return to baseline before performing the second treatment session is
                recommended.

        2. Choice of DC Bead size. Use of 100-300μm beads is recommended for a standard procedure.
           However, individual patient and tumor characteristics, particularly the identification
           of arterio-venous shunting, should be taken into account when the safety of the
           treatment and the choice of DC Bead size are determined.

             -  In the case of significant arterio-portal or hepatic venous shunting, embolization
                of the shunt with gelfoam pledgets is recommended before proceeding with DEBDOX.
                Confirmation that the shunt is no longer present must be obtained before DEBDOX can
                safely be performed. But, this study excludes the patients with arterio-portal or
                hepatic venous shunts.

             -  In large tumors, hepatic arterial flow does not reach 'near stasis' after injection
                of 2 vial of 100-300 μm DC beads. The recommendation is following: 2 vials of the
                100-300 μm DC beads is best and then repeat 2 weeks later if the patient is doing
                well clinically.

        3. DC Bead dilution. Mix loaded DC Bead with a non-ionic contrast medium. At least 5-10 ml
           of non-ionic contrast should be used per 1 ml of DC Bead (i.e., 10-20 ml are required to
           dilute one vial of DC Bead) prior to injection.

        4. Catheter positioning. A superselective (i.e., segmental or subsegmental) approach should
           be used whenever possible by using a microcatheter. Use of 3D / MPR obtained from C-arm
           rotational angiography with a flat-panel detector system (cone-beam CT) is recommended,
           if available, to improve the accuracy in identifying tumor-feeding arteries. Such
           imaging allows for accurate targeting of the tumor. In addition, repeat cone beam CT
           should be performed after successful delivery of the DC Bead to confirm adequate
           targeting and saturation of the tumor(s).

             -  Segmental / subsegmental approach. Place the microcatheter into the segmental /
                subsegmental vessel feeding the tumor as distally as possible - but avoiding
                wedging the catheter to avoid reflux along the catheter shaft. Flow within the
                artery must be preserved.

             -  Lobar approach. Place the catheter as selectively as possible in the right or left
                hepatic artery. Pay attention to identifying the origin of the cystic artery as
                well as other arteries supplying flow to extra-hepatic organs such as the right
                gastric artery, para-esophageal or omental vessels among others. If identified,
                these vessels must be either embolized using coils or avoided by placing the
                catheter tip well beyond the origin of these vessels. In addition, forward flow
                into the desired vessel must be maintained as inadvertent administration of even a
                few DC Beads into these extra-hepatic vessels could have dire consequences.

        5. Injection. The injection must be very slow. An injection rate of 1 ml of the contrast
           agent - DC Bead suspension per minute is recommended. Thus, it takes 10-20 minutes to
           infusion 1 vial of DC bead. Care should be taken to avoid sedimentation of the beads in
           the syringe by rotating the syringes or using a 3-way stopcock to gently suspend the
           beads in the solution.

        6. Embolisation endpoint. Injection should be continued until "near stasis" is observed in
           the artery directly feeding the tumor (i.e., the contrast the contrast column should
           clear within 2-5 heart beats). At that point, injection should be stopped - regardless
           of the amount of beads that have been actually administered - to avoid reflux of embolic
           material. Once the embolisation endpoint has been achieved, no additional embolic
           material should be injected. If the "near stasis" endpoint is not obtained after
           injection of the scheduled volume of beads, no additional embolization should be
           performed. This patient is likely to benefit from a second course after imaging
           follow-up.

        7. extrahepatic collateral vessels. In principle, DC bead is used for collateral arterial
           circulation (inferior phrenic artery, internal mammary artery, intercostal artery), but
           doctors can do bland embolization (PVC particle, gelatin sponge) based on their
           judgement.

        8. Repeated treatment. In principle, treatment with the same method is repeated for every 2
           - 3 months as tumor progression is observed. But, even if tumor progression is not
           observed, the treatment can be repeated for tumor repression. If there is no tumor left,
           contrast enhancement CT or MRI can be performed for every 2- 3 months as follow up.

      5.8. Dose in study Dose of DC bead, anti cancer agent for TACE dose is decided by tumor size.
      So, this study just set up the maximum dose.

      Drug-eluting bead group DC bead : 2 bottles DC bead absorbs 70-75mg per bottle. Doxorubicin
      loading to DC bead needs to be done 1.5 hours before using. The size of DC bead is 100-300
      micrometer, and it can be used up to 2 bottles.
    
  