
    
      Facial palsy is a serious and disabling disease whose drudgery and sensation are probably
      underestimated. Psychological, social and economic issues have major impacts although vital
      prognosis is not engaged in this pathology. Facial palsy remains a personal drama for
      patient. Consequences may take the form of: aesthetic deformation, modification of body
      image, with socio-professional consequences. Beside unsightly facial aspects, weakness of
      facial muscles can cause troubles in eating, drinking, talking, and communicating personal
      emotions. Physical as well as psychological repercussions limit daily verbal and non-verbal
      communication.

      Facial palsy impacts patients' quality of life (QOL) and affects mental health. Consequently,
      QOL impacts and directs the patient's care and the healthcare professionals widely take
      account of QOL.

      This wide multidimensional concept usually includes self-measures of physical and mental
      health. QOL is evaluated with general and specific scales. General scales allow to compare
      QOL of different diseases, when specific scales focus on one disease and consider all aspects
      related to this disease and therefore are more appropriate and sensitive in dimensions
      related to patient disease and health.

      "Facial disability Index" (FDi) and "Facial Clinimetric Evaluation" (FaCE) are the two most
      used validated questionnaires to assess QOL of patients suffering from peripheral facial
      palsy (PFP).

      There is no existing validated questionnaire or scale in French version evaluating QOL of
      patients with PFP despite many French studies on PFP available. Using these questionnaires in
      French language requires translation and strict approval of the new language version.

      The aim of the study is to translate and validate French versions of specific scales of QOL
      in peripheral facial palsy patients: FDI and FaCE. Secondary objective is to evaluate QOL of
      patients depending on PFP etiology.

      Translation process will be done respecting internationally recognized rules. A pilot study
      will be performed on 5 physicians and 5 patients in order to validate the questionnaires
      translations. French versions obtained for these 2 questionnaires will be used for their
      validation on 80 patients suffering from PFP in our hospital.

      Cronbach's alpha will be estimated to check internal consistency of FDI and FaCE scales. Test
      re-test reliability will be calculated with inter-class correlation, reiterating
      questionnaires one week later. Scores of FDI and FaCE scales will be compared to
      House-Brackmann and Sunnybrook clinical evaluation scales, estimating correlation
      coefficient. Social function of FDI and FaCE scales will also be compared with general scale
      SF-36 scores, estimating a correlation coefficient.
    
  