
    
      Myocardial preservation in cardiac surgery has mainly focused on the period when the heart is
      arrested (cross-clamp time). Today the heart can be arrested for up to 2-3 hours without
      major consequences. However, in spite of comparatively short cross-clamp times approximately
      10% of the patients undergoing coronary surgery sustain significant myocardial injury whereas
      perioperative myocardial infarction is rare in aortic valve surgery despite longer
      cross-clamp times. The reason for this is that preoperative ischemia, and to some extent
      postoperative ischemia, remain major risk factors for development of myocardial infarction in
      patients with ischemic heart disease. In light of this, we suggest that efforts to improve
      outcome and reduce permanent myocardial damage should focus on the preoperative and the
      postoperative phase of coronary surgery. Furthermore, efforts should be instituted to reduce
      reperfusion injury and minimize permanent myocardial damage in long-standing or severe
      myocardial ischemia.

      Metabolic intervention with intravenous glutamate infusion, offers the prospect of addressing
      the issues above and extending myocardial protection into the pre- and postoperative phase.
      Glutamate is an important substrate for the intermediary metabolism of the heart,
      particularly in association with ischemia. The effects of glutamate are partly related to its
      role in the malate-aspartate shuttle, transporting reducing equivalents across the
      mitochondrial membrane, regulating the NAD/NADH balance in the cytosol of the cells, and
      thereby enhancing anaerobic glycolysis during ischemia. Furthermore, glutamate contributes to
      an alternative anaerobic pathway for regeneration of high-energy phosphates, by substrate
      level phosphorylation in the Krebs cycle. Glutamate also improves clearance of metabolic
      waste produced during ischemia such as lactate and NH3, by taking part in the reactions
      involving transamination of pyruvate to alanine and of glutamate to glutamine. During
      reperfusion glutamate contributes to the replenishment of Krebs cycle intermediates lost
      during ischemia, which is essential for recovery of oxidative metabolism.

      Administration of glutamate to patients with stable angina pectoris has been found to
      increase tolerance to stress-induced ischemia. Ischemia before onset of cardiopulmonary
      bypass has been established as a major risk factor for postoperative myocardial infarction.
      Patients with unstable coronary artery disease may have critical ischemia at rest and are
      particularly vulnerable to the increased oxygen demands during the early stages of coronary
      surgery. In a pilot study on patients operated urgently for unstable angina we found
      metabolic signs compatible with improved tolerance to ischemia before surgery and improved
      recovery of oxidative metabolism during early reperfusion. These results warrant further
      studies to evaluate the potential clinical benefit of preoperative glutamate infusion
      extended into the early postoperative period.

      Comparisons: Intravenous infusion of 0.125 M glutamic acid solution v saline at a rate of
      1.65 ml/hour and kg body weight beginning with institution of anesthesia and stopping 2 hours
      after unclamping of aorta in patients operated for unstable coronary artery disease.

      Preliminary power analysis (80% power; p<0.05) suggests that 2214 patients will be required
      with regard to primary end-point assuming 30% reduction of events occurring in 12% of
      untreated patients.

      Stage I of the study comprises 800 patients* and will lead to an interim analysis with report
      of secondary end-points** and recalculation of sample-size with regard to primary end-point.
      An adaptive design with regard to primary end-point and analysis performed by external
      statistician blinded to the investigators will be used to avoid increasing the risk for type
      I error.

      *Patient number 800 is anticipated to be enrolled during the summer of 2009 and for practical
      reasons all patients enrolled until the end of August 2009 will comprise the interim
      analysis.

      **Secondary end-points include analysis of markers for myocardial injury (CK-MB, troponin-T),
      markers for hemodynamic adequacy (mixed venous oxygen saturation), renal function
      (p-creatinine, p-Cystatin C), brain injury (S100B, clinical signs). As a substudy a blinded
      analysis of the value of NT-pro BNP (obtained immediately before surgery, 24 hours
      postoperatively and on the 3rd postoperative day) as marker of postoperative heart failure
      and outcome will be conducted. NT-pro BNP will also be related to treatment with glutamate or
      placebo. Similar evaluation will involve markers troponin-T, p-Cystatin C and mixed venous
      oxygen saturation. For further details see outcome measures.

      Substudies will involve subgroup analyses of patients with regard to combined CABG + valve
      procedures, severely unstable patients requiring emergency surgery / intravenous nitrates,
      preoperative LV-dysfunction and patients with diabetes. For further details see outcome
      measures.
    
  