
    
      The purpose of this study is to establish the mechanism of development and progression of
      syringomyelia. Although syringomyelia usually accompanies anatomic abnormalities at the
      craniocervical junction, the pathophysiology that relates these anatomic abnormalities to
      syringomyelia development and progression is controversial. We have been testing the
      hypothesis that progression of syringomyelia associated with the Chiari I malformation is
      produced by the cerebellar tonsils partially occluding the subarachnoid space at the foramen
      magnum and acting as a piston on the partially enclosed spinal subarachnoid space, creating
      enlarged cervical subarachnoid pressure waves which compress the spinal cord from without,
      not from within, and propagate syrinx fluid caudally with each heartbeat, which leads to
      syrinx progression. We are also testing the hypothesis that development of syringomyelia
      results from increased transit of CSF through the spinal cord parenchyma and into the syrinx.
      Patients are treated with posterior fossa craniectomy, upper cervical laminectomy, and
      duroplasty. We evaluate cerebrospinal fluid flow and pressure, syrinx size, neurologic
      function, and the rate of entrance of CSF into the syrinx before and after surgery. These
      studies and the intraoperative evaluation of the movement of the cerebellar tonsils and the
      walls of the syrinx are providing data which elucidate the hydrodynamic mechanism of
      development and progression of syringomyelia.

      The best treatment for this type of syringomyelia has not been established. Present surgical
      treatment results in disease stabilization in many, but not all patients, although objective
      improvement is less common. Delayed deterioration is not uncommon. Correlation of the
      anatomic and physiologic measurements should provide data which indicate the mode of
      development and progression of syringomyelia and which may have implications for the optimal
      treatment of syringomyelia.
    
  