
    
      MEDICAL DEVICES:

        -  SoftVue™ (SV) automated whole breast ultrasound system, 510(k) Cleared for B-Mode
           ultrasound breast imaging, manufactured by Delphinus Medical Technologies.

        -  SoftVue™ with device modifications (software, hardware, user-interface), safety-tested
           for human use to complete feasibility, verification, and validation testing as a routine
           part of product development and performed in accordance with FDA 21 CFR 812.2 (b),
           manufactured by Delphinus Medical Technologies.

        -  Full-field digital mammography (FFDM), FDA Approved for breast screening and diagnosis,
           various manufacturers.

        -  Digital breast tomosynthesis (DBT), FDA Approved for breast screening and diagnosis,
           various manufacturers.

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Primary: To establish a library of cases for use in future SoftVue™ research studies,
           user training, and marketing.

        -  Secondary: Determine the frequency and severity of adverse events (AEs) to further
           evaluate the safety of SoftVue.

      ENDPOINTS:

      From multiple clinical sites whichever comes first:

        -  Up to 17,500 total enrolled subjects

        -  Up to 105 total breast cancer cases detected at program entry screening

        -  At least 35 total discordant breast cancer cases, where FFDM is negative or benign
           (BI-RADS 1 or 2) but SV is incomplete (BIRADS 0) and diagnostic imaging workup of SV
           findings leads to breast biopsy with malignant pathology

      SITES:

      At least six (≥ 6) qualified clinical sites in the United States

        -  MQSA Certified

        -  Digital Breast Tomosynthesis Screening Program Implemented

        -  Academic, Community Hospital, or Private Practice Setting

      PROJECT DESIGN AND PROCEDURES:

        -  Potential participants will be recruited from the group of women presenting for their
           annual breast imaging exams at multiple clinical sites utilizing 3D DBT and 2D FFDM
           (non-synthesized) for routine screening.

        -  Asymptomatic women with heterogeneously or extremely dense breast parenchyma (BI-RADS
           composition c or d), based on visual assessment of FFDM by trained site personnel, will
           be invited to consider volunteering to participate in the case collection program.

        -  All participants will complete the same routine screening FFDM + DBT evaluation for
           which they originally reported to the clinic, with a complete set of 2D views and 3D
           views.

        -  Eligible patients will receive SV as an adjunct to FFDM + DBT.

        -  A single Investigator (radiologist) at each site will perform sequential review of the
           same subjects FFDM, DBT, and SV images.

        -  FFDM will be evaluated for final parenchymal density (BI-RADS a through d) and then each
           exam will be assigned to one of 3 BI-RADS assessment categories (0, 1, 2) by the
           radiologist.

        -  Abnormal findings will be indicated by a BI-RADS assessment category of 0
           (Incomplete)and will undergo diagnostic imaging evaluations consistent with universally
           accepted standards of care.

        -  All evaluation results, diagnosis and treatment outcomes will be recorded.

        -  Normal findings will be indicated by BI-RADS assessment categories of 1 or 2 (Negative
           or Benign) which will be associated with a management recommendation to resume routine
           screening in one year, unless symptoms or signs of breast cancer develop in the interim.

        -  All participants who are not diagnosed with breast cancer as a direct result of the
           program entry examinations, incidental evaluations, or interval symptoms, will return to
           the site in 12 months for their next annual screening exam, the results and outcome of
           which will be recorded.

        -  Cancer status for all participants will be surveyed from program entry until and
           including the completion of recommended follow-up.

        -  A case will be determined cancer negative if the participant has no findings suspicious
           for cancer throughout the interval between program entry and completion of annual
           follow-up.

        -  A case will be determined cancer positive if a pathological evaluation confirms a breast
           cancer diagnosis during the interval between program entry and completion of annual
           follow-up.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS:

        -  Demographic characteristics (age, race, and ethnicity) and other baseline
           characteristics (e.g., project arm, project site, breast density, lesion-specific
           characteristics) will be tabulated for all participants.

        -  A flow diagram or table will illustrate patient disposition ("accountability of patient
           cohort") including reasons for ineligibility and/or unevaluability.

        -  Safety will be summarized for all enrolled women. With the exception of anticipated
           events, adverse events (AEs) and serious adverse events (SAEs), occurring from the time
           of enrollment (SoftVue) and for 24 hours following the conclusion of the SoftVue exam,
           will be recorded.

        -  A separate statistical plan will be developed for any future analysis that includes
           justification of sample size and, if applicable to the requirements of FDAAA 801, will
           be registered separately in order to share the results.
    
  