
    
      Skin and soft tissue infections-cellulitis, furuncles, carbuncles, and abscesses-make up
      approximately 1-2% of emergency room visits annually. While abscesses are generally incised
      and drained, there is no definite standard treatment regimen or duration of treatment that
      practitioners have adhered to regarding antibiotic use. Historical evidence suggests that
      antibiotics may not be necessary for simple superficial abscesses, though a number of
      antibiotics-including penicillins and cephalosporins-may be used for treatment of large
      and/or complicated abscesses. These antibiotics however are ineffective against what is
      becoming an increasingly common pathogen- community-acquired methicillin-resistant
      Staphylococcus aureus (CA-MRSA).

      At our institution, it is estimated that 60-70% (unpublished observation) of cultured
      abscesses are caused by CA-MRSA. These patients have generally been treated with incision and
      drainage, with the addition of an antibiotic left to the practitioner's discretion. Also,
      there has been no universally accepted duration of treatment established to observe clinical
      improvement of such abscesses. Common antibiotic regimens range from 7-14 days of treatment
      for cellulitic infections. While there has been one prospective trial regarding the use of
      antibiotics in simple abscesses, there has been no published prospective study on the use of
      antibiotics in treating CA-MRSA abscesses in adults. Furthermore, while 7-14 days of
      treatment seems the recommended duration of treating cellulitic infections, no study has
      evaluated the duration of treatment needed to observe clinical improvement of abscesses
      caused by CA-MRSA. We wish to prospectively evaluate the duration of treatment necessary to
      observe clinical improvement of abscesses caused by CA-MRSA among multiple different
      antibiotics (ie. cephalexin, clindamycin, and trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole) after standard
      incision and drainage in patients presenting to the emergency department.
    
  