
    
      HYPOTHESIS Surgical major factors which determine the size of the gastric pouch after
      performing a a sleeve gastrectomy are the diameter of the remanent stomach (influenced by the
      diameter of the bougie size) and the residual antrum.

      Whereas gastrectomy is a restrictive procedure, we postulate that the variation of these
      factors can have a significant impact on clinical outcomes in terms of weight loss and
      improvement in comorbidities in addition to possible changes in the hormone pattern

      OBJECTIVE:

        -  Primary Outcome Measure:

      Weight loss one year after surgery

        -  Secondary Outcome Measures:

        -  Morphological changes induced by the size of the gastric tubulization

        -  Gastric antrum volume

        -  Gastric body volume

        -  Correlation between gastric volumes and weight loss

        -  Gastric emptying

        -  Hormone levels (before and after surgery) and relation with weight loss

        -  Quality of life

      DATA TO ANALIZE

      We will analyze the following key variables:

        -  BMI (body mass index)

        -  Preoperative gastric volume

        -  Postoperative gastric volume. An evaluation of the variation of these data in two stages
           (one month and one year after surgery) in each patient group and the comparison will be
           made between groups.

      Secondary variables to analyze are:

      - Gastric emptying, analyzed in relation to baseline (preoperative)

        -  Lower esophageal sphincter pressure

        -  The number of episodes of gastroesophageal reflux, the number of reflux episodes longer
           than 5 minutes, the percentage of time with pH below 4

        -  Plasma hormones listed below An evaluation of the temporary modification of these
           variables to the month and year of surgery in relation to preoperative values in each
           patient group and the comparison will be made between the four groups.

        -  Gastric volume study Methodology For the evaluation of the patients an abdominal CT scan
           in multislice device will be performed. Diluted oral contrast was administered 3%
           (amidotrizoate meglumine, sodium amidotrizoate Gastrografin ®) for a maximum distension
           of the stomach or gastric remnant in order to assess gastric volume or its remnant. Cuts
           will be made within 45 minutes of ingestion of oral contrast and perform a CT without
           intravenous contrast supine, including from the tracheal carina to pubic symphysis. Cuts
           are initiated above the diaphragmatic hiatus to the carina level, in order to evaluate
           possible migration flows of the gastric remnant as reported in recent publications in
           this type of surgery.

      All cases must be supervised by a radiologist as part of the study team to validate the
      images obtained with the purpose of being of the highest quality 3D for further processing.
      Validate the optimal degree of gastric distension. The data collected and stored in DICOM
      format for further manipulation 3D.

      The study protocol provides for the realization of three CT scans:

        1. Preoperative CT Be assessed the maximum gastric volume and the height of the
           esophagogastric junction in order to quantify the possible migration.

        2. CT one month after surgery Possible to quantify the volume of gastric remnant and assess
           whether it has increased in volume. This data would adjust the actual volume of the
           remnant and apply it to the 3D model. Assess whether there is cranial migration of
           esophagogastric junction and gastric any late postoperative complications. Will
           correlate with weight loss.

        3. CT one year after surgery Rating final state of the stomach, final quantification of the
           residual volume and correlation with final weight loss. Final assessment of the possible
           complications and gastric migration.

             -  Scintigraphic evaluation Methodology

        1. Patient preparation It is important for the patient a 12 hours fast, to ensure that the
           stomach is empty. In addition, the patient may not smoke or take medication that could
           interfere with gastric motility. In diabetic patients, the CT scan wil be performed
           first thing in the morning, after the injection of insulin.

        2. Radiopharmaceutical To get the most information in a single tracer, it is best to mark
           the solid component. With solids, in addition to assessing antral motility is measured
           indirectly by the state of the gastric tone, once they have been crushed and can be
           emptied. For this, 50 g huevina will beat with 1 mCi (37 MBq) of 99m Tc-sulfur colloid
           and immediately cook a tortilla.

        3. Gamma camera Dual-head with low-energy collimator and medium resolution (LEAP)

        4. Procedure Immediately after ingesting the food (in less than 10 minutes), it will
           proceed to detect of the stomach with the patient standing. Among the various
           detections, the patient should remain seated.

           Will immediately perform a baseline image and subsequently post-ingestion, anterior and
           posterior views of 2 minutes duration every 15 minutes for two hours.

        5. Processed ROI is drawn over the gastric area, except in the first image to be included
           in all activity, even if there is intestinal.

           The software determines gastric accounts every time and projection (anterior and
           posterior) and geometric mean (Qty * Cpost). Also determined for each point the residual
           percentage compared to the initial activity.

           Time There will be temporary in the same sequence as in the radiological evaluation:
           preoperative and postoperative assessment at one month and a year

             -  Functional esophagogastric evaluation Methodology Esophageal manometry and pH
                monitoring will be performed in all patients included in the study . The tests were
                carried out in the Digestive Pathology Service from Hospital Santa Creu i Sant Pau.

           Esophageal manometry catheter is made with a polyvinyl four holes spaced 5 inches
           between them. The distal end is connected to an external pressure transducer and the
           electrical signal is processed and analyzed by the computer program (PC Polygraf ,
           Synectics Medical).

           It takes eight hours prior fasting , previously suspending medication that may alter
           esophageal motility and modifying stomach acid secretion.

           The catheter is inserted through the mouth into four channels that have reached the
           stomach. Recording the intra- gastric pressure at the end of expiration and is used as
           reference.

           The manometric evaluation of the lower esophageal sphincter is performed by a slow
           withdrawal. Record the resting pressure, length, location relative to the nasal ala and
           relaxation post swallow .

           Esophageal motor activity (amplitude and duration of the waves, peristaltic waves
           percentage of simultaneous post swallow), is evaluated by slowly withdrawn after
           conducting at least 10 swallows 3-5 cc of water every 20 seconds.

           Finally, we evaluate the upper esophageal sphincter activity. Pharyngeal pressure is
           recorded, the resting pressure of the upper esophageal sphincter pharyngo - esophageal
           coordination and upper esophageal sphincter relaxation after dry or liquid swallows
           every 20 seconds.

           After esophageal manometry pH monitoring is performed . Using a single-use probe 2
           channels.

           We introduce the probe pH monitoring through the nose to reach the lower esophageal
           sphincter ( by reference to the location of the lower esophageal sphincter by manometry
           found). Probe is then removed, leaving 5 cm above the lower esophageal sphincter . The
           patient is instructed to perform their usual daily activity, a symptom diary recording .
           The probe is connected to a Holter apparatus that recorded during 24 the number of
           reflows , measure their duration in minutes and the duration of the longest reflux
           episode, the percentage of time that esophageal pH is less than 4. All measurements were
           recorded at both the proximal and distal esophagus. After 24 hours the tube is removed
           and information is processed by a computer program (PC Polygraf, Synectics Medical).

           Time The evaluation was conducted in three stages: pre-and postoperative assessment
           (within 2 days, 3 months and one year).

           - Hormonal and glucose metabolism

           It will carry out the following hormonal determinations:

           • Insulin

           • Glucagon

           • GLP-1

           • GIP

           • Ghrelin

           • Leptin

           • Adiponectin

             -  Peptide YY

           Methodology Blood samples were made a week before surgery (in the Day Hospital of
           Endocrinology), during admission in ward General Surgery (on the 2nd postoperative day)
           and at 3 months and one year after surgery (in the Day Hospital of Endocrinology). To
           this end, each patient was placed in a peripheral vein upper extremity.

             -  The first draw will be fasting.

           Ten minutes later, given a standard meal and proceed to the extraction of blood samples
           at the following times:

             -  the end of the intake

             -  postprandial samples (at 20, 60 and 120 respectively).

           Times:

           The determinations were carried out:

             -  one week before surgery

             -  postoperative day 2

             -  a year
    
  