
    
      Heart disease is the leading cause of morbidity and mortality for women in Canada. Cardiac
      rehabilitation (CR) is an outpatient secondary prevention program composed of structured
      exercise and comprehensive education and counseling. CR participation results in lower
      morbidity and mortality, among other benefits. Unfortunately, women are significantly less
      likely to adhere to these programs than men. While the traditional model of CR care is a
      hospital-based mixed-sex program, women are the minority in such programs, and state that
      these programs do not meet their care preferences. Two other models of CR care have been
      developed: hospital-based women-only (sex-specific) and monitored home-based programs. Other
      than through our controlled pilot testing of 36 patients, women's adherence to these program
      models is not well known.

      CR4HER is a 3 parallel arm pragmatic RCT designed to compare program adherence to traditional
      hospital-based CR with males and females, home-based CR, and women-only hospital-based CR.
      Power calculations based on our pilot study suggest a sample size of 261 patients is needed
      to detect a difference in adherence by program model using ANCOVA. Participants are female
      CAD, acute coronary syndrome, percutaneous coronary intervention, bypass surgery, or valve
      surgery inpatients recruited from 5 hospitals. Also, female patients referred to
      participating cardiac rehabilitation (3) centres with one of the aforementioned diagnosis
      will be approached to participate. The primary outcome variable is program adherence
      operationalized as CR site-reported percentage of prescribed sessions completed by phone or
      on-site, as reported by a staff member who is blind to study objectives. Secondary outcomes
      are exercise capacity operationalized as VO2peak on a graded stress test, and exercise,
      dietary, smoking and medication adherence behaviours measured in hospital and 1 week post-CR.
      By identifying the CR program model which results in the greatest adherence for women, we can
      optimize their participation and potentially their cardiac outcomes.
    
  