
    
      Patients with Thalassemia major (Thal) require frequent blood transfusions and are at risk
      for iron overload. High tissue iron increases the risk of various endocrinopathies, including
      diabetes, as well as cardiovascular disease, and infections due to the formation of free
      radicals. This systemic condition of oxidative stress elicits an antioxidant response to
      reduce tissue damage. Zinc is an important component of that response because it can compete
      with iron for multiple cellular binding sites and, therefore, reduce the redox-cycling of
      iron and minimize iron-mediated oxidation of lipids, proteins, and DNA.

      In Thal patients with chronic hepatic iron overload, tissue zinc redistribution is likely to
      be persistent. This could create an unbalanced tissue zinc distribution with excessive
      amounts in the liver and deficient levels in other tissues altering zinc-dependent functions,
      such as growth, skeletal development, immunity, and glucose regulation. There is a rich body
      of literature focused on the 'diabetogenic effects' of altered zinc status which will be
      reviewed herein. Our group has recently shown that supplementation with 25 mg/d of zinc can
      improve bone density in patients with Thal. This provides evidence for a functional zinc
      deficiency, which may also affect other whole body zinc functions, such as insulin secretion
      and glucose homeostasis.

      Our hypothesis is that hepatic iron overload induces a sub-clinical inflammatory response
      that alters the expression of MT and zinc-transport proteins leading to hepatic zinc
      sequestration, and an associated zinc-depletion in other tissues. Marginal zinc depletion in
      turn leads to increased oxidative stress, cellular apoptosis and altered glucose homeostasis
      and insulin secretion. This proposal will focus on cross-sectional differences in markers of
      glucose homeostasis and zinc status in diabetic and non-diabetic Thal patients, combined with
      a short- term zinc supplementation to explore the effect on glucose and insulin homeostasis.
    
  