
    
      Background:

        -  Malignant gliomas are unfortunately, in most cases, a uniformly fatal tumor. Despite
           aggressive surgery, radiation treatment (RT) and chemotherapy at initial diagnosis these
           tumors almost always recur.

        -  Many clinical trials in glioblastoma (GBM) have evaluated the addition of agent(s) to
           standard therapy which consists of concurrent radiation with temozolomide chemotherapy
           after maximal surgical resection in patients with newly diagnosed disease and salvage
           chemotherapy with either rechallenge with temozolomide or an alternative alkylating
           agent such as CCNU or cisplatin. To date, none of the combination strategies have
           demonstrated clinical benefit. Furthermore, in subjects with an unmethylated MGMT
           (O6-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase) promoter temozolomide has only modest benefit
           and salvage therapies have not demonstrated a significant impact in this subject group
           underscoring the need for more research.

        -  Immunotherapy offers the promise of improving outcomes for patients with GBM by evoking
           specific immune responses that may produce a more sustained and less toxic effect than
           conventional therapy. Heat-shock proteins (HSPs), which function as intracellular
           chaperones, can be used to deliver a variety of tumor antigens to antigen presenting
           cells for immune stimulation.

        -  Heat Shock Protein-Peptide Complex-96 (HSPPC-96) consists of the heat shock protein
           glycoprotein-96 (HSP gp-96) and a wide array of chaperoned proteins, including
           autologous antigenic peptides (aka vaccine ). Heat shock proteins (HSP) are molecules
           that respond to cellular stress and counteract abnormal protein folding. They are known
           to modulate immune responses, especially the HSP gp-96. In a stressful environment, such
           as a tumor, HSPs are upregulated and highly expressed on tumor cells. This protects the
           tumor and leads to resistance to therapy. HSP expression is associated with cellular
           proliferation, apoptosis evasion, tissue invasion, metastasis, and angiogenesis.

        -  Pembrolizumab is a potent and highly selective humanized monoclonal antibody (mAb) of
           the IgG4/kappa isotype designed to directly block the interaction between PD-1 and its
           ligands, PD-L1 and PD-L2. Additionally, pembrolizumab is thought to also have activity
           in the peripherally circulating T-effector cells by reversing lymphocyte exhaustion. It
           is currently FDA approved for use in patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma
           and disease progression following ipilimumab and, if BRAF V600 mutation positive, a BRAF
           inhibitor and NSCLC with elevated PDL1 in the tumor. recurrent or metastatic HNSCC with
           disease progression on or after platinum-containing chemotherapy. It is also FDA
           approved for with advanced (metastatic) non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) whose disease
           has progressed after other treatments and with tumors that express a protein called
           PD-L1 and for the treatment of patients with recurrent or metastatic head and neck
           squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) with disease progression on or after platinum-containing
           chemotherapy

        -  This study will be the first to evaluate this combination of vaccine (HSPPC-96) and PD-
           1 inhibition (pembrolizumab) in newly diagnosed GBM patients whose tumors are MGMT
           promoter unmethylated and are isocytrate dehydrogenase (IDH) wildtype; and will provide
           important data on immune-modulatory effect of this combination. This may be of
           particular value in patients with high peripheral PD-L1 expression, but also the value
           of PD-1 added to standard GBM therapy. As vaccine needs to be generated from the patient
           s tumor, patients will need to be identified prior to surgery.

      Eligibility:

        -  MRI findings consistent with a suspected GBM or histologically confirmed newly diagnosed
           GBM that has not been treated and would benefit from further surgical resection.

        -  Tumor must be supratentorial.

        -  GBM diagnosis must be made by surgical excision (stereotactic biopsy will not be allowed
           unless there is plan for second surgery to remove greater than or equal to 80 % of the
           tumor) and patients tumors must not have MGMT promoter methylation and must be IDH
           wildtype.

        -  No prior treatment with radiation or chemotherapy for their GBM.

        -  Age greater than or equal to 18 years on day of signing informed consent

      Objective:

      - The primary endpoint is to determine whether the one year overall survival (OS) rate is
      improved in newly diagnosed GBM patients whose tumors have an unmethylated MGMT promoter and
      are IDH wildtype treated with RT + TMZ + Pembrolizumab followed by TMZ + Pembrolizumab +
      HSPPC-96 vaccine or Placebo vaccine x 6 cycles (1 cycle is 9 weeks).

      Design:

        -  This will be a randomized, double blind phase II trial of surgery, RT + TMZ +
           Pembrolizumab followed by TMZ + Pembrolizumab +/- HSPPC-96 in newly diagnosed GBM
           patients whose tumors have an unmethylated MGMT promotor and are IDH wildtype.

        -  Subjects will be assigned to intervention based on tumor resection and ability to
           generate vaccine as follows:

             -  If < 80 % of tumor removed, <7 g of tumor is resected or HSPPC-96 cannot be
                generated, subjects will be treated on the ancillary cohort of RT+TMZ
                +Pembrolizumab followed by TMZ+ Pembrolizumab.

             -  If greater than or equal to 80% of contrasting enhanced tumor removed (based on T1
                Post contrast MRI using cross sectional measurement), greater than or equal to 7 g
                of tumor is resected and sufficient HSPPC-96 is generated, subjects will be
                included in the main cohort and will be randomized on a 1:1 basis to receive:

                  1. RT+TMZ +Pembrolizumab followed by TMZ+Pembrolizumab + Placebo

                     OR

                  2. RT+TMZ +Pembrolizumab followed by TMZ+Pembrolizumab+HSPPC-96

        -  Approximately 8 potentially eligible patients are seen per month, and it is anticipated
           that at least 1-2 per month will be accrued per site.
    
  