
    
      Objective

      The broad objective of this study is to examine the effects of moderate and more intense
      aerobic exercise as an intervention on cognitive performance, physical functioning and
      health-related quality of life in patients with chronic (more than 12 months post-injury)
      traumatic brain injury (TBI). Importantly, structural and biological brain changes will be
      measured to examine whether functional outcomes are related to exercise-induced adaptations.
      It is hypothesized that in the chronic phase of persons with TBI, there will be improved: 1)
      cognitive function, 2) physical fitness and fatigue severity, 3) motor performance and
      balance, and 4) mood and depressive symptoms, in those that performed the exercise
      intervention compared to a control group. It is also hypothesized that these functional
      improvements will be related to exercise intensity, improved cortical connectivity, dopamine
      transmission gene scores, and blood biomarkers related to neuroand angio-genesis.

      Study Population

      80 ambulatory adults with non-penetrating TBI will be enrolled. Subjects will be recruited
      from NIH, affiliated hospitals/clinics and the community.

      Design

      All subjects will perform baseline assessments including cognitive and behavioral
      performance, brain imaging, fitness, motor and balance testing, and selected blood and
      genetic testing. Thereafter, subjects will be randomized to either a waitlist control, or one
      of two exercise conditions: 1) 30 minutes at a fast pace, moderate-intensity (rapidresistive
      exercise; RET); 2) 30 minutes at higher-intensity (aerobic exercise; AET). Both exercise
      groups will perform the exercise on an elliptical trainer 3 times a week, for a session
      duration of 45 minutes including warm-up and cool-down. The RET group will focus on rapid
      reciprocal motion with minimal resistance, while the AET group will exercise at an elevated
      intensity known to produce an aerobic effect. After 12 weeks, all groups will repeat the
      baseline assessments (3 month follow-up). Following this assessment, the waitlist control
      group will be randomized to either RET or AET and the exercise groups will cease formal
      supervised exercise sessions. A third assessment visit will be performed after an additional
      12 weeks (6 month follow-up).

      Outcome Measures

      Cognitive performance will be tested and interpreted compared to norms. Performance on motor
      and balance tasks will be assessed with the Smart Balance Measurement System and the GAITRite
      System. Physical fitness will be determined by peak oxygen consumption and aerobic threshold
      as measured by pulmonary gas exchange during an exercise tolerance test on the treadmill.
      Structural brain volumes will be determined by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and cortical
      connectivity will be quantified using resting state functional MRI and Diffusion Tensor
      Imaging (DTI) to evaluate integrity of and changes in white matter tracts in response to
      exercise. Blood will be collected to quantify the presence of biomarkers (such as VEGF, BDNF
      and IGF-1) and dopamine transmission. Other self-reported measures of quality of life,
      fatigue severity, depression and sleep quality would also be collected.
    
  