
    
      Previously, some of the cancer cells were taken from the subject's body and separated in the
      laboratory and a specially produced human virus (adenovirus) that carries the IL-2 gene was
      put into the cells. Adenovirus is a common virus found in human respiratory systems. In its
      normal state, it can reproduce and cause a respiratory infection. Respiratory illnesses
      caused by adenovirus infections range from the common cold to pneumonia, croup and
      bronchitis. This adenovirus has been changed in the laboratory so that it is not likely to
      reproduce or cause an infection once it is in the body. The gene transfer method used in this
      study tries to add copies of the IL2 gene that increases the immune response against a tumor.

      The rest of the cancer cells have been stimulated to express on their surface a substance
      called the human CD40L. These substances (IL-2 and CD40L), already naturally present in the
      body, are meant to help the immune system fight the cancer.

      At the point that the doctor feels the subject should begin treatment on this protocol, the
      treatment will be as follows:

      The subject will begin taking Allopurinol by mouth at 300 mg and will continue taking
      Allopurinol daily for 14 days. Allopurinol is also called Zyloprim and it will be taken to
      prevent tumor lysis syndrome. Tumor lysis syndrome can be a serious condition that occurs
      sometimes when cancer treatment is started. Tumor lysis syndrome can cause other medical
      problems.

      Two days after Allopurinol was started, the subject will begin taking Lenalidomide. The
      Lenalidomide dose will be 5 mg taken by mouth daily. The subject should swallow the capsules
      whole with water at the same time each day and should not break, chew or open the capsules.
      Females of childbearing potential who are caring for the subject should not touch the
      lenalidomide capsules or bottles without gloves. If a dose of lenalidomide is missed, it
      should be taken as soon as possible on the same day. If it is missed for the entire day, it
      should not be made up. If more than the prescribed dose is taken of lenalidomide and the
      subject feels poorly, s/he should seek emergency medical care and tell the study staff right
      away. The subject will get 1 cycle of drug per month. A max of a 28-day supply of the drug
      will be provided at one time. If the subject has bad side effects the doctor may tell him/her
      not to take the lenalidomide for a short time period or may be removed from the study.
      Otherwise, the subject will continue daily dosing with Lenalidomide for approximately 1 year,
      until four weeks after the final vaccine.

      Four weeks after the subject starts the Lenalidomide s/he will start to receive his/her
      vaccines. The vaccine will be injected under the skin (also called subcutaneously). Normally
      the subject will have the shots as an outpatient (no overnight stay in the hospital will be
      required). S/he will receive the first five (5) shots at 2 week intervals. S/he will then
      receive eleven (11) shots at 4 weekly intervals. In total, the subject may receive up to
      sixteen (16) shots over a period of one year. As with the Lenalidomide if the subject has bad
      side effects s/he may not receive his/her vaccines for a short period of time or may be
      removed from the study. Otherwise, the subject will receive the vaccines on the schedule as
      specified earlier in this paragraph. These shots must be given at Houston Methodist Hospital.

      Following these injections, the doctor will follow the subject for 1 year after the last shot
      to see how the subject is doing.

      TESTS DURING AND AFTER EXPERIMENTAL TREATMENT:

      A complete history and physical examination is necessary before the subject can be enrolled
      in the study. A physical examination will also be performed each time s/he receives a shot of
      the modified cells. The place on the subject's body where s/he had received the shots will be
      examined during the physical exam.

      Research Blood Samples:

      Blood will be taken from a tube placed into the vein (IV). We will take blood samples at the
      following time points: at study entry, week 0 when the subject starts Lenalidomide, weeks 2,
      4, 6, 8, 10 and 16 and then every 4 weeks until week 60. The last blood sample will be at one
      year after the last shot. We will do this to make sure that the Lenalidomide is working
      correctly and to study how the modified cells are working in the body.

      The amount of blood that will be obtained each time is approximately 2-3 tablespoonfuls,
      which is considered to be a safe amount. If the subject has a central line (an IV line that
      has been placed in a large blood vessel that is meant to be used for long periods of time),
      the blood will be taken from it, so that extra "sticks" should not be needed. Additional
      office visits may be necessary to obtain this blood. The maximum total amount of blood to be
      collected from the subject is 40-60 tablespoons.

      Other tests: If the subject is a woman who can get pregnant, she will have pregnancy
      counseling and urine tests as long as she is taking lenalidomide.

      In order to participate in this study, the subject must register into and follow the
      requirements of the Revlimid REMS® program of Celgene Corporation (the company that supplies
      Lenalidomide). This program provides education and counseling on the risks of fetal exposure,
      blood clots and reduced blood counts that can occur when taking Lenalidomide. The subject
      will be required to receive counseling every 28 days during treatment with lenalidomide,
      follow the pregnancy testing and birth control requirements of the program that are
      appropriate for him/her and take telephone surveys regarding your compliance with the
      program. Participating in the Revlimid REMS® program is a study requirement.
    
  