
    
      Pain is a pervasive symptom among advanced cancer patients. In addition to pain's negative
      impact, unrelieved pain is linked to depression and precludes patients from dealing with
      other aspects of life. The World Health Organization 3-step hierarchy for pain management is
      effective in controlling cancer pain in 70-90% of patients. However, a significant fraction
      of cancer patients continue to suffer from severe pain despite high dose opioid therapy. This
      opioid-refractory pain requires adjunctive pain medications. Often multiple adjunctive agents
      are needed concurrently to optimally control opioid-refractory pain. Unfortunately, patients
      remain in pain during the time needed to titrate these agents, and some patients don't have
      this time before their death. Clinically, there exists no widely available, acute
      intervention to quickly control opioid-refractory pain. Intraspinal delivery of medications,
      peripheral nerve blocks, and neurolysis help only the subset with well-localized pain
      syndromes, are invasive, and require subspecialty skills. Sedation quickly relieves pain but
      robs a patient of the ability to interact. The hypothesis to be tested in this study is that
      intravenous (IV) lidocaine can acutely palliate opioid-refractory pain. IV lidocaine has been
      shown to be effective in small trials in non-cancer patients with conditions such as
      post-herpetic neuralgia and diabetic neuropathy. Additionally, there are case reports of the
      efficacy of IV lidocaine in cancer patients with opioid-refractory pain. However, there are
      no randomized, placebo-controlled trials in cancer patients establishing efficacy. Moreover,
      because of lidocaine's pro-arrhythmic potential and relatively narrow therapeutic window,
      there is a theoretical risk of harm. As a practical matter of fact, IV lidocaine is not
      available for the vast majority of cancer patients in the US. To illuminate this situation, a
      double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, study will be conducted to determine the
      efficacy of IV lidocaine in acutely relieving severe opioid-refractory pain in advanced
      cancer patients. Secondary end-points include analyses of safety and clinical parameters
      predictive of lidocaine response. The expected outcome is that lidocaine will acutely,
      effectively, and safely relieve opioid-refractory pain. This outcome will significantly add
      to the evidence-based clinical armamentarium available to treat opioid-refractory pain and
      will significantly improve cancer patients' quality of life.
    
  