
    
      Participants and recruitment The present study will be a pilot, counter-balanced, cross-over
      trial in individuals with CF (n = 16). Furthermore, the present protocol is an extension of
      the CFit_BL protocol (Clinical Trials ID to be confirmed). Specifically, 16 participants with
      CF will be invited to complete 2 visits (5 in total) within the same 14 day time period.
      Briefly, participants will be recruited from adult and paediatric CF outpatient clinics
      within the Southampton CF network, and will be tested at a laboratory within the Southampton
      General Hospital or the Department of Sport and Exercise Sciences (University of Portsmouth),
      depending on participant convenience.

      The present study will comprise 2 visits which will be in a randomised, counter-balanced
      order.

      Visits 1 and 2 A session of moderate intensity exercise (MIE) training and high-intensity
      interval exercise (HIIE) training visit will be conducted in a randomised, counter-balanced
      order. Participants will be required to arrive to the laboratory ~ 96 hours following the
      previous visit, at 0800 ± 2 hours, following an overnight fast (> 10 hours). Furthermore,
      participants will be instructed to avoid nitrate rich foods, caffeine, alcohol and exhaustive
      exercise for 24 hours prior to arrival, as well as mouthwash for the entirety of the study.

      Upon arrival, CGM's will be fixed to the interior surface of the upper arm and worn for the
      subsequent 14 days. In addition to this, hip worn accelerometers, as well as hourly specific
      physical activity and food diaries will be distributed and completed for 14 days alongside
      the CGM.

      Upon arrival participants will undergo the acetylcholine (ACh) and insulin iontophoresis
      protocols described below, including 5 resting blood pressure measurements and a cannula will
      be inserted into a vein by a trained phlebotomist, prior to the 3 hour OGTT and a baseline
      blood sample will be taken. The participant's pulmonary function will be assessed via
      spirometry. Participants will then be asked to complete either a single session of either MIE
      or HIIE.

      Pulmonary function will then be assessed immediately post-exercise. 1 hour following
      exercise, the iontophoresis procedures will be repeated. Blood samples will be drawn
      immediately pre- and post-exercise for the analysis of plasma TNF-α, soluble vascular cell
      adhesion molecule (sVCAM)-1, IL-6, [NO-(₂)] and ET-1. Samples for nitrotyrosine (NT), total
      glutathione (tGSH) and total cysteine (tCys) will be drawn pre-exercise only. Subsequently,
      participants will partake in either 30 minutes of MIE or a work-matched period of HIIE.
      Thirty minutes following the completion of the exercising procedures, the iontophoresis
      procedures will be repeated and blood samples will be drawn for the analysis of plasma
      glucose, insulin, TNF-α, sVCAM-1, IL-6, [NO-(₂)] and ET-1. NT, tGSH and tCys. Following this,
      1.75 g/kg body mass (maximum of 75 g) of anhydrous glucose will be consumed to instigate the
      3 hour OGTT, whereby blood samples will be drawn at 30, 60, 90, 120 and 180 minutes
      post-glucose ingestion for the analysis of glucose and insulin. Samples for TNF-α, sVCAM-1,
      IL-6, [NO-(₂)] and ET-1 will be drawn at 60, 120 and 180 minutes post-glucose ingestion. NT,
      tGSH and tCys will be analysed at 120 minutes post-glucose ingestion. The total volume of
      blood collected over each 5 hour visit will be approximately 232 mL. Additionally, the
      iontophoresis procedures will be repeated at 30, 90 and 150 minutes post-glucose ingestion.

      Follow-up CGM's, accelerometers and physical activity/food diaries will be completed
      throughout this 14 day period. A member of the research team will collect these from the
      preferred location of the participant.
    
  