
    
      Suicidal behaviors represent a public health problem due to its high prevalence and its low
      predictability. At a neurological level, higher vulnerability for suicidal behavior has been
      related to a frontostriatal-cingulum tract dysfunction as well as attention, memory and
      executive deficits. It is also known that brain development continues during adolescence,
      therefore, a therapeutic intervention during this period might propitiate neural changes that
      could favor the emotional regulation involved in suicidal behaviors. Specifically,
      Dialectical Behavioral Therapy has proved to be effective regarding this problem.

      The investigators hypothesis is that DBT (Dialectical Behavioral Therapy) will improve
      clinical symptoms associated with suicidal behaviors, as well as the neural interconnections,
      which will result not only in structural and functional connectivity changes, but also in a
      better cognitive functioning. The investigators aimed to investigate the clinical,
      neuropsychological, and neural effects of Dialectical Behavioral Therapy in adolescents with
      suicidal behaviors.

      The investigators method is a randomized, controlled study that includes 30 patients with
      suicidal behaviors and 15 healthy controls between the ages of 12 and 18 years. Patients were
      assigned to one of two groups (randomized): DBT and Regular Support Therapy. Clinical and
      neuropsychological evaluations were performed before and after the treatment for both patient
      groups. Additionally, Structural MRI data sets, diffusion-tensor imaging (DTI) and Functional
      Connectivity (Resting State fmri) were acquired for all patients and controls at baseline and
      after treatment. Initial characteristics will be compared between the three groups, and the
      investigators will also compared clinical, neuropsychological and imaging measures before and
      after the treatment.
    
  