
    
      Excess body weight has been shown to have many adverse health effects including, increased
      risk of diabetes, hypertension, joint problems and early death. Roux-en-Y gastric bypass has
      been shown in the literature to be an effective weight loss surgery in the majority of
      patients who are morbidly obese in both short and long term weight loss management. However,
      while 80% of patients who undergo gastric bypass lose 67-75% of their excess body weight
      within 2 years of surgery, 20% of patients fail to loose or regain a substantial portion of
      their excess body weight.1-2 There are several reasons postulated to be the cause in patients
      who regain their weight after gastric bypass surgery. These include poor nutritional choices
      and eating high caloric carbohydrates in a grazing eating pattern. Also dilation of the
      gastric pouch overtime which can decrease the feeling of satiety and allow for larger meals
      to be eaten can cause recidivism of obesity. Another problem that can occur is the
      enlargement of the gastrojejunostomy anastomosis. Patients who have an opening larger than 2
      cm can have rapid emptying of food into the intestines and decreased satiety with meals.

      Plication is a standard surgical technique of folding or tucking in, which has been used
      widely on other parts of the human anatomy. There have been several methods tried in the past
      to place plication sutures in the gastrojejunostomy from an endoluminal approach.3-7 These
      devices have had some success but are not widely used at this time. We aim to demonstrate
      that laparoscopic suture plication of the enlarged gastrojejunostomy can provide a safe and
      effective minimally invasive method to promote increased weight loss in this subset of
      gastric bypass patients who have an enlarged gastric stoma.

      Specific Aim 1 To demonstrate that the laparoscopic plication of an enlarged gastric bypass
      is a safe surgical option to promote weight loss in the Roux-en-Y gastric bypass patient.

      Specific Aim 2 To monitor the effectiveness of long term weight loss after laparoscopic
      plication of the gastrojejunostomy in the Roux-en-Y gastric bypass patient
    
  