
    
      Undernutrition in children less than five years of age is prevalent throughout sub-Saharan
      Africa and is often associated with multiple micronutrient deficiencies, such as vitamin A
      and zinc. These deficiencies are probably a reflection of the poverty and poor living
      conditions that contribute to the lack of proper nutrition. The potential adverse effect of
      even subclinical deficiency in various micronutrients (including zinc) on optimal
      physiological function may lead to an exacerbation of infectious diseases in children living
      in these parts of the world. The primary objective of this randomized, double-blind,
      placebo-controlled study is to determine whether oral zinc supplementation plus standard
      antibiotics significantly alters the duration of required hospitalization in children with
      radiologically confirmed acute pneumonia. Six hundred children aged six months to 36 months
      diagnosed with radiologically confirmed acute pneumonia and admitted in the general pediatric
      wards of Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH), Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, will be recruited. Upon
      enrollment, half of the subjects will receive daily oral supplements of 25 mg of elemental
      zinc and the control group will receive placebo tablets. Children randomized to receive zinc
      supplements will be given a daily dose of 25 mL of reconstituted solution from effervescent
      tablets equivalent to 25 mg of elemental zinc in two divided doses (12.5 mg twice daily) by a
      study coordinator during the hospital phase of treatment for pneumonia. Children randomized
      to the control group will receive placebo effervescent tablets identical in taste and
      appearance to those tablets containing zinc. Compliance to the regimen will be directly
      observed by the study coordinator, and clinical response will be closely monitored throughout
      hospital stay. Each child will be followed for six weeks after hospital discharge to assess
      for recovery from the illness. All children in both groups will receive antibiotics and
      supportive care to manage pneumonia, as deemed appropriate according to the standards of care
      as practiced at MNH and Amana Municipal Hospital in accordance with the Recommendations of
      the Ministry of Health, Tanzania.
    
  