
    
      Gastric cancer is an important global public health issue in Eastern European regions, where
      the burden of the disease is substantial. There is sufficient epidemiological and
      experimental evidence that supports a causal link between H. pylori and gastric cancer.
      However, there is still limited evidence from clinical trials to prove whether H. pylori
      eradication with antimicrobial therapy is the approach of choice in entire infected
      populations or only in selected groups to reduce the risk of gastric cancer and whether
      eradication at advanced stages of atrophy is effective among these patients. The current
      European and global guidelines are proposing screening with pepsinogen tests as the best
      available tool to identify the individuals at increased risk for cancer development, yet
      there is insufficient evidence available on how effective these tests are in organized cancer
      screening settings.

      We therefore propose to conduct a multi-center randomized trial in Latvia, Belarus and
      Russia, areas with high burden of the disease, with the main objective of evaluating if H.
      pylori screening followed by eradication in participants with positive result and endoscopy
      of those with serological evidence of atrophic gastritis can reduce gastric cancer mortality.
      The proposed trial will also investigate retrospectively if groups with chronic atrophic
      gastritis can select subjects who require treatment to achieve comparable gastric cancer
      reduction. Ultimately, this study will have the potential to find effective prevention
      strategies through identifying appropriate target groups that could get most benefits from
      the treatment.

      The aim of this study is to search for new intervention strategies to decrease mortality from
      gastric cancer in high-risk areas.

      The primary objective of the study is to determine if H. pylori screening followed by
      eradication of positive subjects and endoscopic follow-up of those with serological evidence
      of atrophic gastritis reduces mortality from gastric cancer in a high risk population among
      40-64 years old subjects.

      The secondary objectives are:

        1. To determine retrospectively if biomarkers of chronic atrophic gastritis or others can
           select the group of subjects who require treatment to achieve gastric cancer reduction
           comparable to the primary objective.

        2. To evaluate the rationale for volatile marker testing in exhaled breath for early
           identification of lesions in the stomach as well as other conditions related to
           increased risk.

        3. To evaluate the role of diet, lifestyle factors and environmental factors in the
           development of gastric lesions.

        4. To evaluate the impact of H. pylori eradication on selected medical conditions
           potentially associated with the infection (e.g. obesity, inflammatory bowel disease,
           dementia, circulatory diseases and esophageal diseases)

      Methods: Approximately 30,000 men and women will be recruited into a randomized study.
      Eligible subjects between 40-64 years of age at entry who are residents in high gastric
      cancer incidence areas will be invited to participate in the trial by visiting one of the
      study clinics set up specifically for this trial.

      For eligible participants who agree to participate and sign informed consent, a risk factor
      questionnaire will be administered and a complete medical evaluation will be performed at
      baseline.

      Participants will be randomly assigned to either Group 1 (50%) or Group 2 (50%). Among those
      assigned to Group 1, H. pylori screening by detecting immunoglobulin G (IgG) group antibodies
      in plasma/serum and pepsinogen test will be performed. According to the results of the tests,
      participants will be assigned to H. pylori eradication treatment or upper endoscopy.
      Participants with serological evidence of atrophic gastritis (low pepsinogen I/II ratio) will
      undergo upper endoscopy with appropriate biopsy sampling as well as further follow-up with
      endoscopy according to MAPS (Management of precancerous conditions and lesions in the
      stomach) guidelines. H. pylori positive individuals will be offered standard eradication
      treatment as appropriate. From subjects in this group, breath samples will also be collected
      for volatile markers study by research nurses or junior physicians.

      Participants assigned to Group 2 (50%) will constitute the control group, after having had a
      medical evaluation at the time of recruitment. During the follow-up period this group will be
      offered to consult a specialist when required due to clinical symptoms.

      Both Group 1 and Group 2 will be offered fecal occult blood test (FOBT) as a benefit of study
      participation. Any participants who show a positive FOBT result will be referred to
      colonoscopy.

      All the trial participants including Group 2 will be followed up at least for 15 years to
      collect systematic information on medical conditions, in particular gastric cancer and cause
      of death. A follow-up telephone call /alternative communication will be made every 5 years
      for outcome assessment.

      The general study is preceded by a pilot-study that was conducted from October 2013 to
      December 2016 to test the assumptions as well as the tools and functionality of the study
      infrastructure. According to the results of the pilot study, required infrastructure and
      tools planned in the general study will be adapted accordingly.

      Endpoints: The primary endpoint for our trial will be the mortality difference from gastric
      cancer between Group 1 and Group 2 at 15 years or when enough cases accumulate to demonstrate
      a statistical difference between the groups.

      In addition to the mortality difference from gastric cancer between the two groups, other
      endpoints required to achieve the secondary objectives are listed below:

        -  The difference in gastric cancer incidence between Group 1 and Group 2

        -  The all-cause mortality difference between Group 1 and Group 2

        -  The difference in incidence and mortality of medical conditions between Group 1 and
           Group 2

        -  Sensitivity and specificity of pepsinogen tests to detect atrophy

        -  The proportion of gastric cancers arising in patients with non-atrophic vs. atrophic
           gastritis

        -  The proportion of cancers arising in patients with atrophy, but negative for H. pylori
           infection

        -  The difference in incidence of gastric cancer in the group with successful eradication
           when compared to those refusing/failing eradication within Group I

        -  The proportion of gastric cancer cases being identified during scheduled follow-up
           endoscopy out of the total number of cases in the follow-up group

        -  The differences in the test performance and disease prevalence between ethnic groups

        -  The performance (sensitivity, specificity, overall accuracy) of volatile marker testing
           approach to diagnose gastric cancer as well as premalignant lesions in the stomach

      A pilot study with 3,455 participants was started in October 2013 and completed in December
      2016 in Latvia.
    
  