
    
      Nationwide cost estimates of 60 major illnesses place alcohol use disorders as the 2nd and
      drug use disorders as the 7th most costly health problems. Both are related to higher rates
      of HIV risk behaviors associated with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and together
      they represent 3 of the top 10 modifiable behavioral causes of mortality in the US. Studies
      indicate that effective strategies for managing substance use disorders (SUD) must address
      their chronic and cyclical nature, of which HIV risk is a part. For many, substance use
      creates circumstances that increase HIV risk (e.g., needle use, trading sex) and for others,
      substance use is a coping mechanism for the negative impact of lifestyle choices (e.g.
      illegal activity, losing custody of their children, trading sex). Post-discharge monitoring,
      feedback and early re-intervention have become standard practice when managing numerous
      chronic conditions.10 Mobile technology has the potential to radically improve the odds of
      sustained recovery by providing tools for ongoing monitoring, assessment and access to
      recovery support interventions anytime and anywhere. This is particularly important for the
      90% of those needing treatment that don't receive it. Therefore applying smartphone
      technology to provide recovery management anytime anywhere is potentially significant.

      Using their smartphone-based suite of relapse-prevention interventions , Gustafson and
      colleagues11 conducted an RCT with a sample of 350 adults with alcohol use disorders
      discharged from 2 residential substance abuse treatment programs and followed them for 12
      months. Patients self-initiated access to the interventions 24/7; the type of interventions
      ranged from being professionally supported EMIs like "ask an expert" which allowed
      participants to receive personal responses to their questions from addiction experts to a
      Panic Button which triggered automated reminders to the participant and, alerts to key people
      (e.g., counselor, sponsor, family member) who may reach out to the participant via phone or
      in person. Their system was designed to support recovery by promoting autonomous motivation,
      coping competence, and relatedness.12 Relative to participants assigned to recovery support
      services as usual, those receiving the support system reported significantly fewer heavy
      drinking days and were more likely to be abstinent from alcohol at the end of the study.13-15
      In addition, this study demonstrated that providing recovery support via smart phones is
      feasible for this population.

      Despite these encouraging outcomes, the full potential of providing 24/7 access to recovery
      support via smartphones may not yet have been realized. For example, while participants rated
      themselves on protective and risk factors weekly, opportunities to intervene "in the moments
      of need" were lost if the individuals did not self-initiate use of the application, ratings
      were subject to recall bias, and "teachable moments" in which participants could have
      cognitively linked the risk factors to their desire or actual use were unexplored. More
      frequent monitoring of current circumstances (vs. past generalized week) using methods like
      Ecological Momentary Assessment (EMA) may be better suited to this context as they can
      improve one's level of self-monitoring, provide additional opportunities to intervene in the
      moment of risk, minimize recall bias and provide participants with the opportunity to learn
      more about the relationship between current circumstances and their use.16,17 The primary
      goal of the proposed trial is to examine the effect of combining more frequent
      self-monitoring via EMAs and automated interventions via Ecological Momentary Interventions
      (EMIs) provided by smartphone, on days of abstinence from drugs and alcohol and HIV risk
      behaviors over 6 months following treatment discharge.

      We will recruit a total of 400 participants in 4 cohorts of 100 people from sequential
      discharges (both planned or unplanned) over 2 months starting in months 7, 19, 31, 43 and
      follow them for 6 months post discharge. Using urn randomization, we will randomly assign
      participants at discharge in a 2 x 2 factorial design to receive EMAs only, EMIs only,
      combined EMA+EMI or control (no EMA or EMI). Post-randomization, participants assigned to the
      EMA, EMI and combined EMA/EMI groups will receive a smartphone for 6 months with 450 call
      minutes, 500 text messages and unlimited data plan monthly. Those in the EMA only and EMA/EMI
      combined group will be asked at 6 randomly selected times each day (183 days total) to record
      their past-30-minutes involvement in HIV risk behaviors and substance use, and their exposure
      to internal and external risk and protective factors and rate the extent to which these
      factors support their recovery, make them want to use drugs and/or alcohol. Those in the EMI
      only and EMA/EMI combined group will have continuous access to a suite of smartphone based
      support services (EMIs). To minimize interference with treatment, phones will be issued and
      trainings will be done after discharge. To minimize potential contamination across
      conditions, trainings for each condition will occur on separate days. During the month
      following treatment discharge & training, participants in the three experimental groups will
      return to the research office 2 times a week for research staff to check participant's
      proficiency operating the phone and collect urine screens. To control for the effects of
      attention, the control group will also return to the research office 2 times a week for urine
      screens and a short survey on non-phone related topics. Research office visits and trainings
      will be done by Protocol Monitors (not interviewers). Research Interviewers blind to
      condition will conduct the discharge, 3 and 6 months post discharge interviews and urine
      tests. EMA and EMI utilization data will be electronically recorded immediately via a
      mobile/web application and used to track implementation.

      The primary hypotheses are

      H1 Random assignment to a) EMA (vs. not), b) EMI (vs. not), and c) their interaction will be
      associated with more days of abstinence from drugs and alcohol over the 6 months post
      discharge.

      H2 Random assignment to a) EMA, b) EMI, and c) their interaction will be a associated with
      fewer HIV risk behaviors over the 6 months post discharge.

      H3 Days abstinent at 3 months post discharge will mediate the effects of a) EMA, b) EMI and
      c) their interaction on HIV Risk behavior at 6 months post discharge.
    
  