
    
      The phospholipids of mammalian spermatozoa possess a distinctive and highly unusual fatty
      acid composition, the most unique feature of which is a very high proportion of long chain
      (C20-22) highly polyunsaturated fatty acyl groups. In most mammals, docosahexaenoic acid
      (DHA; 22:6,n-3) is the dominant polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA) although, in several
      species, docosapentaenoic acid (22:5,n-6) is also a major component 2. The lipid composition
      is a major determinant of the membrane flexibility required for the characteristic flagella
      movement of spermatozoa and for the fusogenic properties of the membranes associated with the
      acrosome reaction and fertilization. In addition, it has been demonstrated that lipid-derived
      mediators are involved in various signal transduction mechanisms that regulate spermatozoa
      functions.

      Sperm motility was therefore closely correlated with fertility, yet factors controlling sperm
      motility in humans are not fully understood 12. The amount of PUFA, mainly DHA, and to a
      lesser extent eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA), was showed to be positively associated with sperm
      motility and essential for optimal fertility. The reduction in the amount of DHA in sperm
      lipids have been correlated with reduced sperm concentration, sperm progressive motility and
      the proportion of cells with normal morphology. In asthenozoospermic (poor sperm forward
      motility), the levels of DHA (and total PUFA) was found to be lower than in normozoospermic
      individuals despite similar serum fatty acid composition 18. Broiler spermatozoa rich in EPA
      or DHA or both showed significantly increased fertility following artificial insemination
      (AI).

      Chilling injury to mammalian gametes has been described as the irreversible damage that
      occurs upon cooling to low, but non-freezing, temperatures. Several studies suggested that
      chilling injury is the major limiting factor for successful gamete cryopreservation. Other
      studies suggested that membranes are the primary sites for structural and functional chilling
      injury in sperm and oocytes. Additionally, membrane chilling injury is dependent on the
      biochemical and biophysical properties of membranes. The plasma membrane thermotropic lipid
      phase transition (Tm) from the fluid liquid crystalline phase to the more rigid gel phase is
      associated with chilling injury. When membrane lipids undergo lipid phase transition (LPT),
      fluidity decreases and the structure and functioning of the membrane change. As a result, the
      membrane permeability increases and the cells are damaged. The temperature at which Tm occurs
      is greatly affected by the fatty acid composition of the membrane. Membranes consisted of
      lipids with multiple unsaturations or short carbon chains are more fluid at low temperatures.
      The ability of the spermatozoal plasma membrane to resist structural damage during
      cryopreservation may therefore be related to its fatty acids composition and the strength of
      the bonds between membrane components 38. It was shown, for example, that spermatozoa of
      Asian elephants, which are more chilling sensitive than African elephant sperm, contain lower
      concentration of PUFA in their membranes and are especially poor in DHA.

      There are several ways to change the chilling sensitivity and Tm in mammalian gametes.
      Spermatozoa can spontaneously interact with liposomes as was described in several studies.
      Previous work suggested that phospholipids adsorbed on to the sperm cells, which were then
      cooled to 4oC, increased the chilling resistance of the sperm cells from bovine, ram and
      elephant.

      The relationship between dietary components and reproduction is well established. Follicular
      maturation, ovulation and oestrus in the female, and libido and fertility in the male, might
      all be adversely affected by undernutrition. Men with infertile semen were found to consume
      less omega-3 fatty acids than fertile men, and a significant correlation was established
      between the consumption of alpha-linolenic acid (18:3n-3) on the one hand and sperm
      concentration and progressive motility on the other hand. In boar, the output of the
      accessory glands, but not the output of spermatozoa by the testes, was affected by the
      reduced feed intake and is likely to reflect a suppression of androgen secretion. Various
      reports showed that enrichment of diet with PUFA can alter the biophysical properties or
      reproductive performance of mammalian and avian sperm and oocytes.

      Objectives and expected significance of the research Male patients arriving at the male
      fertility clinic frequently suffer from one or more of the following: asthenozoospermia (low
      progressive motility), teratozoopermia (abnormal morphology) and/or oligozoospermia (low
      sperm count), collectively known as O.T.A It is assumed that by supplementing the diet of
      such patients with omega-3 PUFA, an improvement of these parameters can be achieved. Since
      the number of normal cells in all such patients is limited, omega-3 PUFA supplementation may
      confer the needed change to the sperm plasma membrane, making these cells more resistant to
      chilling injury during preservation. This will provide us with a mean to ascertain that more
      of the normal cells will survive the freezing and thawing processes involved in
      cryopreservation. By achieving that we will be able to make sure that enough normal cells
      will be available for fertilization.

      If the hypothesis of this study is proved correct, it will mean that by a simple dietary mean
      we will be able to improve reproduction in those that needs it the most.

      Comprehensive description of the methodology and plan of operation

        1. Experimental design: The experiment will be a randomized double-blind, placebo
           controlled, crossed-over trial. The experiment will start with a pilot which will be
           conducted on 20 participants, all of which are out-patients at the male fertility clinic
           of the Shaare Zedek Medical Center, Jerusalem, Israel. The pilot is expected to be
           followed by a large scale trial in a similar design (without the "cross-over" part).
           Both pilot and large scale trial will seek and obtain the approval of the Helsinki
           committee of the Shaare Zedek Medical Center prior to their initiation. All participants
           will be asked to sign an informed consent.

        2. Basic spermatozoa database: For general information on human spermatozoa, fresh and
           frozen samples of normal and subfertile males will be analyzed for total lipids fatty
           acids composition by gas chromatography. All samples will be evaluated for basic sperm
           quality characteristics according to the World Health Organization (WHO) guidelines 66.
           Samples will then be separated from the seminal plasma and stored till fatty acid
           composition analysis. Determination of the lipid phase transition temperatures by the
           FTIR spectrometer on fresh samples will also be conducted.

        3. Dietary supplementation: At the beginning of the trial each participant will be provided
           with 120 capsules of either placebo or commercially available omega-3 fatty acids. The
           capsules will be consumed in the following manner: 2 capsules daily during the first
           week, 3 capsules per day during the second week and starting on the third week, 4
           capsules per day till all are consumed. At this point there will be a break of 4 weeks
           before switching between the groups and resuming the same protocol once again. During
           the entire period each participant will also be provided with vitamin E pills as
           anti-oxidant.

        4. During and post-experimental sperm characterization: Each of the participating patients
           will provide 5 samples during the dietary supplementation pilot experiment: Once at the
           beginning of the trial, once in the middle of each of the two segments (see dietary
           supplementation paragraph for details), once at the cross-over point and once at the end
           of the trial. All samples will be analyzed in the same way as described above.

        5. Lipid phase transition determination: Approximately 10 of the participants in the pilot
           trial will be requested to provide additional samples at the cross over point and at the
           end of the trial for the determination of the lipid phase transition temperatures by the
           FTIR spectrometer. These participants will be selected based on their sperm fatty acid
           composition at the beginning of the trial so as to cover as wide range of compositions
           as possible.

        6. Large scale trial: After analyzing the results of the pilot trial, a decision will be
           made if there is indication to proceed with a large scale trial. Assuming the results
           will indicate such a need, a large scale trial will be conducted. Experimental design
           will be randomized double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. The number of participating
           patients will be determined at the time the decision to proceed with such a trial will
           be made. At that time a decision will also be made what other male fertility clinics
           from additional medical centers to invite to participate.
    
  