
    
      The study will be conducted in the Infertility clinic of a medical faculty hospital. Couples
      receiving primary infertility treatment will be included in the study. It is planned to apply
      "Introductory Information Form, Female Sexual Function Index, Arizona Sexual Experiences
      Scale Male Form, Beck Depression Scale, New Sexual Satisfaction Scale and Infertility Stress
      Scale" to the experimental and control groups in the pre-initial evaluation. Within the scope
      of sexual counseling to be given to the couples in the experimental group in line with the
      PLISSIT Model; In order to increase the level of sexual function and sexual satisfaction,
      education of reproductive system anatomy and physiology, providing information about how the
      infertility process and treatment can affect sexual functions, determining the problems
      related to sexual health, trying to eliminate the misinformation and myths about sexuality,
      It is planned to include suggestions such as helping to cope well, alternative sexual
      intercourse positions according to the needs of the couples, body exploring exercise, sexual
      organs exploration exercise, masturbation exercise, kegel exercise.

      The experimental group will be given an appointment for "sexual counseling" sessions held in
      3 sessions at least 1 week apart. Each of these sessions will be completed in 60 minutes.
      Before the interviews, in line with the literature, "Sexual Counseling Booklet for Infertile
      Couples" will be prepared. In line with the scope of sexual counseling, the study is planned
      to be terminated by conducting 5 face-to-face interviews and 1 phone call with the
      experimental group. In the final evaluation, in order to determine the effects of sexual
      counseling on sexual health with the experimental group, the 'Introductory Information Form',
      Female Sexual Function Index, Male Form of Arizona Sexual Experiences Scale, New Sexual
      Satisfaction Scale and Infertility Stress Scale, at the appointment dates planned on the 3rd
      month after the first interview. '' The research will be terminated by filling in a
      face-to-face interview.

      The couples in the control group will be interviewed in the second month after the first
      interview, and on the appointment dates scheduled for the 3rd month after the first
      interview, '' Introductory Information Form, Female Sexual Function Index, Arizona Sexual
      Experiences Scale Male Form, New Sexual Satisfaction Scale. and Infertility Stress Scale ''
      will be filled again with a face-to-face interview, and the research will be terminated.
    
  