
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To test the effects of the Passport to Comfort (Passport) intervention at 1 and 3 months
           post-intervention by comparing baseline data to the high-intensity intervention.

        -  To test the effects of select demographic and disease/treatment variables on outcomes of
           the Passport model at 1 and 3 months post-intervention compared to pre-intervention.

        -  To examine perceived patient and professional satisfaction with the Passport model.

        -  To test the effects of the Passport intervention by comparing high-intensity to
           low-intensity.

      OUTLINE: Patients are stratified according to cancer diagnosis (breast vs prostate vs colon
      vs lung), pain level (< 4 vs ≥ 4 on pain scale), and fatigue level (< 4 vs ≥ 4 on fatigue
      scale). Patients are assigned to 1 of 3 groups.

        -  Group 1 (enrolled during months 1-8): Patients undergo pain and fatigue assessment
           periodically by demographic and treatment data, Quality of life-Patient Tool, BQII,
           Piper Fatigue Scale, Pain and Fatigue Knowledge Tools, and Patient Satisfaction Tool.
           Patients receive usual care and undergo pain and fatigue evaluation with no algorithms
           or formal education. Research nurses conduct chart audits to identify professional and
           system barriers but receive no medical education, peer review, or feedback. Medical
           professionals undergo assessment periodically by a Demographic Data Tool, Pain and
           Fatigue Knowledge Tools, Chart Audit Tool, and Provider Satisfaction.

        -  Group 2 (enrolled during months 9-30): Patients and medical professionals are assessed
           periodically as in group 1. Patients undergo a high-intensity Passport intervention with
           algorithms based on National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) guidelines, pain and
           fatigue education once weekly for 4 weeks, and follow-up reinforcement phone calls every
           2 weeks. Research nurses conduct chart audits of congruence between practice and
           guidelines, tape education sessions, and receive feedback from the principal
           investigator in the form of a Tape-Monitoring Checklist. Medical oncologists attend
           training on the use of the algorithms, peer review pain and fatigue management audit
           with feedback, and reinforce and apply content in clinical rounds.

        -  Group 3 (enrolled during months 34-57): Patients and medical professionals are assessed
           periodically as in group 1. Patients undergo a low-intensity Passport intervention as in
           group 2. Medical professionals conduct realistic implementation of the intervention into
           existing systems and procedures within the cancer center, less direct education and
           system intervention, and share group 2 experiences.

      After completion of study intervention, patients are followed at 1 and 3 months.
    
  