
    
      Autism is a disorder characterized by social deficits, and among others by changes in
      communication. The diagnosis of this disorder remains accomplished by direct assessment the
      individual's behavior, according to specific clinical criteria present the classification
      systems of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 4th edition (DSM-IV).
      Therapists teach autistic to communicate with the help of symbols and auxiliary anticipation
      and communication routines, usually using the Picture Exchange Communication System (PECS),
      or photos. However these are presented in transition PECS cards and do not follow the
      children in activities that develop outside the school environment. The objective of this
      work is to develop an application to run on a mobile device Android tablet that features the
      visual routines.

      In this way the routines can be accessed outside the school environment. This technology is
      easy to use and facilitates data entry by touching the screen, was developed using the
      Unified Modeling Language (UML), Javascript, Apache Web server and Web browser Chrome. The
      application validation, will be held with 10 autistic and 2 teachers from the center of
      inclusion and support for autistic. Teachers should insert the activities programmed for each
      autistic student. Tablet in student performance in communicating with this tablet will be
      measured. Parents or guardians knowledge with the PECS system will be trained and will be
      evaluated on their autonomy inserting images, audio and subtitles. The application should aid
      communication, cause the autistic understand the sequence of events in daily life, decreasing
      their aggression because of not knowing what will be their next activity. Participation in
      this research poses no risk or harm the concerned person. If during the research participant
      decides not anymore have the freedom to do so without incurring any damage you. The technical
      validation proposal is necessary for it to be used by people with autism. If validated in a
      positive way, the technique could improve the quality of life of these people and their
      families.
    
  