
    
      Lung transplant patients may be at an incrementally higher risk of influenza infection than
      other transplant patients. Factors that predispose them to respiratory infection include high
      degree of immunosuppression, altered mucociliary clearance, repeated airway instrumentation,
      bronchial anastomotic obstruction, disruption of lymphatic drainage, and the exposure of the
      transplanted organ to the environment.

      The influenza vaccine used for those at high risk for influenza morbidity and mortality is an
      inactivated trivalent preparation. Influenza vaccine contains 2 type A viruses and 1 type B
      virus. The vaccine is reformulated each year based on the viruses expected to circulate
      during the upcoming season. A protective antibody response to influenza vaccine is considered
      an antibody titer of at least 1:40. Seroconversion following influenza immunization implies
      at least a 4-fold increase in antibody concentrations. Although these indicators of a
      positive response to influenza immunization have significant overlap, they are not exactly
      the same. One must consider that a person may have antibodies before immunization because of
      previous exposure to a vaccine virus or an antigenically similar influenza strain.

      Seroconversion rates following influenza vaccination are lower in lung transplant patients
      than in healthy persons. Clearly, immunization elicits an antibody response in this
      population, but the response is not as vigorous as in immunocompetent persons. It has been
      demonstrated that only the B/HongKong virus was associated with a lower seroconversion rate,
      and this virus was the only one to change from the previous year's vaccine. Seroconversion
      rates decrease with subsequent exposure to the same influenza vaccine viruses, but
      seroprotection rates remain the same. It is conceivable that the seroconversion response is
      more affected by immunosuppression than is the seroprotection response. Stated another way,
      the ability to mount a high spike in antibody production is hindered. It is difficult to
      fully ascertain the exact degree of immune impairment in lung transplant recipients because
      both studies investigating influenza vaccine response used healthy persons as the comparison
      group. Healthy persons may have less experience with influenza vaccine than do persons with
      severe respiratory conditions. An immunologically naive host is more likely to mount the
      large change in antibody concentration and increase the likelihood of seroconversion.
      Therefore, patients waiting for lung transplantation were used as a comparison group.

      This prospective, parallel study was done to investigate the responses to influenza vaccine
      in consecutive years. All participants had a blood sample taken for measurement of influenza
      antibody titers before receiving the influenza vaccine. Subsequently, the 2004-2005-A/New
      Caledonia/20/99(H1N1)-like, A/Wyoming/3/2003(H3N2), and B/Shanghai/361/2002-like
      antigens-and/or 2005-2006-A/New Caledonia/ 20/00(H1N1)-like, A/California/7/2004 (H3N2)-like,
      and B/Shanghai/361/2002-like antigens-influenza vaccine was administered intramuscularly.
      Serum was stored at -80°C until the day of analysis. A second blood sample was obtained 2 to
      4 weeks later to measure antibody response.

      [This substudy that was originally registered to NCT00205270 and subsequently registered to
      its own NCT number for the purpose of clarity in linked results]
    
  