
    
      Background:

      Rehospitalization within 30 days of discharge is observed in approximately 19% of Medicare
      Fee for Service patients following discharge. Risk factors including medical comorbidity and
      discharge process quality have been identified as contributing to this outcome, however the
      possibility that patient level social and functional characteristics has not been equally
      investigated.

      Procedural summary:

      Patients will be recruited at the time of discharge. Participation in the study will include
      three surveys (one at the time of discharge, one within 72-96 hours after discharge and one
      thirty days after discharge) about functional status. The survey will inquire about function
      in six domains: physical function, depression, anxiety, cognition, social isolation,
      instrumental social support. The initial survey will be conducted in person at the hospital
      bedside by a research team member. The second and third surveys will be conducted by
      telephone within 72 to 96 day hours of discharge. Survey responses will be collected by
      direct patient response into tablet computer hardware.

      Recruitment:

      The research team (PI or RA) will identify candidates for recruitment based on conversation
      with the hospital case management staff and hospitalist physicians at the time of daily
      interdisciplinary care rounds. Inclusion criteria are age greater than or equal to 65 and
      anticipated return to home-based care at discharge or within two weeks of discharge.
      Exclusion criteria are non-English speaking language status, inability to complete interview
      based on sensory limitations, Mini-Cog evaluation consistent with dementia, or physician
      caregiver recommendation that patient not be enrolled.

      Risk:

      Participation in this study will not involve any physical risk beyond that of every day life.
      Risk will be minimized as no invasive interventions will be used. The possibility of
      psychological stress exists as individuals participate in interviews and complete survey
      items designed to test performance. Subjects may feel embarrassed to report areas of
      functional limitation.

      Risk of emotional harm will be minimized through the supportive presence of the PI and/or RA
      at the time of data collection and the use of geriatric appropriate strategies for
      interviewing. The patient will only be approached with hospital physician recommendation.

      Data Safety Primary data will be de-identified and carefully maintained in a locked area.
    
  