
    
      Epidural Analgesia (EA) has been regarded as the most effective method of labour analgesia.
      Pharmacological analgesia methods are known to have adverse side effects, such as nausea,
      vomiting and drowsiness in parental opioids; pruritus, nausea, desaturation, respiratory
      depression and apnea in patient-controlled remifentanil analgesia; and maternal fever,
      maternal hypotension and urinary retention in EA. Furthermore, routine EA is likely resulting
      in more operative deliveries. Considering these possible adverse effects, it is worth
      exploring alternative methods for labour pain relief.

      There is increasing evidence that virtual reality (VR) is effective in the reduction of
      labour pain.

      This VIREL study aims to examine the experience, preference, and satisfaction of VR in women
      during labour. The study is set up as a single centre, qualitative study in a non-university
      teaching hospital in The Netherlands with 2800 deliveries annually. Participants will
      experience an immersive guided relaxation VR (VR1) and an interactive game (VR2) during
      labour. VR1 consists of a video of an exotic location guided by the sound of the waves and a
      calm English-speaking voice. VR2 requires women to use the controller to throw snowballs in
      order to catch presents and reach the next level. Patients are allowed to stop using the VR
      at any moment during the intervention.

      When the participant is declared to be in labour, defined as having regular painful uterine
      contractions, cervical effacement and at least 3cm dilatation, VR1 will be offered for ten
      minutes. Before and immediately after VR1, the patient is asked to fill out a Numeric Rating
      Scale (NRS) score for pain.

      During the 30-minute intermission after VR1 the patient fills out the post-intervention
      questionnaire regarding VR1. Subsequently, VR2 is offered for ten minutes. Before and
      immediately after VR2 the patient filled in the NRS score for pain, and the patient completed
      a post-intervention questionnaire regarding VR2. Additional use of VR is allowed by maternal
      request. Five days post-partum all participants who completed both VR interventions will be
      contacted by telephone for a semi-structured interview.
    
  