
    
      Leveraging a multi-center randomized controlled trial assessing screening benefits in a
      socioeconomically and racially diverse population of patients with cirrhosis followed in 3
      healthcare settings over a 4-year period, this study aims to:

      Aim 1: Assess the effect of hepatocellular carcinoma screening on a) physical harms due to
      follow-up tests, b) financial harms, and c) overdiagnosis in patients with severe liver
      dysfunction or comorbid illness, through electronic medical record data, manual chart review,
      and validated survey measures.

      Aim 2: Assess the effect of hepatocellular carcinoma screening on screening-related
      psychosocial harms, e.g. cancer-specific worry, situational anxiety, mood disturbances, and
      decisional regret, through longitudinal validated measures and qualitative interviews.

      Aim 3: Create and disseminate a balance sheet of benefits and harms to inform patients,
      providers, healthcare organizations, payers, and policymakers about the value of
      hepatocellular carcinoma screening in patients with cirrhosis.

      Over a 4-year period, electronic medical record data will be used to compare
      screening-related physical and financial harms between patients undergoing and those not
      undergoing hepatocellular carcinoma screening. Psychosocial harms, as ascertained through
      longitudinal measurement of validated survey instruments and qualitative interviews, will be
      compared between patients with positive or indeterminate screening results and those with
      negative results or without any screening. Mixed-effect regression analysis will be used to
      determine if screening harms differed by factors at multiple levels including patient (e.g.
      degree of liver dysfunction), provider (e.g. subspecialty training), and healthcare
      organization (e.g. access to liver transplantation). This study will seamlessly complement
      data from the parent randomized controlled trial. By immediately translating these high
      quality data about hepatocellular carcinoma screening benefits and harms into a balance
      sheet, the investigators will facilitate patient-provider discussions, inform payer decisions
      about reimbursement, and guide policy decisions. These data are also crucial to identify
      modifiable and high-yield intervention targets and strategies to reduce hepatocellular
      carcinoma screening harms in the future.
    
  