
    
      The Ross Tilley Burn Centre (RTBC) is the largest burn care centre in Canada, admitting ~300
      patients/year. Most of these severely injured patients require numerous dressing changes and
      skin grafting procedures which cause extensive pain and anxiety in patients already facing
      potential losses in terms of function and independence. Poorly managed pain can reduce
      patient engagement and participation in effective rehabilitation, result in chronic opioid
      dependence, and worsen post-traumatic stress disorder.

      While burn health practitioners specialize in the use of multi-modal pharmacological approach
      in an attempt to reduce patients' reliance on opioid, there is an increasing recognition of
      the importance of non-pharmacological strategies to reduce painful procedures in hospital. A
      number of studies have demonstrated reductions in pain, anxiety and analgesic medications
      with the use of Virtual Reality (VR) during procedures in hospital. VR can be applied in a
      variety of ways, with considerable variations in terms of cost, efficacy, and applicability.
      The burn injury VR literature includes predominantly small cases/series and is lacking on
      using VR-360 videos as a distraction technique in burn patients. Thus, VR remains
      under-utilized in most burn centres locally and internationally. To address this lack of
      knowledge, this study proposes to use VR-360 video as a distraction tool in patients during
      dressing changes after skin graft surgery.

      This study aims to improve burn pain management by reducing opioid requirements, pain and
      anxiety during painful dressing changes, while also improving patient safety and
      satisfaction.

      The study hypothesis is that immersive virtual reality use in the burn centre will reduce the
      cumulative dosage of analgesia used during the first two dressing changes after skin graft
      surgery when compared with patients not utilizing the technology.

      The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the effect of VR-360 distraction video on
      opioid analgesic consumption during burn dressing changes.

      The secondary objectives are to investigate the effect of VR-360 on pain, requirement for
      conscious sedation, additive effect of multiple VR exposures, anxiety, dressing change
      efficiency, patient reported outcome and satisfaction. Finally, patient and staff surveys
      will be undertaken which will allow iterative adaptation of 3600 immersive videos to the
      patients' preferences optimal distraction from the painful stimuli during dressing change.

      The majority of patients suffering from burn injuries are committed to undergoing long,
      complex treatment plans that have significant physical and emotional impact. Pain is a
      challenge within this population and many patients require high doses of opioids. Indeed, a
      sizable proportion of burn patients may still require opioids as long as three months after
      discharge, delaying their reintegration into society and increasing the chance of opioid
      dependence. VR is a strategy that helps patients alter pain behavior. This study will be the
      first randomized trial to apply practitioner-designed VR-videos with patient input for
      greatest impact. It will compare opioid use, pain scores and patient satisfaction scores
      between this new, state of the art intervention, and current standard practice. By
      demonstrating VR's 'non-pharmacologic' effectiveness to alter pain perception the study team
      will develop a cost-effective, accessible tool that can align with practice at Sunnybrook.
      Furthermore, this team-based quality improvement initiative involving nurses, social workers,
      physio/occupational therapy and physicians aims to introduce VR as an evidence-based
      innovative non-pharmacological strategy to reduce opioid requirements and optimize the use of
      resources, workflow, and improve staff experience in burn centres across Canada and
      internationally
    
  