
    
      We aim firstly to assess the serum selenium and zinc level in NAFLD patients, secondly to
      detect the association between hepatic fibrosis, steatosis, and serum selenium level in NAFLD
      patients, thirdly to detect if there is a synergistic effect of both molecules.

      Patients and methods

      Study design:

      Case-control study.

      Studied population & locality:

      This study will be conducted on two groups: Group (1): include 70 patients diagnosed to has
      NAFLD by ultrasonography presented to the outpatient clinic of Tropical medicine and
      gastroenterology department, Sohag University Hospitals during the period from March 2021 to
      August 2021.

      Group (2): a control group of 30 healthy volunteers who looks normal on ultrasonographic
      examination.

      Exclusion criteria:

      Any patient with a chronic liver disease rather than NAFLD.

      Methods:

      All included patients will be subjected to:

        1. Detailed history, complete general and systemic examination.

        2. BMI will be calculated as follow

        3. Abdominal Ultrasonography.

        4. Laboratory investigations:

             -  Fasting blood sugar

             -  Serum lipogram.

             -  Liver function tests.

             -  CBC.

        5. Estimation of serum selenium and zinc level.

        6. Liver stiffness measurements to detect the degree of fibrosis and measurement of the
           degree of steatosis using (Fibroscan).

      Ethical considerations:

      The study will be approved by The Ethical committee of medical research, Sohag Faculty of
      Medicine, Sohag University.

      After an explanation about the nature of the procedures, possible complications, benefits,
      and steps of the study, all patients and controls will give written informed consent for
      participating in the study, performing the abdominal ultrasound, taking blood samples,
      performing fibroscan.

      Statistical analysis:

      Data will be analyzed using STATA version 12.1. Quantitative data were represented as mean,
      standard deviation, median, and range. Data will be analyzed using a student t-test to
      compare the means of the two groups. Qualitative data will be presented as numbers and
      percentages and will be compared using either the Chi-square test or Fisher exact test.
      P-value will be considered significant if it was less than 0.05.
    
  