
    
      Over 98% of older women do not meet national guidelines for physical activity (PA). There is
      clear evidence that a physically active lifestyle reduces the human and economic cost of
      heart disease in a dose-response relationship; but current efforts to increase long-term PA
      in older women are inadequate. The aims of this proposed research are to: 1) determine the
      feasibility of using an individually tailored motivational counseling intervention method to
      promote lifestyle physical activity (LPA) in older sedentary women; 2) examine intervention
      effects by comparing baseline to outcome measures at 3 and 6 months in treatment and
      information/attention comparison groups; and 3) explore stage of behavior change and
      self-efficacy and their relationship to LPA, along with functional health.

      This will be a single blinded randomized controlled study of sedentary women aged 60 years
      and older. We will replace "structured aerobic exercise" with lifestyle physical activity
      (LPA), i.e., self-selected activities performed daily in a purposeful manner to meet the
      national PA guidelines. A total of 120 older women who are ambulatory and cognitively intact
      will be recruited from a senior health clinic and randomized to receive either the
      motivational LPA intervention or information/attention. Women will be assessed at baseline, 3
      and 6 months. The theoretically based behavioral intervention is derived from the
      Transtheoretical Model and other evidence-based physical activity research. We will use a
      Motivational Interviewing counseling technique delivered by a social worker to individually
      tailor the LPA intervention to participant preferences, taking into consideration their
      functional ability and need for information, readiness to change, and self-efficacy. Outcomes
      of the LPA intervention sessions will include tailored goals and an LPA plan. Intervention
      participants will also receive the newly developed NIA "Exercise & You" LPA informational
      booklet with companion digital video disc (DVD) as well as motivational coaching via
      telephone calls, tapering in frequency for 6 months. The control group will receive the NIA
      LPA booklet with DVD and attention telephone calls. We will assess changes from baseline in
      LPA (primary outcome), readiness to change, self-efficacy and function (secondary outcomes)
      and examine the associations between primary and secondary outcomes in both groups. The
      allied disciplines of Nursing, Gerontology, Social Work, and Medicine will collaborate to
      promote PA and cardiovascular health of older women. Undergraduate and graduate student
      research assistants will contribute to this project. This research has the potential to
      increase PA of sedentary older women and reduce coronary heart disease risks. If we could
      increase physical activity in our rapidly growing older population -even modestly, we could
      make a significant impact to the health of our nation.
    
  