
    
      Patients presenting to the Royal Hobart Hospital for open surgery to an inguinal hernia were
      approached for inclusion to the study. To patient refused entry. Informed consent was
      obtained and the study was approved by the local ethics and research committees.

      Following induction of general anaesthesia, a sealed envelop was opened. This envelop was
      prepared by the pharmacy department at the Royal Hobart Hospital. This envelope contained two
      syringes presented sterile, each containing a clear liquid. The syringe labelled ilioinguinal
      nerve block was given to the anaesthetist for insertion of an "ilioinguinal nerve block"
      prior to surgical preparation and draping. The second syringe, labelled wound infiltration
      was given to the scrub nurse for wound irrigation by the surgeon prior to closure of the
      external oblique aponeurosis. Patients were divided into the following groups:

      Group 1 - 20mls 0.5% ropivacaine for ilio inguinal nerve block and 20mls saline for wound
      irrigation.

      Group 2 - 20mls saline for ilioinguinal nerve block by anaesthetist and 20ml ropivacaine 0.5%
      for wound irrigation

      Group 3 - 20mls saline for ilioinguinal nerve block and 20mls saline for wound irrigation.

      GA protocol:

        -  0.03mg/kg midazolam IV

        -  2mcg/kg fentanyl

        -  Propofol to induce anaesthesia

        -  Laryngeal mask.

        -  Maintenance with oxygen/air and sevoflurane

        -  Dexamethasone 8mg IV for prophylaxis of post operative nausea and vomiting

        -  100mg PR diclofenac

        -  1g IV paracetamol

      Technique for ilioinguinal nerve block:

      Puncture site 1cm medial to anterior superior iliac spine and a fascial click is detected
      before injection of local anaesthetic. i.e. just below external oblique.

      All patients were prescribed a fentanyl PCA for 2 hours postoperatively (1000mcg in 50ml
      normal saline with a bolus dose of 25mcg set for every 3 minutes. No background rate. If the
      patient was unable to press the button, nursing staff did this until the patient was able to
      do so). Using the PCA machine we were be able to record the number of PCA requests and the
      total PCA fentanyl delivered.

      Post operative outcome measures. On an hourly basis until discharge, patients were asked to
      rate their pain as none, mild, moderate or severe. They were also presented with a visual
      analogue scale for post operative pain.

      On day one, two, fourteen and twenty eight post operatively, the patient was telephoned at
      home and asked to grade their pain on a scale of none, mild, moderate or severe for:

        -  On going to bed at night

        -  The worst pain they had overnight

        -  Getting out of bed in the morning.

      Amount of post operative analgesia required will be asked at the time of the telephone call.

      Patients were also asked for the time for return to:

        -  Walking without discomfort

        -  Exercise without discomfort

        -  Sexual activity

        -  Work

      All operations were performed by the same consultant surgeon or by a surgical registrar under
      direct supervision of the consultant surgeon. All patients had a standard prolene mesh
      repair.

      Primary end point. Post operative analgesia requirements. Visual analogue scores.

      Secondary end points. Return to normal activities.

      Statistics. For an 80% chance of detecting a difference in visual analogue scale with
      standard deviation of 0.5 and p<0.05, 30 patients would be required in each group.
    
  