
    
      The integrated Cancer Repository for Cancer Research (iCaRe2 http://icare2project.org) is a
      unique sociotechnical resource for the collection and management of cancer and health-related
      data at the Fred & Pamela Buffett Cancer Center at University of Nebraska Medical Center
      (UNMC). The iCaRe2 is a multi-center, semantically-interoperable and easily-customizable
      cancer data resource which is aimed at collecting, managing, mining and sharing the
      comprehensive, multi-dimensional cancer-related data on cancer patients and biospecimens
      (such as tumor specimens, germ line DNA, serum, urine, and plasma) collected from those
      individuals.

      The iCaRe2 provides: (i) a HIPAA compliant, secure, efficient and user-friendly mechanism for
      data and validation; (ii) utilization of standard vocabulary and data elements; and (iii) the
      ad-hoc data reporting capabilities. The iCaRe2 serves as a collaboration platform for studies
      (including clinical trials) performed in centers with expertise in cancer biology, pathology,
      epidemiology, genetics, early detection, and patient care.

      The iCaRe2 has been developed as an expansion of the biocomputing framework that initially
      included four multi-center collaborative registries:

      (i) the PCCR (Pancreatic Cancer Collaborative Registry that was established in 2001), (ii)
      the BCCR (Breast Cancer Collaborative Registry - established in 2006 ); (iii) the TCCR
      (Thyroid Cancer Collaborative Registry - established in 2006), and (iv) the GPHID (Great
      Plains Health Informatics Database - established in 2011 to enroll subjects who have no
      personal history of cancer diagnosis at the time of enrollment).

      At present, this framework has been incrementally expanded to include the Thoracic Oncology
      Collaborative Registry (TOCR), GenitoUrinary Cancer Collaborative Registry (GUCARE), Head and
      Neck Cancer Collaborative Registry (HNCCR), Gastrointestinal & Abdominal Cavity Cancer
      Collaborative Registry (GACCaRe), Central Nervous System Tumor Collaborative Registry (CTCR),
      Leukemia and Myeloid Neoplasm Registry (LEMN) , Gynecological Cancer Collaborative Registry
      (GCCR), Sarcoma Collaborative Registry (SARCR), Melanoma Collaborative Registry (MELCR),
      Plasma Cell Dyscrasias Collaborative Registry (PDCR), Neuroendocrine Collaborative Registry
      (NETR), and Auxiliary Cancer Registry (ACR).

      The iCaRe2 group elected to use a "confederation model", as opposed to a traditional registry
      or network model. It was felt that these latter models implied that the registry or network
      would assume control of an individual Center's database. The major advantages of a
      confederation model include the flexibility to use selected Centers for different research
      projects based on a Center's resources and expertise and the ability to have different
      strategies to address various research questions. It was also recognized that for this model
      to be successful, it is essential to have a standardized approach to data collection (patient
      information and biospecimen annotation) and reporting. A confederation would also encourage
      participation of any interested Center, irrespective of its size or location. A web-based
      registry iCaRe2 was developed and made available to any Center to participate in data
      collection and storage of cancer related data.
    
  