
    
      Project Description: The overall goal of this research is to develop food recipes that are
      rich in vitamins, minerals and other food components known to support the physical and mental
      health of older adults. A variety of enhanced food recipes will be initially designed for
      older adults living in residences with applicability to pre-frail and frail older adults
      living in the community. It is hypothesized that the nutrient (protein and vitamins and
      minerals) density and anti-oxidant (i.e. phytochemical) potential of menus used in
      residential environments can be improved in a cost-effective manner with the inclusion of
      several enhanced food recipes designed for this population. This will be achieved by
      identifying high nutrient ingredients that can be incorporated into recipes of foods that are
      highly consumed by this segment. Initial work will summarize what is known from existing
      literature about micronutrient deficiencies and interventions with vitamins, minerals and
      antioxidants to improve the health of older adults. Foods commonly consumed that can be
      enhanced to promote their nutritional density (e.g. more nutrients in less calories) will be
      identified and recipes developed and tested with older adults living in the community and in
      residences. Products that pass this testing will then be introduced into a residence menu
      rotation to determine if they are well accepted by residents. A cost benefit of introducing
      these new products into a residence menu will be demonstrated by showing the gains in
      nutritional quality of the menu for the cost of producing these products in the home.

      Relevance to the field of food innovation: Currently, older adults, especially those who are
      frail or live in residences, do not consume adequate nutrition to optimize their health.
      Micronutrient inadequacies are a potential problem. Research to date suggests that diet can
      also be supportive for delaying frailty and slowing the progression of dementia. Yet, food
      choices and offerings can be low in nutrition. Cost effective, innovative recipes that used
      common ingredients to reach nutrition goals for older adults are needed.

      Anticipated outcomes:

      Up to 10 enhanced recipes that have been developed for residences will be developed and
      tested for palatability. Knowledge tools will be created for home chefs on how to incorporate
      nutrient dense ingredients into recipes and how to use the information gained in this project
      for menu planning.
    
  