
    
      Background:

      Tobacco use is the leading preventable cause of death in the United States and contributes up
      to 24% of all VA healthcare costs. Veterans enrolled in the VA healthcare system smoke
      substantially more than the general population, which is particularly true among Veterans
      diagnosed with mental illness. Patients with bipolar disorder or schizophrenia have the
      highest smoking rates (69% and 58-90%, respectively) followed by those with PTSD (45-63%) and
      depression (31-51%). Numerous barriers exist for tobacco cessation among mental health
      patients, including high nicotine dependency, low rates of follow through for referrals, and
      limited availability of tobacco treatment tailored to their needs.

      Rationale:

      Most medical care providers assess tobacco use and advise smokers to quit, but they have
      insufficient time to follow up with treatment, leading to low long-term quit rates. Mental
      health providers who often meet regularly with patients report that they find tobacco
      cessation outside the scope of their practice and neither assess tobacco use nor refer
      smokers for treatment. These practice patterns have been very difficult to change even with
      intensive methods and across various settings and provider types. Therefore, the
      investigators here propose to use the electronic medical record system to identify smokers
      receiving mental health care and proactively reach out to engage them in treatment in line
      with the following aims:

      Specific Aims:

        1. Compare the reach and efficacy of a proactive outreach telephone-based tobacco cessation
           (PRO) program for patients seen in mental health to usual care (UC) advice and referral
           to local VA and community tobacco cessation resources.

        2. Model longitudinal associations between baseline sociodemographic, medical and mental
           health characteristics and abstinence at 6 and 12 months in the PRO and UC conditions.

      Methods:

      Investigators will use the electronic medical record to identify N=6,400 patients across 4 VA
      healthcare facilities who have a clinical reminder code indicating current tobacco use in the
      past year and who have had a mental health visit in the past 6 months. Investigators will
      send each patient an introductory letter and baseline survey. Respondents will be randomized
      in a 1:1 fashion to intervention or control. Control participants will receive VA usual care.
      Intervention participants will receive proactive telephone counseling and cessation
      medications. Investigators will assess tobacco use at 6 and 12 months from enrollment. The
      primary outcome is cotinine-validated abstinence at the 12-month follow-up.
    
  