
    
      Scientific background :

      Atrial fibrillation ablation (AF) is a standard interventional treatment for patients with
      symptomatic AF refractory to medical treatment. The known predictive factors for the success
      of the procedure remain insufficient to predict the probabilities of success and to
      appropriately select the patients who could benefit the most from this invasive procedure.
      Previous studies have shown that the quantification of atrial fibrosis in magnetic resonance
      imaging (MRI) may be a good marker of atrial remodeling and would reliably predict the
      chances of success of the ablation procedure. Nevertheless, the use of this technique is very
      limited in routine because of the complexity of quantitative analysis and spatial resolution
      limits. The association of fibrosing processes within epicardial fat has been established.
      The characterization of epicardial fat in CT could be a relevant substitute for the direct
      characterization of fibrosis. This examination was essential for the study of atrial anatomy
      before ablation of AF. In addition to the anatomical evaluation, the study of sub-epicardial
      fat by cardiac CT could therefore be an interesting approach for evaluating the AF substrate.

      Main objective:

      To evaluate the prognostic value of a new automated measurement technique for
      intra-myocardial atrial fat measurement in cardiac CT and the measurement of global left
      atrial strain in MRI in patients who are candidates for first AF ablation.

      Secondary objectives:

        -  To evaluate the clinical features associated with CT-measured atrial epicardial fat in
           patients requiring first AF ablation

        -  To evaluate the clinical features associated with global and regional left atrial strain
           measured by MRI in patients who are candidates for first AF ablation

        -  To study global and regional relationships between intramyocardial fat in CT and left
           atrial strain in MRI

        -  To evaluate the impact of catheter ablation on the evolution of atrial subepicardial fat
           measured by CT

        -  To evaluate the prognostic value of atrial subepicardial fat measured by CT after AF
           ablation

        -  To evaluate the relation between subepicardial fat measured by CT and uni-and bipolar
           voltages mapped in sinus rhythm in patients who are candidates for first AF ablation

        -  To evaluate the relationship between CT subcuticardic fatness and the distribution of
           AF-mapped fragmented electrograms in patients who are first-ablated with FA

        -  To evaluate the relationship between segmental strain measured by MRI and uni and
           bipolar voltages mapped in sinus rhythm in patients who are candidates for first AF
           ablation

        -  To evaluate the relationship between segmental strain measured by MRI and distribution
           of fragmented electrograms mapped to FA in patients who are candidates for first AF
           ablation.

        -  To evaluate the interest of the cartographic fusion
           function-fat-function-electrophysiology 3D

        -  To evaluate the relationship between epicardial fat measured by CT and serum biomarkers
           (adipokines: MMP8 and Activin A, ANF) measured at baseline and at 3 months after
           ablation

        -  To evaluate the relationship between segmental strain measured by MRI and serum
           biomarkers (adipokines: MMP8 and Activin A, ANF) measured at baseline and at 3 months
           after ablation.

      Experimental scheme:

      This is a prospective, interventional, multicenter cohort study. Patients with a first
      radiofrequency or cryotherapy AF ablation are expected to receive a cardiac CT scan
      (performed for left atrial anatomy study) from which the volume of sub-epicardial fat will be
      measured. by a new automated measurement technique. The correlation of this measure with the
      success of ablation (defined as the absence of recurrence of atrial arrhythmia sustained> 30
      seconds) will be blinded prospectively to 1 year of follow-up. In addition, the reliability
      of this measurement will be validated against reference measurements in CT and MRI. The
      evolution of epicardial fat volume after ablation will be evaluated by a control scan
      performed as part of the treatment (detection of FA post-ablation pulmonary stenosis). The
      methods of overall care, imaging examinations and decision criteria at the level of care are
      common to the 3 investigative centers.

      Visits:

      V0: selection visit between M-6 and J-1 before ablation (J0)

        -  Clinical examination, interrogation and antecedents;

        -  ECG 12D;

        -  Programming of the preoperative assessment: cardiac scanner after biological assessment
           with blood ionogram, urea and creatinine and cardiac ultrasound;

        -  Verification of inclusion and non inclusion criteria;

        -  Patient information and surrender of consent.

      Inclusion visit V1 between the V0 selection visit and the maximum at D-1 before the ablation
      (J0), after collection of the consent

        -  Cardiac MRI;

        -  Biomarker assay and biological collection.

        -  Recovery of Echocardiography, Standard Biological and Cardiac Scanner data prior to
           visit V2.

      Visit V2: Ablation of FA = J0

        -  Physical examination ;

        -  ECG 12D;

        -  Standard biological assessment;

        -  Ablation data.

      Follow-up visits:

        -  V3 (M3 +/- 10d): Clinical examination, ECG 12D, holter ECG, cardiac scanner, standard
           biological assessment, biomarker assay and biological collection.

        -  V4 (M6 +/- 15d): clinical examination, ECG 12D, holter ECG.

        -  V5 (M12 +/- 1month) = End of study visit: Clinical examination, ECG 12D, holter ECG.

      Number of selected subjects : 130 patients

      Number of recruiting centers : 4 centers
    
  