
    
      -  Objectives: There are two main goals in this protocol, 1) to improve sensitivity as well
           as spectral and spatiotemporal resolutions in magnetic resonance (MR) studies assessing
           structural, neurochemical, hemodynamic and electrophysiological changes that occur in
           the human brain during the resting state as well as those that occur in response to
           novel sensory, motor, cognitive or emotional stimulation paradigms; and 2) to conduct
           pilot sub-studies, which are exploratory in nature, in order to gather enough
           information for hypothesis generation. The criterion for transition to a new full
           protocol will be a sufficient amount of information to generate a power analysis.

        -  Study population: We intend to complete studies in a healthy volunteers of 120 males and
           120 females, 18 years or older.

        -  Design: We will design small projects as ideas pertinent to the theme of Addiction and
           conduct pilot sub-studies, each with up to 16 subjects, to optimize MR pulse sequences
           and/or functional MR imaging (fMRI) task paradigms. MR pulse sequences and/or fMRI task
           paradigms will be validated against appropriated gold-standard methods/tasks. These
           studies are required in order to maximize the sensitivity of new imaging techniques and
           fMRI tasks used for clinical and research applications that take advantage of 3T and 7T
           MRI scanners in the MR center. If an exploratory sub-study leads to results of interest
           and if a larger population is necessary to reach statistical significance, a separate
           protocol will be submitted with a priori hypotheses, specific study design and power
           analysis adapted from the pilot or exploratory sub-studies performed in the present
           protocol.

        -  Outcome parameters: Although multiple measures will be collected, the primary outcome
           will be amplitude and reliability of regional-specific BOLD fMRI signals.

             -  MRI: we will analyze measures such as the amplitude and the reliability of the
                test-retest measures of fMRI signals; functional connectivity metrics; tractography
                between seed and target regions of interest (diffusion tensor imaging, DTI);
                morphometry of brain regions (using automatic segmentation and voxel-brain
                morphometry, VBM); and brain metabolite levels in regions of interest (using MR
                spectroscopy, MRS).

             -  EEG (electroencephalography): we will quantify measures such as event or
                task-related potentials, and coherence between sensors or sources located close to
                the brain areas of interest. We are also quantifying blink rates from the
                electrooculogram (EOG).

             -  Behavioral measures during fMRI tasks: we will quantify measures such as reaction
                times and accuracy (using MRI compatible response pads) as well as eye movement
                (using MRI compatible eye trackers) and self-reports of the study experience (i.e.
                degree of interest and motivation and alertness).

             -  We may measure autonomic data during the course of the fMRI experiment (such as
                blood pressure, skin conductance, respiratory frequency and heart rate), which
                would correlate to the outcome measures.
    
  