
    
      The study is divided into 2 stages. Healthy subjects will be consented to participate in the
      study.

      Part I is designed to evaluate the single dose safety assessment of single application of MGC
      cream in 26 healthy volunteers (intact skin) for up to 24 consecutive hours under admission
      conditions in the clinical site. In this stage, the subjects will be divided into 3
      application doses.

      The following procedures will be performed:

        -  Time point 0- IV line, BP, Heart Rate, Blood testing (chemistry, blood count,
           Cannabinoids) and clinician evaluation of cannabis related psychological aspect (such as
           evaluation the cannabis abuse screening test).

        -  Time point 6 Hours- BP, Heart Rate Blood testing (chemistry, blood count, Cannabinoids)

        -  Time point 12- BP, Heart Rate, Blood testing (chemistry, blood count, Cannabinoids)

        -  Time point 24- BP, Heart Rate, Blood testing (chemistry, blood count, Cannabinoids) and
           and clinician evaluation of cannabis related psychological aspect (such as evaluation
           the cannabis abuse screening test).

      Part II that will be followed the 24 hours (of part I) is designed to evaluate the repeated
      applications safety of MGC cream in healthy volunteers for up to 6 weeks, both in the clinic
      and by subjects at home.

      20 healthy subjects that will be treated twice daily with:

        -  Maximal dose of 30 mg CBD : 30 mg THC, 1:1 ratio

        -  Placebo Control - 0 mg CBD : 0 mg THC, 1:1 ratio (vehicle)

      This stage will be initiated at least 96 hour after completion part I of the study (washout
      period) .The placebo will be applied on one arm and the control on the second arm. Both,
      subject and investigator will be blinded as to the product/placebo allocation.

      Application at home will be performed twice a day. Subjects will be asked to attend the
      clinic on day 0 of the part II treatment, once a week during the 6 weeks of daily application
      and 2 weeks post application. In each visit the following evaluations will be performed: BP,
      Heart Rate, Blood testing (chemistry, blood count, Cannabinoids) and clinician of cannabis
      related psychological aspect (such as evaluation the cannabis abuse screening test).
    
  