
    
      Intravenous contrast for diagnostic and therapeutic interventions is a leading cause of
      hospital-acquired acute renal failure (1). Contrast-induced acute kidney injury (CI-AKI)
      occurs through a complex mechanism including toxic and hypoxic renal tubular injury,
      diminished renal parenchymal circulation and renal endothelial dysfunction with the
      production of oxygen free radicals due to post-ischaemia oxidative stress (2). With
      increasing numbers of diagnostic and therapeutic interventions, the incidence of CI-AKI will
      rise over the next few decades. Already, 40% of general surgical in-patients undergo
      cross-sectional imaging with computed tomography (CT), largely using contrast (3). Optimal
      clinical care in many specialties such as oncology, emergency medicine and surgery relies
      upon information derived from contrast-enhanced cross-sectional imaging. In consequence,
      large numbers of patients are exposed to the risk of CI-AKI. Current CI-AKI preventive
      measures comprise identification of at-risk patients, minimisation of contrast dose and the
      use of intravenous volume expansion (4). Simple, cost-effective methods to reduce CI-AKI are
      required.

      Risk factors for CI-AKI include advanced age, diabetes mellitus, pre-existing renal
      insufficiency and congestive cardiac failure. Dehydration also increases the risk (5). While
      patients over the age of 65 years currently account for 11% of the Irish population, they
      account for 30% of surgical admissions (6). In a recent cohort study of 1800 surgical
      in-patients in a major Irish teaching hospital, acute renal failure was a common major
      complication, occurring in 2.4% of patients (6). Multivariate analysis of this cohort
      demonstrated that increasing age and emergency admission were both independent risk factors
      for complications (6). Emergency surgical patients constitute a high-risk group in whom
      simple methods to minimise complications are required.

      Remote ischaemic preconditioning (RIPC) is a simple technique whereby brief periods of
      skeletal muscle ischaemia and reperfusion triggers a period of resistance to
      ischaemia-reperfusion injury in distant tissues e.g. heart or kidney (7). It reduces renal
      damage following endovascular aneurysm repair, a procedure requiring considerable
      contrast-volumes (8). A recent meta-analysis demonstrated that RIPC significantly reduced
      post-procedure creatinine levels following cardiovascular procedures, though there was
      considerable clinical heterogeneity between the included trials (9). We hypothesise that RIPC
      induced using brief periods of upper limb ischaemia-reperfusion will reduce AKI in patients
      undergoing contrast enhanced CT scans.

      The hypothesis that RIPC will reduce CI-AKI was first explored by Whittaker and Pryzklenk
      (10). They utilised available data from a patient cohort undergoing emergency coronary
      angioplasty. Patients with 1 to 3 balloon inflations in the coronary artery served as the
      control group whilst those with >3 balloon inflations served as the RIPC group.Both groups
      displayed an immediate improvement in estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR). However,
      the control group then displayed a statistically significant decrease in eGFR by day 3
      post-procedure (77 +14 ml/min/1.73m2 versus 70 +12 ml/min/1.73m2). The RIPC group displayed
      no such difference by day 3 (81 +21 ml/min/1.73m2 versus 80 +14 ml/min/1.73m2) despite having
      received a larger contrast volume. This observation implied a potential protective effect for
      RIPC.

      Greater availability of CT technology has led to a dramatic increase in the number of
      patients undergoing ce-CTAP in recent years. Between 1996 and 2010, the number of patients
      undergoing CT scans in the United States tripled, increasing by 8% per annum (11).
      Simultaneously, an increasingly elderly and sick population means that many patients now have
      multiple co-morbidities, increasing their risk of contrast-induced acute kidney injury.
      Approximately 6.5% of patients undergoing ce-CT develop acute kidney injury defined as a >25%
      increase in serum creatinine from baseline (12). Simple methods to reduce CI-AKI are
      required. We propose that the use of remote ischaemic preconditioning could be a simple,
      cost-effective measure that could decrease the incidence of CI-AKI in high risk patients
      undergoing contrast enhanced CT scans.
    
  