
    
      Oxytocin is normally given either rapidly into the vein (bolus) or put into an intravenous
      bag and administered more slowly, after delivery of the baby by cesarean section. Both of
      these methods are commonly used. To date there has been little research to demonstrate that
      one method of giving oxytocin is better than another in women who are more likely to bleed
      after delivery. The purpose of the study is to see whether a small bolus of oxytocin makes
      the uterus contract better to reduce bleeding and decreases the need to give additional
      oxytocin or more powerful drugs in women who are at risk for bleeding after delivery of their
      baby by cesarean section.

      Women who participate will be randomized (like a toss of a coin) to one of two groups.
      Neither the woman nor the anesthesiologist nor the obstetrician will know which group they
      are in.

      In one group, the women will receive a small injection of saline (salt water) directly into
      the vein via their intravenous (bolus) after their baby is born. In the other group, the
      women will receive a small injection of oxytocin directly into the vein via their intravenous
      (bolus) after their baby is born.

      Both groups will have the standard amount of oxytocin given slowly (over a 30 minute period)
      into the intravenous in their arm (infusion). The amount of oxytocin that is put into the
      intravenous bag is a normal amount that would be given during cesarean section in any woman
      not involved in the study and it will be started after the initial injection has been given.
      The only difference between the two groups is that one group will have an extra dose of
      oxytocin given directly into the vein via the intravenous while the other will have a saline
      solution given directly into the vein via the intravenous.

      Information that will be obtained during the study will include any decrease in blood
      pressure or increase in heart rate at the time the saline or oxytocin is given directly into
      the vein. The obstetrician will be asked to indicate how well the uterus is contracting and
      they can ask the anesthesiologist to give more oxytocin or a more powerful drug if, in their
      opinion, the uterus is not contracting well. This is the normal way that this is done.

      If the woman should feel dizzy (possibly secondary to low blood pressure) their
      anesthesiologist will treat them the same way as they would if this happened to any woman who
      is not part of the study. In other words, the anesthesiologist and obstetrician will treat
      the woman the way they normally would whether the woman was part of the study or not.
    
  