
    
      This study will attempt to assess whether outpatient cervical ripening with misoprostol, a
      synthetic PGE1 analog (Cytotec(R), Pfizer), is an effective and safe option for low-risk
      pregnant women at or after 39 weeks gestation with an unfavorable cervix. This study comes in
      the wake of the ARRIVE trial, which may reasonably increase the number of low-risk term
      inductions.

      The process of labor induction, including cervical ripening, can take several hours or even
      days. This prolonged course contributes not only to long hospital stays and subsequently
      increased financial burden to both patients and healthcare systems, but also to patient and
      provider dissatisfaction with length of induction. Additionally, with the expected increase
      in elective inductions of primigravid women with unfavorable cervices as a result of the
      ARRIVE study, hospitals face the possibility of being at capacity on labor and delivery with
      inadequate staffing to ensure patient safety.

      Traditionally, the process of cervical ripening begins after inpatient hospital admission.
      Several small studies have evaluated outpatient ripening with various agents including foley
      balloon catheters, PGE1 analogs such as misoprostol, and other prostaglandins. The American
      College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists has commented on the limited data available on
      outpatient cervical ripening safety and efficacy, noting that outpatient cervical ripening is
      "appropriate for carefully selected patients" in Practice Bulletin 107. Data have been
      reassuring as far as safety and efficacy based on several studies, but are limited due to
      small sample size, For example, a randomized, double-blind placebo-controlled study in 2009
      found that outpatient oral misoprostol for late term pregnancies had a significantly shorter
      time from study entry to spontaneous labor and delivery. This study showed no difference in
      fetal or maternal morbidity, but was not powered to safety as there were only 44 subjects per
      group (10). Some institutions including OB/GYN groups at Beth Israel Deaconess Hospital,
      South Shore Hospital in MA, and Alaska Native medical center have incorporated outpatient
      ripening into their everyday practices, but little data on outcomes have been published from
      these sites.

      The investigators aim to determine if outpatient cervical ripening is a safe, non-inferior
      option to the traditional inpatient cervical ripening. The investigators will evaluate
      whether outpatient ripening impacts patient satisfaction, patient/hospital costs, and adverse
      outcomes in our health system setting. Cervical ripening is standard care at other OB/GYN
      practices across the county and the investigators intend to apply this care pathway for
      patients. The investigator's goal is to ensure the safety of participants by carefully
      selecting low risk patients and providing necessary fetal monitoring before and after
      administration. The results of this study can be used to determine if outpatient cervical
      ripening can be incorporated in daily practices of OB/GYN providers at GHS.
    
  