
    
      Study Objectives:

        1. Evaluate the efficacy of the music with suggestion intervention for chronic lower back
           pain in aging adults, with the indication that music with suggestion will significantly
           decrease subjective measures of pain compared to controls of music without suggestion or
           an informational recording about chronic pain.

        2. Evaluate the efficacy of the music with suggestion intervention for sleep in aging
           adults, with the indication that music with suggestion will significantly improve
           subjective measures of sleep compared to controls of music without suggestion or an
           informational recording about chronic pain.

        3. Evaluate the efficacy of the music with suggestion intervention for mood in aging
           adults, with the indication that music with suggestion will significantly improve
           subjective measures of mood compared to controls of music without suggestion or an
           informational recording about chronic pain.

      Recruitment Plan

      There will be 66 participants who wish to utilize mind-body interventions as treatment for
      chronic lower back pain.

      The individual's eligibility will be determined using an Inclusion/Exclusion Criteria
      Screening Checklist containing the criteria listed above. If an individual appears to be
      eligible, he/she will be educated about the study purpose, procedures, and requirements. If
      the individual is interested in participating, they will sign a consent form, which may be
      signed through mail, through electronic platforms such as DocuSign, or in-person. The
      participant will be scheduled for their first formal education session and informed consent
      will take place during this session. This education session will take place through a video
      conference platform. All three groups will meet with a research staff member approximately
      five times (once during the education session and approximately once per week each following
      week) throughout the duration of the study. These sessions will take place through a video
      conference platform.
    
  