
    
      Post-dural puncture headache leads to high morbidity and cost to the health system. Pregnant
      women have a higher incidence than other population groups. There are several treatments for
      post dural puncture headache mentioned in the literature, not all well established, with a
      wide heterogeneity of treatment between services. Sphenopalatine block then appears as an
      alternative treatment, having been described as effective in reports and case series,
      requiring comparative experimental studies.

      OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the efficacy of sphenopalatine blockade in combination with
      multimodal treatment in reducing the incidence of epidural blood patch and pain intensity in
      patients who develop headache after dural puncture, compared with the clinical treatment in
      our service.

      METHODS: A prospective randomized clinical, analytical study will be conducted at the
      Obstetric Center of the Central Institute of the University of São Paulo School of Medicine
      Hospital das Clínicas (ICHC-FMUSP). Women will be included who will undergo neuroaxis block
      for cesarean section, vaginal delivery or uterine curettage, and who later present headache
      after dural puncture, after evaluation and diagnosis by anesthesiologist. The patients will
      be divided into three groups at random. In group I, patients will receive clinical treatment
      according to the institution's old protocol for post dural puncture headache. In group II,
      patients will receive clinical treatment, according to the new protocol of the institution.
      In group III patients will receive clinical treatment, according to the new protocol of the
      institution, associated with sphenopalatine block. They will be reevaluated after 12, 24 and
      48 hours, and a visual analog scale will be applied to evaluate improvement. The pain will be
      quantified before and after treatment. Pain intensity will be evaluated by verbal numerical
      scale (EVN), incidence of need for epidural blood buffer in each group, as well as length of
      hospital stay (in days).
    
  