
    
      COVID-19 pneumonia is characterised by respiratory and multi-organ failure in the context of
      marked systemic inflammation. It is caused by Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2
      (SARSCoV2) infection. The hallmark of severe disease is hypoxia and a radiological pattern of
      acute lung injury that shares features with Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS). Early
      features of COVID-19 result from host viral response and typically include symptoms such as
      fever and dry cough. Later features, typically occurring beyond 7 days, are characterised by
      marked and progressive systemic inflammation, identified by elevations in a plethora of
      inflammatory molecules such as C-reactive protein, ferritin and IL6. In a subset of patients,
      hyperinflammatory responses drive acute lung injury and may result in catastrophic
      multi-organ failure and death.

      The aetiology of COVID-19 induced ARDS is incompletely understood but appears to be
      associated with lung inflammation effected by a monocytic and neutrophilic infiltration,
      elevated cytokine levels and tissue damage. Elevations in circulating inflammatory molecules
      are associated with poor prognosis. In particular, the COVID-19 hyperinflammatory response
      syndrome is associated thrombotic complications which are postulated to drive cardiac
      dysfunction and microvascular thrombi, suggested by elevations in troponin and D-dimer,
      respectively. Similar hyperinflammatory responses are also seen in macrophage activation
      syndromes such as haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis, or in the cytokine release syndrome
      associated with chimeric antigen receptor T cell therapy. Further, preliminary data from
      China and Italy have shown immediate resolution of symptoms using anti-interleukin-6 agents
      (anti-IL6) therapy and Janus kinase inhibitors (JAK)/signal transducer and activator of
      transcription (STAT) inhibitors in patients with severe disease. There may be an early window
      of opportunity to treat the COVID-19 hyperinflammatory syndrome before acute lung injury
      leads to organ failure.

      There are currently no approved treatments for COVID-19 pneumonia. This is a protocol for a
      randomised controlled, multi-arm trial of early intervention with inflammatory signal
      inhibitors.

      Study purpose

      A number of therapeutic interventions targeting inflammatory signalling might reduce the
      severity of the inflammatory response phase resulting in amelioration of the lung damage
      thereby averting respiratory failure and the need for mechanical ventilation. This trial aims
      to evaluate the efficacy of two inhibitors of key signalling pathways using drugs which are
      already licensed for use in other clinical indications.

      Primary objective

      The primary objective is to determine the efficacy of RUX and FOS to reduce the proportion of
      hospitalised patients progressing from mild/moderate to severe COVID-19 pneumonia. A modified
      World Health Organization (WHO) COVID-19 Severity Ordinal Scale (COVID-19 Therapeutic Trial
      Synopsis published 18th February 2020) will be used to grade clinical deterioration from
      Hospitalised Mild Disease (<5) to Hospitalised Severe Disease (greater than or equal to 5).
      The modification includes an additional grade for Hospitalised Severe Disease that allows the
      capture of clinical deterioration in patients for whom escalation in organ support is not
      offered. Patients are eligible for recruitment to MATIS at grades 3 or 4. These patients
      stand to gain the greatest benefit from inflammatory signal inhibitors that may ameliorate
      the cytokine storm and prevent organ failure.

      Secondary objectives

        -  Determine the efficacy of RUX or FOS to reduce mortality

        -  Determine the efficacy of RUX or FOS to reduce the need for invasive ventilation and/or
           ECMO

        -  Determine the efficacy of RUX or FOS to reduce the need for non-invasive ventilation
           including CPAP or high flow nasal oxygen

        -  Determine the efficacy of RUX or FOS to reduce the proportion of patients suffering
           clinically significant oxygen desaturation

        -  Determine the efficacy of RUX or FOS to reduce the need for renal replacement therapy

        -  Determine the efficacy of RUX and FOS to improve the severity of COVID-19 pneumonia on a
           modified WHO COVID-19 Ordinal Scale

        -  Determine the efficacy of RUX or FOS to reduce blood ferritin, c-reactive protein,
           lactate dehydrogenase and D-dimer

        -  Determine the efficacy of RUX or FOS to reduce duration of hospital admission

        -  Evaluate the safety of RUX and FOS for COVID-19 pneumonia
    
  