
    
      Study design and Setting

      This is a randomized controlled multi center study where the patients will be randomized to a
      10-weeks internet based yoga intervention or regular care. Usual care includes standardized
      information about the importance of physical activity in their personal care plan.

      Four regions located in the middle of Sweden will constitute the participating study centers.

      Inclusion criteria: Adult women diagnosed with breast cancer, that have undergone breast
      cancer surgery with curative intention without any signs of metastatic disease. They should
      be Swedish speaking and literate. The patients will be informed about the study in connection
      to surgery, and asked for participation at the first meeting with the oncologist about one
      month after surgery. Informed written consent will be collected from all participants prior
      to the entry into the study. The patients have the right to withdraw from the study at any
      point throughout the study.

      Exclusion criteria: If they received neoadjuvant treatment before surgery, have an advanced
      recurrent disease, unstable cardiovascular disease, brain or bone metastasis or are unable to
      complete the questionnaires due to reduced physical or cognitive capacity. If they have any
      physical condition that hinder participation in yoga or have an unstable medical condition
      that might be aggravated by yoga.

      Randomization:

      The patients will be randomized after their first visit to the oncologist. In an web-based
      digital portal, a digital randomization will be conducted. The stratified randomization will
      be according to surgery, Breast-Conserving Surgery (BCS) versus mastectomy (ME), chemotherapy
      versus no chemotherapy, radiation versus no radiation and hormonal treatment versus no
      hormonal treatment.

      Yoga Intervention:

      To minimize the ambiguities in design found in previous studies, the yoga intervention is
      designed according to Sherman's recommendations. The yoga postures and movements will be
      chosen specifically to address this group of patients.

        1. Type of yoga: Physical yoga sequences that through scientific evaluation have proven to
           be effective and relevant for the target group, ended by relaxation and time for
           reflection. There are 3 different programs during the 10-week-intervention. Easy-access
           sequences that can suit all (with modifications if needed), no progression but the
           programs can offer a small variation of movements over the intervention period.

        2. Dose: twice weekly for 10 weeks; one yoga class live broadcasted and digitally
           distributed to the patient's computer or mobile device, and one class pre-recorded video
           for self-training.

        3. Components of yoga: The yoga class will follow a standardized program with yoga
           sequences that is designed to increase calm, improve focus, acceptance and energy level
           as well as reduce fatigue.

        4. Sequences: The yoga class will be 60 minutes including 10 minutes of final relaxation.
           Thereafter, a 5 minutes reflection will be offered.

        5. Modification: Modification of yoga movements will be offered by the instructors based on
           the personal conditions of the participants. In the pre-recorded video the instructor
           will give a number or alternatives when relevant.

        6. Selection of instructors: The yoga instructors have previous experience of teaching
           yoga, ie is registered yoga teachers with 100 respectively 200-hour training. They will
           attend a one-day course administered by the research team consisting of lectures and
           seminars about cancer and cancer treatment, the aim and design of the study, theory, and
           instructions regarding the yoga programs including modifications and technical aspects
           regarding digital distribution of the intervention.

        7. Home Training: Instructions for yoga home practice will be standardized. The yoga
           programs will be distributed in video-links for the participants to view at a time-point
           that suits them during the week. The recommendation will be to yoga at home once a week
           in addition to the digital yoga class in real time.

        8. Presence over time: Attendance will be noted through login data. Adherence to activity
           will be calculated as the number of patients conducting 65% of the sessions, divided by
           the total number of patients in the group.

      Technical solution:

      Participants are expected to use their own computer or mobile device. The streaming will be
      arranged through Zoom® or other communication software. A portable audio and video device
      (ConferenceCam Connect) will be offered that can be connected to the participant's own
      computer, if Zoom or other communication tools are unstable. Written information as well as a
      film showing how to connect will be sent to each participant. Equipment will be tested with
      each participant before start. A telephone number for technical support will be arranged.

      The technical solutions can be updated if the user-friendly approach needs improvement.

      Control group:

      All breast cancer patients receives written standardized information about the importance of
      physical activity by their contact nurse or physiotherapist, when discharged from the
      hospital accordingly to the routines at the clinic.

      Sample size estimation:

      The sample size calculation is based on the outcome fatigue. The target main effect size is
      determined to be an improved fatigue score of 2 on a scale from 4 to 20. That is in
      accordance with the clinical important difference. For two-sided test with α=0.05 and power
      =80% to detect a factorial effect of 2 under the null hypothesis of no effect, 64 individuals
      in each group are needed. In order to compensate for a potential 30% dropout, the sample size
      will be increased with an additional 39 persons, giving a total sample size of 67 patients.
      To detect interaction effects that is usually smaller than the main effect, the original
      sample size was increased with 25% (~42 patients). This gives a total of 209 patients divided
      into 2 arms; intervention and control.

      Data collection:

      Data are collected at baseline (one month after surgery) and 3, 6, 24 and 48 months after
      breast cancer surgery. Self-reported data (questionnaires) are collected each time (5 times),
      activity levels (accelerometer) at the first three follow-ups and at 12 months, blood samples
      at the first three follow-ups, bodily measurements are made at baseline and after one year.
      Diary of physical activity is reported in conjunction with the measurements with
      accelerometer.

      Health economic evaluation:

      The health economic evaluation will be performed with a societal as well as a health care
      perspective and consider time period from baseline to one year after the interventions had
      ended. Cost effectiveness will be presented in costs per quality adjusted life years (QALY),
      but also as a probability of cost-effectiveness compared to usual care.

      Main components in the analysis are extra costs of the interventions, changes in QALY and
      savings of the interventions. Saving may be less time on sick leave (less production losses)
      and less health care consumption. Complete costs of the interventions for the health care
      provider and for patients will be measured. Further, QALY will be estimated using the
      instrument EQ-5D-5L, time on sick leave will be collected in the questionnaire to
      participants, and health care consumption will be retrieved from medical records.
    
  