
    
      Prospective triple-blinded randomized control trial. The surgeon will provide study
      information (protocol, consent, general information) to patients in the surgeon's office.
      Recruitment will be done through a coordination of the operating schedule and the surgeon's
      office. Patients presenting for preoperative visits at the surgeon's office or the
      preoperative joint clinic will be approached. On the day of the surgery, the subject will
      meet the research team in the holding area. The team will finalize participation and ask the
      subject about the signed consent forms and answer any additional questions. All patients will
      be provided with copies of the IRB protocol and consent if they wish to have it. Copy of the
      consent form will be sent in a secured email to the potential subject. The email will be
      secured by entering in [SECURE] in the e-mail subject line. Once recruited blinding
      assessments will be done by the study team.

      Patients will be assigned randomly using a computer-generated table of numbers to one of the
      three groups: 1) High Dose Intravenous TXA (hTXA group), 2) Low Dose Intravenous TXA (lTXA
      group), or 3) Combined Intravenous and Topical TXA group (cTXA group). Surgical team will
      perform the required spine procedure. Study personnel will make the medication which will be
      labelled as study drug for surgical and anesthesia team to give during the procedure.
      Patients assigned to hTXA group will receive 50mg/kg IV TXA loading dose with a 5mg/kg/hr
      maintenance dose, and normal saline poured over 5 minutes at the wound prior to closure.
      Patients assigned to lTXA group will receive 20mg/kg IV TXA loading dose with a 5mg/kg/hr
      maintenance dose, and normal saline poured over 5 minutes at the wound prior to closure.
      Patients assigned to cTXA group will received 20mg/kg V TXA loading dose with a 5mg/kg/hr
      maintenance dose, and 2g topical TXA poured over 5 minutes at the would prior to closure.
      Otherwise, the patient, surgeon, and anesthesiologist in the case will be blinded.
    
  