
    
      Women who experience intimate partner violence (IPV) are at increased risk for serious long
      term negative health sequelae, injury, and death. Compared to non-abused women, intimately
      abused women suffer significantly greater prevalence of depression and post-traumatic stress
      disorder (PTSD), as well as a host of nonspecific physical symptoms including chronic pain
      and fatigue (Campbell, 2002; Golding, 1999; Asmundson, Coons, Taylor, & Katz, 2002; Ehlert,
      Gaab, & Heinrichs, 2001; Green, Baker, Sato, Washington, & Smith, 2003; Woods, 2004). These
      increased negative health problems contribute to a greater prevalence of IPV among primary
      care patients, with current (past year) IPV rates of 15 - 28%, compared to 1.5% to 3% in
      epidemiologic surveys (Bauer, Rodruguez, Perez-Stable, 2000; Coker, et al., 2000; Collins, et
      al.,1998; Kramer, Lorenzon, Mueller, 2004; Richardson, et al., 2002; Tjaden & Thoennes,
      2000). In spite of this high prevalence and serious negative health sequelae, a recent review
      of interventions for IPV concluded that there is a serious lack of evidence-based approaches
      in the primary care setting. No studies were identified that examined the effect of physical
      and mental health symptoms on the ability to access resources or to increase safety promoting
      behaviors. This intervention pilot study will speak to this gap in the research. Utilizing a
      randomized controlled clinical trial design, we will follow women who screen positive for
      current (past year) IPV at a primary care clinic in Baltimore, MD. Women in the control group
      will receive usual care consisting of a list of community resources for IPV. Women in the a
      nurse-managed/community health worker intervention group will receive usual care augmented by
      an individualized counseling session followed by a series of 6 telephone calls over 10 weeks.
      A woman's stage of readiness for change as well as symptoms of pain, fatigue, depression, and
      PTSD will be evaluated as barriers to resource access and safety behavior initiation.
    
  