
    
      Typhoid fever is an enteric bacterial infection caused by Salmonella enterica serovar Typhi
      (Salmonella Typhi; S. Typhi). It is an important infectious disease in low- and middle-income
      countries with over 10.9 million new cases worldwide and 116.8 thousand death in 2017. South
      Asia and Sub Saharan Africa are the most affected areas of the world. Typhoid fever is common
      in areas with inadequate sanitation and hygiene. In routine practice, diagnosis of typhoid
      fever is rarely confirmed as diagnostic tests are unavailable or have limited diagnostic
      accuracy. Blood culture is the commonest reference standard test but has a lower sensitivity.
      Alternatives to those methods exist but their performance is poor. The Widal test is still
      used but as it is based on cross-reactive antigens, it lacks sensitivity and specificity.
      Clinician often use rapid diagnostic tests to diagnose typhoid. A number of typhoid fever
      RDTs are commercially available but performance data are not available or not consistent from
      a study to another. This prospective, multicentre, cross-sectional study will be carried out
      in 3 hospitals of Nairobi, Kenya. 2000 clinically suspected typhoid cases will be enrolled in
      this study, blood culture as well as serum for RDT will be received. All typhoid positive and
      equal typhoid negative serum will be tested for investigational RDTs.

      This collaborative study between Kenya Medical Research Institute (KEMRI) and Foundation for
      Innovative New Diagnostics (FIND) will systematically compare different point of care typhoid
      tests currently available in the market against the same set of reference standard. The
      knowledge gained from this trial may benefit health providers' by providing information on
      diagnostic accuracy of current typhoid test and to decide on utility of these commercial
      tests. The result obtained from this trial will also be made available to help inform
      Ministry of Health in Kenya and the World Health Organization (WHO) Essential Diagnostic list
      (EDL) and stakeholder decision making more broadly.
    
  