
    
      Between 18 March 2019 and 18 April 2020, patients seen at Professor Kojuri Cardiovascular
      Clinic in Shiraz, Iran (email:kojurij@yahoo.com, webpage: http://kojuriclinic.com) for their
      annual check-up were selected. We explained the research project to them, and volunteers were
      selected. Patients were assigned to the fasting or non-fasting group according to their
      preference. All volunteers were informed about the details of this research, and provided
      their written informed consent. Patients who declined to participate in the study were
      excluded.

      Patients were instructed how to divide their medication across the two daily meals before
      dawn and after sunset during the month of Ramadan. We informed patients to immediately stop
      fasting and consult the clinic if they experienced any signs of cardiovascular disease,
      including shortness of breath, chest pain, or palpitations. At the end of Ramadan, patients
      were contacted by telephone and asked about their symptoms, including chest pain and dyspnea,
      hospitalization, and MACE. The MACE were defined as acute myocardial infarction,
      hospitalization due to congestive heart failure, new-onset atrial fibrillation, stroke, or
      cardiac arrest [19, 20]. Symptomatic patients were referred to the clinic for cardiovascular
      examination.

      The study was double-blinded. To blind the researchers, the clinic secretary contacted the
      patients and asked them not to specify their group (fasting or non-fasting), and then passed
      the phone to the researcher. We used alphabetical order in each group to blind the
      statisticians. Patients who fasted during Ramadan were designated with the letter X, and
      patients who did not fast during Ramadan were designated with the letter Y.

      For statistical analyses we used IBM SPSS software version 25. We used the chi-squared test
      to compare categorical variables and Student's t-test to compare the mean values of
      continuous variables. The Mann-Whitney U test and Kruskal-Wallis test were used for
      nonparametric variables.
    
  