
    
      The difficulties characterizing Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) are often associated with
      childhood; however, ASD is a lifespan diagnosis that continues to impact opportunities in the
      community. There is currently a very significant gap in support services for young adults
      with ASDs that has grave consequences both for individuals and their families in terms of
      vocational success and social inclusion and for society as a whole in terms of the financial
      burden of long-term adult care.

      Individuals on the higher end of the autism spectrum do not have intellectual disability and
      possess good language skills. Yet they often show significant difficulty with applying their
      skills during demanding social interactions, which is detrimental to their ability to form
      relationships and navigate interactions in the workplace. In the few studies of outcomes of
      adults with ASD it is reported that fewer than 5% of adults at the highest end of the
      spectrum were living independently and only 12% were employed viably. This underscores the
      tremendous need for targeted services for young adults with ASD without intellectual
      disability.

      The McGill Transition Support Program was developed to target participants' self-expressed
      needs in communication, self-determination and working with others skills, which have been
      associated with better quality of life. Besides the intake, pre- and post-program measures
      sessions, the participants, aged 18 - 30 years, take part in ten 2-hour group meetings. The
      study design has been termed a "staggered enrollment trial", that is participants were
      randomly assigned to take part in the program in the next available cycle or to the waiting
      list for a subsequent cycle. Pre- and post-program assessment include social problem solving
      stories, quality of life and self-determination measures, a communication task and a needs
      and skills questionnaire.
    
  