
    
      This study will be conducted in compliance with the protocol, SGCP and the applicable
      regulatory requirements.

      Dry eye is a condition that affects 5-35% of the population9. Common symptoms of this
      condition include eye irritation, heaviness of the eyelids, visual disturbances, tearing and
      light sensitivity9-11. This significantly impacts the quality of life and vision of dry eye
      patients. In addition, there is a significant socio-economic burden. In 2009, 54,051 patients
      sought treatment for dry eye in the Singapore National Eye Centre (SNEC). In total, the costs
      for dry eye medication amounted to $181,354.1712. Additionally, dry eye affects work
      productivity which further adds on to the socio-economic burden9,12.

      Currently, the diagnosis and assessment of dry eye is hindered by tests that have poor
      repeatability, some of which cause discomfort due to their invasiveness. As a result most
      clinical studies involving dry eye treatment rely on symptomatic improvements as a primary
      outcome measure. However, symptomatic improvements are a poor measure in determining
      treatment effectiveness. This may be a result of disease progression that damages nerves
      which consequently desensitizes the eye. Also, it is not uncommon that patients feel a
      reduction of discomfort of the eye before objective improvements can be noted by the
      clinician. An assessment based on symptoms alone is therefore inappropriate11.

      Over the last few years, SNEC/SERI has built up a dedicated team of dry eye researchers for
      trials and evaluation of diagnostic devices. There is an increasing interest internationally,
      especially from industry, to partner us for testing of commercial products.

      The anterior segment optical coherence tomography (AS-OCT) is an imaging device that allows
      clinicians to acquire images of the conjunctivochalasis in a safe and non-invasive manner.
      The device utilizes infra-red light which is reflected on the eye surface. The reflection,
      affected by the thickness of the tissue, is then used to generate an image. It also was found
      to correlate with other less repeatable diagnostic tests, such as tear film break-up time
      (TBUT), which measures tear film stability.

      The applicability of the HD-Cirrus AS-OCT in dry eye research has not been extensively
      tested. It is also not known if HD-Cirrus AS-OCT would be able to image repeatable and
      reproducible results. It is highly cost effective for the study team here to evaluate the
      HD-Cirrus ASOCT because it is already available in the trial center, being purchased from
      other grant funding.

      Figure 1 illustrates the high magnification coloured images taken from our preliminary study
      of normal tear meniscus and conjunctivochalasis using the HD-Cirrus AS-OCT.

      Figure 1: Cirrus AS-OCT images of normal tear meniscus and conjunctivochalasis

      Clinical importance Should this modality of imaging be validated or shown to be reproducible,
      it can then be incorporated into our protocol/workflow for assessment and monitoring of dry
      eye treatment in our centre and will greatly enhance our capability to perform clinical
      trials and increase our international reputation.

      Study Objectives and Purpose The primary purpose is to evaluate inter and intra examiner
      repeatability of the HD-Cirrus AS-OCT imaging system to capture conjunctivochalasis.

      Study design:

      Prospective study

      Rationale:

      Repeatability is an important issue in the objective assessment of dry eye. There is lack of
      studies that investigate the HD-Cirrus AS-OCT for assessment of conjunctivochalasis. The
      HD-Cirrus AS-OCT is potentially useful as a non-invasive procedure for objective measurements
      of the conjunctivochalasis.

      Methods:

      Participants and target sample size 10 patients with symptomatic dry eye and clinically
      suspected conjunctivochalasis (presence of lid parallel conjunctival folds) from Singapore
      National Eye Centre will be recruited for this study. 10 healthy volunteers with no symptoms
      of dry eyes will be recruited for this study as controls. Each volunteer will also be given a
      study serial number to ensure anonymity.

      All 20 volunteers will participate in the AS-OCT study.

      Visit schedules One visit is required for paticipants.

      Duration of study:

      8 months.

      Procedures:

      Participants will need to stay for the study for 60 minutes.

        1. Assessment of Dry Eye Symptoms Basic biodata such as age, race, gender will be recorded.
           Participants' habitual visual acuity will also be documented. Participants will be asked
           to score and fill up a dry eye questionnaire that assesses the symptomatic severity of
           dry eyes and the extent of its disruption to daily activities.

        2. HD-Cirrus AS-OCT for the assessment of proplasped conjunctiva Participants are randomly
           assigned to first examiner, followed by the second examiner. Each examiner will capture
           2 sets of scans from the randomly chosen eye of the participants.

           During the acquisition, the participants place their chins on a chin rest and look at a
           fixation light/target. This whole procedure of should take about 10 minutes. The
           participants are allowed to blink freely except for during the acquisition time of less
           than 5 seconds.

           The eye is scanned at 3 vertical positions: inferior temporal (IT), inferior central
           (IC) and inferior nasal (IN), as shown in figure 2. In milder case of
           conjunctivochalasis, the prolapse of conjunctiva into the tear menicus is more prominent
           in the IT scan than IC scan. Therefore, it is important to obtain prolapsed conjunctiva
           at different region of the tear meniscus.

           Figure 2: Imaging prolapsed conjunctiva at different region of the tear meniscus

        3. Fluorescein Dye Tear Break-up Time (TBUT) Fluorescein dye is introduced onto the lower
           eyelid by a wetted fluorescein strip. The tear film will then be observed with blue
           light using a slit lamp to the point where it breaks. The time from the previous blink
           to the breaking of the tear film will be recorded to the nearest second.

        4. Fluorescein Dye Corneal Staining After fluorescein dye is introduced, the cornea will be
           examined for green stains indicating epithelial erosion, a sign of damage due to
           dryness. The number of green stains and their ocation on the cornea (superior, central,
           inferior, temporal, nasal fields) will be recorded.
    
  