
    
      This is a single arm, multi-centre, phase II open label study of nivolumab with stereotactic
      body radiotherapy (SBRT) for early stage non-small cell lung cancer.

      Current United Kingdom (UK) guidelines for SBRT do not specify exclusion pulmonary function
      criteria. Severely reduced Forced Expiratory Volume in 1 second (FEV1) and diffusing capacity
      of the lung for carbon monoxide (DLCO) (<40% predicted) are common reasons for medical
      inoperability leading to the choice of SBRT. In a large prospective study of patients
      undergoing SBRT, poor baseline PFT was not predictive of toxicity including pneumonitis. At
      the 2 year follow up, the mean decline in percentage of predicted forced expiratory volume in
      one second (FEV1) and diffusion capacity of carbon monoxide (DLCO) were only 5.8% and 6.3%
      respectively. Focal SBRT is a well-tolerated procedure and acute complications are generally
      transient. Symptomatic radiation pneumonitis has been reported at rates of 4-25% of patients.

      Drug induced pneumonitis is reported at 6% in lung cancer patients receiving nivolumab and at
      2% with grade 3-4 toxicity. Of note, such rates are similar or lower to other drugs used in
      NSCLC including docetaxel for which no PFT restrictions occur. In this study, frequent
      assessment of spirometry values may help to predict patients that are developing subclinical
      pneumonitis and prompt for early intervention.

      SBRT will be delivered in either 3 or 5 fractions. A flat dose of 240 mg nivolumab infusion
      will begin after the final fraction of SBRT, within 24 hours and typically on the same day.
      Nivolumab will subsequently be given every 2 weeks at a flat dose of 240 mg until 1 year of
      total treatment unless any study drug discontinuation criteria are met. The study will
      recruit 31 patients. We anticipate it will take approximately 18 months to recruit 31
      patients.

      The study will include subjects with histologically verified NSCLC deemed by a local
      multidisciplinary team (MDT) to have anatomical stage T1-3 [≤5cm] N0 M0 by means of computed
      tomography (CT) and fludeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) , amenable to
      radical treatment with SBRT and inoperable due to medical co-morbidity, being technically
      unresectable or patient declining surgery after offer of surgical assessment.

      Subjects will receive nivolumab as per the treatment schedule unless any withdrawal criteria
      are met. The first nivolumab infusion will be given after the final fraction of SBRT, within
      24 hours and generally on the same day. Clinical follow up and investigations are as detailed
      in the schedule of assessment.

      The first 5 patients to enroll must have Eastern Co-operative Oncology Group (ECOG)
      performance status (PS) < 2 at the time of first dose of investigational medical product
      (IMP). An Independent Data Monitoring Committee (IDMC) will meet when the first 5 patients
      have reached 3 months follow up from their 1st dose of nivolumab or have withdrawn consent to
      follow-up. Patients that have enrolled but did not receive IMP will be replaced. The IDMC, if
      satisfied with the safety data from the initial 5 patients, may recommend escalation to
      include recruitment of patients with ECOG performance status of 2. Further patients of PS <2
      may enroll while awaiting the outcome of the IDMC meeting.

      The IDMC will perform a further safety review when the first 5 patients enrolled with ECOG
      performance status 2 have reached 3 months follow up from their final fraction of
      radiotherapy or have withdrawn consent to follow-up. Patients that have enrolled but did not
      receive IMP will be replaced. Further patients with ECOG performance status 2 will not be
      able to enroll unless recommendation is given by the IDMC. In the event that 5 PS 2 patients
      have not enrolled by the point that the 15th recruited patient has reached 3 months follow
      up, then there will be a further mandated IDMC meeting to assess safety data from the study.
      Patients may continue to enroll while awaiting the outcome of this IDMC meeting.

      Assessment of toxicities will be performed at each clinic visit during treatment, at 30 days
      after the final nivolumab infusion and until 100 days after the final nivolumab infusion.
      Changes in spirometry values and PFTs will be assessed throughout the trial.

      Relapse rates will be assessed with staging CT scans at 3, 6, 12, 18 and 24 months post SBRT.

      An exploratory assessment will be made of the effect pre-treatment pulmonary function tests
      (PFTs) have on outcome measures.
    
  