
    
      Spinal cord stimulation (SCS) is a successful treatment in patients with intractable
      neuropathic pain. This therapy is most commonly used in patients who have chronic neuropathic
      pain following failed surgery, known as failed back surgery syndrome (FBSS) . There is
      evidence from previous studies to demonstrate that SCS can provide a 50- 70% reduction in
      pain medication and pain scores. A randomised controlled study compared SCS with conventional
      medical management (CMM). When compared with the CMM group; the SCS patients had a 50% pain
      reduction in their back pain and leg pain. The results suggested that patients who received
      SCS had better pain relief and health related quality of life over a period of 6 to 12 months
      compared to the CMM group. Additionally, these patients reported satisfaction in SCS
      treatment, continuous pain relief, and clinical improvements in functional capacity and
      health-related quality of life.

      On the other hand, SCS has been progressively being used in patients with intractable
      neuropathic pain who have not undergone spinal back surgery ("Virgin-back''). The UK NICE
      guidelines have recommended SCS as a treatment option for patients with intractable
      neuropathic spinal pain, including patients who have not undergone previous spinal surgery
      (NICE, 2008).

      One of the main drawbacks of conventional SCS is the onset of parathesia, despite being an
      effective therapy for neuropathic pain. This can cause abnormal sensations or considerable
      discomfort to the patient during activity or sudden position changes. Typically, conventional
      SCS operate at frequencies ranging from 40-80 Hz, long pulse widths of 300-500 µsec, and
      amplitudes to stimulate patient's pain sensory percept distribution. These frequencies are
      often used because sensory perception is often lost at 300 Hz. Current studies have found
      that delivering stimulating frequencies below the upper limit of what may cause parathesia;
      may reduce discomfort and abnormal sensations, increasing the tolerability of SCS treatment.
      Parathesia is considered necessary in order to cover the painful area and provide maximum
      pain relief. However recent research suggests that parathesia may not be necessary for pain
      relief, and in fact that pain awareness can provide full benefits of SCS.

      Data from (PROCO RCT) indicates that similar pain relief and improvement in quality of life
      measures are experienced independent of the type of frequency (from 1kHz up to 10kHz) used in
      paraesthesia free SCS therapy when the proper target and dose are identified. Further, the
      study showed that 1kHz stimulation provides similar pain relief using significantly less
      energy than higher frequencies.

      High frequency (HF) stimulation is a new promising, new stimulation paradigm involving higher
      frequency, lower pulse widths, and lower amplitudes when compared to conventional SCS. The
      effectiveness of HF-SCS is controlled by the amount of Neural dose (frequency, amplitude and
      pulse width) passing the electrodes and reaching the neural tissue, resulting in minimal
      discomfort and damage to the tissues before the definite shape of the impulse.

      Pre-clinical Data

      A study testing the efficacy of kilohertz and conventional SCS was done on rat models during
      different pain conditions. The findings established that higher frequencies can be delivered
      at lower amplitudes whilst reversing pain behaviours as seen at 50 Hz and at higher intensity
      of motor threshold.

      Moreover, both conventional and kilohertz frequency SCS forms intensity and
      frequency-dependant inhibition of mechanical hypersensitivity, in animal models of
      neuropathic pain. Different intensities (20, 40 and 80% motor threshold) and frequencies (50,
      1kHz and 10kHz) were used. At each frequency, the pulse width was constant. It was observed
      that as frequency was increased, the pulse density also increased.

      Clinical data

      Previous randomised control trials have provided evidence that using frequency ≤1200 Hz and
      pulses ≤ 5% provides efficient relief with HF- SCS.

      A multi-centre trial previously conducted to see the effects of HF-SCS on patients being
      delivered up to 10 kHz of stimulation. Patients were assessed for pain ratings, disability,
      sleep disturbances, and satisfaction, as well as complication rates for up to six months.
      When results were compared to baseline, 88% of patients reported a significant reduction in
      mean back visual analogue scores (VAS) from 8.4 to 2.7 at six months. Seventy four per cent
      of patients reported more than 50% back pain relief at six months. Overall it was concluded
      that individuals in the trial group with chronic back pain, 70% of patients were provided
      with positive improvement and experienced sustained low back and leg pain relief. Substantial
      improvements were also seen for these patients with disability and sleep disturbances.

      If clinically considered, the NRS has substantially reduced in patients who received HF-SCS
      than conventional SCS in patients with neuropathic pain and FBSS. This suggests that HF may
      provide relief in virgin-back patients. Since there remains limited research in this area
      therefore, the main objective of our study is to investigate the response to 1000Hz frequency
      following SCS treatment in "virgin back" patients with intractable lower limb neuropathic
      pain. However based on the PROCO RCT and further WHISPER trial, we aim to establish role of
      microburst and combination therapy in non-responders.

      Our sample size of 30 patients will allow detection of minimal important difference of 2.0 on
      the NRS pain scale at 90% power and alpha of 5%, assuming an outcome standard deviation of
      2.5 and attrition rate at 12-months of 30%. Patient primary and secondary outcomes at each
      follow up point will be compared to baseline values. Data analyses will take account of the
      paired nature of the data and use non-independent t-test for continuous outcomes and
      McNemar's test for binary outcomes.

        -  The primary objective is to investigate the clinical response to high frequency
           (1,000Hz) in patients who are due to have percutaneous spinal cord stimulation for
           intractable lower limb neuropathic pain

        -  The secondary objective will be to investigate the effect on functionality and quality
           of life and adverse events at the high frequency group (1000Hz)
    
  