
    
      The goals and procedures overview of the proposed project are to:

        1. Aim 1: Generate SA evidence determining how 2wT increases AE ascertainment while
           reducing workload via an un-blinded, prospective, non-inferiority, RCT in urban and
           rural contexts comparing moderate or severe AE rate ≤ Day 14 post-MC and average number
           of in-person follow- ups control and intervention arms. For Aim 1, the investigators
           will enroll 50 and 1104 VMMC-seeking, healthy South African men ages 18 and older in a
           pilot and the trial, respectively, with cell phones who are seeking VMMC service at up
           to 5 health facilities/areas (1 urban and 4 rural) for participation in the randomized
           controlled study of the two-way texting (2wT) intervention. Men in the pilot will not be
           randomized and will be assigned texting. Men in the RCT will be randomly assigned 1:1 to
           intervention or control condition. The investigators will also conduct brief surveys
           with a subset up to 100 2wT study participants. Up to 10 key informant interviews will
           also be conducted with healthcare workers and NDoH workers. Only Aim 1 is a clinical
           trial.

        2. Aim 2: To develop an effective dissemination and implementation strategy at scale
           (2WT-2-SCALE), using RE-AIM-based evaluation of program Reach, Effectiveness, Adoption,
           Implementation, and Maintenance. For aim 2, 800 new human subjects will be involved in
           prospective data collection for a 2wT intensive phase that is opt-in - clients will not
           be randomized. The investigators will also interview up to 25 new key informants with
           healthcare workers and NDoH workers.

           Aim 2 sub aims include:

           Aim 2a) Reach: Proportion of 2wT-2-SCALE outreach-based (rural) MC clients reached
           (target:70% of eligible men in 1 Limpopo district by year 4 (maintenance)).

           Aim 2b) Effectiveness: Assess 2wT-2-SCALE effect on MC program process measures (AE
           rate,# in-person visits), and at the individual level (2wT response rate, AE severity)
           in rural Limpopo (intensive + maintenance); Aim 2c) Adoption: Apply Diffusion of
           Innovation 34 via mixed-methods assessment of 2wT-2- SCALE provider acceptability,
           appropriateness, and feasibility to predict individual level adoption (target: 95%); Aim
           2d) Implementation: Measure fidelity to 2wT-2-SCALE intervention (protocol adherence);
           facilitators and barriers to implementation described using the Consolidated Framework
           for Implementation Research (CFIR); Aim 2e) Maintenance: % of target MC districts
           sustaining 2wT as designed in maintenance phase (target: >90% at 6 months, >80% at 12
           months, and >70% at 18 months).

        3. Aim 3: Use activity based micro-costing to estimate the budget and program impact from
           the payer perspective to scale-up the 2wT intervention compared to the standard of care.
           For Aim 3, no human subjects will be involved.

      Aim 1 STUDY DESIGN: Phase 1 RCT Study overview: Following usability testing with both
      healthcare workers and 2wT VMMC clients during a 50-man pilot, the investigators will test if
      two-way texting (2wT) reduces unnecessary follow-up visits without compromising patient
      safety using a randomized control trial of 1104 men randomized 1:1 in 1 large, urban VMMC
      clinic and 4 rural sites clustered within one implementation team. The investigators will
      assess acceptability and feasibility working towards system integration and sustainability in
      RSA and beyond. Qualitative interviews with 2wT teams help inform acceptability, feasibility,
      and usability.

      Study Procedures:

      PARTICIPANT OVERVIEW:

        -  Based on prior experience in Zimbabwe, up to 50 men (25 rural and 25 urban) assigned to
           texting intervention will be needed for the pilot depending to reach maximum system
           stability (after making adaptations) and to reach healthcare worker efficiency and
           comfort. This increases the quality of the full study. Not randomized. Enrolled into
           texting. Not included in outcome analysis.

        -  1104 men in the full study randomized in a 1:1 ratio of texting and control for 552 men
           in texting and 552 in control (routine care).

        -  Same recruitment, consent, and follow-up procedures in pilot and intervention as
           outlined, per group, below

        -  10 healthcare workers for qualitative interviews for the RCT

             1. Study preparation: PILOT The investigators will conduct a rapid situation analysis
                with healthcare workers, VMMC clients, and stakeholders to assess suitable
                responses to VMMC client texts, setting standards for text responses and in-person
                follow-up. The investigators will modify existing usability surveys for this public
                health context. A small pilot with 50 VMMC clients who will be enrolled in the
                texting intervention will include usability testing with both 2wT clients and
                nurses implementing the 2wT system, illuminating system experiences from both
                perspectives to inform full study implementation. Data from the pilot will not be
                included in the analysis.

             2. RECRUITMENT AND INFORMED CONSENT (PILOT AND FULL STUDY):

                Each site will establish local recruitment and screening methods that
                operationalize protocol-specified requirements for eligibility determination in a
                manner that is tailored to and most efficient for the local study setting and
                target study population. In brief, information about the study will be disseminated
                at the selected sites. VMMC demand creation as part of routine program practice
                will support study recruitment. HCW recruited for participation in the study will
                be reached at their workplaces (the health care facilities) following communication
                between the study team and the site leadership. VMMC clients will be recruited in
                the VMMC clinic area. Recruitment will be managed by a specifically-trained study
                coordinator who will meet with VMMC patients to sensitize them about the
                opportunity to participate in a study of text-based follow-up; those meeting
                eligibility criteria will be individually informed by study staff about the
                opportunity to participate. Interested patients will be referred to the site 2WT
                study coordinator. This person will meet with patients in a private setting,
                further explain the study, confirm study eligibility, and seek informed consent.
                Participant enrollment may be made by teams/clinicians using the Medic Mobile
                phone/tablet app or the laptop-based system.

             3. RANDOMIZATION PROCESS:

                The investigators will conduct randomization using a randomized block design,
                ensuring that each group of 20 envelopes has 10 intervention and 10 control per
                block, shuffling each block to ensure a near random order. The full set of 1104
                will be numbered before distribution to sites. Each group assignment envelope will
                be selected by the coordinator and then opened by the participant and shown to the
                coordinator or 2WT enrollment coordinator. Security envelopes will be used to help
                prevent selection of assigned group. Subjects within each block are randomly
                assigned to treatment conditions. This design reduces variability within treatment
                conditions and potential confounding, allowing for more interim analysis with near
                equal size groups and more certain randomization within sites.

             4. Standard VMMC care (Control arm): For the 552 men randomized into the control arm,
                the investigators follow all NDOH protocols based on WHO guidelines 1 including
                routine surgical VMMC follow-up on post-surgery days 2, 7 and 21 (Table 1) 2.
                Patients may seek care outside scheduled visits for suspicion of AEs at any
                healthcare facility at any time but most often return to their VMMC site. Referral
                cards for VMMC clients provide local numbers for patients to text, call, or request
                a call back for emergencies. A standardized approach is used to assess, identify,
                and record the severity of AEs 3. All VMMC care, from assessment of all AEs through
                complete healing, is provided free to clients. Clients who do not return to the
                clinic for follow-up on Day 2 or Day 7 are considered lost to follow-up (LTFU). For
                the purposes of this study, control arm VMMC clients will be asked to come in on
                Day 14 for an additional follow-up visit. Active follow-up by phone call is
                provided at Day 14.

             5. VMMC care procedures (2wT arm): The investigators will conduct a prospective,
                un-blinded, randomized control trial (RCT) among VMMC clients in a 1:1 ratio of
                control to intervention. Study participants and clinic staff are not masked to
                treatment. For the 552 men randomized into the intervention arm, men in the 2wT
                will receive routine VMMC surgical care and counseling, including referral cards
                for emergencies. 2wT clients will receive automated daily texts from days 1-13. It
                is free to receive call and texts; it costs approximately $0.04 to send a SMS in
                RSA 4. If they respond that they suspect no adverse event, no immediate follow-up
                action will be taken. If a 2wT VMMC client responds affirmatively to any daily text
                that he suspects an AE, a VMMC nurse will exchange modifiable, scripted texts with
                the client to determine the symptoms, frequency, and severity. Then, if deemed
                necessary, the client will be asked to return to clinic the following day or
                earlier if an emergency is suspected. AE management will adhere to NDOH standard
                care. All study participants will be asked to come to the clinic for
                study-specific, Day 14 follow-up to review healing and verify adverse event
                reporting. If 2wT patients do not respond to texts or phone and do not return on
                Day 14, they will be traced by SMS, Phone and up to 2 visits to their home after
                which they will be considered LTFU. Day 14 was chosen for verification because 95%
                of all AEs within a similar VMMC program in Zimbabwe are reported Day 14 or earlier
                5, suggesting that most AEs have occurred by this time point. In a previous field
                study of AEs, the most common AEs of bleeding and infection were found a mean of
                6.7 and 9.0 days, respectively, after VMMC, further supporting the 14 day period
                used in this and a previous study. The Day 14 review will be conducted by routine
                VMMC providers according to NDOH review guidelines. At Day 21, The investigators
                will implement a brief text-based survey with 2wT clients to ascertain complete
                healing, providing stronger inferences at study completion.

      HCW: Brief Qualitative interviews with staff will occur on or after the study mid-point when
      the system will be optimal. Interviews are only to solicit feedback for 2WT implementation,
      acceptability, and feasibility. Up to Ten HCWs will be interviewed, selected by convenience.
      HCWs can decline without repercussion on their employment. Interviews will be conducted in a
      private location by a trained interviewer who has extensive experience conducting qualitative
      interviews and will be able to effectively sensitize HCWs to the interview process. The
      interviews are brief. They are likely to take 5-15 minutes, but the investigators allow for
      30 in case there is sufficient interest in sharing. They have a separate informed consent.
    
  