
    
      Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) was once uniformly associated with
      hospital-acquired infections; however, MRSA strains have emerged that thrive outside the
      hospital environment, causing significant morbidity and mortality among immunocompetent
      individuals, leading to their designation as community-acquired methicillin resistant
      Staphylococcus aureus (CA-MRSA).

      CA-MRSA has become a major source of morbidity and mortality in our pediatric population. An
      important prerequisite for S. aureus infection may be nasal carriage of the organism. A
      variety of decolonization strategies have been used for infection prophylaxis, primarily in
      patients undergoing hemodialysis or surgery, with varying results. However, there are no
      published randomized eradication trials evaluating the decolonization and prevention of
      CA-MRSA infections in immunocompetent children in the outpatient setting. While the
      transmission of CA-MRSA within households has been reported, its contribution to recurrent
      CA-MRSA infection among household members is undetermined. The investigators hypothesize that
      spread of CA-MRSA among household members leads to recolonization or failure of
      decolonization in children undergoing eradication efforts.

      Specific Aim: In pediatric patients presenting with a MRSA skin or soft tissue infection,
      compare the effectiveness of decolonization measures performed by an entire household in
      comparison to measures directed at the index patient alone. The investigators will conduct a
      randomized, controlled trial to test the hypothesis that decolonization measures performed by
      the entire household, specifically application of intranasal mupirocin ointment and bathing
      with chlorhexidine liquid soap, in addition to education and basic hygiene interventions,
      will be twice as effective in eradicating CA-MRSA carriage in the index patient than if the
      measures are performed only by the index patient.
    
  