
    
      GM-CSF is a drug designed to stimulate the immune system. It will increase the number of a
      certain type of blood cell called neutrophils and macrophages.

      Rituximab is a drug designed to bind to a protein, called cluster of differentiation antigen
      20 (CD20), that is on the surface of the leukemia cells, allowing the leukemia cells to be
      destroyed by the immune system.

      Before you can start treatment on this study, you will have what are called "screening
      tests". These tests will help the doctor decide if you are eligible to take part in the
      study. You will have a complete medical history and physical exam, including routine blood
      tests (about 2 tablespoons). A bone marrow aspirate will be collected. To collect a bone
      marrow aspirate, an area of the hip or chest bone is numbed with anesthetic and a small
      amount of bone marrow is withdrawn through a large needle. Imaging studies (such as a chest
      x-ray or CT scans) may be performed. Women who are able to have children must have a negative
      blood pregnancy test.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will receive GM-CSF as an
      injection under the skin, three times a week for eight weeks. You will receive rituximab by
      vein, once a week for four weeks. Usually, the first dose of rituximab requires several hours
      to complete. Later doses should usually be shorter, but may vary according to individual
      tolerance. Acetaminophen (Tylenol), diphenhydramine hydrochloride (Benadryl), and steroids
      (hydrocortisone or similar) will be given before rituximab to decrease the risk of side
      effects. If side effects do occur during the infusion, you will need to stay at the hospital
      and be observed until the side effects have gone away. Other than that, treatment will be
      given on an outpatient basis.

      During treatment you will have routine blood tests (about 1 tablespoon) once a week. The
      treatment will take about 8 weeks to be completed. You will be taken off study if your
      disease gets worse or if the side effects become too severe.

      After treatment is over, you will have a complete physical exam, including routine blood
      tests (about 2 tablespoons). A bone marrow sample will be taken. Imaging studies (such as a
      chest x-ray or CT scans) may be repeated to evaluate the effect of the treatment. If this
      treatment has worked for you, your doctor may advise you to receive it again for a second
      time.

      You will then return for post-treatment evaluation every 6 months for 1 year and then once a
      year for 3 years or until you start a new treatment.

      This is an investigational study. GM-CSF and rituximab have been approved by the FDA for
      clinical use. Their use together in this study, however, is experimental. Up to 130 patients
      may take part in this study. All patients will be enrolled at M.D. Anderson Cancer Center.
    
  