
    
      The project is designed as a cross-sectional comparative epidemiological study, to be
      conducted in areas with high water iodine and adequate iodine intake, respectively. The
      research will include the following three stages.

      First stage: In an initial contact phase of the study, workshops on the subject matter will
      be held in Shandong province. Regions will be sampled according to the monitoring data on
      water iodine collected by the Shandong Institute for Endemic Disease Control and Research,
      which will be a collaborative department for this study, as well as the pre-investigation.
      Areas in Shandong with water iodine ranging from 150μg/L to 800μg/L iodine, corresponding to
      urinary iodine excretion (UIE) of 300-800μg/L, will be investigated as high iodine intake
      areas (HI); regions with varying water iodine levels within this range will be included.
      Matching areas in Shandong with 10-100μg/L iodine in water, corresponding to UIE of
      100-299μg/L, will be selected as the comparison areas of adequate iodine intake (AI).
      Refresher courses will be given to investigators and the capacity of laboratory staff will be
      updated. All relevant local authorities will be properly contacted. Pre-investigations will
      be conducted to determine the water iodine level and the former iodine status of residents,
      which will help the investigators to select suitable study areas. A pilot study will be
      conducted in a small number of subjects, including 24h urine collection and 3d dietary record
      to ensure that these methods are appropriate and feasible.

      Second stage: A cross-sectional study of iodine intake and thyroid function in 7-14-yr-old
      children will be carried out. This stage mainly includes two parts.

      In Part 1, 24-h and spot urinary samples (2 times) from all children will be collected to
      precisely evaluate the daily iodine intake of subjects. Spot urinary samples will be taken
      before collection of the 24-h urine samples. Teachers and parents will be trained to help
      children in performing the collection. 3d dietary records will be used to collect information
      on food and nutrient intake of participants. The parents (or guardian) and children will be
      trained on how to record food intake. The dietary record may be started any day of a week and
      correspond to the day of urine collection. The record will comprise all home food and water
      intake as well as out-of-home food consumption. Food frequency questionnaires (FFQ) will be
      used in combination with the dietary records to evaluate long-term habitual iodine intake.
      Simultaneously, food samples, including locally-consumed foods with relatively high iodine
      content and those which local residents generally consume frequently, will be sampled to
      determine iodine content, as will salt and water.

      In Part 2, Blood samples will be collected to evaluate thyroid function and thyroid
      auto-antibodies, and thyroid volume of children will be detected by ultrasonography which
      will be conducted by professional technicians

      Third stage: Iodine intake of all children will be calculated precisely and comprehensively
      through both 24-h UIE and dietary iodine intake (as described in Part 1). Adverse effects
      will be defined by parameters detected in Part 2.
    
  