
    
      Patients and materials: The patient population will consist of patients age 10-16 that have,
      or are close to having, a full permanent dentition, and present to the clinic with Class II
      malocclusions with more than 1/2 unit II molar relationship. (Normal or deep overbite cases
      are also included). The treatments to be compared are the three (routinely-used) orthodontic
      appliances: Twin Block, Herbst and Frog.

      Hypothesis: The principal (null) hypothesis is that there is no difference between the three
      appliances in terms of their effectiveness, efficiency and compliance.

      Study design: The study is designed as a multicentre, Prospective Expertise Based Matched
      Controlled Longitudinal Trial and the assessments will be longitudinal in time.

      All patients that consent/assent to be part of the study (and their parents) will receive an
      information leaflet about the study and will be asked to sign an assent form. Patients are
      free to discontinue treatment if they wish to do so. The normal length of orthodontic
      treatment is between 18 and 24 months. Assessments will be taken prior to treatment and
      throughout the treatment period, with regular progress reviews every 3 months, as per
      standard practice.

      Outcomes: The principal outcome for efficiency is the time taken for completion of treatment.
      The principal outcomes for effectiveness are the clinical progress, discomfort (caused by the
      appliance to the patient) and compliance.

      Clinical progress will be assessed by measuring tooth movement on each review appointment,
      using radiographic examination (DPT and lateral cephalograms). Each patient will record
      discomfort in a visual analogue scale (VAS or Likert scale)and compliance by writing the days
      the appliance was not in the mouth for any reason.

      Covariates: Socio-economic variables: age, gender, etc.
    
  