
    
      Traumatic brain injury is the primary cause of pediatric trauma related morbidity and
      mortality. Currently there is no reparative therapeutic option available, and all
      interventions are designed to prevent injury progression or secondary brain injury.
      Pre-clinical data suggest that progenitor cellular infusions may reduce the severity of
      injury by a number of proposed mechanisms. The current study proposes a Phase 1 Safety Trial
      using stored autologous UCB to treat patients that sustain a severe or moderate TBI, and have
      not fully recovered as measured by the Glasgow Outcome Score-Expanded/Child at 6 to 18 months
      post-injury. We have chosen to use one bank that uses standardized processing and storage
      protocol to reduce cell product variability.

      Families who have banked hUCB at Cord Blood Registry, Inc. (CBR), will be prospectively
      notified of the possibility of using their child's stored UCB if they sustain a moderate or
      severe TBI and have a persistent deficit at 6-18 months. Prior to enrolling in the study,
      patients will have their medical records, imaging studies reviewed, and a telephone interview
      will determine potential eligibility and exclusion criteria. If eligible, the patients will
      travel to Houston to undergo a medical history and physical exam, neuropsychiatric
      evaluation, DT-MRI imaging of the brain, and baseline laboratory evaluation. The UCB will be
      shipped to the Center for Cell and Gene Therapy for reanimation and
      characterization/determination of release criteria of the cell product (contamination-free).
      The UCB will be infused intravenously and the patient will be monitored as an in-patient in
      the Pediatric Intensive Care Unit (PICU) located within Children's Memorial Hermann Hospital
      for 24 hours, after which the patient will be discharged but will return the next day for a
      final examination. Follow-up visits will occur back at UT-Houston at 180 days, 1 year and 2
      years post-infusion - these visits will include medical history and physical exam,
      neurological and neuropsych evaluations, and DT-MRI imaging of the brain.
    
  