
    
      First step: In this study, the investigators will conduct an open-label controlled randomized
      cluster trial to enroll 400 eligible and voluntary patients with type 2 diabetes from the
      community. 16 physicians will be involved in this study for patient management. Each
      physician will care at least 20 patients as a random unit which will be divided into 4 groups
      for baseline assessment including demographic characteristics, diabetes diagnosis and
      treatment, complication, biochemical indexes and self-management. The involved patients and
      physicians will receive related training. The patients will sign the informed consent form.

      Second step: This study aims to give incentives to physicians or patients or both the
      physicians and patients based on HbA1c improvement. All the patients will sign the informed
      consent form. Regarding to the control group, health courses and community management will be
      given as usual. the investigators will evaluate the condition of patients' medication
      adherence after giving the incentives.

      Third step: MEMS will be used in the intervention to monitoring patients' medication
      adherence. As a monitoring instrument, MEMS (Aardex, Zurich, Switzerland) is a plastic
      container with a spring-loaded device in the cap. Each time the bottles is opened for at
      least 3 seconds, the time and date of opening are recorded and saved. Based on the research
      data and the HbA1c improvement, this study will analyze the other factors which affect the
      patients' adherence to medication. Meanwhile, the investigators will collect patients'
      information such as blood pressure, biochemical index, complications related to diabetes,
      life quality, self-management, life style, health behavior, medications, health expenditure
      so as to evaluate the affect of incentive strategy on the adherence to medication among
      patients with type 2 diabetes.

      Endpoint of the study:

      The study will be ended in 12 months, endpoint measurement indicators are listed below:

        1. The study will be ended in 12 months

        2. Patient's drop out of the study

        3. Stopping taking oral hypoglycemic drugs

        4. The diabetic condition worsen, needs surgery or hospitalization treatment

        5. Frequency of severe hypoglycemia or other complications that can not continue the study

        6. Death of the patient
    
  