
    
      The main hypothesis being tested is that a cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) for
      posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) can improve treatment retention and outcomes for both
      posttraumatic stress and substance use disorders. The investigators have completed the Stage
      I Safety & Practicality Study, Feasibility Study and Pilot Randomized Controlled Study
      (comparing CBT for PTSD to versus a control condition) and for all studies found that CBT for
      PTSD was safe and effective in reducing PTSD symptoms, improving retention, and in reducing
      substance use. The present study proposes to continue testing the hypotheses by evaluating
      and comparing the PTSD, retention and substance use outcomes resulting from CBT versus a
      control condition and to treatment as usual. This is termed a "Stage II Efficacy Study" of
      behavioral therapy development and requires comparing the investigational treatment (CBT)
      with a control treatment, within the context of addiction treatment-as-usual (intensive
      outpatient programs). This is a larger randomized controlled trial in response to the
      outcomes of the pilot trial. The proposed research will evaluate the efficacy of a relatively
      simple, manual-guided cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) for PTSD. CBT for PTSD has been
      designed and developed for delivery by counselors employed in community addiction treatment
      programs and offered in conjunction with standard community addiction treatment. Outpatients
      at each of 7 community addiction treatment programs, diagnosed with current PTSD will be
      randomly assigned to receive either: 1) CBT for PTSD in conjunction with standard
      treatment-as-usual (TAU) (n=76); 2) A manual-guided individual addiction counseling (IAC)
      adapted from the Individual Drug Counseling Manual in conjunction with TAU (n=76); or 3) TAU
      (n=76) without additional individual treatment for either PTSD or substance use disorders.
      Treatment will be delivered by frontline counselors from and onsite in the addiction
      treatment programs.

      Our objective is to test the following specific hypotheses:

        1. Patients exposed to CBT for PTSD plus treatment-as-usual (TAU) will show significantly
           greater improvements in PTSD symptom severity relative to patients in the other two
           interventions (IAC+TAU and TAU alone) at both the three-month and six-month follow-ups.
           The IAC+TAU condition will show no greater reduction in PTSD symptom severity than the
           TAU condition at both the three-month and six-month follow-ups.

        2. Patients receiving the CBT for PTSD plus TAU will manifest equivalent reductions in
           substance use severity (drug and/or alcohol) to patients in the IAC+TAU intervention
           conditions at both the three-month and six-month follow-ups. CBT and IAC are both active
           treatments targeting substance use symptoms. The CBT+TAU and IAC+TAU condition patients
           will exhibit greater reductions in substance use than patients in the TAU condition at
           both the three-month and six-month follow-ups.

        3. Patients in the CBT condition will have better retention in the addiction treatment
           program relative to the IAC+TAU and TAU alone intervention conditions. IAC+TAU will have
           better retention in the addiction treatment program than TAU alone.

      This study involves a three-group repeated measure design. Within the NIDA stage model, it is
      a randomized controlled trial with a matched-attention control condition. The investigators
      plan to examine the outcomes associated with the intervention versus control condition versus
      treatment-as-usual among patients receiving outpatient addiction treatment services
      (intensive outpatient programs). The investigators will employ assessments at baseline,
      three-month follow-up, and six-month follow-up. Eligible subjects will be randomly assigned
      to the study CBT therapy (plus addiction treatment-as-usual), the matched attention control
      condition (individual addiction counseling [IAC] plus addiction treatment-as-usual) or the
      addiction treatment-as-usual, and all will be followed for the research assessments
      regardless of whether they drop out of treatment early (whenever possible).

      Patients admitted to the participating addiction treatment programs are routinely screened
      for PTSD using a brief self-report survey, the PTSD checklist (PCL). These forms are
      collected by clinical staff of teh treatment program and scored for PTSD diagnostic criteria.
      Patients scoring 44 or greater on the PCL are approached by a clinic staff about potential
      interest in the study. If they wish to learn more about the study, research coordinator (or
      on-site employee) is contacted, a suitable time arranged, and the patient engaged in the
      process of informed consent.

      If consent is granted, the subjects completes the baseline assessment. The baseline
      assessment consists of measures gathered via interview by a member of the research team,
      self-administered surveys completed directly by the subject, and review of the subject's
      medical record to extract demographic, substance use, and treatment history information, as
      well as chart diagnoses.

      The interview portion of the assessment consists of:

        -  Standardized interviews designed to assess PTSD and other commonly associated axis I
           DSM-IV diagnoses: Clinician Administered PTSD Scale (CAPS) and the Structured Clinical
           Interview for DSM-IV (SCID).

        -  A urine screen and breathalyzer to test for alcohol and other drugs.

        -  Standardized follow-back method for gathering data on recent alcohol and drug use:
           Time-line Follow-back Calendar (TLFB).

      The self-administered portion of the assessment consists of measures designed to assess:

        -  Alcohol and drug use, as well as associated problems in other life areas such as
           medical, employment, legal, social, and psychiatric: Addiction Severity Index (ASI)

        -  Treatment utilization: Recent Treatment Survey (RTS).

      If the subject continues to meet criteria for PTDS (i.e. the CAPS interview confirms
      diagnosis of DSM-IV PTSD, with symptom severity at 44 or higher), he or she is randomized to
      receive the study CBT therapy, control condition (IAC), or treatment-as-usual (TAU).

      Research assessments are then also conducted at three months and six months post baseline
      assessment. This follow-up assessments will consist of the same measures administered at
      baseline, with the exception of the SCID interview.

      The investigators plan to randomize approximately 228 subjects in the study (76 to CBT, 76 to
      IAC, and 76 to TAU).
    
  