
    
      Two groups of subjects will be recruited to participate: Normal hearing adults and adults
      with mild to moderately severe hearing loss, ages 18-65. Pure tone audiometrics (re ANSI,
      1996) will be done to ascertain the hearing sensitivity through 6ooo Hz. Normal hearing will
      be defined as thresholds at or better than 20 dB HL (re ANSI, 1996). The only exclusion
      criterion for the group exhibiting hearing loss is that no thresholds up to and including
      3000 Hz will exceed 75 dB, so as to minimize the inclusion of subjects with "dead regions" in
      the cochlea.

      Subjects will be seen for four visits to the laboratory. The first visit will involve
      documentation of informed consent, and measurement of hearing thresholds. The second, third
      and fourth visits will consist of testing with the following measures (in random order for
      each subject) to determine if the various implementations of the wind noise reduction
      algorithm 1) impact speech perception ability, and/or 2) impact sound quality perception.
      Each session will take approximately 1.5 hours, with a maximum of six hours over all the
      sessions. The two speech perception tests that will be utilized include : 1) Connected Speech
      Test and Hearing in Noise Test, 2) The Hearing in Noise Test (HINT) (Nilsson, Soli, &
      Sullivan, 1994; Koch, Nilsson & Soli, 1995. Overall Impression of Sound Quality and Ratings
      of Annoyance will be used as subjective, or self-reported, measures of preference. Overall
      Impression will be influenced by the audibility and masking effect of the noise bursts,
      whereas Annoyance ratings are significantly correlated to the high frequency emphasis of the
      stimulus, a potential impact of the extreme suppression conditions (e.g., -18 dB) (Warner &
      Bentler, 2002; Miedema & Vos, 2003). Both measures will be analyzed as a function of the
      different time constants, gain reduction levels, and level of presentation.
    
  