
    
      Parkinson's disease is one of the most frequent causes of disability among the elderly. It is
      a chronic-progressive neuro-degenerative disease, characterized by several motor disorders.
      The balance disorder is a symptom that involves the body axis; it is due to a reduction in
      the straightening reflexes, so the subject is not able to correct any imbalances. Balance
      disorders do not respond to dopaminergic therapy used in Parkinson's disease. Therefore,
      physiotherapy becomes an important intervention for the management of motor disorders.
      Originally, these rehabilitative approaches were based on empirical experiences, but several
      scientific evidence suggests that neuronal plasticity is exercise-dependent. In this context,
      robotic rehabilitation performs an important role because it allows to perform task-oriented
      exercises and to increase the number of repetitions and their intensity. This protocol study
      aims to evaluate an innovative rehabilitation treatment of the elderly patients with
      Parkinson's disease, designed to improve the gait and to reduce the risk of falling. The
      treatment involves the use of two robotic devices: Tymo system and Walker View.

      This study is a single-blinded randomized controlled trial. 195 patients with PD will be
      recruited and randomly divided into three groups, to receive a traditional rehabilitation
      program or a robotic rehabilitation using Tyro system or Walker View in addition to the
      traditional therapy. Assessments will be performed at baseline, at the end of treatment and 6
      months, 1 year and 2 years from the end of the treatment. A 10 treatment sessions will be
      conducted, divided into 2 training sessions per week, for 5 weeks. The control group will
      perform traditional therapy sessions lasting 50 minutes. The technological intervention group
      will carry out 30 minutes of traditional therapy and 20 minutes of treatment with a robotic
      system.
    
  