
    
      These two studies will extend our examination of self-determination theory (SDT) based
      counseling interventions to the issue of maintained abstinence from tobacco use. Two projects
      are proposed, both of which build on the results of our current trial. The first is a
      32-month follow-up of the smoking status of patients in the preceding trial called the
      Smoker's Health Study (self-determination, smoking, diet, and health). That SDT intervention
      (4 counselor visits over 6 months) increased cessation at 6 months relative to community
      care, and was also effective in increasing 12 month prolonged abstinence, and the results
      have been reported in two manuscripts (Williams, McGregor, Sharp, Levesque, Kouides, Ryan,
      and Deci, In press; Williams, McGregor, Sharp, Levesque, Kouides, Ryan, and Deci, 2005). The
      part of this first project that will be conducted as part of this grant will be to complete
      32 month follow-up of smokers in the Smoker's Health Study. The second project is a 3-cell
      clinical trial called the Smoker's Health Project that will examine two extensions of the
      current intervention, both of which place greater emphasis on use of, and adherence to,
      cessation medications. The two arms will be compared to community care. Both arms involve two
      visits with a physician to discuss medications and side effects. In both interventions,
      counselors will address medication adherence. The two arms differ in that patients not ready
      to quit in one arm will receive a smoking reduction approach (with medications) in which they
      first try to reduce their smoking to half and then attempt cessation. In addition, to place
      greater emphasis on medications and to examine medication adherence as a mediator of
      maintained cessation.

      There will be two major changes in the intervention intended to facilitate long-term
      maintenance. First, the intervention will extend over 12 months (whereas the current one
      lasts only 6 months) with meetings during the additional 6 months focusing on maintenance and
      relapse prevention. Second, at least one family member or best friend of each patient will be
      encouraged to meet with a counselor to learn how to be more autonomy supportive with the
      patient around issues related to tobacco. Cessation and maintained abstinence will be
      examined with logistic regression. The SDT process model of maintained cessation will be
      tested using structural equation modeling, and cost-effectiveness analyses will be done for
      the interventions.
    
  