
    
      Essential tremor is common, affecting about four percent of the population above age 40
      years. Of these, about half have troublesome tremor that warrants medical therapy, but only
      half of these find satisfactory treatment. Thus it can be estimated that about one million
      Americans have not been able to find adequate therapy for their essential tremor. Presently
      used medications may fail due to lack of efficacy or tolerance. After encountering anecdotal
      experience of zonisamide's efficacy for essential tremor we decided to conduct a single-site
      open-treatment rising-dose study with blinded videotape ratings of tremor. Zonisamide is
      presently on the market in the United States for epilepsy. Its use in other conditions is
      experimental.

      Healthy participants with bilateral hand tremor will initially sign an IRB-approved informed
      consent form, then have assessments in a Screening Visit to determine that they are healthy
      (physical and neurological examinations, routine blood tests, electrocardiogram) and tremor
      assessments with rating scales. Tremor at each visit will be videotaped, as well as assessed
      openly by a rater. If participants meet eligibility criteria, they will return to a Baseline
      Visit (Visit 1) for repeat tremor assessment and the initial dispensation of zonisamide.

      The study drug initially will taken as one 50-mg tablet a day, then the dose increased by one
      tablet each two weeks, to no more than 3 tablets (150 mg) taken twice a day. During this
      12-week dose adjustment phase, the participant will be seen in clinic each 4 weeks for tremor
      assessments and review of health status. In addition, the participant will be contacted by
      telephone each week. If any symptom occurs suggestive of side effects, the escalation will be
      stopped or the dose reduced in order to resolve the symptom.

      At the end of the 12-week dose adjustment phase, at Visit 4, it will be determined whether
      meaningful tremor reduction has occurred at the target dose of 300 mg per day or at a lesser
      but tolerated dose. If not, the participant will discontinue from the study. If benefit has
      occurred, the subject will be invited to continue taking zonisamide for another 12 weeks, at
      the conclusion of which the participant will be seen in the final visit (Visit 5).

      The videotapes will be coded so that the order they were made is not apparent, and the degree
      of tremor will be rated by a rater who does not know the study participants.
    
  