
    
      This clinical trial tests the combination of humanised A33 monoclonal antibody tagged with
      radioactive iodine 131 (131I-huA33) together with capecitabine chemotherapy in patients with
      advanced colorectal cancer.

      When colorectal cancer has spread to other organs, it is generally considered incurable but
      with a limited number of treatment options. Colorectal cancer cells express proteins on their
      surface known as antigens, and one of these is called the A33 antigen. An antibody which
      targets the A33 antigen was initially developed in the mouse and found to bind to human
      colorectal cancer cells. Because humans developed immune reactions when given the mouse
      antibody, an antibody, which is more like normal human antibodies, was developed (humanised
      A33 antibody). In order to increase its effectiveness, radioactive iodine (131I) has been
      attached to the antibody so that the antibody can deliver radiation directly to colorectal
      cancer cells. Previous studies have shown that both the unlabelled humanised A33 antibody as
      well as the humanised A33 antibody tagged with radioactive iodine can be administered safely
      to humans with no major allergic reactions. The addition of chemotherapy to radiolabelled
      131I-huA33 may result in a treatment that is more effective for the treatment of colorectal
      cancer than either agent alone.

      The purpose of this study is to determine whether it is safe to give humanised A33 antibody
      tagged with radioactive iodine together with chemotherapy. Different dose levels of
      radioactive iodine attached to a constant dose of antibody will be given together with a
      fixed total daily capecitabine chemotherapy dose. Providing humanised A33 antibody tagged
      with radioactive iodine and chemotherapy is tolerated well without major side effects, the
      dose of capecitabine chemotherapy given with 131I-huA33 will also be increased in order to
      determine the highest dose that can be given safely in combination with radio-labelled
      131I-huA33. The effectiveness of the treatment combination against advanced colorectal cancer
      will also be assessed.

      Patients with advanced colorectal cancer who have never previously received chemotherapy
      using capecitabine may be eligible to participate in the study. A total of between 15 and 30
      patients are expected to be recruited.

      Screening blood tests will be performed to determine eligibility, as well as baseline heart
      and lung function tests and appropriate scans to measure tumour size and assess radiation
      within the body. Patients will be given a trace labelled (small radiation dose) infusion of
      131I-hu A33 into a vein followed a week later by the treatment infusion of 131I-hu A33. The
      first infusion will be given as an outpatient but for the second patients will be
      hospitalised and confined to a radiation shielded room until radiation levels fall to safe
      limits. Oral iodine drops will also be given for 28 days in order to protect the thyroid
      gland from the effects of radioactive iodine. Capecitabine chemotherapy will be taken orally
      and will commence at the time of the treatment infusion. Each cycle of capecitabine
      chemotherapy involves the medication being taken twice per day for a total of 14 days
      followed by 7 days rest. A total of 4 cycles of capecitabine will be given after the
      treatment infusion.

      Blood samples will be taken just before the treatment infusion and then weekly for 9 weeks
      and again at 12 weeks. There will be weekly physical examinations until 9 weeks after the
      treatment infusion and again at 12 weeks. Total study duration is 13 weeks from the trace
      labelled infusion of 131I-hu A33, that is 12 weeks from the treatment infusion of 131I-hu
      A33. Patients will only receive one treatment infusion of 131I hu-A33 antibody.
    
  