
    
      After nearly three decades of Swaziland's national HIV response, a rigorous, population-based
      measure of the above biological endpoints will provide a valuable follow-up assessment of the
      impact of the national HIV program. National HIV prevalence and incidence surveys have been
      carried out in several countries including Uganda (2004), Tanzania (2003), Kenya (2007,
      2012), and Swaziland (2011). Specifically in Swaziland, the 2011 SHIMS survey provided
      critical data on national-level, population-based HIV prevalence, HIV incidence,
      self-reported antiretroviral therapy (ART) use and viral suppression (VS) among adults 18-49
      years. Importantly, SHIMS 2011 lacked data on HIV incidence among participants aged 15-17
      years and adults older than 49 years, and HIV prevalence among children 0-14 years. Lack of
      this vital information limits effective national program planning, resource mobilization, and
      allocation.

      SHIMS 2, 2016 will measure HIV incidence and other HIV-related measures, such as CD4 T-cell
      count distribution, viral load setpoint (VLS), and prevalence of ARV metabolites and
      transmitted HIV in Swaziland. SHIMS 2, 2016 will provide an opportunity to characterize the
      current status of the HIV epidemic and provide greater clarity on the impact of the national
      HIV program. It will provide important updated information on HIV incidence and uptake of
      HIV-related services that will allow for measurement of program impact and progress towards
      90-90-90 targets. The survey will also estimate the prevalence and distribution of selected
      behaviors typically associated with HIV acquisition and transmission, for targeted programing
      in the continued scale-up of HIV services.

      SHIMS 2, 2016 will assess the impact of the HIV control efforts in Swaziland, and inform
      programs moving forward to better tailor the approaches to the most impactful intervention
      areas and groups that need them. The data will be used to assess country specific HIV
      indicators, including the impact of the expansion of HIV prevention and treatment programs to
      facilitate effective monitoring of national HIV programs.
    
  