
    
      This is a short longitudinal preliminary study that aims to describe the dynamics of
      low-density subclinical malaria to support the final study design of a subsequent matched
      cohort study. In this study, a small number of asymptomatic infections detected by
      ultrasensitive PCR (usPCR) will be followed and tested intensively for three months to
      measure the temporal dynamics of these infections. A much larger number of uninfected
      individuals will be followed for just 2-4 weeks (two visits), providing a comparator group
      for the infected cohort. The validity of our results in a subsequent matched cohort study
      depends, in part, on our ability to accurately classify infection status using a single usPCR
      result. In other words, do the investigators have sufficient confidence in the correct
      classification of malaria infection positive and negative status using usPCR test at the
      beginning of the study? While there is no gold standard test more sensitive than usPCR,
      repeated usPCR testing offers a surrogate. Presumably, in a low transmission setting, someone
      who is truly uninfected on the first testing should remain negative on multiple consecutive
      tests, but this remains to be confirmed.

      The investigators will enroll study participants in up to six study sites, each with >2
      villages, towns, unions, refugee camps or plantations, or a single military base. Alternative
      and additional sites may be added to ensure enough infected cases. The investigators will
      screen for eligibility (age at least 0.5 year; able & willing to strictly follow study
      protocol and to provide written informed consent or assent as appropriate) and enroll and
      consent eligible individuals. Study procedures are based on test results:

        -  RDT-positive: one-time enrollment for data and venous blood collection; Refer to and
           ensure appropriate treatment by care providing team; No study-related follow up

        -  RDT-negative: Collect data and DBS samples; Return to research clinic in 2-4 weeks

        -  PCR-negative participants: One follow up visit approximately 2-4 weeks after enrollment

        -  PCR-positive participants: Five follow up visits at approximately 4, 6, 8, 10, and 12
           weeks (for those with total 12 weeks follow up) or 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 weeks (for those
           with total 6 weeks follow up) after enrollment

        -  Finger stick blood sampling with be done for RDT and dried blood spot sampling in all
           participants at each scheduled and unscheduled visit.

        -  Venous sampling will be done for participants with RDT+ infections detected at times
           when study staff trained for venous sampling are present. Blood volumes at any time
           point are limited to 2 mL for children aged < 3 years, 3 mL for age 3-5 years, and 5 mL
           for older children and adults.

        -  Estimated duration of study:18 months
    
  