
    
      This is a Phase 1 dose escalation study, designed to evaluate the safety, feasibility,
      efficacy and kinetics of third-generation autologous anti-CD19 CAR T-cells, WZTL-002, in
      patients with relapsed or refractory B-cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma without other curative
      options. A 3+3 dose escalation design will be used to identify a Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD)
      of WZTL-002 using pre-defined Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT) criteria.

      Eligible participants will undergo leukapheresis to harvest peripheral blood mononuclear
      cells, the starting material for the manufacture of the autologous third generation anti-CD19
      CAR T-cell product, WZTL-002. After WZTL-002 manufacture and confirmation that product
      release criteria are met, participants will receive lymphodepleting chemotherapy comprising
      fludarabine and cyclophosphamide on days -5 to day -3, inclusive. WZTL-002 will be
      administered intravenously on day 0 as a single dose.

      Following WZTL-002 administration, participants will be monitored closely for 14 days,
      including targeted assessments for the specific CAR T-cell related toxicities of Cytokine
      Release Syndrome (CRS) and Immune Effector Cell Neurotoxicity Syndrome (ICANS). Initial DLT
      assessment will occur at day 21 after WZTL-002 infusion. A PET/CT Scan to assess treatment
      response will take place 3 months after WZTL-002 infusion, marking the end of the primary
      follow up period. The secondary follow up period will occur between 3 months up until 2 years
      after WZTL-002 treatment. Long term follow up within the trial will occur annually from 2 to
      5 years after WZTL-002 treatment, with further follow-up within the Center for International
      Blood and Marrow Transplant Research (CIBMT) Cellular Therapies Registry and the Australasian
      Bone Marrow Transplant Recipient Registry (ABMTRR). In addition to clinical data, this study
      incorporates sample collection for exploratory endpoints including serum cytokine profile
      following WZTL-002 infusion, and WZTL-002 expansion, persistence and phenotype.
    
  