
    
      Heart failure with reduced left ventricular ejection fraction (EF) is a relatively common
      cardiac pathology with major clinical implications. People with reduced left ventricular EF
      are at increased risk for sudden death, ventricular and atrial arrhythmias, and acute
      hemodynamic decompensation due to heart failure. There are proven medical interventions that
      prevent sudden cardiac death and complications in people with decreased left ventricular EF.
      Unfortunately, some people with decreased left ventricular EF are asymptomatic, or have
      non-specific symptoms like dyspnea, and would not receive those interventions in a timely
      manner. Currently, there are no effective ways to screen for asymptomatic decreased left
      ventricular EF in the population, because detection of low EF requires the use of
      echocardiography. There is a significant need to identify novel technologies that can help to
      detect people with decreased left ventricular EF in a simple, effective, and reliable manner.

      Eko Devices features a cloud-based platform of point-of-care cardiac screening devices and
      machine learning algorithms that enables more effective detection and management of
      cardiovascular disease. In this study, we will use the Eko DUO device to collect single-lead
      ECG data.

      The Eko DUO is an FDA-cleared and CE-marked electronic stethoscope that allows audio
      recording of heart sound to produce a phonocardiogram (PCG) as well as recording a
      single-lead electrocardiogram (ECG). The DUO features 60x audio amplification, ambient noise
      reduction, a 4000Hz sample rate, and 4 audio filters. The ECG component is made up of 2
      stainless steel electrodes, 0.01Hz high-pass filter, selectable 50/60Hz mains filter, and a
      500Hz sample rate. The de-identified auscultatory DUO recordings transmit wirelessly via
      Bluetooth to the secure, HIPAA-compliant Eko application on a smartphone or tablet, which
      allows the user to playback heart sound recordings, annotate notes on recorded audio, and
      save recordings. This data is synced in real-time to a secure, HIPAA-compliant, cloud-based
      Amazon Web Services (AWS) database server managed by Eko Devices.

      It has been previously demonstrated that artificial intelligence processing information from
      a 12-lead ECG can help to identify people with decreased left ventricular EF1. Using paired
      12-lead ECG and echocardiogram data, including the left ventricular ejection fraction, from
      44,959 patients at the Mayo Clinic, a convolutional neural was trained to identify patients
      with low ejection fraction. When tested on an independent set of 52,870 patients, the model
      showed an Area Under the Curve ("AUC") of 0.93 and an accuracy of 86%. We have also developed
      a single-lead version of the same algorithm, which will be more easily accessible in a
      clinical setting since it can be used with a single-lead ECG device like the Eko DUO device.
      We propose to validate performance of this new model using the current study.
    
  