
    
      While life expectancy has grown by approximately 30 years in the last century in western
      countries, the age at menopause has increased by 2-3 years only. Thus, women are exposed to
      postmenopausal symptoms and disorders related to estrogens drop for a considerable period of
      their lifetime. The management of these frequent disorders is an important public health
      issue. Although recent data from the WHI randomized trial have demonstrated that late
      postmenopausal women (mean age 63.3 years) taking oral conjugated equine estrogens and
      medroxyprogesterone acetate in a continuous combined regimen for prevention of coronary heart
      disease have an increased risk of developing cardiovascular disease and breast cancer, there
      is no question that treatment of menopausal symptoms with HRT (Hormone Replacement Therapy)
      in younger women aged around 50 years is a clinically beneficial treatment. This is even
      truer for women who enter menopause earlier than 45 years. It is prudent not to extend the
      results of the WHI trial, as such, to other forms of HRT preparations, routes, dosages and
      regimens or to early postmenopausal women with no apparent risk factors for CVD. Recently
      data from a non-randomized study, the Million Women Study, have suggested that oral combined
      regimens are associated with an increased and that transdermal estradiol does not increase
      more than oral treatment, and in general may be less harmful: for instance, transdermal
      estradiol has no effect on vascular inflammatory markers in contrast to the increase observed
      with oral CEE (conjugated equine estrogens). Notably, more recent data on the estrogens-alone
      group of the WHI trial show a lower breast cancer risk than the combination, suggesting a
      important role of progestin in the risk, and a significant reduction in colon cancer.

      The increased risk of developing breast cancer, mostly estrogens receptor positive,
      particularly with the combination of estrogens and progestin, has been associated with an
      increased expression of estrogens receptors in the healthy breast tissue, thus leading to an
      enhanced sensitivity to the estrogens signal. Moreover, reproductive factors such as early
      menarche and delayed pregnancy are also associated with a higher risk of estrogens receptor
      (ER) positive breast cancer. Thus, the addition of a SERM may reduce the hormone
      growth-promoting effect on the breast gland. Tamoxifen has been investigated in four large
      cooperative phase III trials for breast cancer prevention in at-risk women. While the
      preliminary results of the Italian Tamoxifen Prevention Study in hysterectomized women showed
      no difference between arms, a recent update after 7 years of follow-up suggests that the
      combination of HRT and tamoxifen has a favorable effect and might even be synergistic. At a
      mean observation time of 81 months, a 25% reduction of breast cancer was noted in the
      tamoxifen arm compared with placebo (45 versus 34 events, Hazard Ratio, HR= 0.75, 95% CI,
      0.48-1.18). While there is no difference in the subset of women who never took HRT before or
      during the trial (HR=1.01, 95% CI, 0.60-1.70), women, who at some point before or during the
      study, had ever taken HRT (n=1584) had fewer breast cancers in the tamoxifen arm (6 on
      tamoxifen versus 17 on placebo, HR=0.35, 95% CI, 0.14-0.89). Among the women continuously on
      HRT during the trial (n= 754), breast cancer events were 3 for women on tamoxifen versus 11
      for those on placebo, respectively (HR=0.30, 95% CI, 0.08-1.06). Notably, 76.9% of HRT users
      received transdermal unopposed ERT and further 6.5% took transdermal ERT combined with
      progestins. Importantly, recent result from the IBIS I trial indicate that there is no
      evidence that HRT use affects the tamoxifen benefit. Recent studies suggest that the standard
      dose of tamoxifen may be reduced to one quarter (5 mg day) without significant loss of its
      beneficial effects on circulating biomarkers, mostly reflecting cardiovascular risk.
      Moreover, the efficacy of doses as low as one twentieth of the standard 20 mg/day dose on
      breast cancer cell proliferation has been recently shown. Since the endometrial effect of
      tamoxifen is dependent on treatment duration and dose, a dose reduction might reduce the risk
      of endometrial malignancies, while retaining its preventive efficacy. On the other hand, the
      addition of HRT containing progestins could further minimize the risk of endometrial cancer
      associated with tamoxifen. Moreover, estrogen should reduce the incidence of vasomotor and
      uro-genital symptoms, which are a major reason for tamoxifen withdrawal in prevention
      studies. In the NSABP trial, women aged 50 or younger demonstrated no significantly increased
      incidence of severe adverse events, including endometrial cancer and, even more importantly,
      venous thromboembolic events (VTE). One possible explanation for the lack of severe toxicity
      in premenopausal women is the concomitant presence of adequate circulating estrogens levels
      which prevent tamoxifen from acting as an estrogens agonist on these target tissues. Notably,
      in the IBIS I trial, no significant excess of endometrial cancer and VTE was noted in the
      women on HRT who were allocated to tamoxifen compared to placebo.

      The above background provides the rationale for a phase III chemoprevention trial in
      postmenopausal healthy women HRT users and Tamoxifen: the HOT Study (Hormone replacement
      therapy Opposed by low dose Tamoxifen).
    
  