
    
      An acquired brain injury (ABI) is a complex injury often followed by a broad range of
      cognitive, physical, emotional, and behavioral disabilities. Because of these disabilities,
      most patients with ABI find it challenging to remain in or return to work/education
      post-injury even though approximately 75% of these patients are of working age.

      Vocational rehabilitation (VR) is often a prolonged process leading to high cost to the
      health care system and society. Barriers to VR success include the severity of the ABI, age
      at injury, income and education pre-injury, but also challenges directly related to the
      workplace. Often, the employer has little or no knowledge about the consequences of an ABI
      and, in addition, lack of communication regarding the challenges and needs in relation to
      work-related tasks influence the VR.

      Even though returning to work has proven important for long term ABI survival and increased
      levels of quality of life standardized research-based VR programs targeting patents with ABI
      have been lacking. It has previously been shown that support from specialized VR teams help
      patients with ABI returning to work post-injury but only few studies have examined the long
      term effect.

      Previous VR interventions have been performed similarly to all patients even though ABI is a
      broad diagnostic category with various degrees and characteristics. Thus, VR interventions
      that are tailored to each patient might be proven more efficient and effective in enhancing
      returning to work.

      This study is an interventional, two-arm, 6-month follow-up, cluster randomized controlled
      trail including 84 participants with an ABI allocated randomly (allocation ratio 1:1) to the
      VR intervention and control group that consists of a conventional VR program (usual care).

      The main objective of the study is to develop an individually targeted manual-based VR
      program and determine its efficacy for patients with ABI. It is hypothesized that

        -  more participants allocated to the VR intervention group will have a significant higher
           employment or study rate (measured in hours) at 6-month follow-up when compared to
           participants receiving the conventional VR program provided by the municipalities
           (control group).

        -  health-related quality of life (HRQoL) and disability among the participants and that
           HRQoL and caregiver burden among the caregivers are significantly improved at the end of
           the VR intervention and at 6-month follow-up when compared to the conventional VR
           program.

      A budget impact and possibly a cost utility analysis will be performed since the
      investigators hypothesize that it will be an economically sound decision for the
      municipalities to invest in a specialized VR when compared to the conventional VR program.

      The duration of the study is three years and the assessments will take place at baseline and
      at the end of the intervention (approximately after 6-9 months). In order to determine any
      long term effect of the intervention, follow-up assessment is planned after 6 months.

      The 84 patients included in the study will be recruited from four municipalities in the
      Zealand Region and Capital Region of Denmark in the period between April 2017 and July 2017.

      In order to avoid confounding between the VR intervention and the control group due to random
      probability, the number of cases and controls within each of the four municipalities is fixed
      to be the same (+1/-1). Due to the prospective nature of the inclusion, which practically
      means that the number of patients included within each municipality is not a priori known,
      the randomization is performed by randomly assigning the first patient within each
      municipality to either the VR intervention or the conventional VR program. The following
      patient (within each municipality) is then assigned consecutive to the other group.

      This manual-based VR study comprises the following three phases:

        1. Initial assessment: Within two weeks after the referral to the study, each patient will
           meet with the rehabilitation team of the project at the Brain Injury Centre BOMI
           (Roskilde, Denmark).The participant will be fully informed about the content of the
           study, how participation is voluntary, and how they are free to withdraw at any time
           during the study. If written informed consent is obtained, each patient are assigned a
           unique trial ID number and baseline questionnaires will be filled out together with the
           following socio-demographic, employment, and clinical data (gender, date of birth,
           residence, civil status, nationality, income, pre-injury employment and education
           status, pre-injury occupation status, length of education, time since the brain injury,
           type and location of the brain injury, number of days hospitalized, the date of
           discharge, clinical diagnoses or any relevant medical events, and alcohol consumption or
           abuse).

           Each patients included in the VR intervention group will be asked to choose at least two
           family members to participate in the family intervention and one family caregiver which
           will participate actively in the individual sessions and serve as future support and
           resource facilitator to assist them in returning to work.

           To exclude recruitment biases, patients that meet the eligibility criteria but refuse to
           participate in the study will be asked a few questions about their refusal.

        2. The VR intervention program: The VR intervention lasts for a total of 6-9 months and
           consists of first six different modules (3-month) that are individually planned based on
           the patient needs and goals, and second a work placement program (approximately 3-6
           month). To ensure a uniform procedure of each of the different modules, comprehensive
           "standard operating procedures" (SOP's) will be developed by the rehabilitation team at
           the Brain Injury Centre before the beginning of the VR intervention. All members of the
           rehabilitation team will be thoroughly trained in the VR intervention.

           The six modules will be grouped into (a) individual therapies which includes
           neuropsychological sessions (10-hours), balance between work and everyday life
           (20-hours), and job matching (10-hours), (b) grouped-based therapies which includes
           psycho education (18-hours), mindfulness (15-hours), and physiotherapy training
           (15-hours), (c) an manualized family intervention program (8 sessions of 90 minutes),
           and an individual caregiver coaching, supporting the caregiver in assisting the patient
           using the different strategies and tools learned in the intervention in everyday life
           and at the workplace (12-hours), (d) a work placement program including work practice
           (3-6 month), supported employment by the rehabilitation team (30-hours), and the
           development of a post rehabilitation plan (4-hours).

        3. Post-trial evaluation: An evaluation of the VR intervention will be performed by a
           self-developed semi-structured interview of each patient. Here, questions related to the
           recruitment procedure, the modules of the study, the timing of modules, and the coaching
           by the rehabilitation team will be collected. Furthermore, will all case managers at the
           four municipalities that referred participants to the study be asked about their
           experiences.

      Individuals allocated to the control group will receive the conventional VR program provided
      by the four municipalities over the same period of time. Thus, the participants in the
      control group will receive VR support by the local municipal authority that may vary in
      content and intensity. As for the intervention group, each individual in the control group
      will select a family caregiver that will go through the same questionnaires as the caregivers
      in the VR intervention group regarding health-related quality of life and functional level.
      Furthermore, the case manager at the municipalities will oblige to (1) hand out the baseline
      questionnaires to the participants and their family caregivers, (2) complete a questionnaire
      about each participants at the beginning, the end of the study, and again at 6-month of
      follow-up.

      A budget impact analysis of the financial streams related to ABI for the two compared
      interventions will be performed to examine the affordability of the interventions. The health
      gains will be quantified by the standardized questionnaire EQ-5D-3L (health profiles, and
      self-perceived health status). If relevant and feasible, a cost-utility analysis (quality
      adjusted life years (QALYs)) from a societal perspective will be performed.

      Data on financial streams and costs are collected from the patients when discharged from
      hospital to the end of the follow-up period of the study by a self-developed questionnaire to
      the participating municipalities. In order to calculate the present value of the future gains
      of the interventions a discount rate of 4 % will be applied. Statistical uncertainty on the
      results will be calculated, in addition, to sensitivity analysis on critical assumptions
      (difference-in-difference analysis).

      Data will be stored in a secure password-protected electronic database hosted by the Brain
      Injury Centre BOMI following Danish legislation. Data will be collected prior to the
      intervention (baseline), after four months of intervention (month 4), at the end of the
      intervention (month 9), and a 6-month follow-up (month 15) by various questionnaires. All
      assessments will take place at the local rehabilitation center and will be done by 2-3
      research assistants blinded to the intervention. Each assistant will receive thoroughly
      training in the assessment and will continue to be supervised throughout the study period

      Ethical issues:

      The study has been reported to the Danish Data Protection Agency (registration number
      2016-41-4950). The Regional Ethical Committee of Copenhagen, Denmark, has stated that the
      study does not need their approval (komitélovens §1 and 2). The study will be carried out
      according to the local legal and regulatory requirements, and data will be handled according
      to the guidelines given by the Danish Personal Data Protection Agency.

      All participants must give written and oral informed consent to participate in the study,
      including their consent to publish the results. If any participants are under the age of 18
      they will provide a verbal acceptance while their parents will complete the written consent.

      We expect a very low risk for adverse effects. However, increased fatigue in the intervention
      group could occur since a more intense program is followed. Furthermore, VR could for some
      participants be perceived as stressful and inclusion of the family caregivers could result in
      a higher risk for intra-family conflicts. The first session in the family intervention
      program includes psychoeducation in how to recognize, handle, and cope with situations that
      might escalate emotionally. All adverse effects will be reported.

      Sample size and power:

      The primary endpoint "hours at work/study per week" is assumed to follow a poisson
      distribution with an overdispersion of 4. Under this assumption, the relation between average
      hours at work for the conventional VR treatment, the expected surplus of hours by the VR
      intervention and the study power is calculated for a study with n = 42+42 = 84 participants.
      A study with 10 hours of work for the conventional VR treatment and 14 hours of work for the
      VR intervention leads to a study power of 0.8 at level alpha = 0.05.

      Statistical analysis:

      Baseline characteristics of the participants will be reported to ensure homogeneity between
      the VR intervention and the control group. Differences between baseline characteristics for
      continuous variables will be tested by an independent samples t-test /Mann-Whitney U test
      dependent on the distribution of the data. Categorical variables will be analyzed by a
      Chi-square test.

      The differences between the VR intervention and the control group for the primary and
      secondary outcomes will be analyzed using repeated measurements statistical tools and
      multilevel analysis including possible confounders.
    
  