
    
      Obesity is a main threat to public health in western countries. This condition increases the
      risk of developing type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular diseases, physical stress disorders,
      dispose for cancer and contributes to increased overall morbidity and mortality. However
      sustained weight loss lead to the reduction of risk factors and improvement of several
      obesity related co-morbidities.

      Currently there are mainly two established treatments for severe obesity: a conservative
      approach through lifestyle intervention and a surgical approach with bariatric surgery. The
      gut microbiota is recognized as an environmental modulator of nutritional uptake and body
      weight. This has led to the hypothesis that the gut microbiota could be a therapeutic target
      fighting obesity. Fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) has been applied for more than 50
      years, and is a established treatment for refractory recurrent infection with Clostridium
      Difficile (CDI). Recent scientific studies have also applied FMT as treatment for other
      diseases like inflammatory bowel disease, irritable bowel disease and even metabolic syndrome
      and the results are promising.

      The sample size is determined based on data from the outpatient clinic at UNN Harstad medical
      department. Patients here have an average weight loss of 2,5 % with conservative treatment.
      This will therefore be the expected result in the control group (receiving placebo). A weight
      reduction of 5-10% leads to significant improvement of health and quality of life, and a
      weight change of this magnitude is therefore the hypothesis. The difference between the two
      groups is estimated to 7,5 %. With these historical results, the sample size is estimated to
      be 19 patients in each group. Extreme values will be eliminated; more than 3 SD out of the
      average in the group. In this patient group, we must also be prepared to high degree loss of
      follow-up near one third, which is also the experience from the clinic. We will include
      totally 60 patients, 30 in each group.

      The investigators are planning a randomized, double-blinded and placebo controlled
      prospective trial with sixty patients to investigate the effect of fecal microbiota
      transplantation (FMT) on body weight in patients with severe obesity. In the trial there will
      also be collected data that possibly could give a better understanding of mechanisms of this
      correlation; with insulin resistance, blood pressure, complete body scan, inflammation and
      biochemical parameters of hepatic steatosis, changes in the patients microbiota and the
      development in quality of life as secondary outcome measures.
    
  