
    
      Aim : To compare, among patients with an uncontrolled moderate to severe asthma, the blood
      eosinophil levels of smokers and non-smokers.

      Hypothesis: Uncontrolled never-smoker asthmatics (NSA) will have a greater level of blood
      eosinophils than uncontrolled asthmatic smokers (AS) (difference in blood eosinophil count at
      least superior to 100 eosinophils per μL).

      Secondary aims: In uncontrolled moderate to severe asthmatic subjects, to compare between
      asthmatic smokers and non-smokers: sputum eosinophils counts, fractional exhaled nitric oxide
      (FeNO), pre and post bronchodilator FEV1 / Forced vital capacity (FVC), Asthma-related
      quality of life, asthma exacerbations during the year preceding enrolment in the study,
      Medical direct and indirect costs related to asthma during the year preceding enrolment in
      the study, and adherence to asthma treatment during the year preceding enrolment in the
      study.

      Methods: Cross sectional observational study. Never-smoker and smoker asthmatics treated with
      at least 2 controller medications with a smoking history ≥10 pack/year with a ACQ score ≥ 1.5
      points will be identified in the Quebec registry in respiratory health (RESP). Their clinical
      data will be matched to the "Régie de l'assurance médicale du Quebec" (RAMQ) and "Maintenance
      et exploitation des données pour l'étude de la clientèle hospitalière" (MED-ECHO)
      administrative databases and database on medications dispensed in community pharmacies to
      patients with private drug insurance (reMed) in order to access to data on medical services,
      hospitalisations and medications delivered by pharmacies. The subjects identified in the RESP
      database fulfilling the definition of moderate to severe uncontrolled asthma will be
      contacted. The Asthma Control Questionnaire (ACQ) will be administered to the subjects over
      the phone. Subjects with an ACQ score ≥ 1.5 points will be invited to come to the research
      center of Sacré-Coeur Hospital. During a unique visit at the Hospital du Sacré-Coeur de
      Montréal, after signature of the consent form, 80 asthmatic smokers and 80 non-smoker
      asthmatic subjects will be asked to complete questionnaires regarding asthma control (if the
      delay between telephone interview and visit to the hospital exceed one week), quality of
      life, and asthma impact on daily activities. FeNO will be measured first. They will then
      perform spirometry. Sputum induction will be performed to obtain sputum cell counts. Blood
      will be drawn to obtain blood eosinophil count and serum cotinine. We will be able to compare
      between asthmatic smokers and non-smoker asthmatics: blood eosinophil counts, sputum
      eosinophils counts, FeNO, pre and post bronchodilator FEV1 / FVC, asthma-related quality of
      life, asthma exacerbations during the year preceding enrolment in the study, Medical direct
      and indirect costs related to asthma during the year preceding enrolment in the study, and
      adherence to asthma treatment during the year preceding enrolment in the study.

      Significance: Anti-interleukin 5 have been shown to be very effective in reducing asthma
      exacerbations in asthmatic subjects with eosinophilic inflammation with frequent asthma
      exacerbations. However, smokers have been excluded from these studies. It will be important
      to determine the burden of asthma in this group of subjects in term of healthcare utilization
      and productivity at work, in order to evaluate whether or not they may benefit from this type
      of medication. If we show that the direct and indirect cost related to asthma are higher in
      asthmatic smokers than non-smokers, it will be even more important to characterize the airway
      inflammation of this group of subjects in order to determine whether they are likely
      candidates to receive new biologic agents in order to improve asthma control, decrease their
      healthcare utilization and improve their productivity at work.
    
  