
    
      GOALS

        1. General Check the effectiveness of physical therapy applied to the pelvic floor muscles
           used as an adjunct to standard treatment (amitriptyline hydrochloride) on the
           improvement of symptoms of vulvodynia.

        2. Specific

      Check and compare in women with vulvodynia before and after being randomly assigned to three
      treatment arms (drug only drug associated with therapeutic exercise or medication associated
      with electrotherapy with CI):

        -  Pain during intercourse and during the swab test obtained by Visual Analogue Scale
           (VAS);

        -  The scores obtained in the questionnaire Female Sexual Function Index (FSFI);

        -  The change in the volume of puborectal, pubococcygeus and iliococcygeal muscles accessed
           through Tridimensional Ultrasound (US3D);

        -  The variation of the perfusion of the pelvic floor muscles by pudendal artery obtained
           by 3D ultrasound;

        -  The effectiveness of therapeutic exercise in the improvement of vulvar pain to test swab
           and sexual intercourse by penetration in women diagnosed with vulvodynia;

        -  The effectiveness of electrical therapy with interferential current in the improvement
           of vulvar pain to test swab and sexual intercourse by penetration of women diagnosed
           with vulvodynia;

        -  Compare the effectiveness of electrical therapy and kinesiotherapy in the improvement of
           vulvar pain;

        -  Compare the effectiveness of physical therapy as an adjunct to standard against standard
           treatment alone.

      SUBJECTS AND METHODS:

        1. Study design:

           clinical trial randomized controlled single-blind. Designed according to the CONSORT
           standards, pending completion of the project after approval by Brazil Platform for final
           implementation, scheduled for July 2016.

        2. Sample size:

           To calculate the sample size, we sought in literature studies addressing the main
           variables to be analyzed in this study (FSFI score after physical therapy intervention
           and medication versus medication, change in visual analog pain scale before and after
           the intervention).

           The study whose design and statistical analysis were closer than we propose in this
           project was used to calculate the sample, and its purpose was to compare in women with
           vulvodynia, the improvement in pain using the VAS pain and sexual function index using
           the FSFI after undergoing sessions of transcutaneous electrical stimulation (TENS) (65).

           Assuming type II alpha error probability equal to 0.05 and study of power equal to 80%,
           and considering the average VAS score of 8 (± 3.4) and 2.2 (± 6.1), the sample size
           calculation estimated using the Small software Stata 13.1 was n = 16 for each group,
           totaling n = 48. However, as a study with follow-up two months and assuming loss of
           follow-up of 20% of the total number of the sample, we assume a sampling size n = 58.

        3. Variables and concepts:

      3.1 Independent Variables Vulvodynia Characterized by present or absent, it is diagnosed by
      the presence of vulvar pain sexual penetration or touch gynecological self-reported, burning
      to light touch in the lobby (swab test [13]) and erythema. It can be classified as localized
      or generalized.

      3.2 Dependent Variables Muscle thickness - Measure cross the levator ani muscle given in
      millimeters, obtained by 3D US in three situations: rest, maximum voluntary contraction and
      Valsalva; Perfusion pudendal artery - blood flow of the pudendal artery, given in millimeters
      per square centimeters (mm / cm2) obtained by 3D US.

      Pain referred to the swab test - referred pain to perform the swab test, playing with a swab
      certain points of the vulvar vestibule, pointed using the visual analog scale (VAS) ranging
      from zero to 10, where ten is the highest grade concerning the higher pain threshold.

      Pain said the vaginal penetration - mean referred pain during sexual intercourse with vaginal
      penetration, pointed using the visual analog scale (VAS) ranging from zero to 10, where ten
      is the maximum note to higher pain threshold.

      FSFI - female sexual function index, as measured by the score obtained by the
      self-administered questionnaire FSFI (Female Sexual Function Index), which proposes to
      evaluate women's sexual response in the areas: desire, arousal, vaginal lubrication, orgasm,
      sexual satisfaction and pain. Assesses the relative strength of each field of female sexual
      response and transform subjective measures in objective, quantifiable and analyzable data.
      Applied in therapeutic exercise before and after the program applied to the pelvic floor.

      3.3 Control variables BMI: body mass index, obtained by dividing weight in kilograms by
      height in meters squared. Categorized to assess the degree of obesity of an individual, it is
      considered underweight when BMI <20; ideal weight BMI = 20 to 25; overweight BMI = 26 to 30;
      moderate obesity BMI = 31 to 35; severe obesity BMI = 36 to 40; Morbid obesity BMI = 41 to
      50; super obesity BMI> 50.

      Gestation: number of times the respondent became pregnant, including abortions until the day
      of the interview (self reported); Delivery type: delivery route number taken by the
      respondent to the day of the interview, self reported, classified as: C-section; Forceps,
      vaginal; Frequency of sex: number of sexual contacts per month in the last six months (self
      reported); Number of sexual partners: number of partners in the last six months (self
      reported); Frequency of physical activity: number of times a week practicing physical
      activity on average in the last six months (self reported); Type of physical activity: type
      of physical activity carried out in the last six months (self reported) classified as: (I)
      strengthening (weight training, pilates class, functional training), (II) aerobic (walking,
      running, swimming, cycling, wrestling) and / or (III) stretching (stretching classes, yoga);
      (IV) sedentary.

      Symptoms or pelvic floor dysfunction signs: self reported complaint by the patient in
      relation to the perineum such as dyspareunia, dysuria, redness, cracking, itching, vaginal
      flatus, urinary incontinence, fecal incontinence.

      Treatment for vulvodynia used before kinesiotherapy: techniques and previously tested
      therapies to reduce the nuisance caused by vulvodynia.

      Drug name, time and amount of drugs administered during the period of participation in the
      survey.

      3.4 Descriptive Variables Age: elapsed time in years from the date of birth and date of the
      first interview, said the participant. Given in ordinal numbers; Education: number of years
      of study referred to by the subject. Given in ordinal numbers; Marital status: marital status
      of the subject at the time of the study. Categorized in (I) with a steady partner and (II)
      without a professional occupation; Skin color: skin color referred to by the subject.
      Categorized into (I) White and (II) not white; Smoking: current smoking habit, self reported
      by the interviewee, considering the options (I) yes or (II) not; Contraceptive methods that
      are used by women in order to prevent conception, informed by the participant, categorized
      into (I) male or female condom, (II) oral hormonal pill, (III) injectable hormonal
      contraceptive (IV) ligation of the fallopian tubes (V) or levonorgestrel copper intrauterine
      device (VI) rhythm, (VII) withdrawal, (VIII) and vasectomy (IX) other;

      Subject Selection

      Women who attend the outpatient genital infections and sexuality and are diagnosed with
      vulvodynia will be invited to participate in this study. Will also be distributed informative
      pamphlets on chronic vulvar pain and the methodology of this research in specialized clinics
      vulvodynia, vulvodynia groups on the Internet and clinics where researchers involved in this
      study attend. Women who agree to participate in the study aged over 18 years old will be
      interviewed in order to meet the criteria for inclusion in the study (Appendix I). The
      evaluation will be scheduled in the center of comprehensive care to women's health of Unicamp
      (CAISM) in physiotherapy clinic to perform the steps of the research participation.

      The volunteers will be randomized through a computer program in www.randomizer.org obtained
      in three treatment arms: only amitriptyline, amitriptyline combined with kinesiotherapy
      applied to the pelvic floor and electrical therapy associated with the amitriptyline.
    
  