
    
      Chronic dizziness has a prevalence of up to 25% in the community, and 1 in 10 working age
      adults and 1 in 5 older people report some degree of handicap due to dizziness. Dizziness can
      lead to reduced quality of life, anxiety and emotional distress, loss of fitness,
      unsteadiness and vulnerability to falling. Reviews of the management of dizziness have
      concluded that no medication has well-established value or is suitable for long-term use, and
      vestibular rehabilitation (VR) is now recommended as the treatment of choice. Professor Lucy
      Yardley has carried out trials showing that chronic dizziness can be treated effectively
      using a self-help booklet to teach patients vestibular rehabilitation exercises that promote
      neurological adaptation and skill and confidence in balance. These exercises are carried out
      for 10 minutes twice daily at home, and involve gently increasing the speed of making normal
      head movements. However, brief support from a trained nurse was provided in these trials, and
      this model of managing dizzy patients has not been taken up due to a lack of skills and
      resources in primary care.

      We have received funding to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of two new models of delivery of
      vestibular rehabilitation. Our primary aim is to test the hypothesis that provision of the
      self-help booklet teaching vestibular rehabilitation exercises, with up to one hour of remote
      telephone support from an expert vestibular therapist, will be more effective than routine
      care in reducing symptoms (and therefore also disability and handicap) in dizzy patients in
      primary care. We will also explore the extent to which patients may benefit from provision of
      the self-help booklet without support. We will determine whether these models of delivery are
      less costly than routine care of dizzy patients, as they should reduce the number of patients
      seeking referral to secondary care for unnecessary assessments.

      This trial involves patients taking part in either a 12 week self-treatment programme (with
      or without telephone support from an expert vestibular therapist) or routine care, and
      completing questionnaires before and after the self-treatment, and also one year later. We
      will recruit 330 participants with dizziness who are registered with 30 general practices
      around Southampton and Berkshire. The trial will be carried out approximately between June
      2008 and June 2011.
    
  