
    
      Randomized clinical trial with accessible population from the School Clinic of the Adventist
      Faculty of Bahia, Brazil.

      All women enrolled in the Clinical School physiotherapy service with a body mass index (BMI)
      above 24.9kg / m2 will be invited to participate in the study. Sixty-six volunteers who met
      the inclusion criteria were: age between 18 and 30 years, BMI> 24.9 kg / m2 and sedentarism
      included randomly. Women who present cardiovascular disease, metabolic disease, history of
      alcoholism or smoking, use of lipid-lowering drugs, corticoids, diuretics, beta-blockers,
      contraceptives, hypothyroidism, parenchymal renal diseases or diabetes mellitus will be
      excluded.

      The women will be divided randomly into two groups, experiment and control, both with 33
      volunteers.

      Group Exercise After a 12-hour fast, the volunteers will be submitted to a blood collection
      in the antecubital vein to measure basal serum triglycerides, total and fractioned
      cholesterol, glycemia and insulin. From the values of Glycemia and insulin the values of the
      Homa-IR and Homa-Beta index were calculated by the equation proposed by Matthews et al.

      After 12 days after the first blood collection, the patients will perform a physical exercise
      session on a treadmill. The same will be divided in 3 times: heating, conditioning and
      cooling. The heating will be of 7 minutes, the cooling of 5 minutes and the conditioning time
      will be the one corresponding to the energy expenditure of 250Kcal with light intensity based
      on the perception of Borg effort, that is, in the original scale a value between 9 and 11.
      For A better understanding of this scale will be done prior to the day of the exercise
      accustoming the volunteers to respond adequately when asked about the intensity of the
      exercise.

      After the physical exercise session they will be instructed to return home and maintain their
      usual diet. After 24 hours after the first blood collection the volunteers will return to the
      laboratory after a 12-hour fast and will have blood samples collected again. The diet of the
      two days before the blood test will be evaluated through the 24-hour food recall.

      Group control The women in the control group will be submitted to the same data collection
      protocol of the experimental group, but will not perform exercise 12h after the first
      collection and will be instructed not to perform physical exercise in the two days prior to
      blood collection.
    
  