
    
      Interventional radiology is a medical sub-specialty of radiology which utilizes
      minimally-invasive image-guided procedures to diagnose and treat diseases in nearly every
      organ. The concept behind interventional radiology is to diagnose and treat patients using
      less invasive techniques currently available in order to minimize risk to the patient and
      improve health outcomes.

      For many years, surgery was the only treatment available for many conditions. Today,
      interventional radiology treatments are frst-line care for a wide variety of conditions.
      Patients should be offered the least invasive option frst. It is important to get a second
      opinion and know all of your treatment options before consenting to any procedure or surgery.
      Interventional radiologists are specialists in minimally invasive treatments, have a unique
      breadth of training and provide consults to every type of specialist.

      Surgical removal of liver tumors offers the best chance for a cure. Unfortunately, liver
      tumors are often inoperable because the tumor may be too large, or has grown into major blood
      vessels or other vital structures. Sometimes, many small tumors are spread throughout the
      liver, making surgery too risky or impractical. Surgical removal is not possible for more
      than two-thirds of primary liver cancer patients and 90 percent of patients with secondary
      liver cancer.

      The objectives of this study are to demonstrate the technical feasibility and safety of doing
      endomicroscopic imaging during interventional radiology procedure in two main indications:
      lung and liver.

      The goal is to determine whether:

        -  Cellvizio insertion during the interventional procedure leads to change in known adverse
           events / serious adverse events rate during and one month after the procedure

        -  It is technically feasible to obtain images from Cellvizio during an interventional
           radiology procedure

        -  Cellvizio is a helpful assistance to increase the efficacy of biopsy which require to
           evaluate its accuracy eg. the predictive value of Cellvizio compared to pathology
           results.

      Secondary goals are to assess:

        -  Benefit of spatial accuracy for the yield of the biopsy procedure and potential
           subsequent intervention, e.g. radiofrequency ablation.

        -  Regarding lung biopsies and lung ablation, potential increase of a database to refine
           image interpretation criteria with pathologists.

        -  In liver application, the goal is to build a database of images and define image
           interpretation criteria with pathologists to start image interpretation work.

        -  The predictive value of biopsies with Cellvizio assistance for lung or liver tumor
           biopsies.

      For both applications, technical feedback from the physicians is expected on how they think
      the combined use of the devices could change the care path. E.g. a certain step in the
      workflow might become obsolete or the workflow could lead to fewer patient visits.

      For the safety of this protocol, the use of endomicroscopy will not change in any way the
      patient management and standard procedure, including the diagnosis nor treatment decisions.
      All the adverse events / serious adverse events will be noted during the procedure and one
      week after the procedure.
    
  