
    
      Background

      Delirium is a cognitive disorder that affects attention and other mental functions. It has an
      acute onset (in hours or days), a fluctuating course and has various conditioning factors
      such as diseases or withdrawal or intoxication syndromes.

      Delirium is a syndrome with multifactorial origin, it commonly presents in elderly patients,
      with a prevalence of 20%. Delirium develops when basal vulnerability interacts with
      precipitating factors.

      Delirium has three types according to its psychomotor presentation, hyperactive (agitated),
      hypoactive (tranquil) or mixed. Delirium has serious outcomes, such as prolonged
      hospitalization (1), cognitive decline and dementia (2,3,4,), posttraumatic stress disorder
      (5) and a higher mortality (1).

      A neurotransmitter imbalance between acetylcholine and dopamine explains delirium symptoms. A
      dopamine excess has various consequences: hallucinations that are present in 51 %, and
      delusions, present in up to 43% in hypoactive delirium. These symptoms produce acute stress
      in patients and caregivers. It is reported that 53.5% of patients recalled the episode of
      delirium and from these, 55% of them recalled it associated to hallucinations and 95% of them
      to delusions. Family recalled the event as stressful in 66%, nurses in 65% of those who did
      not have hallucinations and in 88% of those who had (6).

      Hallucinations and delusions are risk factors for the development of posttraumatic stress
      disorder, which occurs in up 22% of patients.

      Dopamine increase has been associated to apoptosis for its neurotoxic effects. Inflammation
      has a role in delirium. A study demonstrated that cortisol, Interleukin 6 ( IL-6) and protein
      S100 calcium binding protein B (S 100β) are all associated with delirium (7).

      It is important to note that antipsychotics may have a neuro-protective effect by blocking
      dopamine receptors, and, therefore, diminishing the potential negative outcomes associated
      with dopamine excess. Furthermore in an observational study using haloperidol in the
      intensive care unit there was a decrease in mortality, possibly by its effects on
      inflammation, inhibiting the release of proinflammatory cytokines (8). One of the effects of
      haloperidol in vitro is the induction of interleukin receptor antagonist ( IL-IRA), which has
      shown to have an independent role in delirium. IL-IRA blocks the actions of Interleukin 1α
      (IL-1α) and interleukin 1β (IL-Iβ) . IL-IRA also downregulates ischaemic and excitotoxic
      damage (9).

      Treatment of Delirium

      Psychiatrist, Geriatricians and Neurologists, usually, treat delirium; however treatment
      strategies vary widely among disciplines, due to differences in the practice guidelines and
      local applications of current knowledge among centers. An integration of their treatment
      approaches could offer important clinical advantages. To refer some differences, The American
      Psychiatric Association (APA) Guidelines (10) recommend treatment with antipsychotics for
      elderly patients. Where haloperidol is the gold standard, with a dose of 0.25 to 0.50 mg
      every 4 hours, although the dose may need to be increased for those patients severely
      agitated. There is no mention among all subtypes of delirium. This guideline recognizes the
      non-pharmacologic intervention as part of the treatment.

      On the other hand, Geriatrics Guidelines for the treatment of delirium, mention that the
      treatment of delirium should be mainly based on non-pharmacologic treatment. Restricting the
      pharmacologic treatment for those patients with severe manifestations of agitation (11). The
      NICE Guidelines mention that pharmacologic treatment in hypoactive delirium patients is
      indicated during one week to those patients with distress due to hallucinations (12).

      Authors have mentioned that non-pharmacologic measures have not been assessed in clinical
      trials, and that pharmacologic treatment has not been recommended at this time (13).
      Furthermore, others addressed that currently, treatment with antipsychotics are used where
      non-pharmacologic measures have failed to treat psychotic symptoms. Or when the safety of
      patients or others are compromised, and that clinical trials with antipsychotics are few
      (14).

      As it was mentioned before, there is no standardized treatment of delirium among different
      disciplines. Therefore, it is still on debate to determine which the best strategy in
      treating delirium is.

      As far as we know, there are no clinical trials adequately evaluating haloperidol as the
      cornerstone of management in hypoactive delirium. Nonetheless, those patients who were
      exposed to a higher dose of haloperidol improved significantly with this antipsychotic (15).

      Therefore, it is not known whether hypoactive delirium (the most frequent and difficult to
      recognize) should be treated with haloperidol at lower doses. Or if haloperidol should be
      used only in mixed and hyperactive types of delirium. Though despite few studies that have
      included patients with hypoactive delirium suggest that antipsychotics may have a role in the
      treatment of this delirium subtype (16).

      Statement of the Problem

      Hypoactive delirium is a common condition in hospitalized elderly patients. It is the most
      common type of delirium that carries more difficulty in its diagnosis. It is associated to a
      longer hospital stay, increased expenses associated to its diagnosis and more doubts on the
      most efficacious treatment strategy.

      Surprisingly, even when hypoactive delirium is the most frequent, it is the hyperactive type
      the paradigm of study, and it is the one specifically mentioned in treatment guidelines.

      To the best of our knowledge, there are no studies evaluating specifically haloperidol in
      hypoactive delirium. Some studies have excluded this type of delirium systematically or
      include all delirium subtypes where hypoactive delirium is poorly represented/analyzed.

      Significance of the Investigation

      There are few clinical studies correctly designed, exempt of methodological flaws and
      evaluating the most important clinical outcomes in delirium patients in general. There are no
      randomized clinical trials (RCTs) testing low-dose haloperidol against non-pharmacologic
      measures in the treatment of hypoactive delirium. Just few studies have included patients
      with hypoactive delirium with varying results, contributing to the lack of uniform
      recommendations (16). Currently, its treatment is based on the particular experiences of each
      clinical center without measuring its impact on relevant outcomes.

      Furthermore, there are no studies evaluating perceived stress in patients and their
      caregivers, as well as posttraumatic stress in hypoactive delirium patients. None has
      evaluated cognitive decline after a hypoactive delirium treated either with antipsychotics or
      non-pharmacologic measures.

      The purpose of the present RCT is to bring out knowledge about different treatments in
      elderly patients with hypoactive delirium.
    
  