
    
      Ovarian stimulation, ultrasound and hormonal monitoring, ovulation induction, oocyte
      retrieval, embryology procedure, IVF and luteal support will be according to how they are
      normally performed in our centre.

      All women included will undergo artificial ovarian stimulation with gonadotropin-releasing
      hormone (GnRH) antagonist downregulation with daily injections of either ganirelix or
      cetrorelix. Treating physicians will opt on which exogenous gonadotropins should be used
      according to the patient's profile and preference and can include either recombinant follicle
      stimulating hormone (FSH) or highly purified urinary human menopausal gonadotropin (HP-HMG).
      Ovarian stimulation will commence after it is confirmed that the patient is not pregnant and
      has basal levels of oestradiol, progesterone, FSH and luteinizing hormone (LH). The
      stimulation will be monitored simultaneously by pelvic ultrasound and hormonal analysis
      (oestradiol, progesterone), starting on day 6 of stimulation and then every 1 to 3 days,
      according to the individual endocrine profile and follicular development.

      Final oocyte maturation will be triggered with either 5000/10000 IU of human menopausal human
      chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) or 150 IU of recombinant hCG when more than 2 follicles of ≥17
      mm are present. Oocyte retrieval will be performed 36 hours after hCG administration under
      either local anaesthesia with analgesic premedication or general anaesthesia, according to
      patient preference.

      IVF or IVF/intracytoplasmatic sperm injection (ICSI) will be performed, using the specimen of
      sperm made available by the male progenitor on the day of oocyte retrieval. According to
      embryo quality, embryo transfer to the uterine cavity will be performed on either the 3rd or
      5th day of development under ultrasound guidance whenever possible. Following embryo
      transfer, luteal support will be provided with vaginally administered progesterone 200 mg
      tid.

      For clarity, cycle cancelation is defined as any interruption of the ART process that occurs
      before fresh embryo transfer. Cycle cancelation will occur a) upon patient request, b) if
      inadequate follicular development occurs, c) if no embryo is available for transfer.
    
  