
    
      A pilot study including 30 older adults who have experienced a hip fracture will be carried
      out with participants receiving a specific multi-component intervention with protein
      supplementation (PUSH Plus Protein). Study activities for participants meeting eligibility
      criteria will take place after post-acute rehabilitation ends, up to 26 weeks after admission
      to the hospital for hip fracture. Patients age 60 and older who have had surgical repair for
      hip fracture will be identified in study hospitals or by self-referral and evaluated for
      eligibility. Following consent to participate, eligible participants will undergo a
      comprehensive baseline assessment. Participants completing the entire baseline assessment
      will be eligible to receive the intervention. All participants will receive the PUSH Plus
      Protein intervention. The follow-up assessment will occur after the intervention is
      completed, approximately 16 weeks after baseline testing. The primary endpoint will be
      measured using the Six-Minute Walk Test (SMWT).

      Participants in this pilot will receive the same specific multi-component 16-week
      intervention, PUSH, as participants in the multi-site randomized controlled trial, "Improving
      Community Ambulation after Hip Fracture (CAP)" (NCT01783704). The purpose of this study is to
      test whether adding a protein supplement to the PUSH intervention (PUSH Plus Protein) leads
      to greater improvement in a person's ability to walk in their own home and in the local
      community compared to the PUSH intervention alone; therefore, data in this pilot study will
      be compared to data from participants in the CAP study across the three sites who received
      the PUSH intervention alone (n=105). The working hypothesis is that PUSH Plus Protein will
      lead to greater improvements in ability to walk in the community compared to PUSH.

      Investigators will also compare the effect of PUSH Plus Protein intervention to PUSH
      intervention alone on secondary outcomes in the CAP study believed to be precursors to
      community ambulation as shown in Aim 2 below.

      Investigators can also compare participants in the pilot study to participants who received
      PUSH alone in the ancillary study to CAP, "Mechanistic Pathways to Community Ambulation
      (CAP-MP)" (n=19) to examine whether PUSH Plus Protein has an impact on the mechanistic
      factors on the pathway to recovery of ambulatory ability after hip fracture (Aim 3).

      Aim 1. To test whether PUSH Plus Protein intervention improves community ambulation (as
      measured by distance walked in six minutes) compared to PUSH intervention alone (from CAP
      parent study) at the end of 16 weeks.

      Aim 2. To assess the effects of PUSH Plus Protein on precursors to community ambulation
      compared to the PUSH intervention alone (CAP study). To determine the effects of PUSH Plus
      Protein intervention, compared to PUSH, on several other outcomes in CAP including activities
      of daily living (ADLs), quality of life, lower-extremity physical performance, increase of ≥
      50 meters in distance walked in six minutes, cognitive status, and nutritional status.

      Aim 3. To determine the effects of PUSH Plus Protein intervention on the mechanistic factors
      compared to PUSH intervention alone (CAP-MP ancillary study). To determine if, at the end of
      the 16 week intervention, participants in the PUSH Plus Protein intervention, compared to
      PUSH alone, have: a) greater muscle volume and attenuation (i.e., reduced intra-muscular fat)
      of the thigh; b) greater lower extremity strength; c) better gait parameters; d) greater bone
      mineral density and bone strength; e) more bone formation and less bone resorption; and f)
      lower levels of circulating inflammatory cytokines.

      Aim 4. To determine safety and tolerability of delivering the PUSH Plus Protein intervention
      to hip fracture patients. This pilot study will be used to estimate the sample size
      requirements for a more definitive study.
    
  