
    
      The key method of colorectal examination is colonoscopy. The result, diagnostic significance
      and therapeutic safety depend a lot on the quality of bowel preparation. One of the main
      purposes of colonoscopy is detecting the earliest forms of colorectal cancer and
      prognostically meaningful small nonpolyposis neoplasms. The good and perfect bowel
      preparation is essential in this case.

      However, the bowel preparation for colonoscopy must fulfill the following criterias:

        -  Be effective, that means to empty colon of faeces, residual liquid and foamy content
           fully and safely;

        -  Harmless, no side effects on the other organs and systems;

        -  Do not cause discomfort nor change to electrolyte balance, well tolerated;

        -  Do not affect the severity of bowel disease nor cause macro- and microscopic colon
           mucose changes;

        -  Quick response with short preparation period (no more than 24 hours);

        -  Easy to use, so patient could perform it independently or with the least medical staff
           participation;

        -  Do not require special conditions, equipment and staff training (possibility to perform
           at home);

        -  Do not distort the endoscopic image (colour, shape, reflexion);

        -  Do not limit the use of vital dyes or other means of endoscopic diagnosis and treatment;

        -  Do not damage the endoscopic equipment;

        -  be cheap . Bowel preparation schemes usually include diet (low-residue) and oral
           laxative intake. The low-residue diet should last no more than 24 hours before the
           colonoscopy according to the European Society of Gastrointestinal Endoscopy clinical
           recommendations.

      The time factor is essential for quality of bowel preparation. If the colonoscopy is
      performed in the first half of day the intake of the part of laxatives (usually a half) on
      that day (split-mode or separate) provides a better result in comparison to full dose intake
      on the colonoscopy day or the evening before it.

      Bowel preparation might be fully undertaken (in full volume) in the morning of examination
      day for patients undergoing colonoscopy in the afternoon according to some studies. In the
      case of laxative intake on the morning of examination day, excellent preparation quality and
      good patient tolerance was demonstrated in the Varughese S et al. research assessing 4 liters
      bowel preparation scheme efficiency for patients undergoing colonoscopy in the afternoon in
      comparison to intake in the evening before colonoscopy.

      The patient's somatic status and the urgency should be considered for choosing the bowel
      preparation mode.

      Polyethyleneglycol-based drugs have become more commonly used in clinical practice for
      colonoscopy bowel preparation since its appearance in 1980.

      The drug passes through the intestine without being absorbed and metabolized and increases
      the bowel liquid volume, as do all osmotic laxatives. Thus, electrolyte balance is not
      disrupted and effective intestinal lavage occurs. But patient compliance might be influenced
      significantly due to a large volume intake requirement (4 l) and specific organoleptic
      feature.

      Over the course of several years, European and Canadian experts have accepted the sodium
      picosulfate+ magnesium citrate-based low-volume bowel preparation method (2l) as alternative
      option and the FDA has also approved it in July 2012.

      This combined intake scheme allows to prepare intestine efficiently for the examination. The
      sodium picosulfate has a bowel stimulating effect and as osmotic laxative magnesium citrate
      retains water. But the electrolyte balance changes and dehydration may also influence the
      patient compliance to laxative.

      According to the international clinical recommendations for colonoscopy, 4l
      polyethylenуglycol-based laxative in split-mode preparation with an time interval no more
      than 4 hours from the end of preparation until colonoscopy is recommended as a standard
      method. Low-dose polyethylenуglycol-based laxative intake (2l) combined with ascorbate or
      sodium thiosulfate+ magnesium citrate can serve as alternative examination preparation method
      (especially for outpatients). Only polyethylenуglycol-based laxative can be recommended for
      patients with renal failure as bowel preparation method.

      Eziclen - potassium, magnesium and sodium sulphates-based osmotic laxative for colonoscopy
      preparation registered in Russia doesn't have a strong evidence base and is not included in
      national recommendations yet due to its recent market entry (2018) But according to the
      registered multicenter controlled clinical trials assessing the potassium, magnesium and
      sodium sulfates vs. 2l polyethyleneglycol with electrolytes efficiency for colonoscopy
      preparation in split-mode (n=356) and one-day preparation (n=364) (primary endpoint - bowel
      purity degree as "perfect", "good", "bad") as well as non-conceded Eziclen efficiency was
      identified in comparing to the control group (97,2% vs 96,1% and 84% vs 82,9% respectively).
      The side effects frequency was also comparable with control group. There was shown a
      comparable rate of effective bowel preparation (97,2% vs 97,7%) on a background of higher
      patient compliance (95,7 % comparing to 82,3 %) in a similar study assessing Eziclen
      efficiency, safety and patient compliancy in comparison with Macrogol 400 with electrolytes.

      So the investigators aimed our study to investigate efficiency, safety and compliance of two
      low-volume laxatives Potassium Sulfate+ Magnesium Sulfate+ Sodium Sulfate-based (Eziclen) vs.
      relevant volume of Macrogol-3350+ Sodium Sulfate+ Potassium Chloride+ Sodium Chloride+
      Ascorbic Acid and Sodium Ascorbate-based (Moviprep) in bowel preparation for colonoscopy.
    
  