
    
      One of the current difficulties in the management of GIC is the decision to treat and the
      type of treatment to select. Tumour staging and histopathological assessment provides some
      indication of the likely aggressiveness of a cancer and hence the need to treat; however even
      within specific disease stages and histopathological types there is much variability in
      disease outcomes and further sub-categorization is desirable. For the type of treatment to
      select, there are currently no established criteria, despite the fact there is much
      inter-individual variability in response rates and the occurrence of drug toxicity. Currently
      this has also become an increasingly important issue as the numbers of available regimens for
      GIC chemotherapy such as 5-FU, capecitabine, irinotecan, oxaliplatin, gefitinib, erlotinib,
      cetuximab, and bevacuzimab either alone or in combination has recently increased, making the
      treatment selection even more difficult. There is clearly a need for additional prognostic
      (predictive of disease aggressiveness) and predictive (predictive of likely response to
      treatment) indicators for GIC.

      In over 10 years devoted to developing prognostic and predictive markers in different
      laboratories and clinics in Australia, Singapore, Europe and USA, the PI has gained deep
      experience in what it takes to run a successful program for the development of prognostic and
      predictive markers (Soong et al. 1996, Soong et al. 2000, Mattison et al. 2002).

      Firstly needed is a comprehensive database linking clinical, histopathological, treatment and
      outcome characteristics of each case. This provides multiple functional endpoints to
      understand the significance of the candidate marker and a complete overview of likely
      influencing factors.

      Secondly needed is a collection of samples linked to the database that are suitable for the
      testing of candidate markers. In this regard, the types of samples analyzed are also
      critical:

      In the last few years, the distinction between prognostic and predictive markers has been
      found to be increasingly important (Elsaleh et al. 2000). Some cancers may be aggressive
      (poor prognosis) but respond well to treatment giving the appearance of good outcome, while
      others may be relatively benign (good prognosis) but resistant to treatment, giving a poor
      outcome. Without taking this into consideration, some markers considered to be markers of
      poor prognosis may be actual markers of poor treatment response but good prognosis, and all
      the other possible misleading permutations. The methods to clearly delineate prognostic and
      predictive significance have now been defined: Prognostic significance for a marker is
      determined by examining its associations with survival in patients without treatment.
      Predictive significance is determined by comparing the survival of patients with treatment
      against those without in patient subgroups with and without the candidate marker. The
      significance of this is that to clearly develop prognostic and predictive markers,
      investigators need a group of cases that has not received treatment. Since the mid-1990s,
      chemotherapy became a mainstay for advanced GIC cancer and it is now considered unethical not
      to treat, implying the only way to accurately assess a marker on its prognostic or predictive
      significance is to analyze samples pre-mid 1990s with a recording of their treatment status,
      and this can be obtained from archived fixed tissue collections.

      The other sample consideration is that to integrate well into clinical practice, prognostic
      and predictive markers preferably are analyzable on non-invasive samples and are able to be
      proven in prospective analysis. The collection of minimally-inconveniencing blood samples
      would serve this purpose, and to have sufficient sample size available for the validation of
      future prognostic and predictive markers, it would be provident to begin collection as early
      as possible.

      Thirdly, to have sufficient statistical power and understand the complexity of the disease
      from various angles of expertise in the management of GIC, cross-department and
      -institutional collaboration is necessary.

      These factors have gone into the proposal of the specific objectives of this current protocol
      given above.
    
  