
    
      BACKGROUND

      Antimicrobial resistance (AMR) is a growing public health threat that is in part fuelled by
      empirical antibiotic usage. Empirical antibiotic use is often motivated by lack of point of
      care diagnostics a common problem in infectious diseases most of which are life-threatening.
      Tuberculosis (TB), the leading cause of infectious disease mortality, is one of the
      life-threatening illnesses without adequate diagnostics. Just over 50% of TB cases reported
      to WHO annually have confirmed mycobacteriological diagnosis. To complement the diagnostic
      gap, standard diagnostic algorithms include empirical antibiotic use. The antibiotic course,
      referred to as "trial-of-antibiotics", given to mycobacteriology-negative but symptomatic
      adults, is often broad-spectrum aiming to provide treatment for pneumonia. The goal is to
      treat infectious causes of respiratory symptoms other than TB, effectively performing the
      role of a "rule-out" diagnostic test for TB.

      RATIONALE

      Approximately 26.5 million antibiotics courses are prescribed in the course of diagnosis of
      the 5.3 million smear negative TB registrations per annum. Despite this widespread use, there
      is no randomised controlled trial (RCT) evidence supporting the diagnostic accuracy of
      antibiotic trials and their impact on AMR. It is also unknown whether this usage of
      antibiotics can improve clinical outcomes considering that in settings of high HIV
      prevalence, bacterial infection associated mortality just before and during TB treatment is
      high.

      OBJECTIVES

      Primary

        1. To establish the diagnostic value of trial-of-antibiotics for excluding pulmonary
           tuberculosis (PTB) in adults with prolonged cough (and have a valid sputum test result)
           at primary care level in Malawi.

        2. To determine the overall clinical benefit of giving empirical antibiotic treatment in
           primary care participants with chronic cough.

           Secondary

        3. To evaluate using nasopharyngeal Streptococcus pneumonia carriage, the effect of a
           trial-of-antibiotics on selection for antimicrobial resistance.

        4. To establish the diagnostic value of trial-of-antibiotics for excluding pulmonary
           tuberculosis (PTB) in primary care presenting Malawian adults with prolonged cough
           including those without a successful sputum

        5. To estimate the incremental cost-effectiveness of trial-of-antibiotics using
           azithromycin and trial-of-antibiotics using amoxicillin in comparison to standard of
           care, and to each other.

      METHODS To address the evidence gaps related to a) accuracy, b) antimicrobial resistance, and
      c) impact on clinical outcomes), a randomised controlled clinical trial recruiting adult
      patients (≥18 years) presenting to primary care centres in Blantyre, Malawi with history of
      cough for at least 2 weeks, will be conducted. After excluding those with danger signs
      participants will be randomised to receiving or not receiving trial-of-antibiotics
      (azithromycin or amoxicillin) from Day-1 to determine diagnostic accuracy (specificity)
      against mycobacteriology reference standard (smear microscopy, Xpert/MTB/RIF and culture).

      Differences in antimicrobial resistance and clinical outcomes [1)death, 2)hospitalisation,
      3)missed TB diagnosis] will be compared between treatment arms by Day-29.

      To adequately address these objectives, 388 sputum-TB-negative participants will be required
      for each of the three arms (azithromycin, amoxicillin and standard of care).
    
  