
    
      BACKGROUND:

        1. Mortality in patients with chronic liver disease and cirrhosis:

           Chronic liver disease is the 9th most common cause of death in the United States.
           Unfortunately, mortality secondary to chronic liver disease, cirrhosis and its
           complications is expected to increase in the future. This is primarily due to the
           maturation of the Hepatitis C Virus (HCV) epidemic, a rising rate of hepatocellular
           carcinoma (HCC)and an increasing prevalence of non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH).

           Mortality in patients with chronic liver disease is typically confined to patients with
           cirrhosis; and the mortality risk in these patients has long been assessed by the
           Child-Pugh-Turcotte (CTP) score. More recently, the Model of End-Stage Liver Disease
           (MELD) has been shown to more accurately predict 30 day survival in patients with
           cirrhosis. The MELD score is now utilized by the United Network for Organ Sharing (UNOS)
           to prioritize patients awaiting liver transplantation.

           In general, declining liver function and an increase in the CTP and/or MELD scores are
           precipitated by the complications of cirrhosis; gastrointestinal bleeding from portal
           hypertension (variceal and non-variceal), ascites, spontaneous bacterial peritonitis
           (SBP), hepatic encephalopathy (NE), hepato-renal syndrome (types 1 and 2) and HCC.
           Patients are considered to have stable cirrhosis when they have intact hepatic function
           and no prior complications of cirrhosis. Such patients have a CTP score of less than 7;
           reflective of Childs class A cirrhosis. Approximately 3-5% of patients with stable Child
           class A cirrhosis will develop worsening in hepatic function and/or complications of
           cirrhosis and decompensate on a yearly basis. In many patients the development of these
           complications, the deterioration in global liver function and the rise in MELD is a slow
           gradual process which allows sufficient time for successful transplantation. In
           contrast, approximately one-third of patients with cirrhosis develop rapid hepatic
           decompensation a precipitous rise in MELD and die from complications of cirrhosis before
           they can either be considered for or receive a liver transplant. This observation
           explains why pre-transplant mortality for patients on the UNOS waiting list is actually
           greatest in patients with low MELD, not high MELD scores. It is currently believed that
           such patients have marginal hepatic metabolic capacity or hepatic reserve which both
           places them at risk for developing complications of cirrhosis and for rapid
           deterioration when complications occur.

        2. Identifying patients with marginal hepatic reserve at risk for complications and
           decompensation:

           Tests to assess hepatic metabolic function are conducted by administering either
           intravenously or orally a compound with high hepatic extraction ratio and/or rapid
           hepatic metabolism. The rate at which the parent compound is removed from the serum or a
           metabolic product of the parent compound appears in either the blood, urine, breath or
           saliva reflects hepatic metabolic function. Some of the compounds which have been
           successfully utilized for this purpose include choline, caffeine, galactose,
           aminopyrine, erythromycin, lidocaine and methionine and Methacetin [N-(4-Methoxy-phenyl)
           acetamide]. Previous studies utilizing a battery of liver function tests have
           demonstrated that these tests correlate with worsening fibrosis and cirrhosis . The
           hepatic metabolism of lidocaine to monoethylglycinexylidide (MEGX) has been shown to
           decline with increasing liver fibrosis and with worsening stages of cirrhosis, improve
           with successful treatment of the underlying liver disease, and to accurately predict
           which patients with stable cirrhosis awaiting liver transplantation were at risk to
           develop future hepatic decompensation. Unfortunately, administering lidocaine to perform
           this test is associated with parasthesias and could precipitate cardiac arrythmias.
           Thus, while promising as a potential liver function test the use of lidocaine for this
           purpose has been largely abandoned.

        3. BreathID:

      Breath testing with 13C labeled substrates provides a safe, non-invasive means for measuring
      hepatic metabolism. 13C is a stable, non-radioactive isotope which can by incorporated into a
      specific location within a test substrate so that it would be released when the compound is
      metabolized by the liver. 13C-compounds utilized for this purpose are administered orally,
      rapidly absorbed, metabolized by the liver and 13C is is measured in exhaled breath within
      20-30 minutes. Hepatic metabolism of the compound is assessed by measuring the ratio of
      13C/12C in exhaled breath. The ability to detect, differentiate and quantify 13C and 12C in
      exhaled CO2 is has been greatly facilitated by the recent development of the BreathID®
      collection system and analyzer unit. This portable device continuously senses exhaled breath
      for 13CO2 in real-time through a nasal cannula worn by the patient. The Breath ID devise
      utilizing a 13C-urea substrate is currently approved by the Food and Drug Administration to
      test for the presence of H. Pylori infection. The 13C labeled substrate that has been
      utilized with the Breath ID device to assess liver function is methacetin. Preliminary data
      has demonstrated that the metabolism of 13C-methacetin declines with increasing hepatic
      fibrosis in patients with chronic HCV and parallels the clinical course of patients with
      acute liver failure prior to and after liver transplantation.
    
  