
    
      The objective of this proposal is to identify patients with GWI who have a verbal retrieval
      deficit and determine if delivery of HD tDCS over the PreSupplementary Motor Area of the
      brain (preSMA) will improve performance in verbal retrieval-related tasks.

      Key cognitive symptom described by patients with GWI extends from a disruption in the
      cognitive process of verbal retrieval. This is manifested in a variety of dysfunctions
      including word retrieval deficits, verbal fluency disruption and potentially verbal episodic
      memory. The investigators have delineated a circuit of verbal retrieval using functional
      neuroimaging and electrophysiology measures in normal controls and in patient populations
      showing that a circuit of the preSMA-caudate nucleus-thalamus is essential for effective
      retrieval of verbal information. This model has generated specific ERP neural markers of
      successful verbal retrieval and we have studied GWI patients with dysfunction in these ERP
      and functional MRI markers.

      In addition, patients with MS and TBI have been treated by the investigators for similar
      verbal retrieval deficits as those with GWI by using the technique of High Definition
      transcranial Direct Current Stimulation (HD tDCS) over the preSMA region to strengthen the
      connections of this retrieval circuit.

      The investigators hypothesize that application of 1 ma anodal HD tDCS over the preSMA for 20
      minutes a session for 10 sessions over a two week period will lead to improvement in verbal
      retrieval that will be detectable in both performance measures of verbal retrieval tasks and
      in ERP markers of verbal retrieval processing. The objective is to determine if 10 sessions
      of 1 ma anodal HD tDCS to the preSMA for 20 minutes a session are an effective treatment for
      verbal retrieval deficits in GWI.

      The goal of this proposal is to entrain the verbal retrieval circuit using HD tDCS to target
      the preSMA in order to improve retrieval in impaired GWI patients, using behavioral and
      electrophysiological markers to assess outcomes. After identifying GWI patients with
      retrieval deficits using standard neuropsychological measures, the following aims will be
      addressed:

      Aim 1. Administer 10 20-minute sessions of either 1 mA high definition tDCS or sham to the
      preSMA region.

      Subtypes of Gulf War Illness patients have been shown to have dysfunction that disrupts the
      above-described retrieval circuit. Transcranial DCS targeted to the preSMA has been shown in
      preliminary studies in other diseased populations to result in improved performance in tasks
      that engage this circuit by purportedly strengthening potentially weak connections within the
      preSMA-caudate-thalamus circuit for verbal retrieval.

      Hypothesis #1:HD tDCS to the preSMA will produce long-term modulation of the basal state of
      the preSMA-caudate-thalamic-cortical retrieval circuit.

      Aim 2. Assess neuropsychological and electrophysiological (ERP) markers of verbal retrieval
      following tDCS therapy. Long-term modulation of the preSMA-caudate-thalamic-cortical
      retrieval circuit, via tDCS to the preSMA region, will alter the neurophysiological
      properties of the circuit due to modulation of the readiness of the retrieval circuit. This
      will result in changes in neural markers as follows:

      Hypothesis #2a: Neuropsychological measures of verbal retrieval that were impaired at
      baseline will be improved to expected premorbid levels of functioning for the treated
      individuals.

      Hypothesis #2b: Patients with impairments in making a correct retrieval will exhibit both
      high false negative errors and false positive errors compared to norms and a decreased 750-ms
      ERP amplitude difference between retrievals and nonretrievals on the SORT task. The
      investigators hypothesize that after HD tDCS treatment, these patients will improve
      performance and/or have an increase in amplitude difference in the ERP between retrievals and
      nonretrievals.

      Hypothesis #2c: An increase in false negative errors and a decreased "Go" P3 ERP response on
      the Semantic Selection Tasks is indicative of an impaired ability to select a correct memory
      for retrieval. Conversely, there will be increased false positive errors and a decreased
      "NoGo" P3 ERP on the Semantic Selection Tasks if a patient cannot inhibit an incorrect
      memory. The investigators hypothesize that following HD tDCS therapy, there will be a
      normalization of the patient's behavior (reduced errors, improved RTs) and/or ERP responses
      (increased P3 amplitudes for Go and/or NoGo trials) due to modulation of the retrieval
      circuit, with the changes based on the pre-treatment impaired retrieval function (selection
      and/or inhibition).
    
  