
    
      Patients will be prospectively recruited at 5 clinical centers (Rigshospitalet, Karolinska
      University Hospital, Blekinge University, Sahlgrenska University and University of Bergen).
      Clinical definition criteria for NSTI: NSTI is a clinical diagnosis. Initial signs are the
      occurrence of erythema, pain or tenderness beyond margins of erythema and swelling. Imaging
      and laboratory tests have little predictive value in the early stage. The gold standard
      modality for diagnosis of NSTI remains operative exploration. Operative findings that are
      consistent with NSTI include "dishwater or foul smelling discharge, necrosis or lack of
      bleeding and loss of the normal resistance of the fascia to finger dissection. A patient
      admitted for critical care and / or surgery due to severe soft tissue infection of the
      fascia, muscle or subcutaneous tissues will be enrolled in this NSTI study. The patients will
      be stratified based on several clinical parameters including among others SAPS score,
      presence of multiorgan failure, and hypotensive shock. This stratification serves to classify
      the patients in defined severity classes to be used in analyses and modeling. Detailed
      demographic and clinical information will be documented in the interactive database
      including: age, gender, medical history, clinical presentation (shock, multiorgan failure
      etc), treatment and outcome. Disease progress: The clinical database is to contain
      information on the spread of the infection at the different times of inspection/surgical
      intervention. Severity of the infections will be documented by use of the updated CREST
      classification scheme, SAPS III score, and the LRINEC score. Detailed information regarding
      antimicrobial therapy, surgical intervention, innovative therapy (IVIG and HBO) will be
      documented.

      Samples will be collected from all enrolled patients. Standard operating procedures will be
      generated and implemented at all sites to ensure a quality assured collection and handling of
      samples. Samples to be collected include (a) isolates, (b) blood samples to be processed for
      DNA, RNA and plasma/cells and (c) tissue biopsies in all patients whenever surgical
      interventions are indicated. The samples will be analyzed using genomics, transcriptomics,
      metabolomics and proteomics.
    
  