
    
      1. Study Rationale: Epidemiological studies report that 85% of stroke survivors show
           hemiparesis and a percentage ranging from 55% to 75% report upper limb functional
           impairment. Early rehabilitation in stroke patients with motor disorders can be
           effective to restore the affected function and to improve the performance of daily
           activities. Up to now, different methods and techniques have been used to recover motor
           functions in stroke patients, including motor training (active or passive mobilization)
           for the paretic limb, functional electrical stimulation, Constraint Induced Movement
           Therapy (CIMT) and robot-assisted rehabilitation. However, none of these has been
           conclusively proven to be more effective than the others. The clinical benefits induced
           by motor rehabilitation are closely related to "neuroplasticity", i.e. the ability of
           the central nervous system (CNS) to undergo structural and functional changes in
           response to physiological events, environmental stimuli and pathological events. After
           brain injuries, neurorehabilitation should aim at recovering functions and not vicariate
           them. In this context, observation and imitation of actions can recruit the mirror
           neuron system. Mirror neurons found both in the premotor cortex and parietal lobe,
           discharge both during the execution of a goal-directed action and the observation of the
           same or a similar action when performed by another individual. Electroencephalography
           (EEG) and Magnetoencephalography (MEG) studies showed that when an individual observes
           hand actions there is a desynchronization of the motor cortex similar, although weaker,
           to that occurring during actual execution of the observed movements. By means of
           Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS) it has been shown that motor-evoked potentials
           recorded from hand muscles increase during the observation of hand movements. Brain
           imaging studies showed that during the observation of actions performed with different
           biological effectors ( hand/mouth/foot), there is an activation of the ventral premotor
           cortex including Broca's region somatotopically organized. Thus, the motor system may be
           activated during action observation in the absence of overt movements. Based on this
           experimental evidence it has been suggested that action observation may be exploited as
           a rehabilitative approach even when patients can't perform motor output. Action
           observation treatment has been proven to be effective also in the rehabilitation on
           Parkinson's disease patients, in children with cerebral palsy, and orthopedic patients
           with hip/knee replacement.

        2. Aim of the Study: The main aim of the present study is to assess the efficacy of action
           observation treatment in the rehabilitation of upper limb motor functions in acute
           stroke patients and in chronic stroke patients with apraxia. The study will also aim at
           assessing neuroplasticity within areas belonging to the MNS through functional magnetic
           resonance (fMRI).

        3. Study design: monocentric, randomized, controlled trial with 2 parallel arms: Action
           Observation Treatment (AOT) and Observation of videos with no motor content (Motorial
           Neutral Observation (MNO). By describing the study, we will follow the guidelines
           suggested in the CONSORT 2010 Statement

        4. Clinical and functional evaluation: all assessments will be done by a neurologist and a
           physiotherapist not involved in the rehabilitation program and blinded with respect to
           patients' group assignment. The Fugl-Meyer, will be used for the motor assessment of the
           upper extremity (FMA, range 0-66) while the Functional Independence Measure (FIM, range
           18 - 126) will be used for global functional evaluation. In order to investigate
           neurophysiological changes the Modified Ashworth Scale (MAS, range 0-5) as measure of
           spasticity in shoulder abductors, elbow, wrist, finger and thumb flexors will be
           administered. Also the Visual Analogue Scale (VAS, range 0 - 10) for pain assessment
           will be used. At the end of treatment, the subjects will provide a score of satisfaction
           with the therapy (1=poor; 2=sufficient; 3=good; 4=excellent). All patients will be
           assessed from a cognitive point of view with Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE). To
           check for the presence of apraxia, the scales of De Renzi and Goldenberg for ideational
           and ideomotor apraxia will be applied. In order to rule out aphasia, the Token Test and
           the test of free association between words will be used used. Working memory will be
           evaluated by means of verbal and visuospatial span. Depression of mood will be
           investigated in all patients through the Beck Depression Inventory.

           This evaluation and testing will be applied to both acute stroke inpatients and chronic
           stroke outpatients referring to the Stroke Unit of Scientific Institute for Research and
           Treatment (IRCCS) Neuromed.

        5. Study Population and recruitment: A total of 80 patients, including acute stroke
           patients and chronic stroke patients with apraxia, referred to the Stroke Unit of the
           clinical center will be recruited.

           The research staff in charge of the recruitment will pre-screen participants on the
           basis of inclusion/exclusion criteria and will explain the study at this time.

           If the subject is eligible for the study according to the inclusion/exclusion criteria,
           she/he will be included into the trial and randomised, using a computer-based
           random-number generator, to receive daily AOT or MNO. Before inclusion patients and
           controls will be asked to sign an informed consent.

           During AOT or MNO, all patients will undergo conventional rehabilitation treatment, with
           the following activity: passive mobilization of paretic side, muscle recruitment of
           paretic side, induction of postural reaction.

        6. Statistical analysis: before entering further analysis, scores obtained in the Fugl
           Meyer and FIM functional scales will enter Levene's test to assess homogeneity of
           variance in the two groups. Following this, a mixed-design analysis of variance (ANOVA),
           with time (T1, T2, T3, T4) as a within-participant factor and group (case, control) as a
           between-participants factor, will be carried out on the scores. To identify the source
           of significant differences among means, post-hoc analysis will be performed using the
           Newman Keuls test. The significance level for post-hoc comparisons will be set at 0.05.
           To further test the efficacy of treatment, functional score gain (D: score at T3 minus
           score at T2) will be calculated for each group and a planned t-test for independent
           samples performed.

        7. Experimental protocol with Functional Magnetic Resonance (fMRI): an experimental
           paradigm similar to that used by Binkofski et al., 1999 will be used to assess
           activation of sensorimotor circuits related to grasping/manipulation actions before AOT
           and at the end of AOT treatment, with the aim to study re-organization within these
           circuits or to assess the recruitment of alternative areas/circuits following the
           treatment. Subjects will lay supine in the scanner with the head immobilized with a
           pneumatic cushion and the eyes open. The room will be dark. The subjects will be asked
           to manipulate continuously either five complexes objects or a sphere. Each object will
           be placed into the participant's hand at the beginning of an activation phase and
           removed at the end of it by one of the experimenters. As a control, participants will be
           asked to manipulate a sphere. Manipulation actions will include movements of all finger.
           Both hands will be tested, separately. The testing order will be randomized across
           subjects. A block design paradigm will be used with each block lasting 20 s.
           Neuroradiological images will be analyzed with MATLAB (Mathworks Inc., Natiek, MA, USA)
           and statistical parametric mapping package SPM96 (Friston et al., 1994a,b; 1995b, 1997;
           Poline et al., 1995; Worsley & Friston, 1995).
    
  