
    
      Rationale. Assessment and follow up of specifically sensitized subjects with allergic
      rhinitis during the pollen season is traditionally based on symptom scores. Accounting for
      the use of rescue medication on top of symptom scores provides another dimension to the
      overall clinical characterization of the patients. Thus, using "combined symptom and
      medication scores" (CSMS) allows thorough characterization of the disease course. Guidelines
      recommend that CSMS are used for assessment of the effect of allergen specific immunotherapy
      in subjects with allergic rhinitis. Different allergic rhinitis management strategies can be
      evaluated and compared by means of CSMS. In the update of the ARIA guidelines of 2010, 24
      recommendations have been made in relation to pharmacologic treatment. Special position paper
      has been devoted to severe chronic upper airway disease (SCUAD), the treatment for which has
      been earmarked as unmet need.

      Consequently, a standardized and universally recognized rescue treatment strategy does not
      exist. The most common approach for handling nasal complaints in real life consists in using
      rescue medication for symptoms whenever they appear. This is certainly the case when symptoms
      appear for the first time ever, or when patients do not want to resort to allergen specific
      immunotherapy (ASIT) and / or regular oral antihistamine treatment for financial reasons or
      personal beliefs. Under these circumstances, a long list of pharmacological choices for local
      or systemic application is possible including antihistamines, corticosteroids, leukotriene
      antagonists, cromones and antimuscarinic drugs.

      Formulations for local application in the nose appeal to patients with their ease of use and
      immediate relief. They comprise a variety of generic drugs: decongestants, antihistamines,
      corticosteroids and antimuscarinics. The fact that they are not ingested makes them first
      choice for people reluctant to take oral medications. In many cases it is possible to control
      the symptoms of allergic rhinitis with these formulations used per se or as adjunct rescue
      medication in the course of ASIT.

      The question stays whether the effectiveness of nasally applied drugs can further be
      improved. Despite the good rationale for their mechanism of action, their efficacy is
      diminished by the cleaning mechanisms of the nose, rhinorrhea in particular. Slowing down of
      the clearance of the nasal mucosa and prolonging the contact time with the nasal mucosa would
      enhance their pharmaceutical effects. The investigators have demonstrated by objectively
      measuring nasal flow rates that "sealing" in place locally applied oxymetazoline in subjects
      with persistent allergic rhinitis by means of commercially available
      hydroxyl-propyl-methyl-cellulose (HPMC) significantly enhances the resulting decongestion and
      that this effect is augmented over a time span of 2 weeks without noticeable tachyphylaxis or
      adverse events.

      The investigators set the aim to investigate whether this beneficial effect of HPMC
      translates into clinical benefits in a real life clinical trial for other available drug
      preparations for nasal delivery.

      Study design. ASIT naïve patients sensitized to grass pollens will be recruited for the
      study. All of the patients will be instructed to treat bothersome in-season symptoms when
      they appear (on as needed, pro re nata basis) with rescue medication. The patients will be
      given 5 different options and will be informed about the effects of each of them in order to
      make their optimal choice for different symptoms and their combination: local decongestant
      (xylomethazoline, when congestion is leading), local antihistamine (azelastine, when itching,
      sneezing and rhinorhea a predominant), nasal corticosteroid (momethasone, when all nasal
      symptoms are pressing and no adequate relief is obtained form the other 2 local treatments),
      oral antihistamine (bilastine, when itching and sneezing persist despite the local
      treatments) and oral corticosteroid (prednisolone, when any or all symptoms become unbearable
      despite the other suggested treatments). Patients who are reluctant to use immunotherapy or
      who are too late to initiate it will be randomized to be treated with the listed medications
      on as needed basis, the nasally applied formulations will be followed by either HPMC to
      prolong and enhance their effect (Group HPMC) or placebo (lactose powder) (Group Placebo) to
      serve as control. Patients indicated and willing to carry out ASIT will be treated according
      to the standard protocol with grass allergens sublingually (Staloral #688) and will receive
      rescue medication (Group Immunotherapy).
    
  