
    
      This is a feasibility study to test a brief psychological intervention for post-stroke
      fatigue. 12 stroke survivors with post-stroke fatigue will be recruited for this study. This
      intervention has been adapted from similar interventions that have improved fatigue in other
      conditions, such as multiple sclerosis, cancer and chronic fatigue syndrome. Like in other
      conditions, fatigue in stroke survivors is associated with low mood, people's beliefs about
      overcoming fatigue, and reduced physical activity. This intervention will target patients'
      mood, their beliefs about their ability to overcome fatigue, and the scheduling of daily
      activities, with an aim to increase physical activities in daily life and finally reduce the
      level of fatigue.

      Following the relevant guideline of the United Kingdom (UK) Medical Research Council, the
      investigators will perform a sequence of trials to test the feasibility, safety and
      effectiveness of this intervention. Current study is an initial stage to test the feasibility
      of the intervention, i.e. whether this brief psychological intervention could be adequately
      delivered to people with post-stroke fatigue on an individual basis. To standardize the
      therapeutic components of this psychological intervention, this intervention will be
      delivered by a clinical psychologist in the current study. In subsequent trials, the
      intervention will then be adapted to be delivered by stroke nurses, which is a more practical
      situation within the National Health Service of the United Kingdom.

      Check for eligibility and consent for participation: the investigator will send mails to
      stroke survivors who had a stroke between the past three to 24 months to invite them to take
      part in a survey for post-stroke fatigue and depression. For those who have post-stroke
      fatigue and do not have severe depression, they will be invited to a face-to-face meeting
      with the investigator. At this meeting, the investigator will further check the eligibility
      of each potential participant and answer his/her questions about this study. If the potential
      participant is willing to take part in the trial, him/her will be asked to sign a consent
      form for participation.

      Baseline assessment of clinical outcomes: after signing the consent, the participant will be
      asked to complete four questionnaires for baseline assessment:

        1. Fatigue Assessment Scale

        2. Case definition of post-stroke fatigue

        3. Nottingham Extended Activities of Daily Living

        4. Stroke Impact Scale

      Therapy sessions: each participant will be attending six face-to-face sessions over a period
      of eleven weeks in the hospital. Each session will last for about one hour, where the
      participant will meet a therapist (a clinical psychologist) of this intervention. With the
      support from the therapist, the participant will work through an intervention manual to learn
      skills to overcome their problems related to fatigue, especially for physical activity, mood
      and sleep. There will be intervals of two weeks between sessions. During the intervals, the
      participant will be asked to keep a diary to record their daily activities and sleep, to put
      into action things they have agreed with the therapist (including doing more activity), or to
      read sections of the intervention manual.

      Post-treatment assessment of clinical outcomes: participants will three assessments of
      clinical outcomes, i.e. immediately after completing all six treatment sessions, one month
      after treatment, and three-month after treatment.

        1. Fatigue (Fatigue Assessment Scale and a case definition of post-stroke fatigue)

        2. Depression (Patient Health Questionnaire-9)

        3. Independence in daily life (Nottingham Extended Activities of Daily Living)

        4. Health-related quality of life (Stroke Impact Scale)

      An interim analysis will be performed after one-month assessment and the final analysis will
      be performed after the three-month assessment. Before- and after- treatment assessments will
      show whether the intervention is beneficial for the above aspects and whether these benefits
      could be maintained. The investigator will then write to each participant to inform them of
      the individual results of both analyses.

      Feedback session: at the time of one-month assessment, the participant will be asked to fill
      a feedback form for their experience of this intervention and the trial. The investigator
      will analyze the results of this feedback form as well as the results of one-month
      assessment, and then inform both the participant and the therapist of the individual results.
      Then the therapist will carry out a feedback session with each participant by telephone
      (about one hour). During this session, they will discuss the results of assessments and any
      difficulties that the participant may have experienced in the past month. They will also
      agree a plan to make further improvement.

      Fatigue is a chronic symptom which would require a long term for recovery. Thus this
      intervention with six treatment sessions is expected to be an intensive initial program for
      the recovery of post-stroke fatigue, from which participants will learn skills to overcome
      fatigue-related problems that they can use in daily life. Thus the therapist will encourage
      participants to continue using these skills in their daily life even after completing the
      therapy sessions.

      Feedback meeting: after all participants have completed their feedback sessions, the
      investigator will invite them to a feedback meeting. This meeting will be facilitated by the
      Chief Investigator of this study. At this meeting, participants will share their experience
      in taking part in this trial, discuss any difficulties they have experienced, and make
      suggestions to improve this intervention and the trial processes.
    
  