
    
      Title of Study: Evaluation of the Efficacy of EXPAREL Delivered Into the Thoracotomy and
      Chest Tube Sites After Minimally Invasive Cardiac Surgery

      Hypothesis: There is no difference in, the use of analgesics or the length of analgesia using
      Exparel infiltration when compared to regular bupivacaine.

      Objectives: The investigators are presently using Exparel in patients undergoing minimally
      invasive cardiac surgery. The primary objective of this study is to assess the efficacy of
      EXPAREL when delivered into the thoracotomy and chest tube sites to provide prolonged
      postoperative analgesia in patients undergoing minimally invasive cardiac surgery. Efficacy
      will be assessed by: the effectiveness of analgesia as measured by the subject's overall
      postoperative pain scores and postsurgical analgesic use. The safety of EXPAREL will be
      assessed by the occurrence of all postsurgical adverse events and serious adverse event
      through Day 30.

      Methodology: This is a prospective, open-label, non-randomized study evaluating the
      effectiveness of analgesia when using 266 mg EXPAREL delivered into the thoracotomy and chest
      tube sites by wide local infiltration. All patients in the study will undergo minimally
      invasive cardiac surgery. The total dose of EXPAREL for the thoracotomy and chest tube sites
      will be the same for up to 20 study subjects.: 266 mg of EXPAREL (13.3 mg/mL bupivacaine
      base). EXPAREL will be administered to each site. This total dose of Exparel is not to be
      exceeded in any subject. The thoracotomy and chest tube sites in this study will be performed
      immediately following surgery. Fentanyl will be the only opioid permitted intraoperatively.
      Post-operatively pain medications will be administered per standard of care by the anesthesia
      care team as needed to control the patient's pain. Patients will have access to a variety of
      rescue analgesics with appropriate routes of administration for breakthrough pain (e.g.
      opioids, acetaminophen, ketorolac, other nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs) in accordance
      with hospital standing orders for postsurgical pain management.

      Subject reported pain will be recorded before surgery and at 2, 4, 8, 12, 24, 48, 72, 96, and
      120 hours after the thoracotomy and chest tube site infiltration), and at a generally
      standard scheduled post-hospital discharge visit approximately 10±5 days after surgery.
      (Subjects discharged from the hospital will be contacted by telephone to record the scheduled
      pain assessments). Physician/healthcare professional assessed pain will be recorded when the
      patient is intubated and unable to communicate. Pain will also be assessed at the time of
      hospital discharge and at the last assessment (10±5 days) subjects also will be asked about
      their overall satisfaction with postsurgical analgesia Patients will also be asked to report
      any possible adverse events experienced since hospital discharge. If after Day 10±5 and
      through Day 30, the investigator is made aware of an adverse evevts that occurred during this
      period of time, this should also be recorded on the case report form if the investigator
      feels the event may be related to the study drug.
    
  