
    
      Patient cohort: Two hundred patients will be recruited for this study. Patients will be
      comprised of two groups: an inpatient group of patients from the Internal Medicine Department
      E for which a chest CT is ordered during their hospitalization; and ambulatory patients
      arriving for an ambulatory chest CT in the early afternoon. The treating clinician ordering
      the chest CT for the patients from Internal Medicine E will consent the inpatients while a
      chest radiologist from the Radiology Department will consent the outpatients arriving in the
      early afternoon for a chest CT study. For inclusion in the study, patients will be adults,
      older than 18 years old with the ability to follow orders and hold their breath for 8 seconds
      as determined by the physician at time of study consent.

      Imaging method: All patients consented for this study will be imaged on a dedicated scanner
      for the study, Revolution (GE, Milwaukee, WI). Immediately following the patient's diagnostic
      chest CT scan, an ultra low dose chest CT scan will be obtained. The routine CT scans of the
      patients consented for this study will be performed using our routine protocol on the GE
      Revolution which typically delivers at our institution an average effective dose of 2.9mSv
      (range 0.95-3.01mSv) while our other Philips routine chest CT scan delivers an average
      effective dose of 10.5mSv (range 10.29-12.95mSv). With the addition of the ultra low dose
      technique, which delivers a radiation dose of a range of 0.5-1 mSv (calculated from a pilot
      study we obtained on pigs), patients are expected to get an total radiation dose for both
      scans together of about 4 mSv which is less than 10.5mSv (the normal dose for the Phillips CT
      machine at our institution). Just as a comparison, a meticulous study looking at multiple
      institutions showed that the average effective dose from a routine chest CT is 7mSv, range
      4-18mSv and for a chest CT with pulmonary embolism protocol an average effective dose of
      15mSv with a range of 13-40mSv .

      Image evaluation: The diagnostic chest CT scan will be sent to the PACS as usual and
      interpreted immediately, during the same day, as per normal inpatient clinical operations
      protocol at our institution. The ultra low dose CT scan will be automatically sent to the
      computational imaging lab processing station, which will denoise the image. After denoising
      the images will be automatically forwarded to the PACS under the same accession number of the
      routine chest CT scan. Comparison of the ultra low dose denoised images to the routine chest
      CT images will be performed by an experienced chest radiologist at a later date, at least one
      week after date of acquisition to prevent any memorability of the original image.
      Radiologists' memory of findings has been shown to be poor, even when viewed immediately but
      slightly worse when time passes [Evans]. The radiologist will document the presence of
      nodules, consolidation, ground glass opacities, emphysema, fibrosis with abnormalities marked
      on the images in the PACS. Following completion of the table, the routine chest CT scan will
      be used as the gold standard for the presence of the imaging findings. The documented ultra
      low dose CT findings will be compared to the images from the routine chest CT scans. Each
      finding documented will be individually documented as a true finding if also seen on the
      routine chest CT scan or false finding if not present on the routine chest CT scan.
      Additional findings only seen on the routine chest CT scan will be documented as missed
      findings.
    
  