
    
      Subjects: subjects will have non-psychotic unipolar major depression based on DSM IV criteria
      (Structured Clinical Interview for DSM IV; SCID)and be 65 years or older and will have
      depression of moderate or greater depression severity (Hamilton Depression Rating Scale score
      > or = 19. Depression severity will be assessed with the clinician rated Hamilton Depression
      Rating Scale (HDRS) and the subject rated Quick Inventory of Depressive Symptoms (QIDS).
      Ratings will be performed weekly for the first month and then every 2 weeks until the end of
      the trial.

      Neuroimaging: The MRI studies included in this protocol are commonly utilized in clinical
      practice. In addition to conventional structural MRI, this protocol will utilize techniques
      developed to evaluate cerebral blood flow (arterial spin labeling), white matter integrity
      (diffusion tensor imaging), and brain biochemistry (MR spectroscopy) and will be performed
      using a 4 Tesla magnet. Imaging will be performed at the VAMC/UCSF Center for Imaging of
      Neurodegenerative Disease (CIND) under the direction of Michael Weiner, M.D. Brain derived
      neurotropic factor (BDNF): a blood sample will be drawn pretreatment to determine the serum
      concentration of BDNF. This test will be repeated post-treatment. The assay for BDNF will be
      performed in the laboratory of Synthia Mellon, Ph.D at UCSF. Serum will be assayed for BDNF
      in duplicate, using a commercial BDNF ELISA assay kit (R&D Systems, Minneapolis, MN, USA).

      Cognition will be assessed with a battery of neuropsychological tests including the Stroop
      Color-Word Test, the Trail Making Test: A and B; Dementia Rating Scale I/P; Boston Naming
      Test, and the Hopkins Verbal Learning Test-Short.

      Treatment assignment: If patients have a preference for PST or sertraline, they will receive
      that treatment. If they have no preference, they will be randomized to one or the other until
      19 subjects have been assigned to each treatment.

      Sertraline, a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI), will be administered as the
      antidepressant. It will be started at 25 mg/day for one week and then increased to 50 mg and
      continued for 3 weeks. At the end of 4 weeks if the patient has had limited response, the
      dose will be increased to 100 mg/day. At 8 weeks if response is limited, dose will be
      increased to 150 mg/day. At any time, the dose can be lowered for tolerability reasons.

      Problem Solving Therapy. Patients receiving PST will be seen weekly for 12 individual 45
      minute sessions. Problem Solving Therapy (Arean, Raue, and Julian; UCSF unpublished
      manuscript, 2003) consists of 12 weekly sessions to teach participants a five-step
      problem-solving model. This model is taught over the first five weeks of treatment.
      Subsequent sessions are dedicated to refining PST skills. In the last two PST sessions,
      participants create a relapse prevention plan using the PST model. There will be two
      therapists in the study both trained to perform PST and with experience in prior studies of
      PST for MDD in older adults.

      Data will be analyzed by Drs Nelson and Mackin in consultation with Kevin Delucchi,
      Ph.D.(Department of Biostatistics/Psychiatry; UCSF). All analyses will be performed within
      treatment groups (psychotherapy or drug treatment) and will compare baseline values with
      post-treatment values in patients completing at least 8 weeks of treatment. All analyses will
      begin by graphically and numerically summarizing all measures to assess the distribution of
      scores. To statistically control for appropriate associations of other demographic variables
      (such as age, sex, and education) and clinical variables (such as social support, medical
      comorbidity, physical frailty, and medication use) with the outcome measure, we will use
      linear regression modeling methods. Missing data, if any, will be carefully described and
      analyzed. The methodology to be used assuming missing at random (MAR) which is a reasonable
      assumption for this type of data and the relatively low levels of missing data we anticipate
      based on prior research with this population. Because we have specific a priori hypotheses
      regarding BDNF and the composite score for executive dysfunction, we will not correct for
      multiple comparisons. Analysis of the cerebral blood flow data, however, will employ
      corrections for multiple comparisons. As stated the aim of the study is to gather preliminary
      data regarding change from baseline to the study endpoint within the sertraline or within the
      PST treatment group. Attrition is estimated at 20% allowing for 15 patients to complete each
      treatment arm.
    
  