
    
      Anticipated Impact on Veterans' Healthcare: This project addresses the mental health and
      functioning needs of Veterans and their families by increasing the access to an established
      treatment using telemental health technology.

      Project Background: Veterans and their families experience the deleterious effects of
      posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and associated negative sequelae. PTSD is related to a
      variety of comorbid mental health symptomatology and psychosocial impairment, including high
      rates of intimate relationship problems which impact Veterans' recovery and functioning.
      Despite available couple-based interventions, barriers to care such as stigma regarding
      mental health treatment, travel time to receive care, and transportation costs, make it
      difficult for Veterans and their families to access specialty PTSD treatments necessary for
      rehabilitation. Home-based clinical video teleconferencing (CVT) delivers specialized mental
      health treatments to clients in the ease of their own home, which allows clinicians to
      directly observe the client's home environment and family milieu. Cognitive-Behavioral
      Conjoint Therapy (CBCT), a couple-based treatment designed to target PTSD symptoms and
      improve individual and relationship functioning, has shown evidence of improvements in
      clinical symptom outcomes in research conducted with Veterans and their partners.

      Project Objectives: This is a 4-year randomized controlled trial. The primary objective of
      this study is to compare the clinical efficacy (PTSD symptoms, relationship distress, and
      functional impairment) of CBCT delivered via an office-based (CBCT-OB) or a home-based CVT
      (CBCT-HB) delivery modality to the PTSD Family Education control condition (PFE). In
      addition, this study will estimate and compare the difference in clinical efficacy between
      CBCT delivered via an office-based (CBCT-OB) or a home-based CVT (CBCT-HB) delivery modality
      if indicated by results of the primary objective. This study will also compare process
      outcomes (therapeutic alliance, enrollment and dropout rates, and treatment satisfaction) for
      CBCT-OB, CBCT-HB, and PFE.

      Project Methods: Participants will be 180 intent-to-treat couples in which one partner is a
      PTSD-positive Veteran. Couples will be randomly assigned to receive treatment through one of
      the three treatment delivery modalities: CBCT-OB, CBCT-HB or PFE. Assessments will be
      conducted at baseline, mid- and post-treatment, and 3- and 6-months post-treatment. The
      primary outcome variables of clinical efficacy will be measures of PTSD symptom severity,
      relationship distress, and functional impairment. Secondary outcome variables include PTSD
      diagnostic status, self- reported PTSD symptoms, depression, anger, and relationship
      conflict. Additionally, primary process outcomes will include measures of treatment
      retention, attendance, therapeutic alliance, and treatment satisfaction. Variability in
      scores for each of the primary and secondary outcome measures will be examined individually
      in a series of separate multilevel models. The results will provide evidence that can be used
      to further increase the clinical efficacy, ease of access to, and utilization of specialty
      PTSD treatment to Veterans and their families.
    
  