
    
      The method most used to measure lung function, have been the spirometric tests, which
      generally reflect the function of the airway of highest caliber and elastic retraction of the
      lung. However, its use in clinical practice is limited by physiological variability and
      inconsistency in the measurements, therefore its value as a predictor of peripheral
      obstruction has been questioned. The Lung Clearance Index (LCI) is a simple measure of
      ventilation heterogeneity derived from multiple breath-washout (MBW) curve, that can be used
      after challenge with a short action bronchodilator and inhaled steroids, both in the
      conductive and acinar airways. Patients with moderate and severe asthma are characterized by
      an abnormality in both, conductive and the acinar airway. The LCI is one index derived from
      the concentration curves obtained during MBW to quantify the inefficiency in gas mixing of
      the lungs. A phase III slope analysis of the MBW curve can distinguish maldistribution of
      ventilation due to structural changes (acinar vs conductive lung zone). The conductive MBW
      index of ventilation heterogeneity is related to proximal lung structure, where convection
      dominates gas transport. The acinar MBW index of ventilation heterogeneity is related to
      peripheral lung, where convection-diffusion interaction occurs. Therefore the following
      research question could be: what are the abnormalities in the heterogeneity of ventilation in
      pediatric patients with a diagnosis of asthma, both mild and moderate, with respect to the
      healthy population, measured by MBW and whether these alterations persist using conventional
      treatment with inhaled steroids and B2 agonists short-acting.

      The general objetive will be to identify changes in the LCI (heterogeneity of ventilation)
      retrieved from the MBW curve in children with diagnosis of mild and moderate asthma, before
      and after challenge with short-acting B2 agonists and after one month of treatment with
      knowledge dose of inhaled steroid.

      Specific objectives;

        1. . Difference in the baseline results of spirometry and LCI (derived form the MBW curve),
           between the control health group, and children with mild and moderate asthma.

        2. . Changes in LCI (acinar or conductive ventilation heterogeneity) obtained from the MBW
           curve, from the baseline values and after challenge with short-acting B2 agonist and
           with inhaled steroids between groups of patients with mild or moderate asthma.

        3. . Determine whether the alterations in the LCI of patients with mild and moderate asthma
           are originated from acinar or from the conductive airway.

      Methodology. The LCI is calculated with the cumulative volume exhaled (CVE) during MBW test,
      divided between the functional residual capacity (FRC). This index is the number of turnovers
      of lung volume that the patient must breathe to clean the lungs of tracer gas (1/40th of the
      initial concentration). The expiratory N2 concentration will be plotted against volume
      changes between Total Lung Capacity (TLC) and Residual Volume (RV), and the slope (dN2) of
      the N2 alveolar plateau will be calculated by computer analysis of the best-fit line through
      phase III of the expiratory volume-concentration curve. The measurements will be accepted
      only if the vital capacity (VC) during the MBW is within 10% of the VC. During the MBW test,
      patients most perform a slow, full inspiratory and expiratory VC maneuver at inspiratory and
      expiratory flow rates of approximately 0.5 l/s.The VC will be obtained from the spirometry
      test.

      Design; Clinical, controlled, parallel, longitudinal, comparative trial.

      Sample universe; Patients of both sexes between 7-17 years of age that attending to Pediatric
      Pulmonology Service of the Hospital Infantil de Mexico, with a diagnosis of controlled mild
      or moderate asthma. It will included a control group (health children), as a criterion for
      normality and to compare the results of the spirometry and the LCI derived from the MBW curve
      obtained in this group, with the results of the same studies in a group of patients with mild
      and moderate asthma.

      Inclusion criteria;

        -  For patients with asthma: Informed written consent signed by a parent or guardian of the
           patient and assent if signed by the patient.

        -  For control group: Informed written consent signed by parent or guardian consent and
           subject control where appropriate, signed by the subject.

        -  Patients from 7 to 17 years of age with a diagnosis of mild or moderate asthma according
           to the criteria of the Global Initiative for Asthma 2014 (Global Strategy for Asthma
           Management and Prevention. National Institutes of Health 2014), treated with inhaled
           steroids and who come to the outpatient clinic of Pediatric Pulmonology Service of
           Hospital Infantil de Mexico.

        -  An evolution of the asthma > 6 months.

        -  Control subjects (healthy) from 7 to 17, which will be contacted by telephone in
           accordance with a list that is counted in the Laboratory of Pulmonary Physiology who
           have participated in other studies or bioassays for calibration of equipment.

        -  Able to perform spirometry test and multiple-breath washout.

        -  No exacerbation of asthma in the past 4 weeks.

        -  Accept a washout period (without treatment) for 1 week before the realization of studies
           of pulmonary function (visit 2).

        -  Accept the use of short-acting B2 as necesary reason.

        -  Do not suffer from any other chronic disease, other than asthma.

      Exclusion criteria;

        -  Patient with acute or chronic pulmonary disease other than asthma.

        -  Patient with a history of asthma exacerbation in the 4 weeks prior to inclusion in the
           study.

        -  Patients with a diagnosis of severe asthma according to criteria of the Global
           Initiative for Asthma 2014 (Global Strategy for Asthma Management and Prevention.
           National Institutes of Health 2014),

        -  Other co-morbidities.

      Criteria of elimination;

        -  Patients who do not meet criteria of acceptability and repeatability at the spirometry,
           or MBW interpretation according with American Thoracic Society.

        -  Asthma exacerbation during the week of the washout period.

        -  Removal of informed consent.

      Sample size; Taking into account the magnitude of the effect on the LCI during the MBW in
      pediatric subjects with asthma, pre and postbronchodilation on the basis of clinical studies
      carried out previously (Singer F, Abbas Ch, Yammine S, Casaulta C, Frey U, Latzin P. Abnormal
      small airway function in children with mild asthma.) Chest 2014; 145 (3): 492-499). Where the
      rate of LCI prebronchodilator was 2.96 ± 1.6 and the 20 minutes postbroncodilatador the
      clearance rate was 1.83 ± 1.24. Considering that the magnitude of the effect on the rate of
      LCI is 1.13, with standard deviation of 1.6. With a α = 0.05 (bilateral), β = 0.20, 80%
      statistical power. The sample size will be of 30 patients per group, taking into account a
      greater loss of 20%, the sample size will be increased to 35 subjects per group.

      Selection of patients for the sample and its distribution; 3 groups of patients will be
      included: Group 1) Healthy group (controls). Group 2) Patients with mild asthma in treatment
      with low dose of inhaled steroids.

      Group 3) Patients with moderate asthma in treatment with intermediatte dose of inhaled
      steroids.

      Visit 1. Explanation of the study. Review of criteria for inclusion. Signature in the case of
      written informed consent. For Group 1; Only baseline spirometry and MBW test will be
      performed. No other intervention.

      For groups 2 and 3. Be asked to suspend his current medication for 7 days (washout period),
      indicating only albuterol inhaled if necessary.

      Visit 2 (1 week after Visit 1). Groups 2 and 3; baseline spirometry and MBW test. At the end
      of both studies, patients from to groups will receive one dose of 400 mcg of inhaled
      albuterol with spacer device. Twenty minutes after the dose of albuterol, they repeat
      spirometry and MBW test.

      After patient have completed both studies, they will be asked to restart her medication with
      inhaled steroid; 100 mcg/day of fluticasone for the group of patients with mild asthma (Group
      2) and 200 mcg/day of fluticasone for moderate asthma patients group (Group 3).

      Visit 3 (4 weeks after Visit 2). Groups 2 and 3; basal spirometry and MBW test.

      Statistical analysis. Descriptive statistics will by used to obtain measures of central
      tendency and dispersion in quantitative variables (average, standard deviation and 95%
      confidence interval). It will be compared and evaluate the effect of inhaled steroids and β2
      agonists for short action on the rate of LCI and distribution of ventilation (acinar and
      conductive airways) through analysis of Student's t for related samples. The level of
      significance will be established with a p = ≤ 0.05.

      Ethical Issues There will be any procedure until to obtain the approval of the Ethics
      Committee of the Hospital Infantil de México.
    
  