
    
      Postoperative ileus remains a significant medical problem after colorectal surgery that
      adversely influences patients' recovery and prolongs hospital stay. In fact, a substantial
      portion of the overall hospitalisation period after colorectal surgery is attributed to the
      time it takes for ileus to resolve. Different treatment modalities including thoracic
      epidural analgesia, pharmacological therapy, early enteral feeding, and early mobilisation
      have been attempted, but none has an established role as a specific remedy for postoperative
      ileus. Although laparoscopic colorectal surgery has been proven to be associated with better
      short-term clinical outcomes including faster return of gastrointestinal function than open
      surgery, the duration of postoperative ileus in the laparoscopic arm is still reported to be
      as long as 4 days (which is just about 1 day earlier than that in the open arm) in most of
      the randomised trials. Additional measures are thus necessary to further enhance the
      gastrointestinal recovery after laparoscopic colorectal surgery in order to maximise its
      benefits, and acupuncture may be one of the options. Acupuncture is widely accepted in China
      as well as throughout the world as an effective treatment option for the management of
      postoperative nausea and vomiting and various functional gastrointestinal disorders. Its role
      in treating postoperative ileus, however, is less clear, and data from the Chinese as well as
      the Western literature are scarce. Besides, the heterogeneity of the study designs and flaws
      in methodology of the reported studies have made interpretation of these data difficult.
      Results of the present study can provide evidence-based clarification of the role of
      acupuncture in treating postoperative ileus after laparoscopic colorectal surgery. If the
      hypothesis is proven to be correct and substantiated by further studies, the incorporation of
      electroacupuncture into any fast-track recovery programmes after laparoscopic, open, or even
      emergency colorectal surgery should be considered. As laparoscopic colorectal surgery has
      been shown to have higher direct cost than the open counterpart, a faster postoperative
      recovery may help to reduce the financial burden to the hospital and improve the
      cost-effectiveness of the procedure.

      Patients will be enrolled into the study if all the inclusion and exclusion criteria are
      satisfied after the laparoscopic surgery. Randomisation will be done shortly after surgery.
      Patients will be randomised to receive either electroacupuncture (EA group), sham acupuncture
      (SA group), or no acupuncture (NA group). The medical acupuncturist is the only individual
      who is aware of the treatment allocation; patients of the EA and SA groups are blinded to the
      treatment. The patients randomised to the EA and SA groups will undergo 1 session of
      acupuncture daily from postoperative day 1 till day 4. Adverse events associated with
      acupuncture including bleeding, dizziness, excessive pain, and allergic reaction will be
      closely monitored. The acupuncture needle will be immediately withdrawn if these events
      occur.

      The postoperative management of all patients will be standardised. Pethidine 1mg/kg as
      postoperative analgesia will be given every 4-hourly on demand. Early ambulation will be
      encouraged. Oral feeding will be resumed as soon as gastrointestinal function returns
      clinically (no nausea or vomiting, no abdominal distension, passage of flatus or stool). No
      gum chewing will be allowed. Patients will be discharged when they tolerate diet and are
      fully ambulatory.
    
  