
    
      The regulation of the permeability of the intestinal barrier is essential in the molecular
      traffic between the lumen and the internal environment. It affects the absorption of
      nutrients and tolerance or immunization against foodborne non-self antigens that penetrate
      the barrier. In rodents, increased endotoxemia has been proposed as an important player in
      low-grade inflammation accompanying the development of obesity and metabolic disorders. In
      humans, the intestinal barrier function is altered in inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD,
      Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis and celiac disease). The term "leaky gut" is used to
      describe a porous intestine with hyper-permeability associated with acute or chronic
      inflammatory diseases such as "systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS),"acute
      inflammatory bowel disease (IBD for "inflammatory bowel disease").

      Deficiencies of the barrier are also observed in extra-intestinal diseases (type-1 diabetes,
      food allergies, and autoimmune diseases). Impairments in tight junctions may precede clinical
      signs and constitute a risk factor for developing diseases or secondarily be altered and
      cause an increased entry of undesirable bacterial or nutritional antigens. The state of the
      intercellular tight junctions of the intestine controls the diffusion of molecules between
      cells. A deficiency of the intestinal barrier function is often associated with structural
      changes in the tight junctions resulting from loss of localization of protein or expression
      of genes and / or cellular signals such as ZO-1, occludin or tricellulin.

      There are few studies about the condition of the intestinal barrier in the context of human
      obesity.

      The objectives of our study are to :

        -  compare intestinal permeability in obese subjects with non obese subjects and after
           gastric bypass.

        -  search links between intestinal permeability and 1) metabolic and inflammatory
           bioclinical parameters 2) dietary profiles 3) microbiota
    
  