
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Demonstrate the efficacy of upfront treatment with neoadjuvant pembrolizumab in
      combination dabrafenib and trametinib by comparing the complete gross surgical resection rate
      (R0 or R1 surgical resection) to historical control of 5%.

      II. Demonstrate the efficacy of pembrolizumab in combination with dabrafenib and trametinib
      by comparing the overall survival (OS) to historical OS rate of 9.6 months.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Assess the efficacy (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors [RECIST]) of neoadjuvant
      dabrafenib, trametinib, and pembrolizumab combination (Part 1) and progression-free survival
      (PFS) for all patients throughout their treatment course.

      II. Demonstrate the extent to which neoadjuvant dabrafenib, trametinib, and pembrolizumab
      changes surgical morbidity/complexity.

      III. Establish surgical safety for neoadjuvant pembrolizumab in combination with BRAF & MEK
      inhibitors, dabrafenib and trametinib; as well as safety for concurrent administration of
      postoperative adjuvant pembrolizumab with intensity modulated radiation therapy (IMRT).

      IV. Assess locoregional control rates in patients who received trial treatment. V. Assess the
      efficacy of dabrafenib, trametinib, and pembrolizumab combination by descriptive landmark
      analysis of OS at 12, 18, and 24 months.

      VI. Evaluate changes in patient reported outcomes: quality of life assessed by validated
      questionnaires at initial diagnosis, through the course of therapy, and during the adjuvant
      targeted therapy phase.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine whether features of the tumor genomic landscape and tumor immune
      microenvironment are associated with response to dabrafenib/trametinib/pembrolizumab (DTP).

      II. Determine if changes of cell free deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) correlate with response to
      treatment on DTP and overall survival.

      III. Evaluate the safety of dabrafenib/trametinib/pembrolizumab plus IMRT in a subset of 5
      patients.

      OUTLINE:

      PART 1 (NEOADJUVANT PHASE): Patients receive dabrafenib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) and
      trametinib PO once daily (QD) on days 1-21. Starting in week 4, patients also receive
      pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days
      for 3 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients may
      receive 2 additional cycles of DTP at the discretion of the treating physicians. Patients
      whose disease is deemed resectable undergo surgery. Patients who are not surgically
      resectable after 5 cycles of DTP move to Part 3.

      PART 2 (ADJUVANT PHASE): 2-4 weeks after surgery and at the discretion of the treating
      physicians, patients may continue to receive pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes every 3 weeks
      and concurrently undergo IMRT with or without cisplatin or carboplatin for 6 weeks. 5
      patients also receive dabrafenib PO BID and trametinib PO QD concurrently for 6 weeks.

      PART 3: Patients receive dabrafenib PO BID, trametinib PO QD on days 1-21, and pembrolizumab
      IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 17 cycles in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months during years
      1-2, every 6 months during years 3-4, and then annually thereafter.
    
  