
    
      Objective: Our previous VA-funded study found that chronic fatigue reported by some Gulf War
      veterans may be a symptom of dysfunctional cardiovascular stress response regulation.
      Specifically, ill veterans had diminished autonomic responses during tasks involving higher
      brain activities, including cognitive processing and psychosocial stress. Gulf veterans with
      posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) had the most dampened autonomic activation to stressors
      involving higher brain activities. There was a close relationship between the clinical status
      of ill veterans and their inability to mount an appropriate physiological response under
      stress. The main objective of the present investigation is to determine the specific
      mechanism through which this abnormality may contribute to Gulf War-related chronic fatigue.
      The second major focus of this study is to explore the role of stress of military deployment
      as a contributing factor in post-Gulf War illnesses.

      Research Plan: The research plan is to establish the mechanisms of blood pressure
      hyporeactivity in Gulf War veterans with chronic fatigue and PTSD. Two possibilities are
      being examined: one, that abnormal cardiovascular responses to stressors involve reduced
      responsiveness of the major cardiovascular effector systems, the peripheral arterial
      vasculature and the heart, to sympathetic stimulation; and two, that the locus of abnormality
      is in the brain, resulting in inadequate activation of the sympathetic nervous system during
      stressful behavioral activities. The role of wartime stress will be examined by specifically
      focusing on abnormalities in stress response regulation associated with Gulf War-related
      PTSD.

      Methods: This study is being performed on four groups of Gulf War veterans, including those
      with symptoms that fulfill the 1994 CDC case definition for chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS),
      those with PTSD, those who have both CFS and PTSD, and healthy control veterans. A total of
      90 veterans will be studied. The study protocol uses standard laboratory procedures to
      characterize abnormalities in regulation of cardiovascular function using selective
      pharmacological and behavioral challenges. Performance of central mechanisms of sympathetic
      activation during mental challenge is evaluated by measuring increases in plasma
      catecholamines, epinephrine and norepinephrine, during social-evaluative speech stressor.
      Collected plasma samples are analyzed using high performance liquid chromatography assays.
      The hypotheses of target organ dysfunction are evaluated using graded intravenous infusions
      of two drugs, phenylephrine and dobutamine, and by measuring the resultant cardiovascular
      responses. Phenylephrine and dobutamine are synthetic catecholamines, analogues of endogenous
      chemical messenger substances released by sympathetic nerve fibers and by adrenal medulla
      during stress response activation. Phenylephrine is an alpha-adrenergic agonist that
      increases blood pressure by constricting peripheral blood vessels. Dobutamine is
      beta-adrenergic agonist that stimulates myocardium to increase force of contraction and
      cardiac output. Stimulus-response curves for vasoconstrictor and inotropic adrenergic
      receptor mechanisms are constructed, from which measures of vasomotor and cardiac function,
      and autonomic reflex mechanisms are derived.

      Clinical Relevance: Our research has suggested that there is a biomedical marker in Gulf
      veterans with illnesses characterized by severe unexplained chronic fatigue -- a diminished
      cardiovascular reactivity to cognitive stressors. Although this problem was served in all
      veterans with fatiguing illness, it was worst in the subset of those veterans who also had
      PTSD. Our data also suggested that the markedly diminished cardiovascular response to stress
      exhibited by this group may contribute to their functional impairment. The present
      investigation will determine (1) whether this impairment is due to PTSD, to the medical
      disorder of unexplained severe fatigue, or to an interaction between the two diagnoses, and
      (2) where in the system of blood pressure regulation lies the cause of abnormal stress
      responses. This work, therefore, may lead to better understanding of the causes of Gulf War
      Illnesses as well as ways to treat them.
    
  