
    
      Forty healthy volunteers with high scores on the Eysenck Personality Questionnaire
      Neuroticism scale will be recruited from the general population using posters and advertising
      in local newspapers and on internet. All advertisement will direct volunteers to a specific
      website (http://weblearn.ox.ac.uk/site/users/psyc0390/public/) (hosted in the Weblearn area
      of the University of Oxford) that will report the study Information Sheet. People clicking on
      the "I agree to participate" link will then be able to leave their contact details and fill
      in a shortened version of the Eysenck Personality Questionnaire. Questionnaire results will
      be anonymous and only the researcher will access the data and the correspondent contact
      details. Thus, only volunteers consenting to participate to the full study will be screened
      for neuroticism scores and only suitable ones will be contacted for the screening visit.

      Participants will be requested to come to the Department of Psychiatry of the University of
      Oxford for an initial screening assessment including basic medical examination and structured
      psychiatric interview. On that occasion they will also be asked to complete a number of
      questionnaires such as Beck Depression Inventory, Dysfunctional Attitudes Scale, State-Trait
      Anxiety Inventory, Eysenck Personality Questionnaire, Parental Bonding Instruments and Life
      Events Rating Scale.

      Volunteers will be randomized to receive citalopram or placebo in a double blind between
      groups design for 7 days. They will receive the treatment capsules to take home and will be
      instructed to take the capsule every morning after breakfast around 8 am. Subjective mood
      will be assessed on each day of treatment using the Befindlichskeit scale of mood and energy,
      the State Anxiety Inventory and Visual Analogue Scales. Side-effects will be registered every
      day using a specific side-effects report sheet.

      On the day before starting the treatment (Day 0) and on the last day of treatment (Day 7)
      participants will be asked to collect saliva sample to measure cortisol levels. Collection of
      samples will be performed by participants in their own home and is non-invasive. Participants
      will be provided with appropriate collection vessels containing a cotton swab. They will be
      asked to roll this swab around in their mouths for a minute after waking and take 4 further
      samples at 15 minute intervals, each on a separate cotton swab. The cotton swabs will be put
      back in the collection vessel and participants will be asked to store their saliva samples in
      the freezer and bring them back to the researcher on the day of testing.

      Participants will be given the mobile phone number of the Principal Investigator (PI) so that
      they can immediately get in contact if they have any concerns when taking the drug. In
      addition, the researcher will contact participants within the first few days to ensure that
      they are not experiencing any side effects. Participants experiencing more than mild
      transient side effects will be advised to stop taking the drugs and will be withdrawn from
      the study.

      On the last day of treatment (Day 7), participants will come to the Department of
      Experimental Psychology of the University of Oxford around 2 pm, which corresponds to time
      when the drug reaches its peak in blood levels. They will be asked to complete again part of
      the questionnaires administered on the first day and then they will complete a battery of
      neuropsychological tests including attentional tests, facial expression recognition tests and
      emotional regulation tests, as used in our previous studies. During the emotional regulation
      test an ECG will also be recorded. The testing session will last approximately 3 hours.

      If the participant agreed, we would then also collect a blood sample to identify a particular
      gene (the serotonin transporter polymorphism) that may influence some of those measures and
      to assess the citalopram drug level in order to check that the treatment was taken.
    
  