
    
      Epilepsy is a chronic disorder which affects 50 million people all over the world, with a
      childhood-onset in 75% of cases. This disorder may interfere with the normal cerebral
      development and impact cognition skills (Bouis, Cavézian et Chokron, 2011 ; Gallagher et
      Lassonde, 2005). Executive and language functions are often shown to be affected in previous
      studies with children with epilepsy (Gencpinar et al., 2015 ; Verrotti, Matricardi, Rinaldi,
      Prezioso et Coppola, 2015). However, executive functioning and language development are known
      to be implicated in social cognition acquisitions (Carlson et Moses, 2001 ; Smogorzewska,
      Szumski et Grygiel, 2018). Yet, less is known about social cognition development in people
      with epilepsy. Social cognition generally refers to mental operations that underlie social
      interactions, including perceiving, interpreting, managing, and generating responses to
      socially relevant stimuli, including the intentions and behaviors others.

      The purpose of this protocol is to compare development of social cognition skills, language
      and executive functions in children with and without epilepsy. This is an observational
      study; volunteers who participate will not receive any new or experimental therapies.
      Children in this protocol will undergo an evaluation which may include: a medical history
      including characteristics of their epilepsy (age at onset, number of antiepileptic drugs,
      seizure frequency, …) , a nonverbal intellectual efficiency measure , an evaluation of theory
      of mind, key concept of social cognition, and executive functions then an evaluation of
      verbal skills .The second purpose of this protocol is to permit the identification of links
      between development of social cognition and executive et language functions.

      Children with epilepsy experience more learning disabilities and behavioral disorders. The
      treatment of pediatric epilepsy concerns seizure reduction but also reeducation therapy to
      improve scholar outcome, like speech therapy of psychomotricity. Social consequences may be
      underestimated in this population, including social cognition.
    
  