
    
      Type of research study:

      Cross sectional survey

      Problem to be studied:

      Chronic suppurative otitis media and hearing impairment are important causes of morbidity,
      affecting 4-10% of children throughout sub-Saharan Africa. Many of the causes of disease are
      preventable with simple interventions. There is significant variation in disease burden and
      causes between countries, and currently no data on the frequency and causes of disease in
      Malawi.

      Previous studies suggest poverty, crowding, paternal smoking and indoor cooking all increase
      the risk of developing chronic suppurative otitis media. The associations with use of an
      efficient cookstove have not been studied. The causes of childhood hearing impairment vary
      significantly by region and include otitis, other infections and cryptogenic causes.

      Objectives:

        -  Estimate the prevalence of CSOM and other ear pathology in a population representative
           sample of 4-6 year-old children in a rural district of Malawi.

        -  Describe associations (including household use of an efficient cookstove) of CSOM

        -  Estimate the prevalence of hearing impairment defined by screening audiometry in a
           population representative sample of 4-6 year-old children in a rural district of Malawi.

        -  Describe associations of hearing impairment in a population representative sample of 4-6
           year-old children in a rural district of Malawi.

      Methodology:

      A village level cluster survey in the Chikwawa district of Malawi. The study will survey 270
      children across 10 systematically determined clusters using 2008 census data. The
      investigators will undertake video otoscopy and basic hearing screening in the field using a
      validated smartphone screening tool. The research will also look for associations between
      chronic middle ear infection and potential risk factors for disease using negative binomial
      regression. This will include household use of an efficient cookstove.

      Expected findings and their dissemination:

      The investigators will establish the prevalence and associations of chronic suppurative
      otitis media and of hearing impairment in children aged 4-6 years in the Chikwawa district.
      The investigators hope these data will guide further development of ENT service in Malawi,
      and may indicate possible preventative strategies. The results will be disseminated to the
      communities, local health services and the College of Medicine of Malawi.
    
  