
    
      The goal of the present study is to provide novel data to evaluate brain iron concentration
      as a mediator of the association between iron supplementation treatment and improvement in
      symptoms of ADHD and RLS in children, including PLMS. Aim 1 is to evaluate the impact of iron
      supplementation treatment on peripheral iron concentrations and brain iron concentrations.
      The investigators hypothesize that iron supplementation treatment will result in increased
      peripheral and brain iron concentrations. Aim 2 is to evaluate the impact of iron
      supplementation treatment on symptoms of ADHD and RLS. The investigators hypothesize that
      iron supplementation treatment will result in decreased symptoms of ADHD and RLS. Aim 3 is to
      investigate the relation between brain iron concentrations and symptoms of ADHD and RLS,
      including PLMS. The investigators hypothesize that brain iron concentrations in the
      substantia nigra and in the thalamus will be negatively related to symptoms at baseline. Aim
      4 is to evaluate whether brain iron concentrations mediate the association between iron
      supplementation treatment and symptoms of ADHD and RLS. The investigators hypothesize that
      increases in brain iron concentrations in the substantia nigra and in the thalamus will fully
      explain any improvements in symptoms that occur with iron supplementation treatment.

      Twelve participants between the ages of 5 and 18 years will be recruited via Kennedy Krieger
      Institute's Sleep Disorders Clinic. Recruitment will be accomplished by posting flyers with
      study information at the clinic and by asking Sleep Disorders Clinic clinicians to discuss
      the study with their patients who may be eligible and their caregivers. In order to be
      included in the study, participants will need to have: 1) a clinical diagnosis of either RLS
      or ADHD, 3) PLMS > 3/hour, based on average of 5 nights of home recording with RestEaze leg
      meters, and 4) fasting serum iron values with ferritin < 50 mcg/L and transferrin saturation
      < 45%. Exclusionary criteria will be: 1) family is not proficient in English language, 2)
      child is in foster care, 3) child has a chronic medical condition or genetic/metabolic
      disorder that might impact iron metabolism, 4) child has another sleep disorder or
      neuropsychiatric condition that might influence sleep, RLS, or ADHD symptoms, and 6) child
      has been receiving iron supplementation or a medication that could disrupt sleep.

      An uncontrolled open label trial design is proposed for this pilot study, in order to
      establish evidence to support a larger blinded, placebo-controlled trial application.
      Eligible participants will be asked to complete, at baseline (pre-iron supplementation
      treatment) and again at follow-up (post-treatment): 1) a 7 Tesla MRI scan, 2) five
      consecutive nights of RestEaZe™ monitoring, 3) caregiver-reported (or patient-reported if
      over the age of 10 years) Cambridge-Hopkins Restless Leg Syndrome questionnaire(CH-RLSq13),
      and 4) caregiver-reported ADHD Rating Scale-5. The treatment interval will be 3 months, which
      has been sufficient in previous studies to allow for treatment effects to be observed.
      Investigators anticipate 20 to 30% attrition over the course of the 3 months of treatment,
      leaving 8-10 participants to scan at follow-up.
    
  