
    
      Background:

        -  Multiple myeloma (MM) is a plasma cell neoplasm with a median survival of 3-4 years.

        -  Monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS) and smoldering myeloma (SMM)
           are premalignant plasma cell proliferative disorders characterized by elevated
           monoclonal protein and bone marrow plasma cells. MGUS affects 3.2% of Caucasians over
           the age of 50 and has a 1% annual risk of progression to MM.

      Approximately 3000 cases of SMM are diagnosed annually with a 10% annual risk of progression
      to MM.

        -  Currently, it is not possible to predict which patients will progress to MM.

        -  Novel imaging modalities (FDG-PET, 18-NaF PET and DCE-MRI) may improve our ability to
           predict patients who are at high risk of progression.

      Objectives:

        -  To compare the results of imaging modalities (18-NaF PET/CT, 18-FDG PET/CT, and DCE-MRI)
           in patients with MGUS, SMM, and MM.

        -  To correlate the imaging studies with established clinical markers of progression from
           MGUS/SMM to MM, including serum M-protein, percentage of plasma cells in the bone
           marrow, serum free light-chain abnormalities and immunoparesis, and ratio of
           normal/abnormal plasma cells in the bone marrow by flow cytometry.

      Eligibility:

        -  A confirmed diagnosis of MGUS, SMM or MM (based on IMWG (International Myeloma Working
           Group) diagnostic criteria)

        -  Age greater than or equal to 18 years

        -  ECOG (Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group) performance status in the range of 0-2

      Design:

        -  This is a cross-sectional pilot study of patients with MGUS, SMM or MM.

        -  Following initial evaluation and confirmation of diagnosis, baseline studies including
           skeletal survey will be done.

        -  Subsequently 18-NaF PET/CT, 18-FDG PET/CT and DCE-MRI imaging will be done in all the
           patients.

        -  10 MGUS, 11 SMM and 10 MM patients will be enrolled on this protocol.

        -  Patients may donate cellular products or tissues as appropriate for research purposes.

        -  Almost all MGUS and SMM patients will be followed clinically as part of 10-C-0096:

      Natural History Study of Monoclonal Gammopathy of Undetermined Significance (MGUS) and
      Smoldering Myeloma (SMM).
    
  