
    
      Women who showed an imbalance of the pelvis also experienced greater pain. A possible
      explanation for this is that the change in the position of the uterus, due to the imbalance
      of the pelvis, prompted an excessive amount of prostaglandin to be secreted. When the spinal
      alignment of women who had intense menstrual pain was put back to normal, the pain was
      alleviated. The level of tension in the ligaments and nerves connecting the sacral vertebrae
      and the uterus is the cause off the menstrual pain. Due to the abnormal restriction of
      movement of the lumbosacral vertebrae, body fluid increase within the pelvis as wells
      contraction of the uterus leading to the intensification of the menstrual pain.

      Stabilization of anterior and lateral pelvic curves through exercise or osteopathic
      manipulative techniques that utilizes techniques of muscle energy, balanced ligamentous
      tension, myofascial release, strain and counterstrain to assist muscles to keep the spine
      upright and sufficiently flexible to support good posture . Correct posture involves a
      straight spine, which maintains the natural curve of the spine in the human body. Correct
      posture minimizes the strain on the human body by maintaining balance of the muscles and
      skeleton. This balanced musculoskeletal state protects the supporting structures in the body
      and prevents damage or progressive deformation in all positions, including standing, lying
      down, and sitting. Additionally, correct posture implies not inclining the body forward,
      backward, left, or right.

      The temporomandibular joint is surrounded by ligaments, muscles, nerves, and blood vessels.
      The masticatory muscles enable mouth opening and closing, lateral movement, and forward and
      backward movement of the mouth, and excessive tension or imbalance of muscles can limit the
      joint movements, possibly resulting in limited ROM. Thus, it can be surmised that the
      imbalance in the spinal muscles caused the imbalance in the temporomandibular muscles and
      limited TMJ mobility.
    
  