
    
      Left ventricular systolic time intervals, including pre-ejection period (PEP), ejection time
      (ET), and their ratio (PEP/ET), is determined by the systolic and diastolic function and
      ventriculo-arterial coupling. The investigators have shown the usefulness of the
      electromechanical activation time (EMAT, equals PEP minus isovolumic contraction time) in the
      prediction of cardiac mortality or re-hospitalization for heart failure in patients with the
      acute heart failure syndrome (AHFS). Therefore, the objective of the present proposal is to
      compare 12-month outcomes of EMAT-guided vs symptom-guided heart failure therapy in patients
      with AHFS.

      A total of 120 patients aged 18 years or older and hospitalized at Taipei Veterans General
      Hospital or National Taiwan University Hospital due to AHFS will be enrolled in three years,
      and randomized into 2 treatment strategies, that is, intensified (EMAT-guided) therapy or
      standard (symptom-guided) therapy. Systolic time intervals and EMAT normalized by cardiac
      cycle length (%) are measured separately by separate automated acoustic devices. All
      parameters will be assessed within 24 hours before discharge, and at 2 weeks, and 3, 6, and
      12 months after discharge. Patients randomized to the EMAT-guided group will undergo
      intensified therapy of heart failure with the goal to reduce both %EMAT<15 and symptoms to
      NYHA ≤II. Patients randomized to the symptom-guided group will have standard medical care,
      with the goal to reduce symptoms to NYHA ≤II. The primary efficacy variable is defined as the
      time to cardiovascular death or heart failure hospitalization within 1 year after
      randomization. This study will be the first prospective randomized controlled trial to study
      the management of patients with AHFS using EMAT and will provide unique information comparing
      two treatment strategies irrespective of natriuretic peptides regarding prognosis.
    
  