
    
      A major public health challenge is therefore to accurately identify, in an apparently healthy
      population, those who are at high risk and to target prevention at these individuals.
      Although primary prevention measures, including aspirin, have been suggested for all
      individuals with an estimated intermediate to high cardiovascular risk of 2% per year, the
      best method of identifying such individuals has not been established. In addition, models
      based on conventional risk factors have been shown to have limited predictability and several
      restrictions. They were not designed for people with preexisting cardiovascular disease
      (CVD), and when risk factors are at extreme levels, the equations may underestimate or
      overestimate risk. In this regard, interest is increasing in the use of noninvasive markers
      that allow the identification of sub-clinical atherosclerosis, including the ankle brachial
      index (ABI), ratio of ankle to arm systolic blood pressure). Although quick and easy to
      perform with a high patient acceptability, the ABI was originally used to identify lower-limb
      atherosclerosis. However, it has subsequently been shown to be an accurate and reliable
      marker of generalized atherosclerosis. Cohort studies between 5 and 10 years of follow-up
      have shown that people with a low ABI have an increased risk of both cardiovascular morbidity
      and mortality. They have previously reported that the 5-year incidence of total
      cardiovascular events in subjects with an ABI ˂ 0.9 was almost twice that in subjects with an
      ABI ˃ 0.9 Furthermore, examination of positive predictive values showed that a low ABI was
      better at predicting risk of future cardiovascular and cerebrovascular events than
      conventional risk factors alone.

      B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) is a cardiac neuro-hormone secreted from membrane granules
      in the cardiac ventricles as a response to ventricular volume expansion and pressure
      overload. The natriuretic peptide system allows the heart to participate in the regulation of
      vascular tone and extracellular volume status. The natriuretic peptide system and the renin
      angiotensin system counteract each other in arterial pressure regulation. Levels of atrial
      natriuretic peptide (ANP) and B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) are elevated in cardiac
      disease states associated with increased ventricular stretch. The main circulating and
      storage form of BNP is 32 amino acid peptide with a ring structure. Physiological actions of
      BNP are mediated through a guanylate cyclase-linked receptor, natriuretic peptide receptor A
      (NPR-A). BNP produces arterial and venous vasodilatation. Clearance of BNP is promoted by a
      natriuretic peptide receptor C (NPR-C) which removes it from the circulation and BNP is also
      degraded through enzymatic cleavage by neutral endopeptidase. BNP levels are reflective of
      left ventricular diastolic filling pressures and thus correlate with pulmonary capillary
      wedge pressure.

      BNP levels have been shown to be elevated in patients with symptomatic left ventricular
      dysfunction and correlate with New York Heart Association (NYHA) classification and
      prognosis.

      Based on the available information a BNP < 100 pg/ml, allows clinicians to exclude heart
      failure as a cause of the patients' symptoms or physical exam signs in most circumstances BNP
      levels have been shown to predict long term mortality in patients with heart failure,
      independent of other established prognostic variable
    
  