
    
      Premolar extraction treatment with multibracketed system and reinforced anchorage has been a
      common modality for correcting maxillary incisor crowding or class II malocclusion due to
      maxillary protrusion in nongrowing patients. Treatment of class II malocclusion without
      extraction frequently requires distalization of maxillary molars into class I relation by
      means of extraoral or intraoral forces.

      Extra oral headgear traction is the oldest and most commonly used method to correct class II
      buccal segment relationship by restricting the forward growth of maxilla and /or distalizing
      the maxillary molars. This distalizes not only 1st molar but also maxillary 1st and 2nd
      premolars via transseptal fibers. Headgear is seldom an option in adults due to aesthetics
      and compliance concerns. The disadvantages of extra-oral appliances have motivated many
      investigators to develop the mechanics of intraoral molar distalization.

      Various intraoral non-compliance appliances like magnets, distal jet, jones jig, pendulum
      appliance etc. have been used to distalize the maxillary molars. However, in these
      appliances, anchorage loss characterized by protrusion of maxillary incisors and an increase
      in overjet is seen. Also, considerable amount of relapse occured when the distalized molars
      were used as anchorage for the retraction of anteriors and premolar teeth.

      Absolute skeletal anchorage available 24 hours a day is an alternative method for molar
      distalization. It provides stationary anchorage for various tooth movements without the need
      for active patient compliance and with no undesirable side effects. Inter radicular
      miniscrews placed between the roots limit the amount of distalization possible as they come
      in contact with surrounding roots during tooth movement. Also, proximity of miniscrews to the
      roots may lead to failure of screw anchorage.

      Infrazygomatic crest is a site for miniscrew placement. It has been used successfully to
      provide skeletal anchorage for en-masse anterior retraction, canine retraction, and intrusion
      of maxillary posterior teeth. Anatomically, it is a pillar of cortical bone at the zygomatic
      process of maxilla. It has two cortical plates - sinus floor and buccal cortical plate. This
      allows for bicortical fixation and contributes to better primary stability of miniscrew. A
      thicker bone allows greater miniscrew biting depth and more osseous contact . A new method
      for maxillary dentition distalization with miniscrews implanted in the infrazygomatic crest
      (IZC) region was proposed by Lin. There is no interference with tooth movement by miniscrews
      placed here and the technique is easy to master .

      Miniplates are also fixed at a distance from the root apices, and therefore do not interfere
      in tooth movement. Their placement and removal however requires a more invasive surgical
      procedure than those of miniscrews. Until now, there have been only few clinical studies
      involving group distalization of posterior teeth. Thus little information is available
      regarding the type of tooth movement that occurs, its limitations and post treatment
      stability.

      Sugawara et al reported that the maxillary 1st molars were moved to the distal by
      approximately 4mm at crown level by miniplate anchorage. However inconsistent sampling
      comprising of class I, class II and class III malocclusion failed to throw light on the
      clinical applicability and treatment planning. Also in this study 2nd molars were extracted
      in some patients while 3rd molars were extracted in others which might have led to different
      rates of tooth movement. This study was evaluated on lateral cephalogram in wide-open mouth
      thus studying the tooth movement in two dimensions only.

      Wu X et al(11) reported that mesiobuccal cusp of maxillary 1st molar crowns were moved to the
      distal by approximately 3.15mm and distobuccal cusp by 2.8mm with miniscrews implanted in the
      infrazygomatic crest (IZC). However, no attempt was made to evaluate the distalization effect
      on 2nd molar. Though this study was evaluated with 3D reconstruction module from Cone Beam
      Computed Tomography, this study did not evaluate the root resorption occuring during
      treatment.

      So far, most distalization studies have used 2-dimensional lateral cephalograms. The
      disadvantages of this approach include confounded images caused by superimposed anatomic
      structures and a lack of right and left side information. Although cone-beam computed
      tomography (CBCT) has disadvantages that include higher doses of radiation, higher cost, and
      limited availability, these limitations are overcome by the huge amount of data that is
      provided without distortion or superimposition.

      No prospective randomized clinical trial has been carried out on distalization of entire
      maxillary dentition so far. Also, to the best of our knowledge, no study to evaluate
      distalization of entire maxillary dentition with Infrazygomatic crest miniscrews in
      comparison with zygomatic miniplates has been conducted till now.

      The purpose of this randomized clinical study is to make a detailed comparison of
      distalization of entire maxillary dentition using miniscrews implanted in infrazygomatic
      crest with those of zygomatic miniplates in non-growing patients using Cone Beam Computed
      Tomography.

      MATERIALS AND METHOD Ours is a prospective, non-pharmacological, single blind, randomized
      clinical study to make a detailed comparison of distalization of entire maxillary dentition
      using miniscrews implanted in infrazygomatic crest with those of zygomatic miniplates in
      non-growing patients using Cone Beam Computed Tomography. The present study will be conducted
      in the Department of Orthodontics and Dentofacial Orthopaedics, in conjunction with
      Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, P.G.I.D.S., Pt. B.D.Sharma University of Health
      Sciences, Rohtak. The study will be carried out after the institutional approval obtained
      from the ethical committee.

      SOURCE OF DATA The sample size consists of 42 subjects selected from the patients attending
      the regular Out Patient Department at the Department of Orthodontics and Dentofacial
      Orthopaedics for orthodontic treatment.

      TARGET SAMPLE SIZE A sample size of 17 per group for the present study was calculated to
      detect a clinical difference of 2.3 mm with a standard deviation of 2.3mm (effect size 1.0)
      at 80% power and 95% confidence interval. To compensate for 20% dropouts the final sample
      size was calculated to be 21 per group.

      INTERVENTION AND DESIGN OF STUDY. The main intervention in this prospective clinical study is
      the placement of miniscrews at infrazygomatic crest/ zygomatic miniplates after initial
      leveling and alignment of maxillary dental arch. The study consists of 2 groups with equal
      allocation of subjects in each group.Group 1 (G1) :- This group will receive infrazygomatic
      crest miniscrews bilaterally.Group 2 (G2) :-This group will receive zygomatic miniplates
      bilaterally. Selection of subjects (patients meeting selection criteria).Treatment with
      0.022" MBT preadjusted edgewise appliance. Maxillary arch will be stabilized with the help of
      0.019" × 0.025" stainless steel.Randomized allocation to 2 groups-G1, G2. Pretreatment
      diagnostic records including CBCT will be taken before placement of skeletal anchorage
      devices (infrazygomatic crest miniscrews/ zygomatic miniplates).Maxillary 3rd molars will be
      extracted, if present. Insertion of skeletal anchorage devices under LA as per the group
      allocated. Hooks will be soldered on archwire used for stabilizing dentition.Ni-Ti closed
      coil spring/e-chain will be used to apply force from the skeletal anchorage device to the
      hooks on the wire.

      Patient recalled at 4 weeks interval.Regular follow up of the patient will be done and
      records including CBCT will be taken on achievement of class I molar relation bilaterally.

      CBCT SPECIFICATIONS:During CBCT scan, patients will be instructed to maintain an upright
      posture and bite on a CT guide plate so as to open the contact between maxillary and
      mandibular dentition and stabilize the patient. The CBCT scans will be performed using CS
      9300 CBCT machine at 85 kV, 4mA current, exposure time of 6.30 seconds, 17 x 6 FOV and voxel
      size of 180 micro millimeter. All the scans will be performed by the same researcher.Another
      Cone Beam Computed Tomography will be taken 2 years post retention.

      DATA COLLECTION AND CONE BEAM COMPUTED TOMOGRAPHY ANALYSIS The investigator will record the
      patients' name, address, contact number and other relevant case history records will be
      taken. Cephalometric radiographs and Cone Beam Computed Tomography and will be recorded
      before placement of zygomatic miniplates,on achievement of Class I molar relation bilaterally
      and 2 years post retention for assessment of distalization. These records will be analyzed.
      The relevant values will be entered in a predesigned format. Soft tissue profile changes
      between pretreatment and post treatment will be assessed on lateral cephalogram and the
      raters- orthodontist, laypersons,patients,parents and general dentists will assess changes in
      facial appearance on a visual analog scale with profile photographs and comparison will be
      done between the two groups. Patient perception will be assessed using questionare rating by
      patient regarding various parameters at 1week, 2 weeks, 1 month and 6 months after the
      placement of zygomatic miniplate or IZC miniscrew. Quality of life will also be assessed
      using questionnaire rating by patient at pre-treatment, mid-treatment and post treatment.
      Occlusal status changes between pre and post treatment will be assessed using PAR index(peer
      assessment rating between 2 groups).

      INFORMED CONSENT OF THE PATIENT A valid, informed written consent of the patient or parent/
      guardian will be obtained from the patient before registering the patient in this clinical
      study . Patient will be informed about all the theoretical risks and benefits of the
      intervention under test .Risks and hazards of radiation during CBCT will also be explained to
      the patient. The patient will be given 72 hours to discuss the study with his/her family and
      take the decision regarding participation in the study.
    
  