
    
      Spatial repellents have been widely used for the prevention of mosquito bites but their
      protective efficacy (PE) in reducing mosquito-borne diseases has never been evaluated in
      Africa. To address this knowledge gap, western Kenya was selected as a site to estimate the
      impact of a transfluthrin-based spatial repellent (SR) on malaria-related outcomes in Busia
      County, where baseline malaria transmission ranges from 2.5 to 4.1 new infections per person
      per year. A total of 6,120 children between 6 months and <10 years of age will be enrolled
      for active case detection and active infection detection from 60 clusters (30 intervention
      and 30 control) in three separate cohorts (baseline, cohort 1 and cohort 2). The baseline
      cohort (2,040 subjects) will be followed for four-months prior to placement of the SR
      intervention. After the implementation of the SR, a cohort of participants (cohort 1 with
      2,040 subjects) will be enrolled and followed for 12 months. The last cohort of children
      (cohort 2 with 2,040 subjects) will be enrolled at end of follow up of cohort 1 and followed
      for 12 months. Further, each of cohort 1 and cohort 2 followed with intervention will be
      split into two subgroups, one subgroup (1,680 subjects total across two arms) residing in
      'core zones' of each cluster to estimate the direct effect of the SR and a second group
      (2,400 subjects total across two arms) residing in cluster 'buffer zones' to estimate the
      degree of diversion (or mass effect) of mosquitoes and malaria transmission from persons
      protected by the SR to persons who are unprotected. The baseline, cohort 1 and cohort 2
      populations will be followed once every two weeks with finger prick blood samples taken once
      every 4 weeks to test for malaria or whenever a participant reports a recent (within 48
      hours) history of fever. The incidence of malaria in the baseline cohort will be used to
      validate underlying assumptions prior to intervention. The incidence of malaria in each
      cohort followed with intervention will be estimated and compared to determine the benefit of
      using an SR in an area with high, year-round transmission of malaria. Monthly collections of
      mosquitoes using CDC light traps will be conducted to determine if there are entomological
      correlates of SR efficacy that may be useful for the evaluation of new SR products. Quarterly
      human landing catches will be done to assess the behavioral effects of the SR. The primary
      hypothesis on PE against the first-time malaria infection will be estimated by comparing the
      hazard rates of first-time malaria infection between SR and placebo upon the completion of
      the study in the ITT population.
    
  