
    
      Background and Rationale:

      Antidepressants such as serotonin-selective reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are frequently
      prescribed to children to manage major depressive and anxiety disorders. Although SSRIs are
      thought to be generally effective and well-tolerated in children, 10%- 20% of children
      treated with SSRIs experience behavioral disinhibition (i.e. activation, hyperactivity,
      impulsivity, insomnia) that can lead to devastating consequences (e.g. suicidal impulses,
      violence). There are currently no tools available to assist healthcare providers in
      predicting which children will experience behavioral disinhibition as a result of SSRI
      treatment.

      Research Question:

      Do children who experience SSRI-induced behavioral disinhibition (SIBD) have a distinct
      pharmacogenetic profile relative to children who do not have these adverse experiences?

      Methodology:

      Using a retrospective cohort study design, 120 SSRI-treated children diagnose with major
      depression, anxiety and OCD, aged 6 to 17 years of aged will be recruited from Child and
      Adolescent Addiction, Mental Health & Psychiatry (CAAMHP) Program in Calgary. Children with a
      current or past history of SSRI use will be identified via recruitment advertisements and by
      CAAMHP treatment teams operating within community clinics as well as inpatient units within
      the Alberta Children's Hospital and Foothills Medical Centre.

      Clinical data will be collected from the participant's medical record as well as information
      provided by the child's healthcare provider and caretaker using a customized data collection
      form. Saliva will be collected, processed and genotyped in accordance with standard
      procedures. Participants and their parents will complete self-report measures to gather
      information regarding demographics, SIBD, and other adverse side effects and drug reactions.

      Using machine learning (i.e. the construction of algorithms that can learn from and make
      predictions on data) we will identify and validate a panel of genetic variants that could be
      used to pre-emptively detect children at-risk for developing SSRI-induced behavioral
      disinhibition.
    
  