
    
      BACKGROUND:

      A promising tool under investigation for the non-invasive estimation of ICP is Optic Nerve
      Ultrasound (ONUS). Raised ICP results in distension of the optic nerve sheath (ONS), a
      continuation of the dura mater. Ocular imaging, performed by clinicians using point-of-care
      ultrasound machines, can detect ONS distension behind the eye. A study conducted at the
      University of Michigan identified an ONS Diameter (ONSD) cutoff of >0.51cm as having 98%
      sensitivity and 91% specificity for the detection of intracranial hypertension, defined as
      ICP>25mmHg. The significant variation seen in the optimal ONSD threshold for identification
      of high ICP across several studies, however, greatly limits the practical application of this
      technique at the bedside. Much of this variation in the optimal ONSD threshold is likely
      related to technique, with variation in the margins used to define the ONS on acquired
      ultrasound images by different operators. The ONS, visible as a linear hypodense structure
      behind the eye can vary in its visualized dimension based on the angle and plane of
      insonation. Automated image analysis may permit standardization of ONSD measurement and
      thereby minimize interobserver variability.

      SPECIFIC AIM:

      The investigators goal is to develop a computer image-analysis algorithm to standardize
      measurement of the ONSD from ultrasound videos, and to validate against the reference
      standard of expert manual measurement of ONSD.

      METHODS:

      Development of image-analysis algorithm: Videos in DICOM format of prior ONUS studies
      performed for clinical purposes in the neurointensive care unit will be deidentified and used
      for initial development and modification of the automated image analysis algorithm, prior to
      prospective enrollment of subjects for determination of accuracy.

      Under IRB approval, the investigators will perform Optic Nerve Ultrasound (ONUS) on eligible
      subjects admitted to the ICU following informed consent of the patient or appropriate
      surrogate.

      Optic Nerve Ultrasound and ONSD measurement: These patients will undergo ONUS in the ICU.
      ONUS is performed with the patient's eye closed, and with a linear array transducer placed on
      the upper margin of the orbit to obtain a sonographic video clip of the eye, followed by
      bedside measurement of ONSD 3mm behind the level of the posterior scleral border. Imaging
      will be performed for both eyes for each patient. The expert investigator performing the ONUS
      study and manual ONSD measurement will be blinded to the patient's ICP by turning the monitor
      away from the sonographer from the time of entry into the patient's room until exit. The
      corresponding ICP from the invasive monitor will be separately documented by the bedside
      nurse. The ONUS video corresponding to the highest measured ONSD will be submitted in DICOM
      format for automated image analysis.

      Equipment: Sonosite M-Turbo point-of-care ultrasound machine and an L25 linear array
      transducer with an ophthalmic preset.

      Statistical Analysis:

        -  Simple descriptive statistics including means and standard deviations

        -  Simple Pearson correlation to allow for visual inspection across a range of values

        -  Tukey mean-difference plot (Bland - Altman plot) will be used to assess agreement
           between the two methods, the ultrasound video analysis of optic nerve sheath diameter
           and ONSD ultrasound interpretation by a clinician. Limits of agreement will be
           calculated with standard errors and 95% confidence intervals.
    
  