
    
      COVID-19 (novel coronavirus-induced disease) was declared a global pandemic by the WHO on
      11th March 2020. Currently there are no drugs proven to treat or delay progression of
      COVID-19 and no vaccine is yet available. Efforts are underway to repurpose established drugs
      with well understood drug interactions and safety profiles. Vulnerable populations such as
      those receiving in-centre dialysis are largely excluded from ongoing trials.

      The PROTECT Basket clinical trial aims to enrol patients at particularly high risk of
      COVID-19 and its complications, seeking to test treatments that either might prevent the
      disease from occurring or may reduce the number of cases where the disease becomes serious or
      life-threatening. The PROTECT trial will use innovative design and analysis methodologies to
      allow the simultaneous assessment of one or more treatments in multiple populations.

      Patients will be eligible for recruitment to the trial if they fall within one of the
      following vulnerable populations: a) patients receiving in-centre haemodialysis, b)
      transplant patients, c) vasculitis, or d) other disease groups that may be added during the
      course of this trial.

      PROTECT will use an innovate basket design to carry out a series of individually powered
      prospective, randomised comparisons in distinct vulnerable patient groups in the UK while
      applying Bayesian approaches to conduct pooled assessment of efficacy.

      Once consented, eligible participants will be randomised to active treatment or control,
      stratified by PROTECT subpopulation (disease specific). Enrolment to the trial will be via an
      online platform and following informed consent subsequent assessments will be done via email
      or telephone thus reducing the burden to participants as well as reducing their exposure to
      COVID-19.

      The master PROTECT protocol describes core components that are shared between disease
      specific appendices to the core protocol.
    
  