
    
      We will compare the groups in terms of postoperative delirium, and cognitive and motor
      function changes. Patients randomized to an inhaled anesthetic will receive a standard
      anesthetic mix: an inhaled anesthetic with intravenous agents for rapid induction of
      anesthesia, narcotics for postoperative pain relief, and muscle relaxation. Patients
      randomized to IV anesthesia will receive a continuous infusion of propofol and remifentanil
      (ultrashort acting narcotic) instead of the inhalation anesthetics during the maintenance
      phase of the anesthetic. Other components of the anesthetic will be the same as in the
      "inhaled anesthetic" group.

      We hypothesize that:

        1. Patients with Parkinson's disease will have less postoperative delirium and less
           prolonged cognitive and motor changes after total intravenous anesthesia than following
           inhaled anesthesia.

        2. Apolipoprotein E4 (Apo E4) allele will be associated with postoperative cognitive
           dysfunction in Parkinsonian patients

      To test our hypotheses we will:

        1. Randomize patients with Parkinson's disease having surgery for implantation of current
           generator for subthalamic stimulator to receive either a total intravenous anesthetic or
           an inhaled anesthetic.

        2. Compare these two groups of patients for incidence of postoperative delirium and the
           degree of postoperative cognitive and motor dysfunction.

        3. Test for an association between the (Apo E4) allele and postoperative cognitive change.
           A buccal sampling or cheek cell sampling method will be employed to obtain DNA for
           genotyping of the Apo E allele.

      During the procedure, maintenance of anesthesia will differ for the two groups:

      Group 1 Inhaled anesthesia: Patients will be maintained on oxygen and isoflurane 0 to 4%,
      titrated as needed to maintain a standard blood pressure (standard practice).

      Group 2 Intravenous anesthesia: Patients will be ventilated with 50% oxygen in air. Patients
      will receive continuous propofol infusion 0.05 mg/kgmin to 0.15 mg/kgmin titrated as needed;
      and remifentanil (ultrashort acting narcotic) 0.1 ug/kgmin to 0.5 ug/kgmin. These will be
      titrated as needed to maintain a standard blood pressure. Both infusions will be turned off
      at the end of the procedure.

      Testing of Motor and Cognitive Status. Patients who participate in the study will be given a
      mental status examination, tests of Parkinsonian motor symptoms, and tests of cognitive
      function in the preoperative period before implantation of the subthalamic electrodes and
      implantation of current generators. Subsets of these tests will be performed several times
      postoperatively (1 month and 4 months)

      Implantation of Electrode (Stage I sedation anesthesia) Full testing will be done in the
      preoperative period. Patients are generally kept in the hospital overnight and discharged the
      following day. Mental status will be rechecked by the MMSE in the recovery room
      postoperatively .

      Patients will be contacted by telephone to have their mental status assessed by telephone
      using using two well known examinations (Telephone Interview for Cognitive Status (TICS) and
      Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Health-Related Quality-of-Life 14Item Measure (CDC
      HRQOL14)) and a series of questions investigating how well patients are able to perform
      activities of daily living (ADLs) and instrumental activities of daily living (IADLs). These
      tests will be given at two time points, once before the surgery and then one month after
      surgery. We will look for changes in quality of life that may correlate with
      neuropsychometric test performance.
    
  