
    
      An estimated 10,000 rare Mendelian genetic disorders affect, in aggregate, one in twelve
      individuals. Importantly, just over half of these diseases have a known genetic cause. This
      leaves thousands of disease genes waiting to be discovered and millions of affected
      individuals without a diagnosis. The investigators will address these critical issues in
      genomic medicine by using genome sequencing and other 'omics technologies to assess patients
      whose comprehensive clinical workups have failed to yield a diagnosis. The hypothesis is
      that, when carefully selected, these undiagnosed disease patients will be a rich resource for
      new disease gene discovery.

      This study is the research arm of the UW Undiagnosed Disease program (UW-UDP). The primary
      objective of this study is to discover new disease genes and expand the known phenotypes of
      rare Mendelian disorders. The secondary objectives are: a) Diagnose individuals with genetic
      disorders who have not been diagnosed using conventional clinical means and provide them with
      actionable knowledge to manage their disorders; b) Improve our understanding of the
      pathobiology of genetic disorders and the relationships between genomic variation and
      disease; and c) Develop and trial novel diagnostic technologies and analytics.

      These objectives will be achieved through three aims:

      Aim 1: Identify candidate disease variants in individuals suspected of an undiagnosed genetic
      disorder through the use of trio short read genome sequencing and data sharing with the rare
      disease databases GeneMatcher and MatchMaker Exchange.

      Aim2: Further evaluate those individuals not diagnosed in Aim 1 by using novel 'omics
      technologies and bioinformatics algorithms. These approaches include a) ultra-long read de
      novo assembly-based genomic sequencing; b) RNA-Seq; c) epigenomics profiling, and d)
      conformational analysis of chromatin organization.

      Aim 3: Provide functional assessments of selected candidate disease genes and genomic
      variants discovered in Aims 1 and 2 through collaborations with UW and external model
      organism researchers. These efforts will be facilitated through the use of a UW model
      organism researcher database that is linked to the Canadian Rare Diseases Models and
      Mechanisms Network database and an emerging global network of model organism researcher
      databases.

      This research project is closely integrated with the UW-UDP's comprehensive clinical
      evaluations of undiagnosed patients. The standard clinical care component entails patient
      referral, collection and pre-visit assessment of medical records, and clinic visits for
      extensive phenotyping at the beginning of the study and for the return of results at the end
      of the study. The research workflow includes genome sequencing, data sharing with global
      disease gene discovery networks, and follow-up studies to determine causality of variants
      identified by genetic testing. This study will advance understanding of the pathobiology of
      genetic disease, improve clinical diagnostics, and aid in the diagnosis and management of
      individuals with previously undiagnosed rare disorders both within Wisconsin and beyond its
      borders.
    
  