
    
      Four and a half million individuals in France have warts (SOFRES poll 2002). Notably, plantar
      warts are considered to be the most common reason for consulting a private practitioner,
      despite the absence of robust epidemiological data. Although benign, plantar warts are
      associated with a certain degree of morbidity: pain, difficulty walking, and intra- and
      interindividual contagion. Despite the frequency of plantar warts and patients high
      expectations for their treatments, which are numerous for immunocompetent patients, those
      remedies have only been evaluated in undeniably inadequate ways. Patient demand for therapy
      is strong, with those affected going from one physician to another, in the search for the
      "good treatment". For all the reasons evoked in the context of skin diseases, healing warts
      can indeed represent a public health objective.

      One of the difficulties of evaluating treatments is the frequency of spontaneous complete
      remissions (natural history) and/or under placebo, assessed at 30% [range: 0-73%] in a
      short-term trial (10 weeks). In addition, professionals experiences support frequent relapses
      that have been very poorly evaluated in therapeutic trials.

      Keratolytic treatment, usually salicylated petroleum jelly, is the standard therapy according
      to the Cochrane Review. In practice, this therapy usually combines manual shaving, done by
      the patient him/herself or the physician. Supplementing this basic therapy with a physical
      (standard cryotherapy), chemical (5-fluorouracil; Efudix®) or immunological adjunct
      (imiquimod; Aldara®), to achieve the desired effect of increasing the frequency and/or
      rapidity of complete cure, has never been examined in a large randomized-controlled trial.

      A population comprised of patients with warts still "resistant" after 5 weeks of keratolytic
      therapy with 50% salicylic acid (PommadeM.O Cochon®) followed by a 1-week washout was
      deliberately retained because it is this precise setting that poses therapeutic difficulties
      in routine practice. The 1-week washout will allow the skin to heal a little and facilitate
      the diagnosis of failures; and, moreover, the strategy of pretreatment with scraping would
      not be unduly weakened.
    
  