
    
      The investigators will recruit n=200 youth 11-18 years old with PPCS. Youth will be
      randomized to 6 weeks of either usual care plus M-STEP (intervention) or usual care plus
      stretching (control). Youth in M-STEP will be coached through gradual increases in intensity
      and duration of rehabilitative exercise via weekly video conferencing (Zoom) and will use
      Fitbits to guide their progress. Youth in the stretching group will act as attention
      controls. All youth will complete research-grade measures at multiple time points. Youth will
      be followed for a total of 6 months. Data will be analyzed using mixed effects models to
      examine differences between experimental groups in the primary outcome, trajectory of
      concussive symptoms, and the secondary outcome, changes over time in health-related quality
      of life, on an intention-to-treat basis. Potential mediators of the treatment effect will
      also be examined, including fear-avoidance of concussive symptoms and MVPA, and explore the
      impact of factors such as patient sex and parental protective behaviors.

      The investigators thus assert the following hypotheses:

      Hypothesis 1: M-STEP youth will have more rapid declines in HBI and improvement in PedsQL
      compared to control youth

      Hypothesis 2: M-STEP youth will have greater increases in MVPA over time than control youth,
      and these increases will predict more rapid improvement in HBI and PedsQL.

      Hypothesis 3: M-STEP youth will have steeper declines in fear-avoidance compared to control
      youth, and these declines will predict more rapid improvement in HBI and PedsQL.

      IMPACT: The proposed study will definitively answer the question of whether a mobile
      sub-threshold exercise program (M-STEP) improves outcomes for youth with PPCS. It will also
      provide essential information about both the long-term impact of this intervention and
      potential mediators as well as biopsychosocial factors that influence treatment response. The
      study design uses a rigorous protocolized smartphone administered mHealth intervention that
      will be readily reproducible and generalizable to the majority of youth with PPCS. If
      successful, this will be one of the few evidenced-based interventions available to treat
      youth with PPCS.
    
  