
    
      We hypothesize that a profound deficiency of nutritional vitamin D (25-hydroxyvitamin D, 25D)
      in end-stage renal disease (ESRD) leads to an altered immune response, predisposing to early
      morbidity and mortality from infection, the second-leading cause of death in ESRD. In
      addition to impaired renal synthesis of the hormonal form of vitamin D (1,25-dihydroxyvitamin
      D; 1,25D), ESRD is accompanied by near universal insufficiency of 25D. In-vitro, ex-vivo, and
      retrospective human studies by our group and others suggest that 25D (and not 1,25D) is
      intimately linked to immune defense via alterations in the production of inflammatory
      cytokines and critical antimicrobial peptides including cathelicidin, which we have shown to
      identify ESRD subjects at risk for infection-related mortality. Ergocalciferol, which is
      rapidly converted to 25D, is the most widely available form of nutritional vitamin D in the
      US, yet guidelines to treat ESRD patients with nutritional vitamin D are absent because of
      limited data supporting its efficacy, safety, and biological effects in this population. To
      determine effective and safe doses of ergocalciferol in ESRD, we will perform a double blind
      placebo controlled randomized trial in 120 incident hemodialysis patients (40/arm x 3) with
      25D levels < 30ng/ml, comparing two ergocalciferol dosing regimens (50,000 IU/week and 50,000
      IU/month) and an identically appearing placebo. The primary outcome will be correction of
      vitamin D insufficiency (25D >30 ng/ml) at 12 weeks. Serum calcium and phosphate levels will
      be measured every 4 weeks to assess safety, and blood cytokine and cathelicidin levels will
      be measured every 4 weeks to determine biological responses. To examine biological effects in
      greater detail, a subset of subjects from each arm of the study will be further analyzed with
      serial macrophage gene expression profiles and whole blood cytokine profiles following
      ex-vivo stimulation with pro-inflammatory mediators (e.g., killed S. aureus). These
      experiments will inform us on how individuals with ESRD, based on their vitamin D status and
      the treatment they receive, may respond to infection. Laboratory measures will continue for
      12 weeks. Clinical follow-up and monitoring for infection-associated events (including
      antibiotic use, rates of bacteremia, and sepsis) will continue for 20 weeks. This pilot trial
      addressing a significant unmet need in nephrology will involve basic, translational, and
      clinical investigators experienced in vitamin D research, infection and inflammation, and in
      trials involving ESRD subjects. These data will provide an important foundation for designing
      future clinical trials rigorously assessing the effect of nutritional vitamin D on infectious
      and other outcomes in ESRD.
    
  