
    
      About 20% of individuals with Corona Virus disease (COVID-19) experience more severe disease
      characterized by significant respiratory symptoms including acute respiratory distress
      syndrome (ARDS). ARDS is a known lethal complication due to its low blood oxygenation levels
      and may result in organ failure. Until now, there are no specific vaccines or therapeutic
      drugs targeting SARS-CoV-2, alternative therapeutic interventions are needed to prevent and
      ameliorate respiratory conditions associated with COVID-19 to effectively reduce mortality
      and prevent ICU admissions. Aviptadil, which is a synthetic form of Human Vasoactive
      Intestinal Polypeptide (VIP), might be beneficial in patients at risk of developing ARDS.
      Nonclinical studies demonstrate that VIP is highly concentrated in the lung, where it
      prevents N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-induced caspase-3 activation, inhibits IL-6 and TNFa
      production and protects against HCl-induced pulmonary edema. Further, in animal model systems
      of lung injury in mice, rats, guinea pigs, sheep, swine and dogs, Aviptadil was shown to
      restore barrier function at the endothelial/alveolar interface and to protect the lung and
      other organs from failure. In Europe, Aviptadil is approved for human use and has been shown
      to be safe in phase II trials for sarcoidosis, pulmonary fibrosis, bronchospasm, erectile
      dysfunction as well as in a phase I trial in ARDS in the past two decades. In the US, VIP has
      been given FDA Orphan Drug Designation for the treatment of ARDS and was admitted to the FDA
      Corona Virus Technology Accelerator Program. In a phase I trial of Aviptadil performed by
      Sami Said in the early 2000s, eight patients with severe ARDS on mechanical ventilation were
      treated with ascending doses of intravenous VIP. Seven patients (88%) were successfully
      extubated and were alive at the five day time point. Six (75%) left the hospital and one
      (13%) died of an unrelated cardiac event. A phase II clinical trial using intravenous
      Aviptadil in patients with COVID-19 infection and ARDS has begun. Further, a phase II/III
      clinical trial will study the effect of inhaled Aviptadil for the treatment of non-acute lung
      injury in COVID- 19 and begins in June 2020. In Europe, two phase II trials of Aviptadil have
      been conducted. Further, studies with healthy volunteers have shown that inhaled Aviptadil is
      well tolerated with few adverse effects.
    
  