
    
      The project consists of the evaluation of two evidence-based nutrition education programs.

      Setting and participants: A random selection of all youth with parental consent for the
      program will comprise the sample of 40 boys and girls, ages 8-12y. Children with food
      allergies (to fruits, vegetables, nuts, crackers, corn pops, cookies) will be ineligible for
      participation. Participants will be randomly assigned to either behaviorally oriented
      nutrition education or standard nutrition education group (comparison group). Measures:
      Questionnaires will be completed by each participant at the baseline (the first day) and
      post-intervention (the last session day). The questionnaire addresses nutrition knowledge,
      self-efficacy and enjoyment of fruit and vegetable consumption. Controlled observation of
      healthy/unhealthy snack selection: at the baseline and post-intervention, kids will select
      snacks first from a menu (individual measure) and then a buffet (group measure) with 3
      healthy (fruits and vegetables, nuts) and 3 unhealthy (crackers, corn pops, cookies) snack
      options. Measurements of height, weight, and waist circumference will be taken prior to the
      first nutrition education session. Demographics: Investigators will obtain information on
      age, gender, ethnicity, family socioeconomic status, and parental education level via
      questionnaire. Procedures: Parents will be informed about potential for child to be involved
      in healthful nutrition and physical activity at camper check-in. After an informed consent is
      signed, parents/caregivers and the participant will fill out baseline questionnaires. The
      parent survey will ask about their child's ethnicity, parental education level, and family
      socioeconomic status.

      Each participant will privately have their height, weight, and waist circumference measured
      prior to start of study. Participants will attend 45 minute sessions from Monday to Friday
      throughout 3 weeks at the camp. Each session will be held using different modules from the
      evidence-based HOP'N After School program. The difference in sessions between the
      intervention and comparison group will be that the intervention group will get both nutrition
      education and skill-training component during the session (for example, creating a healthy
      snack, playing games focusing on enjoyment of fruit and vegetable consumption); the control
      group will not receive the skill-training component, but will get the same nutrition
      knowledge as the intervention group. Controlled observation snack tests will take place at
      the beginning and at the end of the program (baseline and post-intervention).
    
  