
    
      Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer deaths in the United States. Recent clinical
      trials provide evidence that screening with low dose CT scans will decrease lung cancer and
      all cause mortality among older heavy smokers. Clinical guidelines have been issued with the
      USPSTF recommending annual screening from age 55 to 80 for those with 30 pack years or more
      of smoking or who quit less than 15 years ago. Evidence clearly delineates both the benefits
      (mortality reduction) and harms (false positives, follow-up testing, risk of invasive
      testing, and risk of overdiagnosis) of lung cancer screening. Preliminary data from an HSR&D
      pilot grant finds that some Veterans are highly reluctant to enter the care pathway
      associated with lung cancer screening due to its potential harms. Additional preliminary data
      using Best Worst Scaling in older smokers demonstrate groups of patients who place greater
      importance on harms than benefit when considering lung cancer screening. Preference
      assessment methods can help Veterans to weigh benefits and harms, consider the clinical
      pathway they are entering, anticipate future health states, and communicate these values to
      their health care providers. Although basic educational tools to inform lung cancer
      decision-making have been developed, there is a lack of validated preference assessment tools
      that can be integrated into the clinical setting. Building upon preference assessment methods
      developed and validated in an HSR&D pilot grant (PI-Schapira) and using a trans-disciplinary
      approach, this team is positioned to advance the science and practice of decision support for
      lung cancer screening in the Veteran population. The objectives of this study are to 1)
      elicit patient and provider stakeholder input to inform the development of a lung cancer
      screening decision tool, 2) develop a web based Lung Cancer Screening Decision Tool
      (LCSDecTool) that incorporates patient and provider input, and 3) evaluate the impact of the
      LCSDecTool compared to usual care on the decision process, clinical outcomes, and quality of
      life. The study will be conducted in 3 phases. In phase 1, mixed methods will be used to
      assess usability of preference assessment methods and perceived usefulness of a web based
      lung cancer screening decision support tool among patient and provider stakeholders. In phase
      2, an interactive web based decision support program will be developed that incorporates
      preference assessment methods. In phase 3, a pilot RCT will be conduced to evaluate the
      efficacy of the web based decision support program. Outcomes evaluated will include decision
      quality as indicated by knowledge, decisional conflict, and decision regret; screening
      behavior, clinical outcomes as indicated by anxiety, and quality of life. The study will be
      conducted across two VA sites; West Haven-VA in Connecticut and Corporal Michael J. Crescenz
      VA in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Results of this study will provide tools that can be used
      to integrate lung cancer screening into clinical practice at VA Medical Centers in a patient
      centered approach. Lung cancer screening is fundamentally different from existing screening
      paradigms in several respects; eligibility is defined by a behavior (smoking), a high rate of
      false positive findings is expected, and the target population is older with higher
      comorbidity than the target population for cervical, breast, or colorectal screening. Given
      these unique aspects of lung cancer screening, there is a critical need to develop and test
      tools for preference assessment and informed decision making that are applicable for the VA
      setting. The current proposal provides a mechanism to accomplish these goals. The Principal
      Investigator is working closely with the US Department of Veterans Affairs National Center
      for Health Promotion and Disease Prevention to integrate the tools and paradigm developed to
      primary care in the VA Medical Care System. The work builds directly upon a recently
      completed HSR&D pilot support in the area of lung cancer and shared decision making.
    
  