
    
      Caudal epidural injection is the most commonly performed regional anesthetic procedure in
      infants and children and is used to provide perioperative analgesia for many lower abdominal,
      lower extremity, and urological procedures. Utilizing sterile technique, a needle is advanced
      through the sacral hiatus and local anesthetic is injected into the epidural space. Local
      anesthetic spreads cranially and results in significant sensory (+/- motor) blockade,
      depending on local anesthetic concentration and volume1. Recent studies have used ultrasound
      to assess cranial spread during caudal blockade, specifically evaluating how speed of
      injection and different volumes can affect cranial spread2,4. Other studies have investigated
      redistribution and secondary spread after initial injection of local anesthetic by utilizing
      ultrasound assessment of the epidural space3.

      Although no current standard exists for confirming successful caudal epidural injection,
      several findings may indicate a proper needle position and can predict successful block5.
      Some of these findings include: tactile appreciation of the "pop" through the sacrococcygeal
      ligament, negative blood or cerebrospinal fluid aspiration, negative test dose, appropriate
      resistance during injection, no subcutaneous swelling during injection, no motor or
      hemodynamic response to skin incision, and no need for administration of supplemental
      analgesics. Although several studies have shown that real-time ultrasound guidance can be
      used during needle insertion for caudal block, this does not guarantee adequate cranial
      spread and may be technically challenging for a trainee performing the block. Furthermore,
      many of the tactile findings that indicate successful entry into the appropriate space can
      only be appreciated by the trainee, not the supervising anesthesiologist, which complicates
      supervision of this technique. At present, difficulty in reliably predicting block failure
      may lead to overuse of narcotics to prevent pain in patients with potentially failed blocks
      or could lead to inadequate analgesia in patients too young to reliably communicate their
      pain level.

      The purpose of our study is to evaluate whether utilizing ultrasound assessment during caudal
      epidural injection can reliably identify unrecognized and unsuccessful nerve blocks during
      the procedure, guide proper technique, and alter pain management outcome measurements for
      patients.

      The proposed study will not change the current practice with regard to patient selection for
      caudal epidural injection and will not change the performance of the procedure itself. This
      study may impact the practice of general pediatric anesthesiologists by providing evidence
      that ultrasound is a useful tool for determining successful caudal epidural injection, may
      help identify unrecognized failed blocks earlier and will evaluate which level(s) of
      anesthesia training would most benefit from this assessment tool.

      Patients will be randomized using pre-made folders containing an assignment to either the
      control group or study group. In the study group, ultrasound will be utilized in the caudal
      block to confirm placement. In the control group, the caudal block will be done without
      ultrasound to assist with caudal epidural injection. In the operating room, once the
      anesthesia team is prepared to begin the caudal epidural injection, the patient will be
      placed in the lateral decubitus or prone position, with knees and hips flexed. The attending
      for the caudal block will mark the site on the patient per the site marking policy at Lurie
      Children's; this is not necessarily the attending of record for the remainder of the case.
      Once the sacrum is prepped, the anesthesia provider will proceed with the caudal epidural
      injection in the usual fashion. The injected solution will be 1 mL/kg of 0.2% ropivacaine
      with 1:200k epinephrine, rounded up to the next mL, which is consistent with the current
      standard practice at Lurie Children's. After injection of test dose (10% of the total block
      volume), a one-minute pause will begin to assess for a response. During this pause, prior to
      injection of the remaining dose of local anesthetic, a 13-6 MHz, linear ultrasound probe with
      a sterile covering and ultrasound gel will be placed over the patient's lumbar spine, cranial
      to the point of entry for the caudal block. The caudal block needle insertion site and
      sterile field will be observed and undisturbed. The ultrasound probe will be positioned
      paramedian along the non-dependent side of the spine, obtaining a long axis view of the
      epidural and intrathecal space. The cephalad end of probe will be placed at the level of the
      iliac crest. Once the ultrasound probe is positioned properly and the one-minute pause has
      finished, the remaining dose of local anesthetic will be administered by the anesthesia
      provider as an ultrasound clip of epidural spread is visualized.

      The supervising attending anesthesiologist will be one of those listed in the personnel form.
      In either group, the attending anesthesiologist will coach the resident to help guide them to
      success based on the standards of care with this block. In the control group, if it is felt
      that the trainee is unable to safely and successfully perform the block based on typically
      utilized methods of assessment (injection pressure, needle appearance, subcutaneous swelling)
      then the attending will take over the block, consistent with current practice at Lurie
      Children's. In the study group, the attending will continue to use traditional methods of
      assessment but will also utilize the ultrasound to assess block success and may either take
      over the block at the time injection has been determined to be unsuccessful or may redirect
      the trainee to success in their performance of the block.

      As part of the research protocol, the primary anesthesia team should avoid giving the patient
      other analgesic medications prior to the time of incision. Additionally, the anesthesia team
      should have the patient at 1 MAC of sevoflurane and avoid using nitrous oxide, at the time of
      incision. After incision, all anesthetic decisions will be at the discretion of the attending
      anesthesiologist of record in the operating room.

      Data will be collected on the level of training of the physician performing the procedure,
      the proceduralist's experience level, findings during the procedure, and their confidence
      level of block success. Subsequent data will be collected on response to skin incision and
      need for supplemental analgesia. In the recovery room, a pain score will be assessed at the
      time of phase 1 recovery discharge. Recovery room staff will be advised to only give
      analgesic medications, standardized to 0.05 mg/kg of morphine, if pain is rated at > 4 on the
      rFLACC scale, appropriate to the patients' age. The ultrasound probe placement, image
      acquisition, survey administration, pre-incision anesthetic standardization, and recovery
      room analgesic administration threshold are the only research-related procedures. All
      elements of patient care described above, including withholding additional analgesics before
      incision, are consistent with the current standard of care and standard practices at Lurie
      Children's. The length of the study visit will be from the time of operation until PACU
      discharge, with the intervention only taking place during the operation.

      Caudal analgesia will be rated successful if 2 conditions are fulfilled: (1) the procedure
      was performed without any physical assistance by the supervisor, with verbal comments and
      suggestions allowed, and no more than 3 passes with the needle through the skin needed, and
      (2) clinical success of the block. Clinical failure will be defined as need for opioid
      supplementation or increased concentration of volatile anesthetic in response to clinical
      signs of insufficient analgesia including increases in heart rate, blood pressure, movement
      of patient, or other signs of stress at incision or during the procedure. The attending
      anesthesiologist will predict whether the caudal block was successful based on clinical
      indicators alone in the control group and based on ultrasound findings in the study group.
      This assessment of confidence in the block must be made before emergence from anesthesia.
    
  