
    
      Subjects who satisfy the inclusion/exclusion criteria and who have given their written,
      witnessed, informed consent will be admitted to the studies. Subjects will be clinically
      assessed (fine wrinkling, coarse wrinkling, mottled hyperpigmentation, sallowness) and
      clinical photographs taken prior to instruction on the use of the allocated cream by the
      study Investigator (product or placebo). Product will be applied daily to the entire face and
      dorsum of hands, including the wrists and extensor forearm, for six months. Successive
      follow-up visits (3 visits over a 6-month period) will be made to assess efficacy and safety.
      Subjects will be randomly allocated to self-treatment with either product or placebo cream
      using a computer generated code (Research Randomizer; www.randomizer.org).

      The primary outcome measure will be treatment efficacy; this will be assessed by the study
      Investigators as changes in the clinical parameters of photoaging (fine wrinkles, coarse
      wrinkles, mottled hyperpigmentation, sallowness).

      The Investigators will assess two secondary outcome measures: (1) Histological improvement in
      skin structure. Skin biopsies from the treated extensor forearm will be taken at study
      initiation and at the end of the six month study period. These biopsies will be evaluated
      for: (a) epidermal thickness; (b) fibrillin expression and; (c) pro-collagen I expression.
      (2) Tolerance and irritancy. Tolerance and irritation assessments will be made by recording
      the occurrence and severity of signs of erythema and scaling. Safety will be evaluated by
      recording all adverse events experienced by subjects. Any subject exhibiting adverse events
      of sufficient severity will be withdrawn from the trial. Completion or withdrawal of subjects
      from the trial will be noted on the end of study form. All subjects will be monitored for the
      occurrence of serious adverse events up to, and including, 28 days after their involvement
      with this study.

      The trial will be conducted according to the recommendations of ICH GCP and those of the
      Declaration of Helsinki, only after approval of the study has been obtained from the relevant
      Research Ethics Committee.
    
  