
    
      This is a single-site, randomized, placebo-controlled trial of concurrent triiodothyronine
      (Cytomel® 25-50 mcg/d) to electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) in patients with a major depressive
      episode referred to ECT. Goals of this application are to: 1) evaluate whether thyroid status
      at time of sustained clinical response is associated with subsequent relapse rate, 2)
      evaluate triiodothyronine (Cytomel®) as an accelerating agent (i.e. faster rate to sustained
      clinical response) to electroconvulsive ECT treatment, and 3) evaluate whether thyroid
      acceleration can reduce the neurocognitive side effects of ECT. 4) To evaluate genetic
      polymorphisms in enzymes responsible for thyroid metabolism and the serotonin transporter
      promoter gene in depression (5-HTTLRP).

      The primary outcome measure for this study, time to relapse, is defined as a Hamilton
      Depression Score (HAMD-24) ≥16 and an increase of ≥10 points from sustained response
      baseline. Secondary outcomes measures are time to sustained response, defined as a ≥60%
      reduction in the HAMD-24 score, and neurocognitive side effect burden as rated by the
      modified Mini Mental Status Examination at time of sustained clinical response.

      Hypotheses:

        1. Within a 6-month study period, mean serum free T3 at time of sustained clinical response
           will correlate with time to subsequent relapse [defined as a HAMD-24 score ≥16 with an
           increase of ≥10 points from baseline (sustained response)].

        2. In comparison to placebo, triiodothyronine (Cytomel®, 25-50 mcg) will accelerate time to
           sustained clinical response [defined as a ≥60% reduction in the Hamilton Rating Scale
           for Depression, 24-item, (HAMD-24) score and a HAMD-24 total score ≤10 for 2 consecutive
           visits] in depressed patients referred to ECT.

        3. In comparison to placebo, at time of sustained clinical response, there will be less
           ECT-related neurocognitive side effects, as rated by the modified Mini-Mental Status
           Examination (mMMSE), associated with triiodothyronine.

        4. a. The 5-HTTLPR long allele (l) and (l)/(l) genotype will be associated with a faster
           treatment response.

           b. The DI-C785T allele will be associated with lower T3 levels at baseline and faster
           treatment response.
    
  