
    
      Sleep patterns, evaluated in hunter-gatherer populations, show that without artificial
      interference, sleep is of course concomitant with the decrease in luminosity, but is also
      regulated by the outside temperature. Light pollution from night lighting and artificially
      regulated temperature contribute to distancing us from these physiological signals. In
      addition, the leisure activities linked to the screens encourage a voluntary restriction of
      sleep manifested by a later bedtime, whereas social constraints always impose the time of
      getting up. Sleep debt accumulates during the week and compensates for non-working days
      inducing a social jet lag of small amplitude, but repeated each week. Subjects who
      spontaneously or habitually develop a late chronotype (i.e. a propensity to be a "late
      sleeper, late riser") are the most exposed to this social jetlag between days worked when the
      sleep debt accumulates and days off when the sleep debt compensates.

      It has been widely demonstrated that a short sleep duration promotes weight gain. Subjects
      with a late chronotype associate a short sleep duration on days when they work and a
      significant social jetlag on days when they do not work. This late chronotype is associated
      with unfavourable eating behaviour and more emotional eating and constitutes a risk of
      developing metabolic diseases.

      Confinement disrupts social habits: lack of work activity or teleworking creates the
      possibility for individuals to work and/or sleep at times that are most convenient for them.
      Investigators hypothesize that subjects with a history of obesity will have tended, during
      confinement, to return to their spontaneous chronotype. The evolution of chronotypes between
      the pre-confinement period and during confinement will allow to measure the percentage of
      subjects who are not usually living according to their spontaneous chronotype, due to social
      constraints. Finally, we wish to retrospectively question the subjects on the impact of
      confinement on their eating habits, physical activity, mood and employment.
    
  