
    
      Objective If proven (cost)effective, without inducing antiviral resistance, oseltamivir could
      have considerable benefits in this setting, although constraints relating to implementation
      need to be addressed as well. If not (cost)effective if this fragile population, resources
      can be better spent on other activities to support nursing home residents.

      Study design:

      A randomised controlled trial on the effect of PEP with oseltamivir versus placebo on
      transmission of influenza in nursing homes, linked to virological monitoring of possible
      development of resistance and impact on transmission and outcome, linked with a cost
      effectiveness analysis, and an exploration of logistical and ethical issues which could
      interfere with successful implementation.

      Study population:

      This trial will be nested in the recently established Network of Nursing Homes (SNIV). SNIV
      has been initiated and is coordinated by the RIVM Centre of Infectious Disease Control.
      Baseline data on the population in these nursing homes is already routinely collected, and
      epidemiological and virological surveillance of ILI/influenza is established, in
      collaboration with the local laboratories.

      Intervention:

      Post-exposition prophylaxis with oseltamivir or placebo. Once laboratory confirmation has
      been obtained in an index case, all residents of that implicated unit only will be randomly
      assigned to PEP with either oseltamivir 75 mg or placebo once daily for 10 days. Data on
      co-morbidity, medication and other potential confounders for susceptibility to a clinical
      influenza infection will be collected prior to the start of PEP. The index patient (and any
      secondary patients) will be treated therapeutically with oseltamivir. Main study
      parameters/endpoints: Transmission, the primary trial outcome measurement, is defined as a
      newly laboratory confirmed influenza in the same unit 12 hours or more after the start of
      PEP. Assuming 30 homes participate, that annually 30% of nursinghomes experience a confirmed
      influenza outbreak in on average two units, than we can recruit 20 units per season. Assuming
      that without effective prophylaxis ongoing transmission occurs in 40% of the units, we will
      have at least 80% power after 3 seasons with a two-sided alpha=0.05 to demonstrate a
      reduction in transmission of 70%.

      Furthermore, this trial offers an excellent opportunity to evaluate the possible emergence of
      resistance against oseltamivir if used under such circumstances, by analysing the occurrence
      of viral mutations under oseltamivir therapy (for index- and for any secondary cases). In
      addition, we will assess the relative cost-effectiveness of PEP with oseltamivir per nursing
      home unit, compared to not using PEP by prospectively collecting information on the number of
      influenza infections and related complications, duration of symptoms, use of medical services
      by secondary cases, as well as sickness leave of staff.

      Finally, potential ethical and logistical restrictions for the large scale use of oseltamivir
      will be documented prospectively.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness:

      Burden and risks of this trial will be minimal, as we will not deviate from current standing
      practices, in which some nursing homes offer PEP and others don't, following the diagnosis of
      influenza on a unit.
    
  