
    
      Faecal incontinence (FI) is the involuntary loss of flatus, liquid or solid stool per rectum.
      Owing to the emotional stress and the psychosocial stigma surrounding this problem, it is
      under-reported by patients.

      Conservative management of FI involves lifestyle, medical adjustments and pelvic floor
      sphincter training. If conservative treatment fails, surgical options such as sphincter
      repair, sacral nerve stimulation (SNM) and percutaneous tibial nerve stimulation (PTNS) can
      be reformed. SNM and PTNS involve application of nervous electrical stimulation
      (neuromodulation) with significant improvement of symptoms. The positions of electrical
      stimuli are also very similar to acupuncture sites (acupoints) used in Traditional Chinese
      Medicine for the treatment of faecal incontinence. However, disadvantage of these methods
      are; 1) they are invasive and may cause complications such as pain, infection and bleeding
      and; 2) the devices for each SNM device can be costly.

      Transcutaneous Electrical Nerve Stimulation (TENS) is non-invasive, which is commonly used
      for the management of pain. It works via the application of electrical stimuli using adhesive
      gel pads. They are cheap to run and are widely accepted by patients. Hence application of
      TENS over acupoints (Acu-TENS) may provide a novel non-invasive treatment.

      A randomised controlled trial will be carried out on patients with FI. Demographic data, past
      medical history, in particular any structural or neurological causes of FI, will be recorded.
      Ano-rectal manometry and endoanal ultrasound will be performed before and after treatment.
      Acu-TENS machine will be applied to standardised acupuncture points. Assessment of FI via
      Cleveland Clinic Florida Faecal Incontinence Score and Quality of life measurements via the
      validated questionnaires Short Form 36 (SF-36) and the Fecal Incontinence Quality of Life
      Scale (FIQL) (Chinese version) questionnaires will be carried out at baseline, and followup
      intervals.
    
  