
    
      Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a terminal illness that typically develops in the
      sixth and seventh decades of life. It is a relentless fibrotic parenchymal lung disease that
      results in restrictive physiology and worsening symptoms of cough and shortness of breath.
      The median life expectancy from the time of diagnosis is in the 3-5 year range. The only
      therapy that has proven to extend life expectancy is lung transplantation.

      There are 3 relevant, unanswered questions pertaining to the use of anti-fibrotic therapy for
      IPF around the time of lung transplantation:

        1. Does stopping the medications prematurely while awaiting lung transplantation result in
           a greater risk of death due to acceleration of IPF?

        2. Does continuing the medications until the time of transplant increase the risk of intra-
           and/or post-operative complications?

        3. Is there a role for post-transplant anti-fibrotic therapy to reduce complications such
           as stenosis of the anastomosis, bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome and restrictive
           allograft syndrome, and/or to preserve native lung function following a single lung
           transplant?

      The primary goal of this observational, pilot study is to collect retrospective data with the
      intention of using the findings to select primary outcomes and determine sample size for a
      sufficiently powered subsequent study.

      The investigators will focus on the following aims:

      Aim 1: Assess whether the time period between discontinuation of anti-fibrotic therapy for
      IPF and lung transplantation impacts (a) the risk of intra-operative and post-transplant
      complications and (b) short term survival.

      Aim 2: Explore whether discontinuing anti-fibrotic therapy prior to lung transplantation is
      associated with increased risk of death while awaiting a transplant.

      At the participating sites, all patients with IPF listed for lung transplantation who were
      being treated with one of the 2 anti-fibrotic therapies continuously for at least 90 days at
      the time of their eligibility for listing will be included. Outcomes include events that
      occurred after being listed and while waiting for lung transplantation, intra-operative and
      peri-operative events, and mortality data out to 6 months. Patients that underwent additional
      interventions (coronary artery bypass grafting, valve replacement) at the time of their
      transplant will be excluded.
    
  