
    
      Multi-functional protein Glycine N-methyltransferase (GNMT, EC2.1.1.20, localized to
      chromosome 6p12), affects genetic stability by a) regulating the ratio of
      S-adenosylmethionine (SAM) to S-adenosylhomocystine (SAH) and b) binding to folate. Based on
      the following observations, GNMT is classified as a tumor susceptibility gene: a) diminished
      GNMT expression levels in both human hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cell lines and tissues;
      b) genotypic analyses of several human GNMT gene polymorphisms showed a loss of
      heterozygosity in 36-47% of the genetic markers in HCC tissues and also related to the
      susceptibility of prostate cancer; c) GNMT binds to environmental carcinogens such as
      benzo(a)pyrene (BaP) and aflatoxin B1 (AFB1) and protect the liver cells by inhibiting
      DNA-adduct formation.

      Environmental carcinogens such as polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) were reviewed as
      the major risk factors for lung cancer development. In this proposal, the investigators
      collected fifteen kinds of major PAHs and would like to perform the following studies:

        1. Study the gene expression and subcellular localization of GNMT in the normal-tumor
           tissue pairs of lung cancer patients.

        2. Study the associations of the polymorphisms of GNMT in lung cancer patients and the
           susceptibility to lung cancer;

        3. To assess the allelic loss at GNMT and determined the LOH rate of GNMT in the
           normal-tumor tissue pairs of lung cancer patients.

        4. Study the associations of the copy number variation (CNV) of GNMT and the susceptibility
           to lung cancer;

        5. Study the interaction between GNMT and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) in lung
           cancer cell lines.

      So far, the investigators have analyzed the gene expression of GNMT in the normal-tumor
      tissue pairs of some lung cancer patients. The investigators also analyzed the interaction
      between the GNMT and some PAHs using lung cancer cell lines. These data are helpful to
      clarify the susceptibility of lung cancer patients with the gene expression in GNMT.

      This study is helpful in elucidating the role of GNMT plays in the tumorigenesis of lung
      cancer which may have important implications in the development of strategies for the
      prevention, diagnosis and treatment of lung cancer and other types of cancer.
    
  