
    
      First line treatment for detrusor hyperreflexia is the use of antimuscarinic medications.
      However, these medications can have unwanted side effects and often are not good enough to
      decrease incontinence in cases of severe neurogenic detrusor overactivity. Some invasive
      surgical procedures are possible such as sacral nerve stimulator, sacral rhizotomy, bladder
      myomectomy and bladder augmentation. But there are still few treatment option for this
      medical complication. Recently, some data are showed the clinical application of botulinum
      neurotoxin A (BTX-A) into detrusor muscle in cases of resistant neurogenic detrusor
      overactivity to conventional treatment with anticholinergic medication. In these studies the
      authors perform intravesical BTX-A injections. First 300 units Botox are diluted with 30 ml
      of preservative-free saline. Using a rigid cystoscope and an injection needle, BTX-A is
      injected into 30 sites within the detrusor muscle.

      To reduce the pain, instillation of lidocaine before botulinum-A toxin injections is used
      into the bladder. On a 10-point rating scale the mean pain score of the patients who
      underwent the injections of Botox after conventional lidocaine instillation is 4.0 (SD 1.6).

      The used of KALINOX® (50% nitrous oxide and oxygen) inhalation has demonstrated analgesic
      efficacy in various procedures (obstetric, liver biopsy, transrectal ultrasound guided
      prostate biopsy, emergency…) associated with mild to moderate pain and it is technically
      simple to use. Early studies indicated that 30% nitrous oxide is equipotent to 10 to 15 mg.
      morphine. Except in patients with severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease KALINOX®
      inhalation is a safe and acceptable method of sedation and analgesia. It is a nonirritant and
      is excreted unchanged from the lungs.

      The aim of this study is to investigate the safety and efficacy of analgesia with N2O/O2
      inhalation for detrusor BTX-A injections using a rigid cystoscope. Will be included patient
      with severe neurogenic detrusor overactivity but with preserved bladder sensibility treated
      with botulinum-A toxin injections into the detrusor muscle Patients will be randomized into a
      group that will receive KALINOX® via a breath activated device and a control group that
      receive oxygen through a similar breathing device. The investigator will be involved in the
      randomization process since the gas cylinders will be covered and they will be blind to the
      gas used. All patients involved will be blinded to the gas that they will inhale. The
      patients will score the injection pain and the anxiety on a 10-point rating scale.
      Furthermore the duration of the practice will be measured.

      The hypothesis is that analgesia with KALINOX® will show a significant difference in pain
      perception among the 2 groups.
    
  