
    
      Women who inject drugs (WWIDs) are at significantly higher risk of contracting HIV due to
      both needle sharing and sexual behaviors, yet utilize HIV prevention resources less. Analysis
      of studies testing pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) has not tested effectiveness in WWIDs and
      little research exists on their specific barriers to uptake and adherence. The result is a
      significant group who is highly vulnerable to HIV infection and its negative health
      consequences, yet is less likely to benefit from PrEP. To address this gap this study will
      use a rigorous formative evaluation strategy utilizing a unique and innovative marketing
      evaluation technique. Using perceptual mapping and vector modeling analysis, the
      investigators will develop 3-D maps to identify specific message strategies to embed into an
      intervention using targeted PrEP counseling, written materials, and text based messaging and
      pilot tested for promise of efficacy compared to a general PrEP intervention. The
      intervention will address psycho-social barriers to PrEP through perceptual mapping but also
      societal and structural barriers by embedding it in a trusted syringe exchange and
      distributing medication through its medical clinic. Specific aims of the research are: 1.
      Assess WWIDs' perceptions of PrEP and potential barriers to use. To accomplish this the
      investigators will conduct focus groups (n=30) and interviews with syringe exchange staff
      (n=10) and develop a perceptual mapping survey. 2. Develop a targeted communication
      intervention based on vector modeling findings, including print materials, PrEP counseling,
      and text messages, and assess feasibility and acceptability. To accomplish this the
      investigators will conduct perceptual mapping surveys with HIV- WWIDs (n=100), do vector
      modeling analysis and create sample messages, concept test messages with WWIDs and staff
      (n=20), create intervention materials and conduct usability testing (n=20). 3. Pilot test the
      intervention by integrating into a syringe exchange to assess promise of efficacy. To
      accomplish this the investigators will conduct a randomized pilot (n=50) and test an
      "enhanced" intervention using targeted messages with a "basic" intervention that provides
      general PrEP counseling. To assess promise of efficacy the investigators will compare PrEP
      adherence (blood test; self report) and differences in PrEP attitudes, self-efficacy, and
      decisional conflict.
    
  