
    
      i. Objective

      The objective of this study is to investigate the efficacy of donepezil to improve the
      developmental trajectory for core behavioral domains specific to autism, namely reciprocal
      social interaction and communication.

      ii. Study population

      90 children with an autism spectrum disorder between the ages of 24 to 50 months will be
      screened via polysomnogram to find 45 with a relative REM deficiency. This group will then be
      divided into two arms of drug versus placebo. Allowing for a 22 % drop out rate we expect 17
      in each group to complete the study. Additionally, we will enroll 16 children with an ASD who
      do not meet criteria for relative REM deficiency in an open label arm to ascertain whether or
      not donepezil is beneficial to behavior in this group.

      iii. Design

      The proposal is for a 6 month treatment trial of 2.5 mg donepezil/placebo/day followed by 12
      months of longitudinal follow-up. The primary study endpoint will be an examination of autism
      core symptoms and sleep architecture after 12 months.

      iv. Outcome measures

      The primary outcome measure will be:

        1. An improvement in the Expressive Language and the Receptive Language subscales of the
           Mullen Scales of Early Learning (MSEL) at 12 months.

           Secondary outcome measures will be:

        2. We will also measure the change in REM sleep parameters after 6, 12 and 18 months in
           relation to improvements in behavioral indices.

           Exploratory Outcome Measures will be:

        3. An improvement in the Expressive Language and the Receptive Language subscales of the
           Mullen Scales at 18 months.

        4. An improvement on the severity scale of the Autism Diagnostic Observation Schedule
           (ADOS) at 6, 12 and 18 months.

        5. An improvement on the Vineland at 3, 6, 12 and 18 months

        6. An exploratory analysis will investigate whether normalization of REM parameters also
           improves other measurements of sleep quality in children with autism.
    
  