
    
      The purpose of this project is to evaluate the role of gadoxetate (Eovist) enhanced
      dual-energy CT in better evaluating perihilar cholangiocarcinoma, by exploiting the
      combination of the physiologic behavior of gadoxetate in liver tissue combined with the
      advantageous mass attenuation coefficient of Gadolinium achievable through dual energy
      technique. This combination of unique CT imaging sensitivity, high resolution and
      differential enhancement potentially allows improved visualization and detection of tumor
      relative to enhancing surrounding hepatic parenchyma and ductal anatomy in the hepatobiliary
      phase, due to the biliary excretion of the agent.

      Cholangiocarcinoma is a hepatic adenocarcinoma that arises from the bile duct epithelium and
      is the second most prevalent liver cancer after hepatocellular carcinoma. The hilar
      intrahepatic variety of cholangiocarcinoma can present as an infiltrative, exophytic, or
      polypoid lesion. Most extra-hepatic cholangiocarcinomas are infiltrative, causing a focal
      stricture of the bile duct and result in proximal biliary ductal dilatation.

      While magnetic resonance (MR) cholangiography is diagnostic in the majority of patients with
      malignant hilar strictures, evaluation is limited by spatial resolution and in some patients,
      the inability to have an MRI scan. Standard Multi Detector CT (MDCT) using iodinated contrast
      agents, on the other hand, is limited in evaluation of cholangiocarcinomas, due to the lack
      of consistent enhancement of the tumor with iodinated contrast.

      Single-source, Dual-Energy (SSDE) Spectral MDCT utilizes a single fast switching x-ray beam
      source to acquire near simultaneous data sets at two different photon energies during a
      single acquisition. Data is acquired at 80 kilovolt peak (kVp) and 140 kVp with image
      reconstruction achievable as a selectable monochromatic presentation over a range of 40 - 140
      kiloelectron volt (keV), typically 70-78 keV for diagnostic image presentation. At lower tube
      voltage, the frequency of photoelectric interactions increases exponentially and is strongly
      dependent on the atomic number. Therefore, for substances with higher atomic number, such as
      iodine and gadolinium the increased frequency of photoelectric and k-edge interactions at low
      tube voltage substantially increases CT attenuation, thus improving contrast. Gadolinium is
      further unique with k-edge attenuation at approximately 53 keV, within the available
      monochromatic reconstruction range, thus allowing for significant greater detectability.
      Additional material decomposition technique allows for unique material presentation and
      analysis such as gadolinium/ water pair analysis with high spatial resolution.

      Dual-Energy technology is limited by the types of contrast agents currently available, all
      based on Iodine. Gadoxetate (Eovist) is a relatively new Gadolinium based MRI contrast agent
      that is capable of producing not only standard appearing MRI images in the hepatic arterial
      and portal venous phases, but also provides an opportunity to better visualize the bile ducts
      and liver parenchyma as it is excreted by the liver into the biliary system during the
      hepatobiliary phase.

      This pilot project aims to address a long-term pitfall in the imaging of cholangiocarcinomas,
      by providing higher resolution delineation of these often infiltrative tumors on
      single-source, Dual-Energy Spectral MDCT, capitalizing on improved spatial resolution
      achievable with MDCT compared to MRI and at the same time producing a non-invasive CT
      cholangiogram to aid in accurate diagnosis and treatment planning of cholangiocarcinoma,
      particularly, the hilar variety.
    
  