
    
      Study Drug Administration:

      There are 28 days in each study cycle.

      You will receive utomilumab by vein every 4 weeks for up to 12 doses beginning on Cycle 1 Day
      1. The drug will be given over about 1 hour each time you receive it.

      You will receive ISA101b as an injection under the skin every 4 weeks for 3 doses. You will
      receive 2 injections each time. One may be in your arm and one in your leg.

      Length of Study:

      You may continue taking utomilumab for up to 1 year as long as your doctor thinks it is in
      your best interest. You will no longer be able to take the study drug(s) if intolerable side
      effects occur or if you are unable to follow study directions. You may not be able to take
      the study drug(s) if the disease gets worse, which is explained below.

      Your participation on the study will be over after the follow-up visits.

      Study Visits:

      On Day 1 of Cycles 1-12:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be collected for routine tests, thyroid function tests,
           and liver function tests.

        -  If you can become pregnant, blood (about ½ teaspoon) or urine will be collected for a
           pregnancy test.

        -  During Cycles 1, 2, 3, 4, 8, and 12, blood (up to 10 tablespoons) will be drawn for
           biomarker testing (including genetic biomarkers).

      At the end of Cycle 2 and every 8 weeks after that, you will have an MRI or CT scan to check
      the status of the disease.

      Study Continuation:

      If the disease appears to have gotten worse, you may still be eligible to continue receiving
      your assigned study drug(s). This is because you may be benefitting from the study drug(s)
      even though the tumor(s) got larger. Your doctor will discuss this with you.

      If this happens, your doctor will talk to you about whether or not you want to continue. If
      you do continue taking part in the study, you will follow the study visits as described
      above.

      However, there are risks of continuing to receive the study drug(s) because the disease may
      actually be getting worse. You are still at risk for side effects due to utomilumab and
      ISA101b. Continuing on this study could also delay starting other treatments. The disease may
      get worse to the point that you are no longer able to receive other treatments. There are
      also risks from the additional tests that may be performed, such as biopsies and blood draws.
      You and your doctor will discuss these possible risks, and you will be asked to decide if you
      want to continue receiving the study drug(s).

      End-of-Treatment and Follow-up Visits:

      At about 30 days after your last study drug dose:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be collected for routine tests, thyroid function tests,
           and liver function tests.

        -  If you are able to become pregnant, blood (about ½ teaspoon) or urine will be collected
           for a pregnancy test.

      At about 70 days after your last study drug dose:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be collected for routine tests, thyroid function tests,
           and liver function tests.

        -  If you are able to become pregnant, blood (about ½ teaspoon) or urine will be collected
           for a pregnancy test.

      You will also be called every 3 months up to 1½ years and asked about your health. Each call
      should last about 10-15 minutes.

      If you stopped taking the study drug for reasons other than the disease getting worse, you
      will continue to have MRI/CT scans every 8 weeks. If the disease appears to get worse, or you
      start a new anticancer therapy, these scans will stop.
    
  