
    
      Inclusion criteria:

        1. Histological or cytological documented stage IV NSCLC. Sputum cytology alone is
           excluded.

        2. Extracerebral lesions show stable disease after first line chemotherapy. Patient has
           recovered from CTCAE grade 3/4 toxicity. Patients who had never received EGFR-TKI or
           EGFR monoclonal antibody.

        3. Patients must be at least 18 years.

        4. ECOG Performance Status 0, 1 or 2.

        5. Life expectancy of at least 12 weeks.

        6. Appraisable disease, the presence of at least three lesions if longest diameter <10 mm
           by brain MRI.

        7. Haemoglobin ³ 10.0 g/dl, Absolute neutrophil count (ANC) ³1.5 x 109/L, platelets ³ 100 x
           109/L.

        8. Total bilirubin £ 1.5 x upper limit of normal (ULN)

        9. ALT and AST < 2.5 x ULN in the absence of liver metastases, or < 5 x ULN in case of
           liver metastases.

       10. Creatinine clearance ³ 60ml/min (calculated according to Cockcroft-gault formula).

       11. PT-INR/PTT < 1.2 x ULN.

       12. Written informed consent.

       13. Able to comply with study and follow-up procedures.

      Exclusion criteria:

        1. Mixed small cell and non-small cell lung cancer histology.

        2. Any unresolved toxicity>CTCAE grade 2 from previous anti-cancer therapy.

        3. Patients with exposure to biotherapy, immunotherapy within 4 weeks of study entry.

        4. Other concurrent anticancer therapy.

        5. Patients with exposure to investigational drug therapy outside of this trial.

        6. Lack of physical integrity of the upper gastrointestinal tract, or malabsorption
           syndrome, or inability to take oral medication, or have active peptic ulcer disease.

        7. Any unstable systemic disease (including active infection, hepatic, renal, metabolic
           disease or seizure disorder requiring medication).

        8. Significant cardiovascular event: congestive heart failure >NYHA class 2; unstable
           angina, active CAD (myocardial infarction more than 1 year prior to study entry is
           allowed); serious cardiac arrhythmia requiring anti-arrhythmic therapy ( beta blockers
           or digoxin are permitted) or uncontrolled hypertension.

        9. Brain metastases or spinal cord compression, if treated before the start of study
           treatment, and have any symptoms. Symptoms include signs of increased intracranial
           pressure ,headache,nausea and vomiting,cognitive or affective disturbances,seizures,and
           focal neurologic symptoms.

       10. History of another malignancy within the last 5 years except cured carcinoma in-situ of
           uterine cervix, cured basal cell carcinoma of skin and superficial bladder tumors [Ta,
           Tis & T1].

       11. Pregnant or breast-feeding women.

       12. Substance abuse, medical, psychological or social conditions that may interfere with the
           patient's participation in the study or evaluation of the study results.

       13. Any condition that is unstable or could jeopardize the safety of the patient and their
           compliance in the study.
    
  