
    
      Preliminary studies with a variety of vaccines suggest target accessibility (potential
      immunogenicity) in a variety of solid tumors to immune directed approaches. In an effort to
      overcome limitations of immunostimulatory cancer vaccines, we have designed a novel
      autologous vaccine to address inability to fully identify cancer associated antigens, antigen
      recognition by the immune system (i.e. antigen to immunogen), effector potency, and
      cancer-induced resistance. We have completed clinical investigations using two different gene
      vaccine approaches to induce enhancement of tumor antigen recognition which have demonstrated
      therapeutic efficacy. Specifically, both the use of a GMCSF gene transduced vaccine (GVAX®)
      and a TGFβ2 antisense gene vaccine (Lucanix®), in separate trials, have demonstrated similar
      beneficial effects without any evidence of significant toxicity in advanced cancer patients.
      The GMCSF transgene directly stimulates increased expression of tumor antigen(s) and enhances
      dendritic cell migration to the vaccination site. TGFβ2 blockade following intracellular
      TGFβ2 antisense gene expression reduces production of immune inhibiting activity at the
      vaccine site. This appears to be one of the primary mechanisms of inhibition of immune
      responsiveness in glioblastoma and lung cancer. In a subsequent Phase I trial we combined
      both active principles in one autologous vaccine, TAG. TAG vaccine has an excellent safety
      profile in the first nineteen patients treated (enrollment open to any solid tumor) with one
      documented CR (melanoma). However, TGFβ1 is the dominant TGFβ family inhibitory effector in
      the majority of other solid tumors. We describe a unique method of inhibiting both TGFβ1 and
      TGFβ2 through RNA interference with Furin. We will harvest autologous cancer cells from
      patients with advanced refractory cancer. We have constructed a bi-shRNAfurin / GMCSF
      (Vigil™) expression vector plasmid and have successfully demonstrated preclinical activity of
      the vector function following transfection by electroporation and irradiation of ex vivo
      autologous tumor cells.
    
  