
    
      One of the commonest sources of serious newborn morbidity and mortality is difficulty with
      breathing. When this occurs, three main types of supportive therapy are available to increase
      the provision of oxygen to cells: a) passive provision of oxygen-enriched gases (i.e., higher
      than the 21% O2 found in the earth's atmosphere) through tubes in the nostrils, or by putting
      a hood over the baby's head and enriching the gases under that hood; b) provision of room air
      or oxygen-enriched gasses under pressure, frequently performed using a method called
      continuous positive airway pressure [CPAP] therapy; and/or c) by using a machine that is able
      to breath on behalf of the baby, most commonly referred to as mechanical ventilation [MV].

      Passive therapy is the least invasive method but is also of limited benefit, particularly for
      infants born preterm. CPAP is more effective than passive methods because continuous
      distending pressure to the lungs allows better oxygen exchange; however, the distending
      pressure increases the risk of damage to the lung. MV is the only method that can be used on
      babies without a neurological impulse to breath, but the mechanical breathing action can
      damage the lungs, and MV is usually provided through a tube inserted into the lungs which
      increases the risk of lung infection; MV machines are also significantly more expensive than
      CPAP machines.

      In high resource settings, CPAP is now the preferred method of providing oxygen for infants
      where passive therapy is insufficient, because of the lower infection risk, lower risk of
      lung damage, and relative ease of clinical care. CPAP is increasingly recommended for low
      resource settings, but the CPAP machines used in high resource settings are too expensive for
      low resource settings due to high-priced consumables ($US50-200/baby), and are usually
      unusable in low resource settings because they require 'medical air' (clean air in a
      cylinder, or through a piped wall system) with which to blend 100% oxygen. Low cost
      'indigenous' machines ('jury-rigged' by hospital staff) have also been developed, but these
      do not provide the heated, humidified and blended gasses, that are recommended for CPAP.

      This study seeks to evaluate a novel CPAP machine that provides heated, humidified, blended
      gasses, in line with recommendations for high-resource settings, while massively reducing
      costs by including re-usable tube sets and humidifiers that can be autoclaved, and with an
      on-board air-compressor to allow use in a broader range of clinical settings. By reducing the
      cost per CPAP treatment, such a machine can dramatically increase the number of hospitals in
      low resource settings that can provide high quality CPAP treatment.
    
  