
    
      1. Introduction Obesity is a complex metabolic condition thought to result from an
           imbalance in energy intake and energy expenditure that results in excess fat
           accumulation in various adipose tissues and organs. It has been proposed that managing
           the dietary composition may be an efficient way to reduce body weight.

           Ghrelin is a circulating orexigenic hormone involved in both short-term food intake
           control at single meal. Protein has the most suppressive effect as opposed to other
           macronutrients on food intake. It has also been shown that dietary protein induces
           greater satiation and weight loss than carbohydrates. Postprandial ghrelin and insulin
           responses have been shown to be lower in high dietary protein Soybeans provide one of
           the most plentiful dietary protein sources for plants varies from 36% to 56%. Soy
           protein is a complete protein since it contains most of the important amino acids found
           in animal proteins.

           Limited evidence from soybean related satiety study suggests that tempeh may have an
           important role in obesity prevention and weight loss through satiating effects when
           replacing other protein foods in a mixed diet.

           Thus far, there have been only limited data regarding the satiety effects of dietary soy
           protein vs fermented soy protein on obesity in humans. The study aimed to examine the
           effect of anorexigenic hormone response and subjective satiety underfermented and
           isocaloric soy-based protein diet

        2. Methods and Matherials

      2.1. Subjects The subjects were recruited from advertisement who were motivated enough to
      respond actively to the request for topics. We used the following exclusion criteria: 1) a
      clinically significant history of chronic diseases, such as cardiovascular disease, diabetes,
      dyslipidemia or hypertension; 2) use of a weight-related medication/food; 3) heavy
      alcohol/drug consumption; and 4) pregnancy, breastfeeding, or intention to become pregnant
      during the time of the study. The subjects were divided into the TD, which were given tempeh,
      and SD, which were given soy, groups, to receive the meal than a crossover. All subjects
      signed a written consent form before participating in the studies, which were approved by
      Kariadi Hospital-Medical Faculty of Diponegoro University.

      2.2. Preparation of Meal Diets The ingredient contents of the tempeh steak and soybean steak
      are listed. Tempeh Steak including : Tempeh 100g, 50g potato, 50g carrot and 50g green peas.
      Soybean Steak : Soybean 100g, 50g potato, 50g carrot, 50g green peas. The energy content of
      both are 307.4 Calorie (21.7g Protein, 8g Fat, 42.3g Carbohydrate, 4.5g fiber)

      2.3. Anthropometric measurement Body weight, height, and body fat mass, lean mass,
      andfat-freemass were collected by a bioelectric impedance analyzer (SECA). BMI was calculated
      as body weight in kilograms divided by height in meters squared (kg/m2). Waist Circumference
      (WC) was measured with ainelastic measuring tape aroundthe mid-section between the margin of
      the last rib and the iliac crest.

      2.4. Biochemical analysis Blood samples were collected from subjects'forearms. Venous blood
      specimens were collected in EDTA-treated and plain tubes after a 12-h fast. Blood samples
      were collected at 0 (fasting), 60, and 180mins. One tube containing EDTA was collected for
      acyl ghrelin analyses and plain tube collected for arginine, glucose, and insulin analyses.
      The tubes were centrifuged at 3000 × g for 10 minutesat 4°C, separated into plasma or serum,
      and stored at -80°C untilanalysis. Serum concentrations of acyl ghrelin, insulin and arginine
      were measured using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA)

      2.5. Scoring of subjective satiety usingvisual analogue scales (VAS) Visual Analogue Scales
      Food intake motivation was assessed with 100 mm line. Participants completed VAS to measure
      hunger/fullness at the same time points that blood samples were taken throughout the study
      protocol (ie. 0, 30, 180 minutes). The VAS questionnaire provides a subjective assessment of
      appetite-related sensations over time and allows the relationship between biochemical and
      dietary intake data to be explored. Visual analogue scales have been found to be a reliable
      and valid method to assess subjective states related to food intake behavior. On each of the
      test days, participants were asked to rate the following components relating to hunger and
      satiety using various questions, scored using the VAS instrument: (1) Hunger: how hungry do
      you feel at this moment? (VAS1) (2) The desire to eat: how strong is your desire to eat at
      this moment? (VAS5- VAS8); (3) Fullness: how full does your stomach feel at this moment?
      (VAS2, VAS3); (4) Motivation to eat: how much food do you think you could eat at this moment?
      (VAS4)

      2.6 Statistical Analysis Data were analyzed IBM SPSS. Variable not normally distributed were
      nonparametric test. Wann whitney U test was used to test for difference all parameter at
      baseline. We compared change in variable (baseline, 30, 180 minutes) in each sub group using
      pair t=test or wilcoxon signed rank test to determine the impact of differential change. To
      test for change in parameters between two group used kruskal wallis.
    
  