
    
      The United States (US) has the highest unintended pregnancy rate of any developed country. Of
      the 6.4 million pregnancies in the US each year, almost half are unintended (49%). Roughly
      half of these (22% of all pregnancies) result in unintended births, while 20% of all
      pregnancies result in abortion. Postpartum women are particularly susceptible, with an
      unintended pregnancy rate of 10%-44% in the first year postpartum. These unintended
      pregnancies occur despite the recommendation that a contraceptive method be selected prior to
      hospital discharge.

      Given the high rate of unintended pregnancy in the United States, particularly in postpartum
      women, there is a need for reliable, effective, long-term contraception such as the IUD in
      postpartum women. Postplacental insertion of intrauterine contraception would help to address
      this need. The IUD is a highly effective but underused method of postpartum contraception.
      Although the expulsion rate in postplacental insertion is higher than interval insertion, the
      benefits of highly effective contraception available immediately after delivery may outweigh
      the risks of expulsion.

      To date, there have been no randomized trials of postplacental insertion of the LNG-IUD in
      the United States. One pilot study in the United States of 20 subjects who received an
      ultrasound-guided postplacental insertion of the LNG-IUD showed an acceptable expulsion rate
      of 10% and no infections over a 10-week follow-up, thus making postplacental insertion of
      LNG-IUD safe for further study.

      This study is a randomized controlled trial comparing 6 month usage rates of the
      levonorgestrel-releasing intrauterine device (LNG-IUD) when inserted postplacentally after
      vaginal delivery or delayed placement at 6-8 weeks postpartum. One hundred sixty-eight women
      receiving prenatal care at Magee-Womens Hospital, Pittsburgh, PA, who are interested in using
      the LNG-IUD for contraception will be enrolled during their pregnancy. The IUD will be
      inserted within 10 minutes after delivery of the placenta in women randomized to immediate
      insertion. Delayed IUD insertion will be performed at the first postpartum visit in 6-8
      weeks. All subjects will follow up in person at 6-8 weeks and 6 months after delivery. A
      telephone interview will occur at 3 months after delivery for all subjects.

      Subjects who are not eligible for insertion due to post-randomization ineligibility criteria
      will be referred to their primary gynecologist or midwife for delayed IUD placement. They
      will be contacted by phone at 3 and 6 months to assess quality of life, contraceptive usage,
      and unintended pregnancy rates.
    
  