
    
      Some HIV-infected adults develop a lipodystrophy that includes significant changes in body
      shape, with fat loss in the face, arms and legs, and fat gain in the trunk. This
      lipodystrophy is often accompanied by hypertriglyceridemia, hypercholesterolemia, and
      hyperinsulinemia. So far, almost all cases of lipodystrophy have occurred in patients treated
      with protease inhibitor-containing antiretroviral therapies. Whether this lipodystrophy is a
      result of the use of protease inhibitors or other therapies employed for HIV infection, or is
      one of the many manifestations of HIV infection, and is unmasked by the longevity achieved by
      those treated with protease inhibitors remains uncertain. It has been suggested, although not
      proven, that this condition may be an adverse effect of protease inhibitor treatment. It is
      also unknown whether HIV-infected children develop significant lipodystrophy when exposed to
      protease inhibitors. We propose to investigate whether initiation of protease
      inhibitor-containing antiretroviral regimens in children with HIV infection affects the
      prevalence of dyslipidemia, insulin resistance, and alterations of body fat distribution, and
      to study the pathophysiology of these changes. The incidence of such abnormalities will be
      compared to children with non-HIV-related chronic infections, to HIV-infected children who
      are treated with protease inhibitor sparing regimen, and to healthy controls.

      This study has both cross-sectional and longitudinal components. Children with HIV infection,
      who are to begin taking protease inhibitors and who are already taking protease inhibitors as
      part of their treatment for HIV infection, will be recruited for a single cross-sectional
      evaluation that will include studies of lipid and glucose metabolism and body composition. In
      the longitudinal component, those children with HIV infection, who were studied before they
      began taking protease inhibitors, will be followed prospectively for 18 months to delineate
      further the relationships between treatment and the development of lipodystrophy and
      abnormalities in lipid and glucose metabolism. If the cross-sectional study does not show
      that the prevalence of lipodystrophy and its associated metabolic alterations increases as a
      function of exposure to protease inhibitors, we will terminate the prospective study. Changes
      in triglyceride levels, insulin levels, and regional body fat will be evaluated as primary
      outcome measures. As part of the evaluations performed during the cross-sectional and
      longitudinal studies, we will investigate the pathophysiology of dyslipidemia in HIV-infected
      children by assessing lipoproteins and their subclasses, apolipoproteins, and both
      lipoprotein lipase levels and activity.
    
  