
    
      Geographical differences in the incidence of CardioVascular Disease (CVD) show a lower risk
      in countries of south Europe compared with north and east Europe and USA. The Mediterranean
      Diet (MD) has been the most frequently invoked factor to explain these differences, but the
      underlying mechanisms are still unclear. On the other hand, blood fatty acid (FA) composition
      has been shown to be strongly related to cardiovascular risk, presumably through changes in
      oxidative stress and inflammatory pathways, two mechanisms involved in the pathogenesis of
      atherothrombosis. Preliminary data from our group suggest that patients with Coronary Heart
      Disease (CHD) adhere less to features of MD and exhibit a different fatty acid profile
      compared to healthy subjects. We speculate that MD may reduce oxidative stress and
      inflammatory markers, and reverse the unfavorable blood fatty acid profile observed in
      patients with CHD. Even though single MD components (wine, olive oil, vegetables, fish, etc)
      have shown beneficial effects on oxidative stress, inflammation and CardioVascular (CV) risk,
      evidence indicates that these effects are mostly related to the extent of compliance with the
      whole MD, which comprises possible synergism between food components. For this reason, the
      present study will consider the whole MD and not single components.

      Design: randomized, parallel groups, open-label, intervention trial. Intervention: an
      intensively advised MD (fatty fish at least 3 times/week; legumes 2-3 times/ week; vegetables
      twice a day; fruits twice/day; 30-45g olive oil/day; 1-2 glasses of red wine/day, not more
      than 150g red meat/week), personalized in terms of calories, total lipids and balanced in
      terms of saturated, mono- and poly-unsaturated lipids (n= 75) vs. usual low-fat dietary
      advice (n=75) for 3 months. Participants: males and females, age 30-75, with a recent history
      of coronary revascularization, randomized after clinical stabilization (at least 60 days
      after any coronary procedure or event).

      At baseline and after intervention in both groups:

      Dietary assessment: using the EPIC questionnaire, a well validated dietary recall tool.

      Blood, urinary and fecal samples: routine biochemical determinations, blood fatty acid
      composition by gas-chromatography, C reactive protein and oxidative stress markers (urinary
      isoprostanes, whole blood reduced and oxidized glutathione by Liquid Chromatography- Mass
      Spectrometry (LC-MS/MS), plasma alpha- and gamma-tocopherol by High Performance Liquid
      Chromatography (HPLC) with fluorimetric detector), gene expression and/or epigenome in
      peripheral whole blood cells (as an index of global changes of inflammation/immune response),
      intestinal microbiome.

      Statistical analysis: Principal component analysis to characterize fatty acid patterns. Score
      of Trichopoulou to assess adherence to MD.
    
  