
    
      Early vascular aging has its origins in fetal and neonatal life. This early period of life
      plays an important role in the development of obesity, high blood pressure, abnormalities in
      lipid metabolism and non-insulin dependent diabetes. Increased cardiovascular risk in
      formerly preterm infants constitutes a health problem of steadily growing relevance. Emerging
      evidence suggests that human milk feeding has substantial benefits to the health of all
      infants, especially for those born prematurely. Unfortunately, human milk alone does not
      provide sufficient concentrations of nutrients, especially calcium, phosphorus, protein, and
      fat needed for these infants to grow satisfactorily. For that purpose, fortifiers are used to
      help increase the nutritional value of human milk.

      The NEOVASC study is a multicentric, prospective, randomized, controlled, open and parallel
      group clinical trial. A total of 200 extremely preterm infants and 100 term infants are
      recruited for the test and control group, respectively. Infants in the test group (i.e.,
      premature neonates) are randomized to either:

        1. An exclusive human milk diet which contains mother's milk or pasteurized donor human
           milk and a human milk fortifier until 36 weeks of gestation; OR

        2. Human milk (as long as available) and a human milk fortifier (as long as human milk is
           available) until a maximum of 32 weeks of gestation and thereafter human milk with a
           bovine-based fortifier or preterm formula.

      After 36 weeks of gestation, human milk with a bovine-based fortifier or preterm formula is
      used in both groups. As a control group, term-born age-matched controls are included.
      Participants within this control group are not enrolled at the time of birth but instead
      recruited in various kindergartens at the age of five. Therefore, data from birth is taken
      from the mother-child-booklet, which contains clinical records about the pregnancy, birth and
      early life of children born in Austria. The total study duration is scheduled for 96 months
      with a recruitment phase of 36 months. Follow-up visits are planned at one, two and five
      years of age for the test group.

      The purpose of the NEOVASC clinical trial is to characterize early life stressors by
      assessing the effects of a physiological (i.e., human milk-based) nutrition in extremely
      preterm infants during the vulnerable preterm period on the risk of metabolic and vascular
      complications in later life. Outcomes include predictors and intermediate components of
      cardiovascular disease.
    
  