
    
      As patient management is improving, more and more ICU survivors are being confronted with
      cognitive dysfunction and this well after their hospital stay.

      Delirium is characterized by an acute onset or fluctuating course, inattention and either
      disorganized thought (manifesting as memory, language and orientation difficulties) or
      altered level of consciousness. Multiple forms exist: hyperactive versus hypoactive versus
      mixed.

      In the ICU, delirium rates have been reported to be as high at 81%. Delirium is associated
      with patient and family stress, increased hospital costs, increased duration of stay,
      escalation of care and increased mortality and morbidity.

      The physiopathology of ICU cognitive impairment is complex. One theory is that, during
      infection/trauma, the alarmin high molecular group box 1 (HMGB1) is released into the
      bloodstream by activated platelets.

      This damage-associated molecular pattern (DAMP) can bind to pattern recognition receptors on
      circulating bone marrow-derived monocytes (BM-DMs), causing a platelet-monocyte interaction
      but also triggering the nuclear translocation of the transcription factor NF-kappaB which
      activates gene expression and release of pro-inflammatory cytokines. The onset of this
      inflammatory state disrupts the blood brain barrier.

      Within the brain parenchyma the chemokine MCP-1 and, by signaling through its receptor, CCR2,
      attracts the BM-DMs. The influx of BM-DMs activates the resident quiescent microglia.
      Together, BM-DMs and activated microglia release HMGB1, IL-6, and IL-1β ; thereby disrupting
      long-term potentiation and the synaptic plasticity involved in cognitive functions of
      learning and memory.

      Inability to successfully resolve the inflammatory cascade promotes the development of
      cognitive impairment.

      Recently, the role of 'resolvins' derived from omega-3 fatty acids has been studied in the
      resolution of inflammation.

      In a mouse model of perioperative neurocognitive disorder, maresin 1 (a metabolite of
      omega-3) improved post-operative cognition and prevented surgery-induced glial activation and
      opening of the blood brain barrier. Similarly, in the same model, aspirine-triggered
      resolving D1 improved post-operative cognition, reduced systemic IL-6 levels and reserved
      surgery-induced astrogliosis.

      Mechanically ventilated ICU patients who benefitted from omega-3 supplements, had a lesser
      degree of ICU delirium.

      Therefore, the hypothesis of this study is that ICU patients with higher serum levels of
      resolvins at ICU admission, ICU day 2 and day 5 will have a lesser degree of cognitive
      impairment on day 5 of ICU stay.
    
  