
    
      OBJECTIVE: The objective of this dose-ranging three-arm study of fluoxetine is to study the
      kinetics of the serotonin transporter in platelets and relate this to antidepressant response
      by comparing the manipulation of serotonin and platelet measure to standard treatment as it
      now exists.

      RESEARCH PLAN: The project will examine two methods of dose adjustment of selective serotonin
      reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) treatment: The first method emulates the current standard clinical
      practice, i.e., titrating the dosage based upon the subject's current depression
      symptomatology (standard treatment arm). The second method utilizes the measurement of the Km
      to create a dosage tailored to the individual to approach the optimum treatment Kapp
      (biological treatment arm). Additionally, the placebo arm will control for treatment failure
      and high placebo response. This application is a double-blind, placebo controlled,
      randomized, dose ranging study in male and female outpatients with Major Depressive Disorder.
      The proposed study will take place over a period of 12 weeks recruiting 117 subjects (in
      order to achieve 90 completers, 30 in each arm, assuming 30% dropout rate) over a five year
      period who are diagnosed with Major Depression according to DSM-IV criteria. Following a 1
      week screening period during which safety assessments are completed and evaluated and the Km
      and dosage are calculated, the subjects will be blindly randomized in a 1:1:1 ratio to either
      the standard treatment, the biological arm or the placebo arm. Subjects will return to the
      clinic at weeks 4, 8, and 12 for ratings and platelet Km determinations. Response will be
      measured and dosage adjustment will be made at weeks 4 and 8. A final determination of
      response will be made at week 12.

      METHODS: Responders will be identified according to conventional criteria will be defined as
      those subject who 1) have a 50% or more improvement from baseline scores, as measured on the
      Hamilton Depression Scale (HAM-D), 2) no longer meet Major Depressive criteria according to
      DSM-IV; and 3) score < 10 on the HAM-D 17 item or <15 on the 24-item HAM-D. The efficacy
      measures will be the Hamilton Depression Scale (HAM-D): The seventeen item scale is designed
      to measure depression level; Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS): A scale
      designed to provide additional subjective information to determine depressive symptoms; The
      Profile of Mood States (POMS) and the Cloninger Temperament Character Index (TCI) are patient
      rated scales which measure feelings and personality traits. The safety parameters include
      physical examinations, vital signs, collection of adverse events, and 12-lead
      electrocardiogram (ECG) and clinical laboratory assessments.

      CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Previous studies have indicated fluoxetine is an effective treatment for
      depression. This study is designed to provide additional information concerning the methods
      for determining dose. Potentially, the information gained from this research may provide a
      more cost-effective way of finding an effective dose than the trial and error approach
      generally used.
    
  