
    
      Background: Animal evidence indicates that some consolidated memories when reactivated
      (retrieved) need to be reconsolidated. During this process, memories can be enhanced or
      weakened. In a preliminary, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study, we tested
      whether post-reactivation administration of the beta-adrenergic blocker propranolol, which
      reduces reconsolidation of aversive memories in rodents, would reduce the emotional strength
      of traumatic memories, or conditioned fear responses, in patients with non-combat-related
      PTSD. Civilian participants described their traumatic event during a "script preparation"
      session and thereafter received either a combined dose of short- and long-acting propranolol
      (n=9), or placebo (n=10). A week later, they engaged in script-driven mental imagery of their
      personal traumatic events, while peripheral physiologic responses were recorded as measures
      of the emotional strength of the traumatic memory. We found that physiologic responses were
      significantly smaller in the participants who had received post-reactivation propranolol
      compared to placebo a week earlier: F(3,15)=5.1, p=.007, η2=.49. The results of this
      preliminary study are consistent with pharmacologic blockade of reconsolidation of traumatic
      memories in PTSD. However, several important questions remain unanswered. First, does
      propranolol also weaken traumatic memories in combat-related PTSD? Second, does this
      weakening effect only occur when the propranolol is given when combined with traumatic memory
      reactivation? If not, this would refute the reconsolidation hypothesis and suggest that
      propranolol affects non-specific mechanisms. Third, how long does the traumatic memory
      weakening last, i.e., does recovery of the conditioned fear response occur?

      Objective/Hypothesis: The first objective is to replicate and extend the finding from the
      preliminary study to Iraq and Afghanistan combat veterans with PTSD by showing that
      propranolol following combat memory reactivation results in a significantly greater weakening
      of traumatic combat memories than propranolol alone, supporting the proposition that this
      weakening is due to pharmacological blockade of memory reconsolidation, rather than
      non-specific actions of propranolol. We hypothesize that participants who undergo script
      preparation for the combat event(s) that caused their PTSD, followed by (post-reactivation)
      propranolol, will show significantly smaller psychophysiologic responses during script-driven
      imagery testing a week later compared to those who receive (non-reactivation) propranolol two
      days prior to combat script preparation. The second objective to show that this effect is
      long-lasting, which would be expected if the underlying mechanism is reduction of the
      traumatic memory trace by blockade of reconsolidation. We hypothesize that the effect will
      remain significant when participants undergo follow-up psychophysiologic script-driven
      imagery testing six months later.

      Specific Aim: To perform a controlled, randomized, double-blind study in Iraq and Afghanistan
      veterans with combat-related PTSD that addresses the above hypotheses.

      Study Design: Participants will be randomly assigned to one of two groups: post-reactivation
      propranolol or non-reactivation propranolol. After written informed consent is obtained,
      participants randomized to the non-reactivation propranolol group will receive a "test" dose
      of 0.67 mg/kg short-acting propranolol combined with 1 mg/kg long-acting propranolol.
      Participants randomized to the post-reactivation propranolol group will receive matching
      placebo capsules. Two days later, all participants will return for an approximate 15-30
      minute "script preparation" session, at which time they will describe the details of their
      traumatic combat event(s) to the Principal Investigator. Participants randomized to the
      post-reactivation propranolol group will then receive the combined propranolol dose, whereas
      participants randomized to the non-reactivation propranolol group will receive placebo. Based
      upon the history obtained during the script preparation session, the Principal Investigator
      will compose "scripts" approximately 30 seconds in duration portraying each participant's
      combat events in their own words. Participants will then return for script-driven imagery
      testing sessions in the psychophysiology laboratory one week and six months later. During
      each of these sessions, they will undergo recording of heart rate, skin conductance, and
      corrugator and frontalis electromyogram during a baseline period. They will then listen to a
      recording of their traumatic scripts and be instructed to imagine the events portrayed as if
      they were happening again, while physiologic measures are recorded. Responses (change) scores
      for each physiologic variable for each session will be calculated by subtracting the
      preceding baseline period mean from the imagery period mean. The physiologic data will be
      analyzed by multivariate analysis of variance (MANOVA) followed by univariate ANOVAs. The
      hypothesis predicts that at each time period, the physiologic responses of the
      post-reactivation propranolol group will be significantly smaller than those of the
      non-reactivation propranolol group.

      Relevance: If a traumatic memory undergoes reconsolidation when reactivated, this could
      re-open the window of opportunity to influence the memory pharmacologically. This could have
      important implications for the treatment of PTSD. Should the proposed psychophysiologic study
      confirm that post-reactivation propranolol weakens traumatic combat memories, it would be a
      relatively short leap to clinical studies of the therapeutic efficacy of this novel modality.
    
  