
    
      This is an open label, single arm, single center, phase II trial to study the added efficacy
      benefit of PIPAC administered in the neoadjuvant setting in combination with systemic therapy
      for patients eligible for CRS/HIPEC.

      the following procedures will be done to all study population. Visit 0 (Week #0) screening -
      Clinical evaluation and baseline cross-sectional imaging. Patients will be evaluated for
      their eligibility and recruited if found suitable.

      (Week #1) tumor board discussion to ensure eligibility and staging (Week #2-4) Initiation of
      systemic therapy, if not been already started (2 cycles): Systemic therapy will be
      administered and tailored by the treating oncologist as per patient tolerability. If already
      on chemotherapy at visit 0, patients will continue chemotherapy until first PIPAC.

      Visit 1 (Week #4) first PIPAC: Diagnostic laparoscopy, staging, PCI evaluation and biopsies
      will be taken as described earlier.

      Systemic therapy (2 cycles, Week #4-8): Systemic therapy will be administered and tailored by
      the treating oncologist as per patient tolerability.

      Visit 2 (Week #6) - post first PIPAC - Surgical Oncology Clinic: evaluation of PIPAC
      tolerability and possible side effects or complications. Cross sectional imaging to monitor
      progression prior to the upcoming second PIPAC.

      Visit 3 (Week #8) - second PIPAC: Diagnostic laparoscopy, staging, PCI evaluation and
      biopsies will be taken as described earlier.

      Systemic therapy (2 cycles, Week #8-12): Systemic therapy will be administered and tailored
      by the treating oncologist as per patient tolerability. Systemic therapy will be stopped at
      week#12 (2-4 weeks) prior to planned CRS/HIPEC Visit 4 (Week #10) - post second PIPAC -
      Surgical Oncology Clinic: evaluation of PIPAC tolerability, quality of life, and possible
      side effects or complications after PIPAC.

      Visit 5 (Week #12-14) - Surgical evaluation and cross-sectional imaging - Surgical Oncology
      Clinic: Planning for upcoming CRS/HIPEC Visit 6 (Week #14-16) - CRS/HIPEC: proper PCI
      evaluation, complete tumor cytoreduction and HIPEC will be targeted. The extent of surgery,
      technical difficulties including OR time and blood loss will be documented.

      Visit 7 follow up visit: will be conducted within 1 month after hospital discharge.
      Tolerability and possible complications post-surgery will be evaluated.

      Visit 8-11 follow up visits: Surgical Oncology Clinic evaluation: cross sectional imaging,
      Tumor markers and clinical evaluation will be conducted for any signs of possible recurrence
      on 3 monthly bases Visit 12-13 follow up: Surgical oncology clinic: cross sectional imaging,
      Tumor markers and clinical evaluation will be conducted for any signs of possible recurrence
      on 6 monthly bases. The follow up for the trial will be concluded at this stage (total of 3
      years follow up).

      To be noted that patient systemic chemotherapy would not be interrupted throughout the
      treatment protocol and PIPAC therapy will be delivered in-between chemotherapy cycles.
    
  