
    
      The purpose of this study is to investigate the safety and effectiveness of oral vismodegib
      therapy in the treatment of different 'histologic subtypes' of basal cell skin cancer (BCC).
      The term 'histologic subtype' refers to how the cells and tumor tissue looks under the
      microscope. Three different 'histologic subtypes' of basal cell skin cancer
      (infiltrative/morpheaform, nodular and superficial) will be examined in this study. Each
      subtype has a characteristic look under the microscope, which is related to how the tumor
      will behave and grow.

      ERIVEDGE (oral vismodegib capsule) has been approved for use in the United States for
      treatment of metastatic BCC tumors (mBCC), tumors that have spread further into the skin,
      bones or other tissues, or spread to other parts of the body and locally advanced basal cell
      skin cancer (laBCC), cancers that have come back after surgery or that the healthcare
      provider thinks cannot be treated with surgery or radiation. It works by blocking the signal,
      called Hedgehog, which basal cell skin cancer cells need to grow. It has been given to about
      800 people during clinical trials.

      Data from previous studies is mostly based on a subtype of BCC made up of little round
      collections of cancer cells, called "Nodular". There is almost no data on the use of
      vismodegib in other subtypes of BCC that that tend to extend deep into the skin
      ("Infiltrative" subtype), or spread widely near the surface of the skin ("Superficial"
      subtype).

      A total of 36 subjects will be enrolled in the study. All study participants will receive
      oral vismodegib treatment.

      At the Week 12 visit, skin biopsies will be performed to give the investigators more
      information on how the tumor is responding to vismodegib. If there is no evidence of tumor on
      the biopsy, the subject will be eligible to end treatment early and enter the Observation
      period. During this time the subject will be followed clinically every 3 months for up to 1
      year.

      For all other subjects, if any evidence of tumor is seen on biopsy at week 12, the subject
      will continue treatment for the full 24 weeks. At week 24 visit, skin biopsies will be
      performed again to see if there is any tumor left. If there is no evidence of tumor on the
      biopsy, the subject will be eligible to end treatment early and enter the Observation period.
      If there is tumor left, the subject will be referred for surgery or other standard of care
      treatment to remove the tumor.
    
  