
    
      Inhalation anaesthetic were backbone of general anaesthesia (GA) practice till the time an
      intravenous anaesthetic, propofol was introduced in early 1970's and its commercial
      availability in 1980's, which led to the resurgence in the practice of total intravenous
      anaesthesia (TIVA). TIVA is now being adopted as a preferred technique for providing GA
      because of scores of inherent advantages, like, reduced PONV incidence, improved quality of
      post-anaesthesia recovery, anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidant action, anti-neoplastic
      activity, analgesic action, and absence of greenhouse effect among many others.Over the years
      propofol-TIVA delivery has become more methodical and precise owing to the use of target
      controlled infusion (TCI) systems. TCI systems use propofol pharmacokinetic (PK) or
      pharmacodynamics (PD) models which predict either the plasma or the effect-site propofol
      concentration required for maintenance of GA steady-state during surgery. The 'Diprifusor'
      TCI-system was the first commercially available propofol TCI-system. The 'Diprifusor'
      TCI-system was a 'closed' TCI-system which required a special electronically tagged
      pre-filled propofol syringe to be attached to the TCI-pump. The current TCI technology has
      evolved with the introduction of the 'open' TCI concept wherein syringes of any configuration
      can be attached to the TCI-pumps having pre-programmed propofol PK-PD models. Currently, the
      two most commonly used PK-PD models that drive TCI systems to deliver TIVA are the 'Marsh'
      and 'Schneider' models. Whereas Marsh model targets blood plasma concentration of propofol
      for anaesthesia maintenance, the Schneider model targets effect-site concentration in the
      brain. A recent advance in propofol TIVA delivery has been the development of automated
      closed loop anaesthesia delivery system. These devices deliver propofol based ascertaining
      patient's frontal cortex electrical activity as determined by bispectral index (BIS) score
      and then keeping the values within a pre-assigned range consistent with robust GA depth.
      Closed loop anaesthesia delivery system (CLADS) is an indigenously developed patented
      (502/DEL/2003) computer-controlled anaesthesia delivery system. CLADS typically works with
      feedback loop information elicited by BIS monitoring and delivers propofol TIVA to the
      patient via a non-TCI automated infusion pump. This basis of CLADS is the control algorithm
      based on the relationship between diverse rates of propofol infusion and the processed EEG
      variable. Although propofol delivery by CLADS is based on pharmacokinetic model but for
      greater precision and efficient administration, its delivery trigger is directly linked with
      feedback mechanism involving patient's EEG profile as monitored by the BIS scores. In a
      multicentre study on evaluation of anaesthesia delivery by CLADS, it was shown that CLADS
      maintains depth of anaesthesia with far more precision as compared to manual administration.
      Queerly while TCI & CLADS technology evolved over a period of time; there is no data
      available comparing the efficacy of TCI delivered propofol-TIVA versus automated propofol
      delivery systems. Based on additional feedback loop incorporated to the PK-PD model the
      investigators contend that automated propofol TIVA as administered by CLADS is likely to be
      superior to TCI system in achieving and sustaining anaesthesia depth. This randomized
      controlled study aims to compare the efficacy of CLADS-driven propofol TIVA versus TCI
      administered propofol TIVA in adult patients undergoing non-cardiac surgery with respect to:
      adequacy of anaesthesia depth maintenance (primary objective), performance characteristic of
      propofol delivery system, propofol requirement, hemodynamic stability, recovery from
      anaesthesia and postoperative sedation (secondary objectives).
    
  