
    
      This is a multicenter, observational/non-interventional study involving adult patients
      undergoing different types of elective surgical procedures requiring general anesthesia with
      neuromuscular blocking agents.

      The study will have two periods:

        -  Period 1 - Evaluation at PACU arrival.

        -  Period 2 - Collection of hospital patient discharge data.

      A total of 360 patients will be included from approximately 10 centers in Portugal, where the
      PACU is adjacent to the Operating Room (OR). Each center should recruit between 30 and 40
      patients.

      Each subject is considered to be enrolled in the study when the subject has provided written
      informed consent.

      Enrollment will be stopped when approximately 360 patients are recruited.

      A subject is considered to have completed the trial after all of the protocol specified
      activities are completed. A subject is considered to have discontinued after he/she has
      withdrawn consent or has been discontinued.

      Overall, study start is when the first site is initiated and study ends at database lock.

      During the routine preoperative anesthesia visit the patient will be asked to participate in
      the study. A description of the study will be provided to the patient by the investigator or
      qualified designee and any questions will be properly answered. If the patient agrees to
      participate in the study an informed consent form (ICF) will be signed.

      Consent must be documented by the subject's dated signature or by the subject's legally
      acceptable representative's dated signature on a consent form along with the dated signature
      of the person conducting the consent discussion. A copy of the signed and dated consent form
      should be given to the subject before participation in the study.

      The initial informed consent form, any subsequent revised written informed consent form and
      any written information provided to the subject must receive the IRB/ERC's (Institutional
      Review Board) ) approval/favorable opinion in advance of use. The subject or his/her legally
      acceptable representative should be informed in a timely manner if new information becomes
      available that may be relevant to the subject's willingness to continue participation in the
      study.

      All consented subjects will be given a unique patient number that will be used to identify
      the subject for all procedures. Each subject will be assigned only one patient number.

      Immediately after patient arrival in the PACU and as soon as clinically adequate (basic
      monitoring and oxygen therapy in place) the anesthesiologist assigned to the PACU (who was
      not involved in the anesthetic procedure) will collect demographic data (gender, age, weight,
      height), vital signs (heart rate, blood pressure, oxygen saturation and temperature).
      Neuromuscular blockade (TOF Ratio) will be measured. Clinical history, co-morbidities,
      surgical diagnosis, ASA (American Society of Anesthesiology) classification and perioperative
      medication data (dosage and last administration time) will be collected as well.

      As this is an observational study, intra-operative monitoring of neuromuscular blockade will
      not be mandatory by protocol and will be left at the discretion of the anesthesiologist as
      according to the clinical practice. Only information about whether this evaluation was
      performed or not, and if yes if it was used quantitative or qualitative methods, will be
      collected in the CRF (case report form) .

      Neuromuscular blockade evaluation Neuromuscular blockade will be evaluated using a
      quantitative method. Three consecutive TOF stimulations will be applied. In case these 3
      measures differ more than 20%, another sequence of 3 consecutive TOF measurements will be
      considered. If after the 2nd sequence the 3 consecutive TOF measurements still differ more
      than 20% between the maximum and the minimum the patient will be excluded.

      This study will reflect real life clinical practice. The anesthetic technique in terms of
      drugs and type of monitoring used will be of entire responsibility of the anesthesiologist.

      All study activities will be consistent with EU (European Union) directive 2001/20/EC section
      for non- interventional studies :

        -  NMBAs (neuromuscular blocking agents) and reversal agents (as well as all drugs which
           will be used during the anesthesia) administration will be done in accordance with
           routine anesthesiology practice and labeling of these medicine products;

        -  No further interventional means, methods or procedures, are scheduled for subjects,
           which would otherwise not be applied;

        -  Furthermore, there will be no additional visits to the hospital or a mandatory visit
           schedule, deviating from daily clinical practice.
    
  