
    
      The primary aim of this study is to assess NaF PET/MRI compared to NaF PET/CT and standard of
      care imaging made available for assessment of bone metastases in all cancers as well as other
      standard of care indications for MDP bone scintigraphy. The study will use both the currently
      available and approved MRI sequences for attenuation correction and localization as well as
      non FDA approved sequences to assess the ability of the modality to identify bone metastases.

      Study Goals:

        1. Assess the sensitivity, specificity, accuracy of NaF PET/MRI vs. Naf PET/CT vs. current
           standard of care imaging. This will be done on a lesion by lesion basis based on a prior
           study looking at NaF PET/CT (14). Lesions that are positive on NaF PET/MRI but not on
           other imaging will be followed up on future imaging to see if they eventually become
           positive given that physiology changes before anatomy. Follow up will include both
           repeat NaF PET/CT (PET/MRI) studies (as per standard of care MDP bone scintigraphy
           indications) as well as review of other surveillance standard of care imaging up to 6
           months after the NaF PET/CT (PET/MRI) was done.

        2. Assess various NaF MRI sequences for attenuation correction and localization both from
           approved and developmental sequences compared to NaF CT attenuation corrected images
           through software.

        3. Assess the ability of MRI sequences acquired for attenuation correction and localization
           to evaluate bone metastases in comparison to other modalities.

        4. Assess the image quality of various NaF MRI sequences acquired for attenuation
           correction and localization using both approved and developmental sequences.

        5. Ascertain, if there are lesions identified on the NaF PET/MRI study but not seen on the
           NaF PET/CT study (or other standard of care imaging) or vice versa.
    
  