
    
      Purpose: To examine a novel computerized exercise intervention as an add-on to currently
      available evidence-based stimulant use cessation treatments. This study will evaluate whether
      or not this intervention can improve stimulant use disorder outcomes in a population with
      concurrent disorders that are difficult to treat.

      Hypothesis: 1) The intervention will be easy to integrate in the existing program. 2)
      Participation in the experimental (stimulant-avoidance) condition will reduce craving (as
      assessed by the stimulant craving questionnaire brief version), show reduction in an
      automatic association of activities with stimulant use and stimulant relapses (as assessed by
      behaviour association questionnaires) and have reduced relapses as assessed by urine drug
      screens in 12 weeks following initiation of the intervention.

      Justification: Stimulant use disorders are among the most challenging disorders, specifically
      in individuals suffering from concurrent disorders or also identified as dual diagnosis.
      While medication is available to support the treatment of other substance use disorders
      (alcohol, opioids, tobacco), currently there is none to treat stimulant use disorders, such
      as cocaine use disorder and methamphetamine use disorder. Recently, a group in Europe
      developed the "retraining of automatic approach" intervention, which is based on simple
      mechanistic retraining for avoidance of substances. This method was successfully applied to
      change drinking behaviour in a sample of alcoholic inpatients. Participants respond to
      substance cues by initiating a distancing activity (pushing a joystick away). In contrast,
      healthy activities are "approached" or pulled in using the joystick. This differential
      activity trains participants to alter initial responses and "cognitive biases" to simply and
      automatically avoid substances.

      Objectives: Test the hypothesis and evaluate whether or not the Computerized Exercise to
      Alter Stimulant Approach Responses (CEASAR) can improve stimulant use disorder outcomes in a
      population with concurrent disorders that are difficult to treat.

      Research design: This study is a randomized, single blind, controlled trial involving
      in-patients with a stimulant use disorder. The participants will be split up equally into 2
      groups: the active CEASAR intervention (experimental condition) and the placebo intervention
      (control). Patients are able to stay at the BCMHA for 6 months with the average being 4-5
      months and the study will take place over 12 weeks during their stay. Both groups will use a
      joystick to push away ("avoid") or pull in ("approach") randomized stimulant and healthy cues
      presented on a computer screen. In the experimental condition, pushed pictures will
      exclusively be stimulant use-related pictures, while pulled pictures will be exclusively
      healthy. In the control condition, stimulant use-related pictures will be equally divided
      into push and pull conditions. Some of the cues will be visual (e.g. pictures of cocaine
      powder, pipes, needles etc.) and some of them will be textual (e.g. words like eight ball,
      rock, etc.).
    
  