
    
      OLV is a technique that allows isolation of the individual lung under anesthesia. It is
      required for a number of thoracic surgical procedures as well as port-access procedures.

      The use of a double lumen tube allows easy switching from two-lung to single lung
      ventilation.

      For many thoracic operations the patient will be in the lateral decubitus position. The
      primary physiologic change that takes place on initiation of OLV is the presence of
      trans-pulmonary shunting, causing impaired oxygenation and occasionally hypoxemia. The degree
      of shunt is reduced due to the effect of gravity which increases pulmonary blood flow to the
      dependent lung and it will be further decreased due to a phenomenon termed hypoxic pulmonary
      vasoconstriction (HPV).

      Hypoxemia may occur during OLV in lateral decubitus position due to the restriction of the
      dependent lung expansion caused by mediastinal weight therefore leading to atelectasis.
      Increased ventilation pressure and lung volume of the dependent lung impedes perfusion and
      contributes to hypoxemia.

      Presentation of hypoxemia during OLV is multifactorial. It depends on the operation side (OLV
      better in left thoracotomies), on preoperative lung function [best indicator = Partial
      Pressure of Oxygen in Arterial Blood (PaO2) divided by Fraction of Inspired Oxygen (FIO2)]
      and on the distribution of perfusion. The PaO2/FIO2 is the best parameter to describe the
      full spectrum of ventilation-perfusion abnormalities, independent of the inspired oxygen
      concentration level.

      The patients are divided into 2 groups according to the surgical procedure as follows:

      Port-access group (n=25), and lateral decubitus lung surgery group (n=25). Standard
      monitoring will be applied intraoperatively [electrocardiography (ECG), pulse-oxymetry
      (SpO2), invasive and non-invasive blood pressure]. After induction of anesthesia, an
      appropriately sized double lumen tube will be inserted and its position will be checked using
      fibroscopy. All patients will be placed on a volume controlled mode of ventilation with the
      following settings: tidal volume between 5 and 10 ml/kg and FIO2 at 50% and 4 cm H2O of
      positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP). Respiratory frequency and tidal volume will be
      adjusted to maintain end-tidal carbon dioxide (ETCO2) between 30 and 40 mmHg. ETCO2 levels
      and SpO2 will be monitored continuously.

      If SpO2 declines below 90% the ventilator settings will be adapted according to the following
      protocol: First the FIO2 is increased to 80%. If this is insufficient FIO2 is increased to
      100%. If this remains insufficient, continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) [5 cm water
      (H2O) pressure] is applied to the non-ventilated lung. If this is still insufficient the
      surgeon will be asked to allow for temporary recruitment of the non-ventilated lung.
    
  