
    
      The aim of this study is to assess the effects of a facilitation-based improvement
      intervention on three primary performance outcomes: (1) staff reported use of best practices,
      (2) measures of staff work engagement and job satisfaction, and (3) resident quality of care.
      Within the context of the Translating Research in Elder Care study (Pro00037937), the
      influence of staff characteristics related to work performance and unit context scores
      (leadership, culture, resources) on the three primary outcomes will be assessed Background
      Translating Research in Elder Care (TREC) is an ongoing applied research program that began
      in 2007. TREC is focused on practical solutions that will improve quality of care provided to
      nursing home residents, enrich the work life of their caregivers, and enhance system
      efficiencies and effectiveness. In TREC 1, teams of researchers worked together with decision
      makers from the residential long term care (LTC) sector on multiple studies in Manitoba,
      Saskatchewan, Alberta and to a lesser extent, British Columbia (SCOPE pilot only). Data were
      collected from approximately 4000 care providers and residents using the Resident Assessment
      Index Minimum data Set (RAI-MDS) 2.0 in participating TREC nursing homes.

      TREC has already established its value to the health system by demonstrating improvements in
      resident care, clinical outcomes, and staff well-being. Information data collected from over
      100,500 resident assessments combined with the staff and facility surveys now forms the TREC
      Measurement System (TMS Project). This wealth of data has informed the SCOPE pilot project in
      2010 and SCOPE was conceived as a result of this data.

      The SCOPE intervention is designed as a randomized controlled trial (RCT). For our primary
      outcome measure (change in Conceptual Research Use (CRU)between pre and post intervention
      periods) a sample size of 34 units per arm is adequate to detect an effect size of 0.67 or
      greater (using the standard deviation for the change in CRU between pre and post intervention
      periods for intervention and non-intervention from the SCOPE pilot data at 80% power, with an
      alpha 0.05, for a 2-tailed comparison of independent samples. The intervention will take
      place in as many as 45 of the facilities involved in the TMS project (Pro00037937) to take
      account of drop -outs. Each facility will have a Senior Sponsor (generally the Director of
      Care or Exec Director). Participants in the intervention teams will be from a single unit in
      each intervention facility and will include 3 Health Care Aides who will lead the team, as
      well as 2 other members of that unit which can include other allied professional staff,
      nurses, and Occupational Therapist /Rec Aides. One member of the team must be the Team
      sponsor (generally the unit's care manager) removes obstacles for the team.
    
  