
    
      The American Cancer Society has estimated that colorectal cancer is the second leading cause
      of cancer related deaths, with 106,370 new cases diagnosed in 2004. Due to the unique nature
      of the hepatic circulatory system, with preferential portal venous drainage of the
      gastrointestinal tract, the liver is the most common site for metastatic tumor growth from a
      colorectal carcinoma. It is estimated that approximately 20% of patients diagnosed with
      colorectal cancer will present with liver involvement at the time of diagnosis, and 50% of
      patients will manifest metastatic involvement of the liver following resection of the primary
      colorectal cancer. Over one half of patients who die of colorectal cancer have liver
      metastases at autopsy.

      The current "gold standard" in the treatment of isolated metastatic liver disease is curative
      hepatic resection. Only within the last 20 years has surgical resection become a viable
      option, as in the past it was considered unjustified due to high morbidity and mortality
      rates. The primary drawback to hepatic resection is the sheer number of patients for whom it
      is contraindicated. Only 10-20% of patients liver metastases are candidates for surgical
      resection, owing to factors such as tumor locations, size, extent of disease, and other
      medical co-morbidities.

      Historically, in cases where hepatic resection was contraindicated, systemic chemotherapy was
      the only alternative treatment. In the last several years an increasing number of hepatic
      directed therapies have become available such as hepatic artery ligation, radiation, hepatic
      artery infusion of chemotherapy, chemoembolization, and mechanical ablation of the tumor(s).

      One mechanical method of ablation involves the use of radiofrequency thermal technology, also
      called radiofrequency ablation (RFA). The RFA procedure involves inserting an RF electrode
      into the center of a hepatic tumor mass under ultrasonic or CT guidance. Radiofrequency
      energy is then applied through the electrode, causing a thermal injury to the surrounding
      tumor tissue. Currently there are two basic designs for monitoring inter-procedural progress
      during RFA; temperature monitoring of set points within the target tissue with thermocouples,
      or assessing the system-wide impedance of tissue adjacent to the deployed electrode tines.
      Radiofrequency ablation systems are comprised of three components: a radiofrequency
      generator, an active electrode, and dispersive electrodes.

      To date no prospective multi-center trials have been completed which would conclusively
      demonstrate whether RFA is an effective adjunct to systemic chemotherapy with respect to
      advantages in median overall survival compared with chemotherapy alone. The primary objective
      of this trial is to determine overall survival for subjects with colorectal cancer and
      incurable metastatic liver disease who fail at least first line chemotherapy and are treated
      with radiofrequency ablation plus additional chemotherapy, compared to subjects receiving
      additional chemotherapy only.
    
  