
    
      Autologous serum (AS) eye drops have been found in uncontrolled trials to be beneficial in
      DED patient by improving the ocular surface and reducing symptoms. Obtaining autologous serum
      requires frequent drawing of blood from the patient- a feature that excludes patients with
      anaemia or heart failure from using AS. Furthermore it also appears that 100% autologous
      serum is more beneficial than 50% serum and requires larger volumes of blood and/or more
      frequent venesection. Patients using AS also require access to a fridge as the product needs
      to be stored at low temperatures; a factor that is likely to be inconvenient for patients. In
      addition, AS is obtained by processing clotted blood which is often too expensive for the
      health service to consistently purchase, given the initial cost of £1653.56 and subsequent
      three-monthly cost of £1131.27 per patient.

      The relatively high cost represents the biggest hurdle in the use of AS and is often the
      reason for delay or inaccessibility in starting treatment for DED using AS. However, we
      propose that finger prick autologous blood may be a simpler, cost-effective and possibly more
      acceptable method for treating dry eye disease. For this reason, this study proposes to test
      the use of finger prick autologous blood (FAB) technique in which whole blood is applied to
      the eye from a cleaned finger.

      The proposing team have completed an exploratory study on the use of finger-prick autologous
      blood (FAB) for persistent epithelial defects and severe dry eye disease and preliminary
      results indicate improvement with no adverse events reported. The exploratory study included
      16 patients with a diagnosis of severe to moderate dry eye syndrome and used the FAB method
      for treatment. The findings of the study demonstrated mean improvements in visual acuity,
      Oxford corneal staining grade, tear breakup time, Schirmer's test and dry eye disease
      questionnaire score. The response rate from participants was good with only a single patient
      who met the inclusion criteria not wishing to participate in the trial on the advice of their
      general practitioner. Both the amount of staining (indicating inflammation and ocular surface
      damage) and their DED questionnaire scores (indicating severity of their symptoms and impact
      on quality of life) showed mean improvement which reached statistical significance.
    
  