
    
      As young adults with autism spectrum disorder (YAASD) transition out of the academic supports
      provided by school, these young adults experience a degradation of social skills over time.
      This has led to poor academic, educational and health outcomes. YAASD require continuous and
      ongoing skill development in order to maximize their potential; however, there are few
      services available to adults with autism to develop and maintain their skills. While
      interventions exist in early childhood, mid-childhood and adolescence, few programs have been
      focused on the young adult with autism. Resilience in Action (RiA), is a research study,
      performed and delivered in the community setting, which seeks to develop supports to address
      the 'adult world' needs of young adults with autism exiting out of secondary education.

      The investigators propose to develop this program through three specific aims. In the first
      aim, the investigators propose in-depth interviews with adults with autism and/or their
      families and service providers to better understand barriers and facilitators to "adult
      living" after graduating out of the school system. In the second aim, the investigators will
      use the information gained from Aim 1 to develop a 12-week curriculum integrating a
      resilience framework and methodologies into a community adult life skills program for persons
      with disabilities. A trained transition curriculum expert who had developed transition
      curriculum for youth with autism spectrum disorder in our local school district will assist
      in this "adult" curriculum to fill gaps that exist in the school district curriculum. As part
      of the infrastructure and support for this pilot, the investigators will generate a protocol
      for the participant's existing case manager to help support youth and families after the
      curriculum is completed. The third aim is to then pilot test RiA on 30 young adults with
      autism who have recently graduated from the secondary education system. Through an iterative
      program evaluation, the investigators will further hone the intervention and adapt the
      program to different levels of disability and learning styles. The investigators will measure
      characteristics of those who were successfully engaged in the program and measure outcomes
      such as socialization, quality of life, vocational/social activities and self-efficacy.
      Through this research the investigators will have developed a final protocol for a resiliency
      course to be tested in a larger clinical trial to see how this type of curriculum can improve
      longer term social and health outcomes.
    
  