
    
      Abstract Background: Visceral fat or peri-omental fat is increasingly associated with
      metabolic syndrome, a condition carrying a high risk of coronary artery disease. The
      independent role of Visceral Fat in cardiovascular risk remains unclear. Aim: Evaluate the
      relationship between visceral fat, fatty liver and asymptomatic coronary atherosclerosis in
      patients with the major cardiovascular risk factors and with or without metabolic syndrome.

      Methods: 50 patients (age 53±7) with excess of visceral fat visceral, 30 patients with NAFLD
      and 30 sex, age matched individuals without NAFLD will be recruited . All will be
      asymptomatic for cardiac related symptoms. Subjects with clinical history of ischemic heart
      disease, cerebrovascular disease, renal failure, cancer and allergy to lode will be excluded.
      Coronary artery disease (CAD) will be defined as coronary plaques, with obstructive (70%) or
      non obstructive lesions (30%). Degree of fatty infiltration (ultrasound), Visceral fat amount
      (CT), coronary plaques and stenosis (coronary computed tomography angiography,CCTA), markers
      of insulin resistance,lipotoxicity, systemic inflammation, and oxidant-antioxidant status
      will be measured measured.

      Expected Results: Patients with excess of visceral fat and patients with NAFLD will have
      higher prevalence of coronary plaques and higher prevalence of non obstructive coronary
      stenosis, higher HOMA CRP, and TG serum levels than controls. In patients with excess of
      visceral fat , more segments with atherosclerosis per patient will be detected . Multiple
      regression analysis is expected to show that visceral fat and fatty liver are strong
      predictors of coronary atherosclerosis independently by metabolic syndrome diagnosis and
      independently by markers of insulin resistance, lipotoxicity and inflammation.

      Conclusion: Patients with excess of visceral fat and NAFLD patients will have higher
      prevalence of coronary atherosclerosis plaques independently by metabolic syndrome diagnosis.
      Suggesting that the presence of visceral fat and/or fatty liver will be considered an
      important condition to optimize the cardiovascular risk stratification.
    
  