
    
      Thromboembolism is a frequently seen complication in patients who undergo long-term movement
      restriction and undergo surgical intervention, causing serious consequences such as pulmonary
      embolism . For this reason, heparin is frequently used for protective or therapeutic purposes
      in clinical situations where there is a risk of venous thromboembolism or thromboembolytic
      events . In the 1980s, low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) preparations, often administered
      subcutaneously (SC), were developed in order to increase the desired effect and reduce the
      side effects of heparin applications . It is stated in the literature that SC injection
      applications can be safely injected into the outer-lateral side of the upper arm, anterior
      aspect of the thigh, under the scapula and abdominal region . However, in the literature, it
      is emphasized that ecchymosis and hematoma formation is more common in SC LMWH applications,
      especially in the arm and thigh areas after SC injection. Therefore, in LMWH applications, it
      is stated that abdominal region is the most reliable injection site because it has thicker SC
      tissue compared to other parts of the body . In summary studies, it is recommended as the
      preferred site for LMWH applications due to the excess of SC fat tissue in the abdominal
      region, its width to allow rotation of the injection site and the lack of muscle activity .

      Systemic and local complications may occur due to heparin injection by SC route. The most
      important local complications are; ecchymosis at the injection site, hematoma formation and
      local pain formation at the injection site . In this study, the frequency of ecchymosis; Kuz
      and Uçar (2001) 11.4%, Dursun and Balcı Akpınar (2014) 28.7%, Küçükgüçlü and Okumuş (2010)
      31%, Varghese et al. (2006) 36%, Palese (2013) 38%, Yildirim and Atalay (2005) 57%, Zaybak
      and Khorshid (2008) reported as 64%. These treatment-related complications complicate the use
      of the damaged area in subsequent injections, adversely affect drug absorption, and cause
      physical trauma (ecchymosis, hematoma and pain) and changes in body image.

      Pain is a subjective experience that can occur in very different qualities and severity. Pain
      experienced due to injection is generally defined as a condition that occurs as a result of
      mechanical trauma in the tissue and stimulates the nerve fiber ends with the entry of the
      needle into the tissue. Due to the presence of pain receptors in SC tissue, patients often
      experience discomfort and pain during and after LMWH applications. Pain during injection
      significantly affects the patient's non-compliance to treatment and pain after injection
      significantly affects the comfort and life activities of the patient by restricting the use
      of the extremity . One of the methods used to prevent these negative complications is cold
      applications.

      Local cold administration reduces blood flow through vasoconstriction of the arterioles,
      controls bleeding and reduces ecchymosis and hematoma development . In addition, local cold
      application provides vasoconstriction in the tissue to which it is applied, slows blood flow
      and increases the viscosity of the blood, limits edema and inflammatory process, controls
      bleeding by reducing capillary permability, and reduces pain perception . With this localized
      sensory effect, attention is directed towards cold from pain, and thus pain is alleviated by
      the anesthetic effect of cold . In the studies carried out on the subject; It has been
      reported that 5 minutes of local humid cold application after SC injection results in a
      reduction in the severity and pain rate of ecchymosis . Küçükgüçlü and Okumuş (2010); SC
      indicated that two minutes of ice application to the heparin administration site before and
      after administration was an effective method of reducing ecchymosis and hematoma. Avşar and
      Kaşıkçı (2013); They found that two minutes of cold application to the SC injection site
      reduced ecchymosis and pain. Şendir et al. (2015) SC injection time of 30 seconds and 5
      minutes before and after the injection of local ice application, effective in reducing the
      intensity of pain and ecchymosis was reported to be effective. Similarly, Korkmazcan (2016)
      emphasizes that application of local ice to the skin is effective for reducing ecchymosis,
      hematoma and pain in SC LMWH injections. In addition, it is reported that pre-injection
      coolant spray and thermo-mechanical analgesia method reduce pain intensity in LMWH
      applications via SC .

      SC injection applications are an important part of drug applications and are frequently
      performed by nurses in clinical practice. Complications resulting from these applications
      cause physical and mental trauma in patients, they are reluctant to make the next injection,
      and for nurses, ecchymosis, hematoma and pain occurring at the injection site play a
      restrictive role in the selection of the site. This is an important problem for patients
      receiving heparin treatment for a long time; It is seen that different cold application
      methods such as ice application, cooling spray and thermo-mechanical analgesia techniques are
      used in heparin injections by SC route. However, there is no study on which these methods are
      used together and the effects of these methods are compared. This work; The aim of this study
      was to investigate the effect of three different cold application methods on ecchymosis and
      pain formation at the injection site in patients undergoing LMWH injection via SC.
    
  