
    
      Each participant will be required to attend the laboratory on four occasions. The first of
      these will be an initial screening/training visit, this will take place in the afternoon and
      last 3 hours in total. During the initial visit participants will be asked to provide written
      informed consent. They will provide lifestyle and demographic data and screened regards to
      physical health (height, weight, blood pressure, waist to hip ratio). They will then be
      trained on the computerised cognitive and mood tasks. At the end of the appointment they will
      be provided with a food diary and a stool sample collection kit.

      Study days 1 and 2 (12 weeks apart) :

      Participants will arrive at the laboratory at 8.00am having fasted from 8pm the previous
      evening, avoided caffeinated products for 18 hours, alcohol and over the counter medication
      for 24 hours and oral antihistamines for 48 hours prior to the session commencing. They will
      also bring with them their completed food diary and stool sample.

      Participants will provide a blood sample and then will be given a standardised breakfast of
      x2 slices of white toast with butter and a decaf tea or coffee. They will also provide a
      urine sample. Participants will then complete a computerised cognitive assessment (~1 hour in
      length), followed by measurements of blood pressure and heart rate. Participants in the
      sub-sample who will also provide brain (cerebral) blood flow data, will then have the
      quantitative near-infrared spectroscopy (qNIRS) headband fitted across the forehead and a 5
      minute baseline measure will be recorded.

      Following this the participants will consume their treatment for the day, followed by a short
      break and then will complete the second cognitive assessment. The qNIRS participants will
      again provide brain blood flow data and following that will be provided with a standardised
      lunch (cheese sandwich, ready salted crisps and a custard pot). Participants will complete
      their final cognitive assessment and will then provide a second blood sample.

      At the end of the first study day participants will be provided with their treatment and
      treatment diary, they will be instructed to take one tablet twice a day (with breakfast and
      dinner). Both study days will be identical and will take place 84 days (+/- 5 days) apart.

      Participants are also required to attend a short treatment exchange visit during Week 6 (5
      minutes).
    
  