
    
      The fibromyalgia syndrome (FMS) is an ill-defined clinical disorder characterized by
      widespread pain and diffuse tenderness which is assessed at specified anatomical locations.
      The FMS is 10 times more common in females, and its prevalence in the community increases
      from two percent at age 20 to eight percent at age 70. Although the American College of
      Rheumatology (ACR) has defined classification criteria for the diagnosis of the FMS its'
      pathogenesis remains vague. Diffuse and persistent musculoskeletal pain, consistent with the
      mentioned ACR criteria have also been reported among patients with other ill defined medical
      conditions such as migraines, chronic fatigue pain, myofascial pain, irritable bowel syndrome
      which presentation often overlaps with the FMS.

      There are mounting data supporting an overlap between the FMS and psychiatric conditions
      including depression, panic disorders and anxiety. For example, a lifetime history of major
      depression has been reported in 50% to 70% of patients with FMS and current depression was
      detected in 18% to 36% of patients with the FMS. This association has been questioned raising
      the possibility that this high prevalence reflects the long term outcome of coping with
      chronic disabling pain and disability.

      Anti-depressants are the corner stone of therapy in FMS. Benzodiazepines and recent
      experience with melatonin has been implicated in order to alleviate sleep disturbances that
      are so often encountered among patients with this disorder. Nevertheless, patients with the
      FMS often need therapeutical medications in order to ease acute exacerbations of diffuse pain
      which are often provoked by mental or physical stressors.

      Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), COX-2-selective agents and acetaminophen are
      often used by a large number of FMS patients seeking a relief of acute pain. However,
      numerous studies have failed to confirm their effectiveness as analgesics in FMS, although
      there is limited evidence that patients may experience enhanced analgesia when treated with
      combinations of NSAIDs and other agents.

      We believe that successful relief of diffuse pain may sever the bond tying pain and increased
      anxiety which is so characteristic in these patients. Furthermore, a clinical path that
      underlines the importance of pain relief may ensure the adherence and compliance that are
      needed to other elements of the therapeutical multidimensional approach in FMS and may be
      even improve psychiatric comorbidity that stem from the chronic non relenting pain.

      A major factor limiting use of NSAIDs is concern for the development of gastrointestinal
      complications such as bleeding. COX-2 selective inhibitors were developed to decrease the
      risk of gastrointestinal tract injury and to avoid the anti-platelet effect of traditional
      NSAIDs. The recent MEDAL study has confirmed this finding by randomizing more than 30,000
      patients to either etoricoxib or to the traditional NSAID diclofenate. Furthermore, the MEDAL
      investigators demonstrated similar cardiovascular outcome measures in both patient groups
      showing that the use of this has a similar cardiovascular safety profile as the traditional
      used NSAIDS. Using a safe analgesic with a low rate of adverse events in FMS patients, a
      population with enhanced somatoform ideation, is of great importance and may also insure the
      adherence to the other components of therapy.

      Hypothesis - Adding etoricoxib, a COX-2 selective inhibitor, to the therapeutic regimens of
      patients with the FMS may ease their degree of pain; improve measures of over all quality of
      life, disability, sleep, anxiety and depression.

      Objectives - Organic, mental and functional aspects of the FMS will be assessed in patients
      treated with etoricoxib (as an "add on") compared to placebo. The protocol-defined primary
      outcome measure will be pain severity as measured by the self-reported BPI (short form)
      average pain severity score (15).

      Secondary endpoints will include tender point count, validated parameters that measure
      quality of life, quality of sleep, disability, pain, depression and anxiety and the
      fibromyalgia impact questionnaire (which measures physical function, pain assessment, fatigue
      and distress). The study will include eighty patients.
    
  