
    
      A new treatment for neovascular age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is being investigated.
      Neovascular AMD is sometimes referred to as the "wet" form of AMD. The purpose of this Phase
      1 clinical research study is to examine the safety and ability of an experimental study drug
      to treat a complication of the disease which leads to vision loss. The name of the study drug
      is "AAV2-sFLT01." This experimental study drug uses a virus to transfer a gene (genetic code)
      into cells within the eye. The gene codes for a protein that is intended to diminish the
      growth of abnormal blood vessels under the retina. The duration of the gene's effect is
      currently unknown, but might last for years.

      This clinical research study will look at the safety of a single administration of
      AAV2-sFLT01 injected directly into the eye. There are 2 parts to this study, but patients
      will take part in only one of them. In the first part of the study, 4 different doses of the
      study drug will be studied in 4 separate groups of patients. Patients in the first part of
      the study will not be randomized. In the second part of the study, the highest dose that was
      safe and well tolerated will be studied in 10 more patients. Patients in this part of the
      study may have a ranibizumab (Lucentis®) injection 26 weeks after their AAV2-sFLT01 injection
      to verify their responsiveness to anti-VEGF therapy, if they have not demonstrated a response
      to AAV2-sFLT01. The initial two parts of this protocol are expected to be completed in July,
      2013.

      All patients injected with AAV2-sFLT01 will be asked to participate in an Extended Follow-Up
      (EFU) program for up to an additional 4 years. Participation is voluntary but strongly
      encouraged as it allows for the long term collection of safety information as well as
      information about the potential long term effects of the study drug. Study visits will take
      place at the site every 6 months.

      Up to thirty-four (34) patients at multiple centers will take part in this study in the
      United States.
    
  