
    
      Prostate cancer is a significant public health problem. In the EU approximately 200,000 men
      are diagnosed annually with prostate cancer. There are 24,000 cases per year in England and
      Wales and 10,000 deaths. The incidence is increasing, even when screen-detected cancers are
      considered, and within the next few years it will become the most common cancer in UK men.

      that an alteration in the breast cancer predisposition genes BRCA1 and BRCA2, may predispose
      to prostate cancer (PC) and this study will increase this evidence-base. There is some
      evidence, at least in BRCA2 carriers, that the prostate cancer in these men may be more
      aggressive and so earlier detection could theoretically reduce mortality. It has been
      reported that unaffected individuals from families with multiple cases of PC show an
      increased percentage of raised PSA levels, but the use of PSA level and its predictive value
      in healthy males with BRCA1/2 mutations has not been studied. If PSA were to be used as a
      screening tool in BRCA1/2 mutation carriers, we would need to gain a better understanding of
      the pathogenesis of PC in these men and determine whether they have a different baseline PSA
      profile compared with controls.

      The high prevalence of hormone-dependent/secreting tumours such as breast, ovary and prostate
      in BRCA1/2 carriers suggests an important role of hormones and their receptors in the
      development of cancer. Androgens and androgen receptors are considered crucial elements in PC
      pathogenesis. Therefore male sex hormones will be measured to determine the hormone profile
      in BRCA1/2 carriers compared with a control group. There is strong evidence that BRCA1/2 play
      an important role in DNA repair and cell cycling. Therefore, we will investigate
      abnormalities of the metabolic processes in individuals with a BRCA1/2 mutation where cell
      cycling may be abnormal. Analysis of proteins (proteomics) and metabolites (metabonomics) are
      powerful approaches to identifying proteins and metabolites involved in cancer formation. The
      analysis of the proteins and metabolites will enable us to investigate the effect of the
      presence of a BRCA1/2 mutation and aid in the identification of new biomarkers for prostate
      cancer.

      The target population is a group of 850 males who carry a known pathogenic mutation in the
      BRCA1/2 genes (500 BRCA1 and 350 BRCA2). These men will be recruited through genetics clinics
      across the UK and the world. A control group of men who have tested negative for a known
      pathogenic mutation that is running in their family will also be recruited through the
      genetics clinics.

      All participants will be invited to attend annually for 5 years for an appointment lasting
      approximately 30 minutes during which they will discuss the study in detail before giving
      their written consent agreeing to participate. They will have a 50ml blood sample taken and
      be asked to provide a urine sample every year. They will also be required to complete a short
      family and medical history questionnaire. These appointments will either take place at the
      centre they are registered at, at the Royal Marsden Hospital, or in their own home depending
      on the arrangements made with the collaborating consultant and patient preference.

      The PSA level of all participants will be measured locally. If PSA is >3.0ng/ml, a ten core
      prostatic biopsy will be offered, carried out by a consultant urologist. Ten biopsies will be
      used for diagnostic purposes, with two extra biopsy samples taken for research analysis with
      the patients fully informed written consent prior to the procedure being carried out. If any
      of the ten cores identify the presence of prostate cancer, they will receive treatment for
      this as advised by their local centre. The PSA will be quality controlled by batch testing at
      a reference lab. If the value locally was <3.0ng/ml but is >3ng/ml in the reference lab it
      will be remeasured locally.

      If high grade Prostatic Intraepithelial Neoplasia (PIN) is detected or if the sample is
      inconclusive then a sextant biopsy repeated after 6 weeks will be recommended, in accordance
      with the ERSPC protocol. If atypical acini are detected then immediate biopsy will be
      undertaken.
    
  