
    
      Globally, over 4 million babies die within the first 4 weeks of life and a third of these are
      secondary to pre-term birth. In the United States, pre-term birth is the second leading cause
      of neonatal mortality. The US pre-term birth (<37 weeks) rate rose to 12.8% in 2006, an
      increase of 21% since 1990 and the rate of low birthweight (<2500 g) rose to 8.3% in 2006, an
      increase of 19% since 1990. Neurological disorders, such as cerebral palsy, which is often
      combined with mental disability, epilepsy, and cognitive impairment, are of special concern
      for survivors of pre-term birth. Even though pre-term birth occurs in only a small proportion
      of the infant population, its societal and personal health impact is considerable because of
      its disproportionately high perinatal morbidity, mortality, and need for costly medical care.
      However, it is very disappointing that to date, interventions to prevent pre-term birth have
      proven to be almost universally ineffective.

      The main causes of adverse pregnancy outcome(s) are reported to be maternal infection and
      placental, fetal, or uterine pathosis. Maternal infection and placental pathosis appear to be
      the most important causal factors, but each can cause pre-term labour, premature pre-term
      membrane rupture, or result in medically induced pregnancy interruption. Prominent risk
      factors for pre-term birth include history of previous pre-term birth, demographic
      characteristics, periodontal disease, and behavioral factors such as tobacco use.

      Offenbacher et al. were the first to report a link in humans between poor maternal
      periodontal health and composite adverse pregnancy outcome of pre-term low birth weight
      (PLBW). They reported that women with periodontal disease were much more likely than
      periodontally healthy women to experience pre-term and low birth weight infants (OR=7.5 for
      all PLBW cases; OR=7.9 for primiparous PLBW cases). Pro-inflammatory mediators generated
      within the diseased periodontal tissue may affect the maternal-foetal unit. When present in
      the amniotic fluid, chronic high levels of cytokines and prostaglandins may lead to
      intra-uterine growth restriction (IUGR), spontaneous pre-term labour, premature rupture of
      membranes, and pre-term birth. Several studies report associations of adverse pregnancy
      outcome with higher gingival crevicular fluid levels of PGE2 and IL-1β and elevated amniotic
      fluid concentrations of PGE2, IL-1β and IL-8 Dörtbudak. It is possible that IL-6 produced in
      inflamed periodontal tissues can affect the foetal membranes and cause pre-term uterine
      contractions. There is evidence that the gingival crevicular fluid levels of IL-6 are higher
      in gingivitis and periodontitis compared with healthy controls.

      Bacteria activate cell-mediated immunological responses, leading to the production and
      release of cytokines, including interleukin-1 (IL-1), IL-6, tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α),
      prostaglandins, or endotoxins such as lipopolysaccharides, which may precipitate pre-term
      labour if they reach the foeto-placental unit. Endotoxin or lipopolysaccharide of
      Gram-negative bacteria may be detected in biological fluids of sterile compartments such as
      the amniotic cavity. Administration of endotoxin to pregnant animals results in embryo
      resorption, pre-term labour, and foetal death. A higher risk of spontaneous pre-term delivery
      has been associated with genetically driven excessive amniotic fluid IL-Iβ or with a
      disturbance of bioavailability and/or bio-response of this cytokine, which is central to the
      pro-inflammatory reaction to infectious stimulants. The foetus also has a role in pre-term
      birth; the foetus recognizes a hostile intrauterine environment and may precipitate labour by
      premature activation of the foetal-placental parturition pathway.

      The causality relationship between periodontal disease and inflammatory mediators' presence
      in the amnionic fluid was not tested to date. In the present study the investigators aim to
      investigate the correlation between inflammatory mediators in the serum and their presence in
      the amniotic fluid. The investigators will further investigate the correlation of the above
      results with pregnancy outcome (gestation age, foetal weight and health, etc.).

      Israel amniocentesis in healthy women is very common. The cellular fraction in the sampled
      amniotic fluid is used for the amniocentesis test, while the supernatant is discarded. For
      the present study the investigators aim to use the supernatants of amniocentesis tests done
      on healthy women (age 21-45) as well as serum. Using ELISA we will quantify the levels of
      inflammatory markers such as IL-6, TNFα and IL-1β. The investigators will also test the
      presence of endotoxin and perio-pathogens DNA in the serum and amnionic fluid. Follow-up on
      data regarding gestational outcome will be also collected.

      participants will be followed for the duration of hospital stay, an expected average of 5
      weeks
    
  