
    
      Patients in this study will be evaluated by the Department of Breast Medical Oncology
      attending physician and the obstetrician. Patients who do not have an obstetrician will be
      referred to an obstetrician or Maternal-Fetal Medicine specialist for evaluation.

      Counseling about primary breast cancer risks, staging evaluation, and breast cancer
      management will be provided by members of the Department of Breast Medical Oncology.
      Counseling about fetal health risks will be provided by the medical oncologists and the
      obstetrician or the Maternal-Fetal Medicine Specialist. Counseling about surgical risks will
      be provided by the Breast Surgical Service. Evaluation will include a medical history and
      physical exam. Doctors will be evaluating patients especially for the presence of metastatic
      disease. The date of the last menstrual period and estimated date of delivery will be
      recorded.

      Patients in this study will have a chest radiograph with appropriate fetal shielding.
      Patients will have an ultrasound of the abdomen to evaluate the presence or absence of
      metastatic disease in the liver. If suspicious abnormalities are found, a MRI of the abdomen
      will be done. Scanning MRI of the thoracic spine will be performed to screen for bone
      metastases. Patients will have standard blood tests and a mammogram or ultrasound of the
      affected breast and lymph node bearing areas. Patients will have a tissue biopsy to confirm
      the status of the cancer. An ultrasound will also be performed to learn the age and
      development of the fetus.

      Patients with operable primary breast cancer tumors will have surgical evaluation for
      surgical therapy with modified radical mastectomy or segmental mastectomy with lymph node
      dissection.

      Patients with locally advanced breast cancers will receive systemic multi-agent chemotherapy
      in the presurgical setting.

      Patients will have physical exams, mammograms, and ultrasounds repeated to evaluate tumor
      response to treatment. All patients who will receive chemotherapy will be offered systemic
      chemotherapy with 5-fluorouracil, doxorubicin, and cyclophosphamide (FAC).

      Patients will be followed 6-12 months using the American Society of Clinical Oncology
      Guidelines and the Surveillance Committee Guidelines. All children will be followed until
      their adulthood. If the disease gets worse, patients will be treated off the study with
      individualized therapy. Premedication will be provided for all patients in order to decrease
      the risks of nausea and vomiting. When needed, adjustment in dosage of chemotherapy or
      modification in the way the medicines are given will be made in order to decrease any side
      effects.

      This is an investigational study. The FDA has approved the study drugs. Their use together in
      this study is experimental. At least 100 patients will take part in this study. All will be
      enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  