
    
      Background

      Data on psychobiological stress reactivity in essential hypertension demonstrated
      physiological hyperreactivity to acute psychosocial stress in hypertensives as compared to
      normotensive controls in terms of sympathetic nervous system and
      hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis activity, blood lipids, and coagulation activity.
      Moreover, we found lower perceived social support in hypertensives as compared to
      normotensives, with the highest physiological stress responses in hypertensives with low
      perceived social support.. In addition, the collaborating group of Prof. Heinrichs
      demonstrated that OT and social support interact to reduce neuroendocrine responses to stress
      in normotensive individuals. Given these findings and given the aforementioned hypothesized
      role for OT in physiological stress reactivity, particularly in hypertension, it seems
      promising to investigate the combined effects of OT and social support provision on
      physiological stress reactivity in essential hypertensives as compared to normotensives.

      Objective

      The proposed project will provide new information on neuroendocrine mechanisms underlying the
      observed physiological hyperreactivity to stress in essential hypertension. Moreover, stress
      reactivity of intermediate biological risk factors has not yet been investigated in
      experiments studying the effects of the acutely provided social support, either in healthy
      individuals or in hypertensives. The results of this project may provide important
      information for the development of effective interdisciplinary prevention and intervention
      strategies for essential hypertension

      Methods

      The methodological approach of social stress induction by the TSST used in our previous
      hypertension study will be translated to the planned project and we will repeatedly collect
      blood and saliva samples to measure neuroendocrine reactivity in terms of cortisol,
      epinephrine, and norepinephrine, as well as continuously measuring of heart rate and blood
      pressure. Blood pressure will be measured at each sampling timepoint as well as twice during
      the TSST (during the speech and during mental arithmetics). As our recent findings suggest
      strong associations between social support and heightened coagulation activity in healthy
      subjects before and after social stress, and as we found higher lipid and coagulation
      reactivity to psychosocial stress in hypertensives with catecholamine stress changes
      predicting elevated lipid stress reactivity, we plan to additionally measure biological risk
      factors for CHD.
    
  