
    
      Details:

      Participants will be sequentially assigned to enroll in dosing arm, beginning with Maraviroc,
      then Dolutegravir and ending with Tenofovir/Emtricitabine, Participation will last
      approximately 3 months and will include a screening visit, three 28-day phases, and a
      follow-up safety visit.

      Phase 1 consists of a 28-day study period with a single dose of study product on Day 0.

      Phase 2 consists of a 28-day study period with each subject receiving a single daily observed
      dose of study product beginning on Day 0.

      Phase 3 consists of a 28-day study period, with three randomized drug-dosing schemas
      beginning on Day 0. Participants will either: stop taking their study product, dose once per
      week, or dose three times per week.

      Participants will return to the clinic for hair and blood sampling on days 3/7/14/21/28
      post-dose for all three phases. Adverse events will be assessed at every visit. Safety labs
      will be drawn at the midpoint and at the end of each study phase, and at any time indicated
      due to suspected adverse events.

      Description of Study Phases Screening: Participants will be recruited from a variety of
      advertisements, and pre-screened using a telephone Institutional Review Board (IRB)-approved
      questionnaire. If participants are interested and pass the initial screening, a screening
      study visit in the research center will be scheduled. This visit should take approximately 90
      minutes, during which full physical examination and medical history will be obtained, as well
      as physical diagnostics to assess for eligibility. This visit must be completed within the 28
      days prior to enrollment.

      Phase 1: Consists of a 28-day study period, with a single dose of study product on Day 0
      (Maraviroc, Dolutegravir, or tenofovir/emtricitabine). Day 0 can be scheduled on either
      Mondays or Tuesdays, and once eligibility is confirmed on the day of enrollment, a witnessed
      dose of study product will be administered. Participants will return to the clinic for hair
      and blood sampling on Days 3/7/14/21/28 days post-dose. Adverse events will be assessed at
      every visit. Safety labs will be drawn at the midpoint and at the end of the study phase, and
      at any time indicated due to suspected adverse events. These visits should last less than 30
      minutes.

      Phase 2: Consists of a 28-day study period, with each subject receiving a single daily
      observed dose of study product beginning on Day 0. Day 0 can be scheduled on either Mondays
      or Tuesdays, once continued eligibility is confirmed. Target scheduling will have Phase 2
      begin within 2 weeks of completing Phase 1, but could be extended up to 28 days as clinic
      availability dictates. Participants will return to the clinic daily for dosing, and for hair
      and blood sampling on Days 3/7/14/21/28 days post-dose. Adverse events will be assessed at
      every visit. Safety labs will be drawn at the midpoint, and at the end of the study phase,
      and at any time indicated due to adverse events. These visits should last less than 30
      minutes. Dosing only visits should last less than 5 minutes.

      Phase 3: Consists of a 28-day study period, with three randomized drug-dosing schemas. Day 0
      can be scheduled on Mondays, Tuesdays or Fridays, once continued eligibility is confirmed.
      Target scheduling will have Phase 3 begin as soon as possible after completing Phase 2, on a
      Monday/Tuesday/Or Friday within the week. On Day 0, participants will be randomized to one of
      3 potential dosing schemes:

        1. No further doses

        2. One dose weekly (Day 0, 7, 14, 21) 4 doses

        3. Three Doses weekly (Mondays, Wednesdays, Fridays) (Days 0, 2, 4, 7, 9, 11, 14, 16, 18,
           21, 23, 25) 12 doses

      Participants will return to clinic for observed dosing as scheduled, and for hair and blood
      sampling on days 3/7/14/21/28). Safety labs will be drawn at the midpoint, at the end, and at
      any time indicated due to adverse events. These visits should last less than 30 minutes.
      Dosing only visits should last less than five minutes.
    
  