
    
      As human kidney function declines so does the ability to excrete urea, the chief end product
      of nitrogen metabolism. Though elevated blood urea levels denote a loss of kidney function,
      they may also serve as a source for the pathophysiological consequences of kidney failure.
      Urea spontaneously dissociates to form cyanate, which in its unprotonated form can react with
      protein amino groups in a process known as carbamylation. Carbamylation-induced protein
      alterations may be involved in the progression of various diseases by changing the structure,
      charge, and function of enzymes, hormones, receptors, and amino acids. For example, proteins
      as diverse as collagen and low density lipoproteins (LDLs), are shown to induce the
      characteristic biochemical events of atherosclerosis progression when carbamylated. Our
      research seeks to examine how protein carbamylation contributes to the pathological sequelae
      of end stage renal disease (ESRD) and determine if novel therapeutics can attenuate this
      process.

      Percent carbamylated albumin level can be used as a measure of overall carbamylation burden.
      Our preliminary work shows a negative correlation between subjects' percent carbamylated
      albumin level and circulating amino acids, suggesting that free amino acids may be active
      scavengers for reactive isocyanate. Furthermore, ex vivo studies show that amino acid
      supplementation attenuates the carbamylation reaction from occurring. To better assess the
      biologic pathways affecting carbamylation in dialysis patients and to bring discoveries
      closer to clinical and therapeutic application, we aim to conduct a pilot study evaluating
      the effect of amino acid supplementation on carbamylation in participants with ESRD
      undergoing maintenance hemodialysis. We believe elevated urea and amino acid deficiencies may
      play dominant roles in the carbamylation of proteins in ESRD and protein carbamylation may be
      modifiable by amino acid therapy. The proposed pilot study will directly assess this concept.

      The specific aims of the study are to evaluate the effect of amino acid supplementation on
      carbamylation in ESRD patients undergoing maintenance hemodialysis: (1) by evaluating safe
      and optimal amino acid supplement dosing and (2) by investigating the effect of amino acid
      supplementation on plasma carbamylated albumin levels.
    
  