
    
      Rheumatoid arthritis is with a prevalence of 2% an important inflammatory joint disease which
      often leads to impaired functioning and reduced quality of life. Early diagnosis is an
      important step forward to prevent progressive joint destruction. The classification criteria
      for rheumatoid arthritis published in 2010 are based on clinical signs (such as swelling) and
      laboratory findings (such as rheumatoid factor) (Aletaha D 2010). Because its diagnosis is
      based on clinical signs the early diagnosis for rheumatoid arthritis might be a challenge in
      daily clinical care.

      In clinical practice a therapy with prednisolone is started although the patients do not have
      an exact diagnosis. It has been shown that the start of early low-dose prednisolone decreases
      the rate of joint destruction after two years of therapy (Kirwan JR 1995, Wassenberg S 2005).
      Thus, prednisolone might have effects comparable to that of disease-modifying antirheumatic
      drugs.

      The objective of this study is to investigate the diagnostic value of oral prednisolone test
      for rheumatoid arthritis. The hypothesis is that in patients with rheumatoid arthritis the
      prednisolone test will be positive in 80% of the patients whereas positive in just 20% of
      patients with osteoarthritis of the hand. Positive prednisolone test is defined as a 30%
      improvement of the symptoms in finger and wrist on a numeric rating scale from 0-100.

      Patients with suspicious of rheumatoid arthritis will undergo a prednisolone test with 20 mg
      per day for 3 days after 2 days of therapy with paracetamol 500 mg twice. After this period
      the patients will be asked to rate their benefit in improving pain and reducing swelling of
      wrist and finger joints on a numeric rating scale (0-100 % improvement in steps of 20%). A
      positive response In addition, demographics and clinical parameter including the compound
      measure for disease activity DAS-28 will be collected. A patient with a positive prednisolone
      test will receive standard care for rheumatoid arthritis onward. Patients with a negative
      prednisolone test will receive standard care for hand and finger osteoarthritis onward. At
      week 12 all patients will be seen again to reassess the former diagnosis.
    
  