
    
      Cerebral vasospasm is a recognized and poorly understood complication for many patients who
      have aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. Constriction of the cerebral arterial vasculature
      occurs as free subarachnoid blood under high pressure comes into contact with the surfaces of
      vessels, particularly in the basal cisterns. However, the exact pathophysiology of vasospasm
      is unknown. Morbidity and mortality rates for vasospasm are high despite improvements in
      management. Excluding the initial hemorrhage, cerebral vasospasm is recognized as the main
      cause of substantial disability and death. Cerebral vasospasm kills 7% of patients, and
      causes severe deficit in another 7%. Cerebral vasospasm almost never occurs before day 3, has
      maximal incidence at days 6-8, and rarely occurs after day 17. The disorder is clinically
      characterized by confusion or decreased consciousness with focal neurological deficit.

      Experimental evidence suggests that red blood cell hemolysis and subsequent release of
      oxygen, hemoglobin, reactive oxygen species, and other as yet undescribed mediators are
      necessary for the development of vasospasm. The goal of this study is to use modern tools of
      genomics to identify novel molecular markers for the process of vasospasm by studying the
      release of micro ribonucleic acids (RNA) that are secreted into the cerebrospinal fluid
      following the initiation of vasospastic cascades. Micro RNA's have recently been identified
      as important regulators of many cellular processes including cell cycle progression,
      proliferation, tumor suppressors, oncogenes, and regulators of metabolic pathways. The
      researchers propose to study the levels of annotated micro RNA's in the cerebrospinal fluid
      (CSF) of patients who present with subarachnoid hemorrhage from presentation through the
      hospital stay. The researchers will correlate the level of these micro RNA's with patient
      clinical presentation, including transcranial Doppler measurements, Glasgow Coma Scale score,
      vital signs, and angiographic studies. It is well established that the process of vasospasm
      occurs over the course of many days. Long before vasospasm becomes clinically evident,
      cellular processes causing spasm are in action and the researchers hope to identify micro RNA
      mediators of these processes using high throughput screening methods.
    
  