
    
      This study addresses the issue that congenital heart defect (CHD) treatment in infants and
      young children causes limitations that reduce active play opportunities, delaying motor skill
      development, and preventing active lifestyle habits from being established in early
      childhood. Recent research has shown that the most sedentary children assessed in infancy
      continue to be the most sedentary children at school age. This suggests that an effective
      intervention to enhance active play and prevent sedentary lifestyles must target children
      with CHD in infancy.

      The investigators hypothesize that intervening during the treatment (via surgery or
      catheterization) and post-treatment recovery phase would be optimal for changing physical
      activity habits among young children with CHD. Thus, this feasibility study will assess
      whether a 6-month, home-based, parent-led physical activity program, completed after surgical
      or catheterization treatment, enables young children with CHD to achieve the recommended 180
      minutes of daily physical activity.

      This study includes comprehensive measures of motor skill and physical activity, intervening
      at a very young age, and targeting the high risk status for sedentary lifestyles of children
      with CHD. This study will provide essential data on patient recruitment, data collection
      procedures, the proposed physical activity intervention and resources required to enable the
      design of an RCT to evaluate play-based, parent-delivered interventions optimized to support
      age-appropriate physical activity and motor skills among young children with CHD. Children
      who are scheduled for cardiac surgery or catheterization will be recruited during the study
      recruitment period. The estimated initial sample size of recruited patients is 56, however
      factoring in withdrawal rate, it is expected that feasibility data will be obtained for 48
      participants. Eligible participants who agree to be contacted by a member of the research
      team will have the study explained to them in full detail and will sign a consent form if
      desired. All children in this study will complete five study visits. The first study visit
      will consist of gaining the patient's consent and performing a baseline assessment on the
      patient. After the first visit is complete, children will be randomized to either the
      intervention or wait-list control study group. Control participants will follow the same
      schedule of assessments but they will be on a "wait list" for the intervention, which will be
      provided after the 12-month assessment has been completed.The first visit will occur during
      the mandatory pre-treatment clinic visit, which is typically 1-2 weeks prior to treatment.
      Visits #2, #3, #4 and #5 will occur 7 weeks and 6, 12 and 16 months after treatment. All
      participants will complete all outcome measures and assessments at or after each visit.
      Children will be given an omni-directional accelerometer to wear on a waist-worn belt for 7
      days after each visit, to assess daily physical activity. Movement skills will be assessed
      with the Peabody Motor Development Scales (version 2). Parents will complete a demographic
      questionnaire, the Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory (PedsQL51) proxy report for
      toddlers/young children, the Social Skills Checklist, Parenting Stress Index, and parents of
      children 4 years or younger will complete the Infant Quality of Life assessment. The child's
      medical history will be extracted from the medical record.

      Each child receiving CHD treatment randomized to the intervention group will be provided with
      6 months of parent-led, home and play-based activity plans. The activities in the plan will
      be tailored to each phase of treatment (in hospital, discharge to week 7, week 8 to 6
      months), follow a standardized format and provide content individualized to each child's age
      and previous visit assessments. The in-hospital intervention will begin when the child
      returns to the regular hospital ward from the ICU. Play activities will focus on maintaining
      or regaining range of motion and supporting midline crossing. Resumption of the motor skills
      and mobility demonstrated prior to treatment will be encouraged once all treatment equipment
      has been removed. From time of discharge to the week 7 follow up, a range of motion and
      mobility intervention will be provided. It will be similar to the in-hospital plan but with
      the addition of lower body mobility activities to encourage movement skill development. Upper
      body weight bearing and lifting activities are restricted for children undergoing surgical
      treatment until the week 7 evaluation. The research assistant will monitor/adjust the child's
      physical activity on a weekly basis until activity is unrestricted. Once physical activity is
      unrestricted, parent-led, home and play-based weekly plans will be designed by the research
      assistant to encourage active lifestyle habits during the time between the week 7 and 6 month
      visit. Each plan will be individualized to the child's age and assessment results. A new set
      of progressive activity plans will be provided every four weeks until the end of the
      intervention (6 month visit), using parent feedback regarding the child's progress and the
      attainment of age-appropriate motor skills. The research assistant will also educate parents
      about their child's assessed and desired level of daily physical activity and support parents
      as they implement the activity plans at home. The research assistant on the project will see
      children daily during their hospitalization, working with parents to implement the child's
      personal activity plan. Collaborative implementation will enable the research assistant to
      ensure accurate performance of target movements and answer parent questions. The research
      assistant will track all data, study details and patient interactions.
    
  