
    
      This clinical research is funded by the Austrian Science Fund (FWF, project number: KLI 858).
      It is based on close collaborations between the University of Vienna and the Medical
      University of Vienna, with the Department of Clinical Pharmacology at the Medical University
      of Vienna as the clinical trial center and Prof. M.D. Michael Wolzt as the trial center's
      coordinating physician. The sponsor is the University of Vienna, as represented by the
      Principal Investigator Dr. Oliver Neubauer (Research Platform Active Ageing). International
      collaborations include Dr. Catherine Bondonno, Prof. Hodgson (both Edith Cowan University)
      Dr. Jonathan Peake (Queensland University of Technology), and Prof. Richard Woodman (Flinders
      University) (all Australia).

      Wider research context / theoretical framework:

      Aging is a major risk factor for cardiovascular disease (CVD). Developing effective
      strategies to improve cardiovascular health with ageing is a high priority. Emerging data
      indicate that inorganic dietary nitrate, found in green leafy vegetables and beetroot juice
      (BRJ), is important for cardiovascular health (Blekkenhorst et al. 2018). These data suggest
      that small increases in nitrate intake among those with elevated risk for CVD would have a
      substantial impact, by improving the bioavailability of nitric oxide (NO) through the
      enterosalivary nitrate- nitrite-NO pathway (involving the oral microbiome). Results from the
      study group's research suggest beneficial short-term effects of nitrate-rich BRJ on blood
      pressure and vascular inflammation markers in healthy older adults (Raubenheimer et al.
      2017).

      Hypotheses / research questions / objectives:

      The proposed clinical study is aimed to examine whether the daily consumption of 2×70 mL BRJ
      over 4 weeks translates into improved clinical outcomes in older adults with treated grade 1
      hypertension. The primary hypothesis is that the increased dietary nitrate intake lowers
      blood pressure and improves vascular function. The secondary hypotheses are that the
      increased dietary nitrate intake results in changes in the oral microbiome, favorably
      modulates the systemic inflammatory status, and that these changes correlate with
      cardiovascular-related outcomes.

      Approach / methods:

      This randomized, placebo-controlled crossover study will involve two 4-week treatment
      periods, consisting of interventions with nitrate-rich BRJ and nitrate-depleted BRJ,
      separated by a 4-week washout period. Thirty-five men and women, between the ages of 55 and
      70 years, who have been diagnosed with grade 1 hypertension will be recruited. Twenty-nine
      participants will be required to complete the study, based on power/sample size calculations
      with the forearm blood flow (FBF) response to acetylcholine and 24 h-ambulatory systolic
      blood pressure as the primary endpoints. Principal secondary endpoints are the number of
      CD11b-expressing blood granulocytes and the FBF response to glyceryltrinitrate. Among various
      additional secondary and exploratory endpoints, plasma nitrate and nitrite and a broad range
      of inflammation biomarkers will be measured. Furthermore, the oral microbiome will be
      analyzed.

      Level of originality / innovation:

      Beneficial effects of nitrate have predominantly been observed in healthy populations, but
      evidence of cardiovascular benefits and anti-inflammatory effects in clinical populations is
      limited (Raubenheimer et al. 2019). This study addresses the need to determine the efficacy
      of dietary nitrate to improve cardiovascular health and counteract chronic low-grade
      inflammation in humans at risk of CVD.
    
  