
    
      Background

      Despite advances in endovascular therapies, arterial bypass to restore blood flow to a patent
      distal artery often is the best option in the management of lower extremity occlusive
      arterial disease. The greater saphenous vein is the conduit of choice for infrainguinal
      reconstructions - but it is not always available or is otherwise unusable in a significant
      percentage of patients. In those situations, arterial reconstruction using prosthetic
      material is an option. Synthetic and biological vascular grafts have been used for some three
      decades. With time, synthetic conduits tend to increase their thrombogenic potential rather
      than diminish it by formation of neointima. Over time biological grafts have become
      alternatives to synthetic materials, mainly in the more demanding applications below the
      knee. For various reasons most biological grafts have been withdrawn from the market and
      Omniflow II (Bio Nova International, Mel-bourne, Australia) is currently the only biological
      vascular prosthesis available for peripheral revascularisation.

      Objective

      The Omniflow II prosthesis is a biosynthetic device formed from stabilised sheep collagen
      with an integral polyester mesh. It is produced by inserting polyester mesh-covered mandrels
      beneath the cutaneous trunci muscle of adult sheep for a period of 12-14 weeks. The
      collagen-encapsulated tubes are harvested and stabilised using glutaraldehyde. The design
      provides long-term structural stability of the prosthesis and compliance that is similar to
      that of an autologous artery. There are no randomised studies comparing the Omniflow II graft
      to either autologous vein or PTFE. Extensive in vivo testing has been performed for safety
      and efficacy. The Omniflow graft is registered in Europe, Australia, Canada and in a range of
      countries in South America and South East Asia.

      Methods

      All patients between the ages 20 to 90 with peripheral arterial disease with severe,
      life-style limiting claudication, rest pain or tissue lesions based on occlusion of the
      femoral or popliteal artery can be considered, if no suitable vein is available for the
      reconstruction in infrapopliteal reconstructions. Written consent is obtained from all
      volunteering patients including willingness to participate in the follow-up process. Primary
      end point of the study is primary patency, defined by duplex scan as freedom from binary
      restenosis of 50%.
    
  