
    
      This study was planned as a parallel group randomized controlled study in order to determine
      the effect of heating different body parts using forced air warming technique during cesarean
      section on maternal hypothermia, shivering, thermal comfort, the Apgar score of the newborn
      and breastfeeding.

      In the preparation phase of the research; Determining the rate of hypothermia in women
      applying to the delivery room of Hacettepe University Adult Hospital for planned cesarean
      section, determining and procuring the devices to be used in the study, and establishing
      experimental and control groups will be realized.

      Body temperatures of women will be measured for 2 weeks in order to determine the rate of
      hypothermia in women who have had cesarean section in the institution where the study will be
      conducted. Body temperature of women will be started 30 minutes before the cesarean section
      and will be measured every 15 minutes until 30 minutes after the operation. By determining
      the prevalence of hypothermia after cesarean section in women; It is aimed to reveal the
      necessity of heating with compressed air heating technique.

        -  Women are admitted to the delivery room 60-90 minutes before the cesarean operation. The
           Introductory Information Form will be applied by the researcher using face-to-face
           interview before the women are admitted to the operating room.

        -  30 minutes before the operation, women's body temperature, shivering, blood pressure,
           pulse and respiratory values will be evaluated every 15 minutes and recorded on the
           Patient Monitoring Form. In addition, the Temperature Comfort Scale, which will be
           developed by the researchers, will be applied by face to face interview method.

      Applications During Cesarean Surgery

        -  During the operation, women's body temperature, temperature comfort score, shivering,
           blood pressure, pulse, respiration and SpO2 values will be evaluated every 15 minutes
           and recorded on the Patient Monitoring Form.

        -  With the birth of the baby; The newborn's body temperature, 1st and 5th minute Apgar
           score will be evaluated and recorded on the Obstetric and Postpartum Characteristics
           Form.

      Applications to be Made Within 30 Minutes After Cesarean Surgery

        -  After the cesarean operation, women will be monitored in the recovery unit for 30
           minutes. Body temperature, temperature comfort score, shivering, blood pressure, pulse,
           respiration and SpO2 values will be evaluated every 15 minutes after the women are
           admitted to the recovery unit and recorded on the Patient Monitoring Form. In addition,
           the Temperature Comfort Scale, which will be developed by the researchers, will be
           applied to women 30 minutes after the operation for the second time.

        -  The pain level of women will be evaluated with the Visual Pain Scale 30 minutes after
           surgery.

        -  In the institution where the research will be conducted, all women are given a heated
           blanket at 70 0C when they feel cold and shiver after cesarean section. The number of
           covers used varies depending on the demand of the woman. Researcher women will not
           interrupt this routine care they receive. The number of heated covers used by women will
           be recorded on the Obstetric and Postpartum Characteristics Form.

      Applications to be Performed in Obstetrics and Gynecology Service after Cesarean Operation

        -  Information such as the need for analgesia, time to start breastfeeding, first
           mobilization time, gas, stool and urine output will be obtained from the patient file
           and recorded in the Obstetric and Postpartum Characteristics Form.

        -  The pain level of women will be evaluated repeatedly with the Visual Pain Scale (VAS) at
           the 24th hour after surgery. Due to the effect of anesthesia and the administration of
           analgesics upon the request of the doctor within the first day after cesarean operation,
           the VAS score after 24 hours will be evaluated.

        -  Before discharge, the development of postpartum complications in a woman will be
           evaluated and recorded on the Obstetric and Postpartum Features Form.

        -  At Hacettepe University Adult Hospital Gynecology Service, the breastfeeding status of
           mothers of newborns is evaluated using the LATCH Breastfeeding Diagnostic and
           Measurement Tool. Effective breastfeeding score assessed by the nurses: LACTH score will
           be evaluated and recorded on the Obstetric and Postpartum Characteristics Form.
    
  