
    
      Primary Dysmenorrhea (PD) is defined as pain in the lower abdomen, that occurs always during
      menses, in the absence of pelvic pathology, and lasts about 24-72 hours. It initiates during
      the first 24 months after menarche. Other symptoms like, emotional lability, anxiety, nausea,
      headache, and others may accompany the pain. It is considered the most common condition of
      reproductive age women, and is considered one of the most important causes for school or work
      absence in this population.

      Music has been proposed as a complementary therapy for the management of pain, and a large
      body of clinical evidence supports its use on clinical context. Additionally, functional
      imaging research has found that music activates areas related to pain modulation and
      perception like the periaqueductal gray matter. Moreover music seems to modify brain activity
      during pain perception. Music has been shown to be effective in relieving pain secondary to
      surgery, in cancer related pain, and other types of pain, but it has not been studied for
      primary dysmenorrhea.

      This randomized clinical trial was designed with the following objectives

      General Objective: To evaluate the efficacy of music listening, compared to a control group
      that rested in silence, in the painful experience secondary to primary dysmenorrhea in women
      of 18 years or older from the School of Medicine and Health Sciences at the Universidad del
      Rosario, Bogotá DC., Colombia.

      Specific Objectives:

        1. Description of demographic data, clinical, gynecological, and obstetric background from
           the study population.

        2. Description of pain management, secondary to PD, used by the study population.

        3. Evaluate the usual pain secondary to PD, as reported by the study participants through a
           Visual Analogue Scale (VAS)

        4. To explore if the acute perception of pain secondary to PD, as reported by participants
           using a VAS, before the intervention, is different between the study groups.

        5. To evaluate if the acute perception of pain secondary to PD, as reported by participants
           using a VAS, after the intervention, differs between those that listened to music and
           those that rested in silence.

        6. To explore if a difference in the reduction of pain, as reported by participants using a
           VAS, from the moment before to the moment after the intervention exists between those in
           the music group compared to those in the silence group.

        7. To evaluate if the acute perception of pain secondary to PD, as reported by participants
           using a VAS, 3-6 hours after the intervention, differs between those that listened to
           music and those that rested in silence.

        8. To evaluate if the anxiety secondary to PD, as reported by participants using a
           validated Spanish short version of the Zung scale, differs between groups, before and
           after the intervention.

        9. To evaluate if a difference in the reported requirements of analgesic drugs is different
           between the study groups after and 3-6 hours after the intervention.

       10. To evaluate if a difference in heart rate, systolic and diastolic blood pressure is
           identified between groups, using a previously calibrated digital sphyngmomanometer.

      The investigators hypothesized that listening to an instrumental song, unknown to the
      patient, will have a significant effect on pain relief. Additionally, investigators
      hypothesized that music listening will have a clinical effect big enough to also impact
      analgesic requirements and anxiety scores .

      Primary endpoint was pain reduction from the moment before to after the intervention. Pain
      reduction is the better way to evaluate analgesia efficacy and was the proper approach for
      these protocol's main objective, which was efficacy of music on pain relief secondary to
      primary dysmenorrhea.

      For achieving these aims and answering research questions, a randomized clinical trial was
      designed. As patients can't be blinded from listening or not to music, a single blinded
      approach was decided. Furthermore, methodology for recruitment was designed to blind patients
      from allocation until the day of the intervention and a speech was used to avoid patients to
      identify the primary endpoint. Additionally, patients were explained that two interventions
      were used, but it was not specified that silence group was the control group, to assure
      proper blinding and avoid further bias of results. Silence was decided as a control
      intervention as comparison with drug placebo may not be adequate due to differences in the
      types of intervention.

      To isolate the music effects the investigators decided on using a completely new and unknown
      song. The song was planned and composed exclusively for the research, so all patients
      allocated to the music group listened to the exact same musical piece.
    
  