
    
      Introduction

      Pre-clinical studies indicate that aerobic exercise training can enhance brain repair and
      reduce disability when initiated early (1-7 days) after stroke. However, in the real-world
      clinical setting, most acute stroke patients have a lower-limb disability which makes it
      difficult to engage in aerobic exercise. Power-assisted exercise bikes can detect lower-limb
      motor deficits and compensate with motorised assistance. The primary aim of this study is to
      assess the feasibility of implementing a 5-day power-assisted aerobic exercise training
      programme, initiated in the acute phase of ischaemic stroke (1-7 days post-stroke). Key
      feasibility outcomes related to the intervention include safety (<10 adverse events related
      to the intervention) and acceptability (>3/5 comfort scale). The secondary aim is to assess
      the feasibility of conducting a randomised controlled trial (RCT), with a focus on study
      procedures including recruitment (30 participants recruited within 18 months) and
      completeness of data (>80% of planned measurements recorded), and identification of a
      suitable primary outcome measure for a large-scale RCT.

      Recruitment

      People with acute ischaemic stroke admitted to the Royal Hallamshire Hospital (Sheffield,
      England) will be recruited to this study. After eligible individuals provide informed
      consent, a web-based permuted block randomisation procedure will be used to allocate
      participants into one of two study arms: 1) usual care; or 2) aerobic exercise training plus
      usual care. Participants will be stratified using the National Institutes of Health Stroke
      Scale (NIHSS): mild to moderate (0-15) and moderate to severe (>15) measured after
      reperfusion therapy or at a similar timepoint if not eligible for reperfusion therapy.
      Accounting for a predicted attrition rate of 20%, the target sample size is 30 participants.

      Intervention

      A bedside power-assisted exercise bike will be used to enable patients to undertake aerobic
      exercise whilst remaining in their bed, even if they have a lower-limb disability. The
      aerobic exercise programme will consist of five exercise sessions, each including a graduated
      warm-up, a conditioning phase, and a graduated cooldown. The conditioning phase will be an
      interval training format, with five-minute low- to moderate-intensity intervals interspersed
      with one-minute rest periods. The number of five-minute conditioning bouts will increase by
      one bout per session. The first session will contain two bouts (total = 10 mins), and the
      fifth session will contain six bouts (total = 30 mins). The rationale for this progressive
      design was developed with input from researchers, healthcare practitioners and people
      affected by stroke. Briefly, it was considered that starting with 30 minutes of aerobic
      exercise in the first session may be too difficult for some patients due to fatigue, whereas
      a gradual progression in exercise duration would be more tolerable. In addition, the interval
      training design was chosen to reduce exercise-induced fatigue, and thereby increase the total
      duration of aerobic exercise completed per session. Participants will cycle at a steady
      self-selected cadence, and exercise intensity will be guided by the Borg rating of perceived
      exertion (RPE) scale. During the conditioning intervals, participants will be asked to the
      cycle at an intensity equivalent to 'somewhat hard' (RPE:13/20). Heart rate, peripheral
      oxygen saturation, brachial blood pressure, and symptoms will be monitored throughout each
      exercise session. In the fifth exercise session, exercise-induced changes in respiratory
      gases, cerebral blood flow velocity and blood-borne brain-derived neurotrophic factor will be
      assessed. Established clinical exercise physiology guidelines will be followed with regards
      to exercise contraindications and termination criteria.

      Usual care

      Participants randomised to the control group will receive usual care according to guidance
      from the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence and the Royal College of
      Physicians. Briefly, it is recommended that patients undertake at least 45 minutes of each
      appropriate therapy per day (physiotherapy, occupational therapy and or speech and language
      therapy) for five days per week. Patients should be mobilised (out-of-bed sitting, standing
      or walking) within the first 48 hours of stroke onset, or if physically capable, as soon as
      possible post-stroke.

      Interviews

      Approximately seven days after enrolling in the study, a random sub-sample of participants
      (n=8 per study arm) will be interviewed to gain insight into participants' experiences
      participating in the study activities (e.g. intervention and or assessments). Repeat
      interviews will be conducted with the same individuals three months later with a focus on
      their post-hospital rehabilitation experiences. In addition, a small sample (n=3-5) of
      clinical staff members will be interviewed to understand their opinions about the study
      procedures and perceived effectiveness of the intervention.
    
  