
    
      Progressive systemic sclerosis (SSc), also known as scleroderma, is a disease of the body's
      connective tissue. It is characterized by fibrosis of the skin, or formation of scar-like
      tissue, resulting in progressively increased restriction of joint range of motion. Fibrosis
      of internal organs also occurs, leading to irregular heart rhythms, acid reflux, and
      respiratory problems. Unfortunately, no therapies have been developed to effectively treat
      SSc.

      The disease is believed to be an immunological disorder that affects T-helper type 2 (Th2)
      cells, which stimulate the production of antibodies and interleukin-4 (IL-4), a protein with
      profibrotic properties. T-helper type 1 (Th1) cells produce interferon-γ (IFN-γ), a protein
      that prevents fibroblast production of collagen, a primary component of the body's connective
      tissue. It is possible that shifting the disease's target from the Th2 cells to the Th1 cells
      may decrease collagen production, and thereby reduce fibrosis. Thalidomide is an immune
      modulatory drug that has been shown to stimulate production of Th1 cells. This study will
      evaluate the effectiveness of thalidomide in treating adults with SSc.

      Following screening procedures, participants in this 48-week, double-blind study will be
      randomly assigned to receive placebo or thalidomide at a dose of 50 mg/day. The thalidomide
      dose will be increased to 100 mg/day at Week 2, then to 200 mg/day at Week 4, and finally to
      300 mg/day at Week 6. Participants who experience dose intolerance will immediately switch to
      the previously tolerated dose. Inpatient hospital visits lasting 2 days will occur at the
      beginning of the study before starting thalidomide treatment and at Weeks 16 and 48.
      Assessments and procedures at these visits will include blood and urine collection, a
      physical exam, a chest X-ray, an electrocardiogram, a skin biopsy, and various
      questionnaires. Outpatient study visits will occur at Weeks 2, 4, 6, 8, 12, 18, 20 and then
      every 4 weeks until Week 44. Assessments will include measures of immune function, clinical
      disease, hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, and safety. Following the Week 48 inpatient
      visit, thalidomide will be tapered off over a 2-week period for all participants.
    
  