
    
      Hypothesis

        1. That it is safe to treat patients with choroidal neovascularisation (CNV) secondary to
           causes other than age related macular degeneration (AMD) with ranibizumab

        2. That treatment of CNV secondary to causes other than AMD with ranibizumab is effective

        3. That treatment of pigment epithelial detachments (PEDs) secondary to CNV from AMD with
           ranibizumab is safe

        4. That treatment of pigment epithelial detachments (PEDs) secondary to CNV from AMD with
           ranibizumab is effective

      Objectives

      The primary objectives of this study are:

        -  to investigate the medium term safety and efficacy of Ranibizumab in the treatment of
           CNV secondary to causes other than AMD (eg. angioid streaks, pseudoxanthoma elasticum,
           trauma, macular dystrophies, ocular inflammation/choroiditis and idiopathic causes).

        -  to investigate the medium term safety and efficacy of Ranibizumab in the treatment of
           PEDs that are secondary to CNV from AMD

      These groups of patients have to date been excluded from the multicentre trials demonstrating
      significant benefit of Ranibizumab in the treatment of AMD.

      Strategic goal

      To explore the safety and efficacy of intravitreal ranibizumab in patients with CNV due to
      causes other than AMD for which there is currently no approved or suitable treatment. Our
      goal is also to explore the safety and efficacy of intravitreal ranibizumab in patients where
      PEDs have been the primary manifestation of he CNVM secondary to AMD.

      To use a treatment protocol in which the frequency of intraocular injection is minimised.

      Background

      Although the stimuli that induce choroidal neovascularisation (CNV) are unknown, there is
      evidence suggesting that angiogenic factors such as vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)
      and basic fibroblast growth factor play a role in the pathogenesis of CNV. VEGF is a
      polypeptide secreted by the retinal pigmented epithelium that exerts a potent proliferative
      effect specifically on vascular endothelial cells. The presence of supernormal amounts of
      VEGF in surgically excised human CNV provides evidence that VEGF contributes to CNV lesion
      formation in AMD and also in CNV due to other causes. In CNV, the newly formed vessels have a
      tendency to leak blood and fluid, causing symptoms of scotoma and metamorphopsia. The new
      vessels are accompanied by proliferation of fibrous tissue. This complex of new vessels and
      fibrous tissue can destroy photoreceptors within 3 to 24 months. At the same time that CNV is
      destroying retinal tissue where it has formed, the lesion can continue to grow throughout the
      macula, resulting in progressive, severe and irreversible vision loss. Without treatment,
      most affected eyes will have poor central vision within 2 years.

      Ranibizumab is an anti-VEGF antibody fragment that blocks VEGF activity in patients with
      neovascular AMD. Its mechanism of action involves forming a complex with VEGF thereby
      preventing it from binding to its receptors. It is derived from a 149kDa parent murine
      monoclonal anti¬VEGF antibody and consists solely of a 48 kDa single antigen¬binding portion
      of that monoclonal antibody without the constant region; thus ranibizumab is approximately
      one-third the size of the full-length antibody. With this reduced size, ranibizumab is able
      to penetrate more efficiently through the many retinal cell layers following intravitreal
      injection as compared with a full¬length MAb (Mordenti et al, 1999).

      More than 900 patients have been treated with ranibizumabin clinicla trials to date. It is
      now registered for use in the USa and is available in Australia under a special access
      scheme. Results have shown that ranibizumab is safe and well tolerated. Common ocular side
      effects were mild to moderate and included conjunctival hemorrhage, eye pain and vitreous
      floaters. Serious ocular adverse events were uncommon (<1%) and included uveitis and
      endophthalmitis. No discernible patterns of change in circulating levels of VEGF have been
      observed. In multiple dose studies, the majority of patients experienced little or no change
      in intraocular pressure (lOP) after treatment. Efficacy in the treatment of CNV secondary to
      AMD has also been demonstrated in several studies. In a recent phase III study, approximately
      95% of patients treated with ranibizumab avoided moderate vision loss compared to 62% in the
      sham-controlled group while 71-75% maintained or improved vision compared to 29% in the
      sham-controlled group at 12 months. Vision improved by more than 15 letters in 25% of
      patients treated with 0.3 mg of ranibizumab and 34% of patients treated with 0.5 mg of
      ranibizumab compared to 5% of patients in the sham-controlled group. This treatment benefit
      observed at 12 months was maintained out to 24 months.

      Subretinal choroidal neovascularisation (CNV) can occur due to other conditions other than
      AMD such as pseudoxanthoma elasticum, trauma, macular dystrophies and choroiditis
      (inflammation of the choroid). Often, patients with CNV due to conditions other than AMD such
      as those mentioned are relatively young compared to those without AMD, and have a much
      greater chance of retaining good vision if the CNV can be controlled. Currently, the only
      treatments available for these patient groups are photodynamic therapy (PDT) with Visudyne or
      conventional laser therapy. Neither of these treatments however, offer much hope of improving
      vision. Our experience of using PDT with Visudyne in these individuals is that, relative to
      those patients with AMD, these non AMD treatments need far fewer treatments and that their
      final visual acuity is much greater. Given that CNV secondary to other causes does respond to
      PDT, we extrapolate that these CNV will respond to the new generation of anti-vascular
      endothelial growth factor (VEGF) agents such as Ranibizumab that have been shown to be
      effective in the treatment of CNV secondary to AMD.

      To date, all of the multicentre trials with ranibizumab have excluded these non AMD patients
      thus limiting their access to the new generation of intravitreal anti - VEGF treatments.

      CNV secondary to AMD can result in pigment epithelial detachments (PEDs) that can lead to the
      same devastating loss of vision. PEDs have always been difficult to treat, often because they
      rip as a result of any treatment such as PDT or laser. To date there is no proven treatment
      for this relatively common presentation of CNV secondary to AMD. They have always been
      excluded from the multi-centred international studies with Ranibizumab because the active
      area of CNV did not make up more than 50% of the lesion. This is because the pigment
      epithelial detachment is considered part of the lesion but is not considered an active part
      of the lesion. As such very little information is known about the potential for effective
      treatment with the new generation of anti VEGF drugs.

      There have been case reports of resolution of PEDs and improvement of vision after treatment
      with Bevacizumab (derived from the same parent molecule as ranibizumab) that has been used in
      an off label setting for the treatment of wet AMD. We believe that these PEDs will similarly
      respond to treatment with ranibizumab.
    
  