
    
      Problem: Today there is no clinically available treatment for peanut allergy. Oral
      Immunotherapy (OIT) studies have shown promising results, particularly in younger children
      (<4 years).

      Intervention: Peanut OIT in children aged >1 and <4 years with peanut allergy (clinical
      symptoms at peanut challenge and IgE >0.1 kU /l to peanut and/or Ara h 2).

      Comparison: Three groups are compared. Peanut allergic children are randomized 2:1 to group 1
      (active OIT) or group 2 (control). Group 3 consists of age-matched healthy controls:

      Group 1; Children with peanut allergy receiving peanut OIT, slow up-dosing, 40-60 weeks,
      until the maintenance dose 286 mg peanut protein. Three years' treatment.

      Group 2; Age-matched children with peanut allergy who do not undergo OIT peanut. Peanut
      challenge one and three years after inclusion.

      Group 3; Healthy, non-allergic, age-matched children. No challenges are performed in this
      group.

      Inclusion of study subjects: A review of samples sent to the Karolinska University Laboratory
      for IgE-ab responses to peanut/Ara h 2 for children in the Stockholm area aged 1-<4 years is
      used for identification of potential participants to whom a letter is sent with information
      about the study. The families are randomized 2:1 to OIT or control group, group 1 or group 2.
      Children without allergies, healthy Controls (group 3), will be identified through the day
      surgery at Astrid Lindgren's Children's Hospital.

      Outcomes: The primary outcome is defined as sustained unresponsiveness to 775 mg peanut
      protein (cumulative dose) at an open oral peanut challenge 4 weeks after 3 years of OIT was
      stopped (group 1 and 2).

      Secondary outcomes are adverse events among peanut allergic children with/without OIT
      treatment (group 1 and 2), and changes in quality of life parameters and immunological
      markers (group, 1, 2, 3).
    
  