
    
      Many patients in intensive care units (ICU's) require sedation and analgesia to tolerate
      mechanical ventilation and other ICU procedures. Commonly used GABA-ergic anaesthetics like
      propofol, midazolam and morphine have potential adverse effects that may increase morbidity,
      prolong ICU stay and provoke delirium. Recent studies have shown that sedation with
      alpha-2-adrenergic agonists may lead to a reduction of the total amount of gamma-aminobutyric
      acid (GABA) -ergic anaesthetics and reduction of delirium1In clinical practice the
      alpha-2-adrenergic agent clonidine is widely used off label as an add-on sedative in
      mechanically ventilated patients who suffer from delirium, but there are no large studies
      proving that this therapy is effective and safe. Limited information exists on the
      pharmacokinetics of iv clonidine, especially in ICU patients. Besides, dosing regimens of
      clonidine differ widely among ICU's in the Netherlands, and in the literature.

      The sample size required for pharmacokinetic modelling with an acceptable level of precision
      is inversely related to the number of blood samplings taken from each individual. Population
      pharmacokinetic experiments that have been published have generally used 50 or more subjects.
      However, in the investigators study a relatively large number of blood samples are taken (>10
      per subject when the protocol is completed, see section 6.3). THe investigators estimate that
      sufficient precision can be obtained with a sample size of 24 subjects, generating an
      estimated 240 to 360 blood samples.

      In a recent publication of a computer simulated population pharmacokinetics of an absorption
      model using a design that involved 6 samplings per subject, it was estimated that a
      two-compartment first-order model would need 50 subjects (i.e. 300 blood samplings) to obtain
      a model with 50% precision and a power of 0.8.

      The investigators 24 subjects will be treated with 3 different doses of clonidine (600, 1200
      and 1800 µg/day), that is 8 per treatment arm.

      On top of this, 8 patients receiving no clonidine will serve as a reference group, in order
      to interpret hemodynamic and safety data, and to illustrate dose-response relationships.
    
  