
    
      This is a clinical protocol, randomized, crossover, double-blind (patient and data analyst)
      will be held. The study protocol is registered in clinicalTrials.gov - NCT02398344.

      Methods

      Individuals with AVE will be recruited from the physical therapy clinics of the Universidade
      Nove de Julho - Sao Paulo, Brazil. The participants will be recruited and selected based on
      the following eligibility criteria:

      Sample size Sample of 20 the participants (05 participants in each level of motor impairment
      - mild, moderate, marked and severe) will taken. This value will assumed, based on studies of
      Okano et al.²⁰ evaluating HRV after tDCS in 10 athletes and Vandermeeren et al.²⁶ that
      evaluated the effect of tDCS over the cardiorespiratory system in 30 healthy individuals.

      As the primary outcome will considered the heart rate variability, validated for the
      population of adults with hemiparesis after a stroke and a variable considered secondary
      outcome, by correlating the functional capacity with the severity of the stroke, the 6-minute
      walk test, considering the cardiorespiratory fitness and the patient's mobility before and
      after the application of tDCS and correlate whether there are differences on the immediate
      effect of tDCS applied in both cerebral hemispheres (right and left).

      Procedures Initially, participants will be screened at University Nine July physical therapy
      clinics at São Paulo. Individuals who meet the eligibility criteria will be invited to
      participate in the study, being included after agreement by signing the Instrument of
      Consent.

      The following description of the evaluation procedures:

      Identification form: After screening, an identification sheet of the selected volunteers will
      be filled in, containing the following information: name, date of birth, age (years and
      months), topographic diagnosis of stroke, classification of the type of stroke (hemorrhagic
      or ischemic), weight (kg), height (cm), blood pressure (BP), classification of functional
      severity according to Fulg Meyer ²⁷ (Mild, Moderate, marked and severe) time since injury,
      area of committed member, carried out therapies and how long, muscle strength of the paretic
      body side according to Kendall et al. ²⁸ and Ashworth ²⁹.

      Functional Mobility Scale: This scale will be used for screening, in order to assess how the
      individual moves in the environment to achieve their interaction in everyday life with family
      and the social environment. The FMS provides scores in three different lengths (5m, 50m and
      500m), relating to mobility at home, school and community. The classification is performed
      according to the patients needs in assistance to movement and according to the distance ²⁵.
      The included patient should wander at least 50 m.

      All data will be recorded on a card and then the patients will informed about the
      experimental procedures, including previous recommendations to each test: have a light meal
      in the days of the tests; abstain from caffeine and alcohol intake and / or smoking, avoid
      moderate or excessive effort the day before and on test day, have a good night's sleep and
      present ourself in comfortable clothes and shoes that allow good mobility.

      Pulmonary function tests: spirometry evaluation EasyOne Plus Diagnostic Sprometry System® in
      order to identify the presence of lung function changes measured by forced expiratory volume
      in the first second (FEV1), forced vital capacity (FVC), peak flow expiratory (PEF) and FEV1
      / FVC ratio, according to the criteria of the American Thoracic Society ³⁰. Spirometric
      indices will be presented in absolute terms and as a percentage of the reference values.
      Volunteers must complete at least three acceptable and reproducible forced expiratory
      maneuvers.

      Respiratory muscle strength: Respiratory muscle strength will be obtained through maximal
      inspiratory pressure (MIP) and maximal expiratory pressure (MEP), which measures the
      inspiratory and expiratory muscle strength, respectively, and will be obtained by the method
      of Black & Hyatt³¹. In order to accomplish these steps, it uses a scaled manometer in cm H2O,
      with an operating range of ± 300 cmH2O adapter equipped with nozzles and containing a safety
      valve through a bore, 2mm in diameter, in order to prevent increased pressure in the oral
      cavity generated exclusively by facial²⁴ muscle contraction. The MIP is obtained by a maximal
      inhalation maneuver starting from a maximum expiration and MEP obtained by a maximum
      exhalation maneuver starting from maximum inspiration. Each maneuver will be maintained for a
      minimum of two to three seconds. The MIP and MEP performed three times for each patient, and,
      for analysis, will count the highest value obtained ³².

      FulgMeyer scale (EFM) - The motor impairment assessment instruments measure the level of
      motor recovery of hemiplegic patients, highlighting the motor test procedure in Hemiplegia.
      The proposed measures in the FSM are based on neurological examination and sensory-motor
      activity of upper and lower limbs in order to identify selective and synergistic activity
      patterns of patients who suffered strokes. This scale was constructed following the
      hypothesis that restoration of motor function in hemiplegic patients follow a defined course.
      It is represented by a three-point ordinal scale that is applied in every item: 0- can not be
      performed, partially performed 1- and 2 - fully realized. The total of this scale is 100
      points for normal motor function, where the maximum score for the upper end is 66 and the
      lower 34. The motor evaluation includes measurement of motion, coordination and reflex
      activity of shoulder, elbow, wrist, hand, hip, knee and ankle determining a score according
      to the motor impairment level, where less than 50 points indicates a severe motor impairment;
      85-95 moderate; 50-84 remarkable and 96-99 light ²⁷.

      Analysis of heart rate variability (HRV):

      The Heart rate variability will be analyzed in four stages:

        1. Resting 01: The heart rate (HR) is captured by means of a heart rate monitor (RS800 CX)
           with online data transmitted to a computer, over a period of 10 minutes of rest.
           Individuals will be instructed to remain recumbent for 10 minutes, avoiding any activity
           and without sleep, after this examination the patient will remain in the sitting
           position posture for over 10 minutes following the same guidelines given above.

        2. In exercise: After the initial 20 minutes of rest, the patient will start the six-minute
           walk test. The FC will be collected through the same heart rate monitor throughout the
           walk test, as well as in post exercise recovery (for 2minutes). In this recovery the
           patient will remain in the sitting position, and will be instructed to not verbalize and
           not move during the evaluation.

        3. Electrical stimulation by direct current (Home): After the walk (6MWT) and the recovery
           of hemodynamic parameters to baseline parameters, stimulation with tDCS in sitting
           position posture starts, and during stimulation HR will be collected.

        4. 6 minute walk test 02: After finishing the tDCS, the patient should again perform the
           6MWT through the same guidelines of the American Thoracic Society ³⁰, assessing the FC.

      After the test there will be given a continuity of HRV analysis for 2 minutes with the
      patient in the sitting position, without verbalizing and without moving , in order to analyze
      the behavior of the autonomic nervous system.

      6-minute walk test - a reliable measure for assessing physical fitness and functional
      mobility ³⁰. The test quantifies in meters the distance traveled by the individual in six
      minutes. It is performed in accordance with the guidelines established by the American
      Thoracic Society ³⁰.

      During the walk test the patient will be told to stop if he feels bad, there will always be a
      researcher on the side to avoid possible falls during the test run and will be monitored by
      the oximeter (More Fitness MF-417®).

      2.5.1. Stimulation procedures transcranial direct current The transcranial electrical
      stimulation DC (tDCS) will be performed with a tag device 1 CH Tct Research tDCS Simulator
      model 101® by means of two surface sponge electrodes , (non-metallic) 5-7 cm2 in humidified
      saline, with a 2mA current.

      Individuals will be submitted to four experimental conditions, and the order distributed by
      randomization through manila envelopes.

        1. tDCS anode on the left temporal cortex (T3) and cathode on the contralateral
           supraorbital region;

        2. tDCS sham on left temporal cortex (T3) and cathode on the above-orbitalcontralateral
           region;

        3. tDCS anode on the right temporal cortex (T4) and cathode on the contralateral
           supraorbital region;

        4. tDCS sham on right temporal cortex (T4) and cathode on the contralateral supra orbital
           region.

      Protocol 1 and 2: The anode electrode will be positioned on the left temporal cortex (T3),
      located 40% of the distance from the left side of Cz point following the international 10-20
      system electroencephalogram and the cathode electrode on the region supra orbital
      contralateral to the anode.

      Protocol 3 and 4: The anode electrode will be positioned on the right temporal cortex (T4)
      and cathode positioned on the left supraorbital region.

      Active stimulation application time or placebo 20 minutes. In all sham stimulation, electrode
      placement procedures will also be performed like the procedures with anodic tDCS, the left
      and right temporal cortex, however, the stimulator is turned on for 30 seconds only, and the
      patient will be told that he will feel a slight initial tingling, but it will reduce,
      disappear or remain during the 20 minutes of application. Thus, individuals will feel it
      initially, but receive no stimulation in the remaining time. This procedure is a valid form
      of control in challenge studies transcranial direct current ³³. The equipment itself has a
      sham configuration.

      According to Okano et al. ²⁰, before receiving any of the experimental conditions
      (transcranial direct-current stimulation (anodic or sham), individuals must rest for a period
      of 10 minutes (sitting comfortably), so that the cardio respiratory variables return to
      baseline measurements.

      The two study conditions (anodic stimulation and sham) will be performed with an interval of
      48 hours ³⁴ and always in the same period of the day.

      Protective measures to subjects Patients will be exposed to minimal risk during the search,
      trying to be controlled at all times by the researcher, who will accompany and monitor all
      cardiorespiratory changes, giving support if the patient has imbalance or discomfort, and
      interrupting the action immediately if necessary.
    
  