
    
      Electrophysiological methods, including event-related potential and functional connectivity
      approaches, have potential to clarify mechanisms of substance use treatment response and
      characterize individual differences therein. Veterans are disproportionately affected by
      disorders of addiction, of which cocaine use disorder (CUD) is particularly problematic due
      to high relapse rates and the absence of approved pharmacotherapy options. Behavioral
      interventions for CUD have therefore become an important focus and Contingency Management
      (CM) has emerged as the best-supported approach. CM involves reinforcing cocaine abstinence
      (established through objective testing) with reliable, short-term reward, such as chances to
      win prizes (i.e., Prize-Based CM or PBCM). Given robust empirical support, nationwide
      dissemination of PBCM has been supported by a VHA initiative since 2011. However, PBCM
      response rates are variable and long-term benefits are limited - problems magnified by the
      cost of implementation with respect to staffing and prizes. Measurement-based approaches to
      PBCM implementation have promise to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of CM
      programming but have not yet been investigated within the VA or considered in relation to
      promising neuromarkers. Importantly, two versions of PBCM are already utilized at VA sites
      and may differentially benefit individuals with distinct neurocognitive profiles.
      Specifically, VA PBCM programs employ either abstract (voucher prize) or concrete (tangible
      prize) incentives, the latter of which may more effectively incentivize abstinence in
      Veterans with poor future-oriented thinking and planning ability. While selection between
      existing PBCM variants currently reflects practical considerations only, pretreatment
      neurocognitive functioning could meaningfully and realistically inform clinical
      decision-making in this regard.

      This project aims to advance measurement-based implementation of CM by testing a novel
      neurocognitive model with immediate implications for the use of abstract versus concrete PBCM
      incentives within the VA. Specifically, the future-minded decision-making (FMDM) model posits
      that CM scaffolds future-oriented goal representation and self-control to support abstinence
      during in the moment use-related decision-making. For individuals with greater FMDM
      impairment, concrete, readily-accessible incentives may be more effective than abstract
      voucher-based rewards (which require future-oriented thinking and planning to acquire value).
      To test this model, neurocognitive substrates of FMDM will be examined as predictors of
      differential treatment response in voucher (VoucherPBCM) versus tangible prize (TangiblePBCM)
      versions of PBCM. Treatment-related change in neural and cognitive-behavioral correlates of
      FMDM will also be evaluated in PBCM relative to treatment-as-usual (TAU) care. Veterans with
      CUD will be allocated to VoucherPBCM, TangiblePBCM, or TAU conditions and followed for a
      12-week treatment interval. Pre- and post-treatment electroencephalography (EEG) and
      cognitive-behavioral assessments will be used to measure FMDM-related constructs (working
      memory, self-control, future-oriented decision-making, future reward representation) and
      related neuromarkers. These measures will be investigated as predictors of differential
      treatment response in VoucherPBCM versus TangiblePBCM, as well as maintenance of gains during
      a post-treatment follow-up period. Change in FMDM-related neural and cognitive measures over
      the course of treatment will also be evaluated for evidence of neuroadaptation (e.g., changes
      in functional connectivity) and enhancement of FMDM function through PBCM. Taken together,
      results of the current research project will represent a first step toward precision
      implementation of CM within the VA.
    
  