
    
      This phase 4 study is designed to assess the need for ongoing 2 mg intravitreal aflibercept
      injections (IAI) for subjects who completed the 2-year PANORAMA (VGFTe-OD-1411) trial for the
      management of diabetic retinopathy (DR). Sites will be considered for VOYAGE if they have 4
      or more subjects from PANORAMA able to participate.

      Relevant data from all participating subjects will be collected and reported retrospectively
      for the period between PANORAMA study exit and VOYAGE study enrollment.

      For the prospective portion of the study, eyes will be assigned to 1 of 2 groups, eyes
      without panretinal photocoagulation (PRP) and eyes with PRP.

      Group 1: Subjects with study eyes without PRP will be seen every 16 weeks (Q16W) and treated
      with IAI on a flexible treatment regimen based on their DRSS level. An injection will be
      given at each 16-week visit when the DRSS level is 47 or worse. If the DRSS level is better
      than 47, for example level 43 or 35, the study eye will not be treated. DRSS level will be
      determined by the investigator, based on ophthalmic exam and fundus photography (FP) compared
      to prior imaging when available.

      Every 8 week visits can be performed under specific circumstances:

        -  If a subject has a 2-step DRSS level worsening compared to the last protocol-scheduled
           16-week visit (for example the week-16 or week-32 visit) and/or the DRSS level is 53 or
           worse OR

        -  If a subject has active proliferative DR (PDR)

      Under both of these circumstances, IAI will be administered as scheduled and the subject can
      be seen and treated every 8 weeks (Q8W) with IAI. Under both of these circumstances, Q8W
      visits and Q8W IAI treatments can be continued until there is no active PDR and the DRSS
      improves to the level observed at the visit before the subject began being seen at 8-week
      intervals.

      Group 2: Subjects with study eyes with PRP will be seen Q16W and treated with IAI on a
      flexible treatment regimen based on activity of the neovascular disease process as assessed
      by the treating investigator based on ophthalmic exam and/or FP compared to prior imaging
      when available. If the neovascular disease is inactive, no treatment will be given. If the
      neovascular disease is active and stable (not new or worse), the subject will be treated with
      intravitreal (IVT) IAI at the Q16W interval. If new or worsening neovascular disease
      develops, subjects may be seen and treated Q8W until the neovascular disease is stable or
      inactive at which time the interval between visits will increase to 16 weeks.

      Subjects in both groups will be evaluated for efficacy, using best corrected visual acuity
      (BCVA) using the 4-meter ETDRS protocol with normal-luminance, Humphrey Visual Field (HVF),
      National Eye Institute (NEI) Visual Function Questionnaire (VFQ) 25, spectral domain optical
      coherence tomography (SD-OCT), optical coherence tomography angiography (OCT-A), FP, and
      fluorescein angiography (FA), and for ocular and systemic safety (including ophthalmic exams
      and laboratory assessments) through week 112.

      Subjects who develop new or worsening PDR, including anterior segment neovascularization
      (ASNV), or center-involved DME may qualify for rescue treatment.
    
  