
    
      Patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) have a high morbidity and mortality from
      cardiovascular disease (CVD). Both conditions are common in older patients. Reduced exercise
      capacity predicts poorer outcomes in patients with CVD2 and CKD. Although exercise tolerance
      is impaired in CKD4 limited improvement in these patients is possible. A critical gap in
      knowledge is how to optimize exercise capacity in these patients to improve quality and
      possibly length of life.

      In CKD, both structure and function of skeletal muscle are deranged. In addition, energy
      production by mitochondria which falls with age, and various diseases is also reduced in CKD.
      Recent studies from our group have reported that differences in mitochondrial function are
      associated with variances in physical ability, exercise capacity, and gait speed.

      In preliminary data, patients entering our Cardiac Rehabilitation (CR) with Stage III CKD
      [glomerular filtration rate (GFR) of <60 ml/min/1.73 m2] had a decreased improvement in
      exercise capacity compared to those with a normal GFR (Δ1.7 vs 2.7 Metabolic Equivalents of
      Exercise or METs, p<0.05) despite the same degree of adherence. Exercise capacity after CR in
      patients with a reduced GFR was greater in n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (n-3 PUFA) users
      than in non-users [Δ MET 2.0 (1.4-2.5) vs 1.4 (1.1-1.7), p<0.05], suggesting that n-3 PUFA
      with exercise may be better than exercise alone. With beneficial clinical effects in CKD, n-3
      PUFA are now being extensively investigated in the dialysis population. In other patient
      populations, including those with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and dilated
      cardiomyopathy daily ingestion/use of n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (n-3 PUFA) or fish oil
      improves exercise capacity. This intervention is safe, simple and well-tolerated. Multiple
      lines of evidence suggest muscle and mitochondrial function improve with exercise and n-3
      PUFA supplementation.Such treatment may improve mitochondrial bioenergetics by various
      mechanisms including up-regulation of mitochondrial biogenesis and genes involved in
      mitochondrial fatty acid oxidation, as well as increase in mitochondrial content, and
      function. Flow mediated vasodilation is impaired in CKD. It too may be improved by n-3 PUFA
      supplementation which could be an alternative mechanism for improved oxygen delivery to
      muscle in older patients with CAD and CKD as in the non-CKD population. A further possible
      benefit of n-3 PUFA is suppression of inflammation.

      Current practice, however, is to enter patients with CAD and CKD into standard CR without
      prescription of n-3 PUFA.

      Experimental and epidemiological studies indicate that acidemia and metabolic acidosis are
      associated with the development and progression of CKD and with increased mortality in these
      patients. Metabolic acidosis associated with CKD also contributes to skeletal muscle atrophy
      by activation of the ubiquitin-proteasome axis. Even slight correction of acidosis can
      improve the anabolic state of muscle by downregulation of the ubiquitin-proteasome system.
      Clinically, bicarbonate supplementation may improve muscle function. This intervention is
      also safe, simple and well-tolerated.

      Given that muscular function is abnormal in CKD and that both n-3 PUFA and bicarbonate
      supplementation have been shown to improve muscular function and exercise capacity, it is our
      purpose in this investigation to study the effects of these substances on exercise capacity
      in patients with CAD and CKD.

      The investigators propose a double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized, 2x2 factorial
      design, pilot study of n-3 PUFA and/or oral bicarbonate use in older (age >60 years) CAD
      patients with concomitant CKD enrolling in a standard, 3-month CR program. The investigators
      will assess the effects of this intervention on exercise capacity, markers of inflammation
      and serum bicarbonate concentration. The investigator's goal is to obtain 8 evaluable
      patients per group. Exercise capacity will be measured by Oxygen (VO2) peak. Response to
      bicarbonate will be monitored by serum bicarbonate concentration. Since CKD may adversely
      affect muscle function both by acidosis and/or mitochondrial function, the investigator's
      propose that these may be mechanisms for the poorer exercise capacity in these patients. The
      investigator's overarching hypothesis is that exercise capacity response to CR in older
      patients with CKD may be modifiable by concomitant n-3 PUFA and/or bicarbonate use to
      suppress acidosis.
    
  