
    
      The study will be conducted as a single center Phase I/II study to evaluate the safety of
      administering PLERIXAFOR as part of a myeloablative preparative regimen (Institutional
      Protocol: FBT(400) - FLUDARABINE 50mg/m2/d x 4 days, BUSULFAN 3.2mg/kg/day x 4 days, TBI
      400cGy in 2 fractions) for stem cell transplant recipients with Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML)
      and to determine whether or not residual leukemic stem cells can be mobilized. Three patients
      will be enrolled into each of 4 sequential cohorts. Patients in the first cohort will receive
      1 dose (240mcg/kg SC) of PLERIXAFOR ( MOZOBIL, formerly known as AMD3100) prior to
      administration of the first dose of FLUDARABINE and BUSULFAN It is planned to escalate the
      number of PLERIXAFOR doses in the subsequent cohorts to 2. 3. and 4 to be administered before
      the respective 2nd, 3rd, and 4th doses of chemotherapy. As primary endpoint the study will
      establish the toxicity of combined administration of PLERIXAFOR and the preparative regimen
      at each dose level. Secondary endpoints will include quantification of CXCR4 positive cells
      and candidates for leukemic disease propagating cells before and after administration of
      PLERIXAFOR. Mobilized cells will be examined for the ability to undergo apoptosis. Clinical
      parameters including SAE, OS and LFS are part of the evaluation.

      The comparison of cell populations in peripheral blood before and after PLERIXAFOR may
      facilitate a better definition of minimal residual disease in patients deemed morphologically
      in a complete remission. The assessment after completion of the preparative regimen will
      provide a measurement of minimal residual disease prior to the transplant. The assessment of
      residual leukemic cells with respect to apoptosis will define their responsiveness to the
      administration of FLUDARABINE and BUSULFAN. The obtained information will facilitate
      development of a new platform to optimize preparation of patients for a transplant. Eg.
      Insufficient mobilization of leukemic cells may be addressed in future studies by combining
      mobilization strategies. Similarly, if cells are shown to be apoptosis resistant one may be
      able to include apoptosis inducing small molecules.
    
  