
    
      X-linked immunodeficiency magnesium defect, Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection and neoplasia
      (XMEN) syndrome is a primary immunodeficiency caused by the loss of expression of the
      magnesium transporter 1 (MAGT1). This syndrome is associated with CD4 lymphopenia, chronic
      EBV infection in most patients, and EBV-related lymphoproliferative disorders. The loss of
      MAGT1 leads to impaired T cell activation and decreased expression of the activator receptor,
      NKG2D on natural killer (NK) cells and CD8 T cells, leading to decreased EBV-specific
      cytolytic function of these cells. Results of previous studies suggest that magnesium
      supplementation may be a viable therapeutic option for patients with XMEN.

      The proposed study has 2 parts, and patients will be divided into 2 cohorts. Patients in
      cohort 1 (high EBV group) will have baseline blood EBV viral load greater than or equal to
      5,000 copies/mL or EBV log greater than or equal to 3.7 IU/mL. Patients in cohort 2 (low/no
      EBV group) will have baseline blood EBV viral load <5,000 copies/mL or EBV log <3.7 IU/mL.
      Part I is a randomized, double-blind, lacebocontrolled, crossover study to evaluate the
      safety and efficacy of oral magnesium L-threonate in patients with XMEN syndrome. Within each
      cohort, patients will be randomized to receive escalating doses of either placebo or oral
      magnesium L-threonate for 12 weeks. Patients will then receive the crossover treatment
      (magnesium or placebo) for an additional 12 weeks. For patients who experience a 0.5-log
      decrease in the number of EBV-infected B cells (cohort 1) or a greater than or equal to
      2-fold increase in NKG2D receptor expression on CD8 T cells (cohort 2) with oral magnesium as
      compared to placebo, the study will be complete. Patients who do not meet this efficacy
      outcome will undergo a 2-week washout period and proceed to Part II, an openlabel,
      non-randomized evaluation of intravenous magnesium sulfate (MgSO4) followed by oral magnesium
      L-threonate. These patients will be hospitalized to receive 3 days of intravenous MgSO4 in 3
      daily doses totaling 30 mg/kg/day. They will then restart escalating doses of oral magnesium
      L-threonate and continue for the remaining 24 weeks of Part II. If conducted, Part II will
      allow for secondary analyses to compare different durations of magnesium supplementation.
    
  