
    
      Spinocerebellar ataxia types 1 (SCA1) and 3 (SCA3) are rare, inherited neurodegenerative
      disorders that relentlessly progress to total disability and death. SCA1 is the fastest
      progressing SCA while SCA3 is the most common SCA in US and Europe. Expanded (CAG)n repeats
      encoding polyglutamines (polyQ) in the respective genes, Ataxin 1 (ATXN1) and Ataxin 3
      (ATXN3), cause SCA1 and SCA3. Disease-modifying therapies that target the pathway upstream of
      the complex pathogenic cascade will offer ultimate treatment. Scientific premise and
      preclinical animal data strongly support MSK1 inhibitors for SCA1, citalopram for SCA3, and
      nucleotide-based gene silencing for both SCAs as drugs to be examined in clinical trials in
      five years. However, the challenge that investigators face in current clinical trial
      readiness for such disease-modifying therapies is that the modest effect size of candidate
      drugs as measured by the Scale for the Assessment and Rating of Ataxia (SARA; the most robust
      and well-validated clinical outcome assessment measure) requires large cohorts of study
      subjects to achieve sufficient statistical power. To accomplish the goal of establishing
      clinical trial readiness, the investigators propose to launch an international, multi-site
      effort focusing on premanifest mutation carriers and patients in an early disease stage, who
      are likely responders to the disease-modifying interventions prior to irreversible brain
      damage. Based on the investigators' studies funded by NIH and the National Ataxia Foundation
      (NAF), the US ataxia consortium has developed an unprecedented opportunity for tight
      collaborations with the European Ataxia Study Group to jointly address this challenge and
      establish clinical trial readiness for SCA1 and SCA3. To achieve this goal, the investigators
      propose the following specific aims:

      Aim 1. Establish the world's largest cohorts of premanifest/early SCA1 and SCA3 by combining
      cohorts, clinical outcome assessment data and biofluid samples (blood, cerebrospinal fluid)
      from US and Europe Aim 2. Validate MR morphological, biochemical and functional biomarkers in
      premanifest and early SCA1 and SCA3 Aim 3. Adapt recent developments on statistical design
      and analysis of small population trials to SCAs.
    
  