
    
      The total duration of the intervention phase is estimated to be 4 months. During this time,
      the investigators will collaborate with the healthcare workers (HCWs) at each study site and
      the district pharmacist.

      The study team will visit each site separately and administer the training modules on-site
      during the first month of the research until all of the modules have been completed for all
      of the Labor and Delivery (L&D) staff, which usually consist of about 2-3 people. A quiz will
      be administered before and after the training session to assess change in knowledge after the
      training.

      SMS reminders will be sent every weekday to promote best infection control practices in the
      L&D. Posters will also be posted for visual reminders of best practices around the health
      center.

      After the initial training, each health centers will be visited twice a month by a study team
      member to assess alcohol rubs (AHR) stock, gather feedback and comments, and evaluate
      postpartum maternal and neonatal infectious complications and hospital outcomes. Infection
      and outcome data will be shared with each site monthly. About 2 months after initial
      training, a refresher education and training course will be held at each study site. A quiz
      will be administered before and after the refresher course to assess knowledge.

      The investigators will collaborate with the district pharmacy for production and distribution
      of AHR. The pharmacists will receive training on how to combine and mix the hand rub
      components per WHO guidelines, and test batches will be made prior to distribution to study
      sites to ensure familiarity of the pharmacy staff with its production. Quality control with
      an alcoholmeter will be performed with the alcohol ingredient and with the finished product,
      as per World Health Organization (WHO) recommendation. Afterwards, the head pharmacist will
      be consulted biweekly by study team member to document AHR production, budget, distribution,
      and any other issues.

      Endline data collection will occur 12 weeks after initiation of intervention implementation.
      During data collection period, a study team member will meet with a L&D floor administrator
      in a private setting at a time convenient to the administrator to go through the
      questionnaire portion of the ICAT together.

      Eligible pregnant women will primarily be recruited and consented outside the facility in the
      waiting area where they congregate prior to admission for delivery. Women who are consented
      will be given a "consent card" in addition to a copy of the consent form. This card will
      state that they have previously consented to the study, and can then be presented once they
      are admitted for delivery. A member of the research team will accompany the primary care
      provider during their provision of care and patient contact during first, second, and third
      stages of labor to observe, assess and document infection control behaviors and practices by
      the providers, using the ICAT.

      A retrospective review of the logbook will be done to assess for rates of postpartum maternal
      and neonatal infectious complication and outcomes for participants.

      During the endline data collection, an anonymous, self-administered survey will be
      administered to the study site HCWs to assess the knowledge, attitudes and practices of the
      study site HCWs towards the implemented study interventions.
    
  