
    
      INTRODUCTION High levels of psychiatric co-morbidity have been found with adults who receive
      a diagnosis of Autistic Spectrum Disorder (ASD); including stress, anxiety, depression and
      OCD.

      Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT) is a psychotherapeutic approach and is referred to as
      a "third wave" CBT. There have been over one hundred randomized control trials (RCTs)
      supporting the efficacy of ACT for different types of distress and severity. Researchers
      conducted an ACT based group, for students with ASD; the results indicated that levels of
      stress, hyperactivity and emotional distress were reduced in the treatment group, compared to
      classes as unusual. Results were maintained or improved at a two month follow up. However,
      little is still known about the efficacy of ACT for adults with ASD who experience.

      This research will indicate if guided ACT self-help facilitates increases psychological
      flexibility for adults with ASD, which is known to be less developed in people with ASD.
      Psychological flexibility mediates the experience of psychological distress, for example
      depression, anxiety and stress, which are known to be highly prevalent in this population.
      Currently, there are mixed results in relation to effectiveness of CBT; very few researchers
      have measured the effectiveness of ACT to increase psychological flexibility in an adult ASD
      population and determine if this mediates a reduction in psychological distress.

      PURPOSE OF THE STUDY This research will add to the knowledge about how ACT guided self-help
      can be adapted for adults with ASD. It will give results on how effective ACT guided
      self-help is in supporting adults with ASD, to increase psychological flexibility and reduce
      psychological distress. If guided ACT self-help intervention is effective; this will help
      increase access and availability of psychological intervention for people with ASD,
      specifically in relation to associated difficulties in social communication and interaction.

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE To examine whether an ACT bibliotherapy intervention, for adults with a
      diagnosis of ASD who experience psychological distress, increases psychological flexibility.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVE(S) To examine whether psychological flexibility mediates changes in;
      personally-identified therapeutic goals, increasing psychological wellbeing and decreasing
      anxiety, stress and depression.

      STUDY DESIGN This is a repeated measures design, using a single case experimental design
      (SCED). Each participant with be asked to complete weekly measures and shortened measure
      every three days, please see the outcome measures section for more details of the measures
      and timeframes. Weekly data collection will last for approximately 10 weeks (baseline and
      intervention phase), with a two week and four week follow-up.

      DATA ANALYSIS SCED data will be predominantly analysed using visual analysis. Data will be
      plotted onto graphs to analyse the direction of the data (trend), the "magnitude" (level) and
      the variability of the data (stability). To find out if change from pre and post scores is
      reliable, a Reliable Change Index (RCI) will be conducted. To determine if any change is
      clinically significant, a Clinically Significant Criterion (CSC) will be conducted. The data
      will be analysed at the University of Lincoln and Students home (via secured sites). The data
      will be analysed using Excel software. No interim analysis is planned for safety, efficacy or
      management purposes.
    
  