
    
      Subjects with burn scars that are lighter and/or darker than their normal skin will be asked
      to participate in this study. It is being done to obtain more information about why some
      people develop scars that are different in color to their normal skin after trauma to the
      skin such as a burn.

      Participants who wish to participate will have scar measured with a ruler, and study sites
      identified and photographed.

      Additionally the following procedures will be done:

      Non-invasive measurements: Each area of scar will have multiple non-invasive measurements
      done. These include:

        -  scar scales - subjective measures of color, itching, pain, height, etc.

        -  elasticity - a probe is briefly placed on top of the skin to measure its ability to
           stretch

        -  induration - a probe is briefly placed on top of the skin to measure how firm it is

        -  color - a skin probe in briefly placed on top of the skin to measure its color

      Biopsies: Based on the measurement of the scars, several small 3mm punch biopsies will be
      done. Subjects with light colored scars and total scar greater than 500cm2 are eligible to
      participate in an optional sub-study. For this sub-study, an additional excisional biopsy 1
      cm by 2 cm in the shape of an oval will be obtained from the lighter colored scar.

      Blood collection: Blood will be collected for correlating blood characteristics to scar
      outcome. Approximately 20 mL of blood will be collected, which is less than 2 tablespoons. A
      portion of this blood might be used in the future for genome sequencing of pigmentation or
      hypertrophic scar-related gene sequences. Whole genome sequencing will not be performed.

      Interview: Personal information, medical history, health behaviors, and scar history will be
      reviewed.

      Data collection: Information about initial burn injury, hospitalization, and outpatient
      visits will be requested from the medical record.
    
  