
    
      Catheter- related blood stream infections are a serious complication for pediatric patients
      receiving parenteral nutrition. The leading causes of death in infants with short bowel
      syndrome (SBS) who are being treated with parenteral nutrition are central line sepsis and
      liver failure associated with the prolonged use of parenteral nutrition. (Cuffari, 2006)
      Incidence of infection ranges from 3% to 60% over the life span of each catheter. (Fratino,
      2002) Interruption of nutritional support, antibiotic resistance and septic complications
      resulting from frequent infections can be life threatening to this fragile patient
      population. This patient population is dependent upon maintenance of central venous access
      for survival. Frequent hospitalizations, loss of work, and financial complications result in
      decreased quality of life for these patients and their caretakers. The cost of hospital
      treatment of catheter related bloodstream infections (CRBSI) has been estimated to range from
      $4000 to $56,000 for each occurrence. (MMWR 2002)

      Vascular access sites are also limited in the pediatric population, and removal of central
      access for infection may diminish future ability to provide vital parenteral nutrition.(MMWR,
      2002) Therefore, improvements in the ability to prevent infection are of utmost importance in
      this patient population.

      The concept of antibiotic lock technique was developed in the late 1980s and was derived from
      various heparin lock protocols. Antibiotic locks have been used for both management and
      prevention of infection in vascular access devices. Antimicrobial choices for use in the
      antibiotic lock technique are dependent on the different pathogens suspected to infect the
      catheter lumen, characteristics of the organisms, and the pharmacodynamic properties of the
      antimicrobial agent. There is a risk of selection for multi-drug resistant organisms when
      antibiotic locks are utilized. In addition, heparin must be added to an antibiotic lock
      solution to maintain catheter patency.

      More recently, ethanol locks have been utilized as a treatment option for children with
      CRBSIs. Ethanol is not only bactericidal and fungicidal in nature but also reveals
      thrombolytic properties. (Mouw, 2008) The thrombolytic properties eliminate the need for
      heparin addition to maintain catheter patency. Although utilized as treatment, ethanol is not
      currently being used for CRBSI prevention at our institution. Along with decreasing the risk
      of emerging antibiotic resistance, the investigators are attempting to determine if using
      ethanol as a lock solution will diminish the number of infections in the Intestinal
      Rehabilitation Program population, leading to decreased patient complications and costs. UNMC
      has the largest population of Intestinal Rehabilitation Program participants in the country
      making this a uniquely well-suited clinic in which to gather data surrounding this emerging
      infection-prevention strategy.
    
  