
    
      Doctor-patient communication is crucial for the success of treatment and patients´ quality of
      life. It could be shown that the medical communication style during the consultation has an
      effect on the treatment expectation and can therefore positively influence the effect of a
      sham treatment (placebo ointment). The doctor's communication style has already been
      successfully manipulated in experimental designs. However, the question remains to what
      extent the doctor's communication style is related to the placebo/nocebo response and the
      change in effect-related expectations after a one-week intake of a supposedly medical herbal
      product (drug-free placebo).

      It is expected that the patient-centered communication style of the physician has a positive
      impact on the reduction of stress (placebo response) and the effect-related cognitive
      expectations. Furthermore, the physician-centered communication style is expected to
      negatively impact potential side effects (nocebo response) and impact-related expectations.

      Participants will be recruited via posters on public notice boards and e-mail distribution
      lists. After individuals register for participating in the study, they are called by a study
      assistant. Eligibility criteria are checked and participants are asked questions about
      control variables (sociodemographic data (age, sex, profession) and symptom report (Generic
      Assessment of Side Effects GASE)). The subjects are told that an herbal medical product
      (drug-free placebo pill) is tested for the reduction of stress symptoms (cover story).
      Subjects are randomly assigned to 3 groups (2 experimental groups: patient-centered
      communication style, doctor-centered communication style, control treatment: information
      letter). Eligible participants come in the lab for an experimental appointment. They first
      complete a questionnaire at baseline assessment about control variables (further
      sociodemographic data, disability of stress symptoms, anxiety (trait), negative and positive
      affectivity, communication preferences, beliefs about medicines, adherence) and outcome
      variables (treatment expectation, placebo response, Nocebo response, blood pressure and heart
      rate).

      Participants in the experimental groups are then informed by a simulated doctor (played by a
      study assistant) about indications and side effects of the herbal medical product. The doctor
      applies either a patient-centered or doctor-centered communication style. The
      patient-centered style is characterized by features such as empathetic communication, open
      questions, and uses an easily understandable language. The doctor-centered style is defined
      by an authoritarian and goal-oriented communication. The doctor uses medical terms instead of
      lay language. In the control treatment participants receive all information about the herbal
      medical product in an information letter but have no contacted with the simulated doctor.
      Participating subjects, who receive a medical consultation, complete a brief questionnaire
      after doctor's consultation about the satisfaction with the consultation and the anticipated
      treatment expectancy (post-consultation). Then participants in all three groups are asked to
      take the herbal medical product (placebo pill). At the end of the experimental appointment,
      participants are asked to complete another questionnaire about the outcome variables
      (treatment expectation, placebo response, Nocebo response, blood pressure and heart rate)
      (post-intake). Participating subjects are instructed to take the placebo pill once a day over
      the next week. Seven days after the first appointment participants are invited to come to the
      lab for a follow-up assessment (1-week follow-up).

      The treatment expectancy is operationalized with visual analogue scale about participant's
      treatment outcome expectations (VAS, see primary outcomes) at post-intake and 1-week
      follow-up. The placebo effect is operationalized with visual analogue scale about the
      relaxation level (VAS, see secondary outcomes) at post-intake and 1-week follow-up.

      The nocebo effect is operationalized with the number of symptoms and symptom severity
      (Generic Assessment of Side Effects GASE, see secondary outcomes) attributed by participants
      to a medication side effect at post-intake and 1-week follow-up.
    
  