
    
      Gallstones in the common bile duct (CBD) may be asymptomatic but may lead to complications
      such as acute cholangitis or acute pancreatitis. EST is widely used for the treatment of bile
      duct gallstones. Despite its efficacy and improvements over time, EST is still associated
      with complications such as hemorrhage, perforation, pancreatitis, and permanent loss of
      function of the sphincter of Oddi (SO). Permanent loss of SO function can cause
      duodenobiliary reflux, bacterial colonization of the biliary tract, gallstone recurrence,
      cholangitis, and liver abscess.

      Endoscopic papillary balloon dilation (EPBD) was first proposed in 1983 and it is now
      recognized as an alternative technique for the removal of CBD gallstones. The small balloon
      (diameter <8 mm) is less invasive, reduces the occurrence of adverse effects, and preserves
      the SO function, but it has limitations in the presence of CBD gallstones ≥10 mm in diameter.
      EST combined with endoscopic papillary large-balloon dilation (EPLBD) has been introduced for
      patients with large gallstone, but EPLBD widens the distal common bile duct and still may
      cause SO function damage, partially or completely. Repairing the ampulla of Vater and SO may
      reduce the long-term complication rates, especially gallstone recurrence. Unfortunately, no
      efficient strategy has been proposed. The present pilot study aimed to examine the
      feasibility and efficiency of an innovative strategy named endoclip papilloplasty to repair
      the damaged ampulla and recover SO function. The advantage of this device is that it can be
      rotated clockwise or counterclockwise by turning the handle until the correct position is
      achieved. Another advantage is if the clip is not in desired position, it may be re-opened
      and repositioned. Once satisfying clip positioning is achieved, the clip can be firmly
      attached to the tissue by pulling the slider back until tactile resistance is felt in the
      handle.

      The investigators will recruit patients according to admission criteria and exclusion
      criteria. The participants underwent SOM before, immediately after EST, and 3 weeks after EST
      with endoclip papilloplasty. The participants were followed for 3 days during hospitalized.
      Complications including perforation, bleeding, and PEP were recorded. Blood routine,
      pancreatic enzymes (amylase and lipase), and liver function (serum alanine aminotransferase,
      aspartate aminotransferase, r-glutamyl transpeptidase, and alkaline phosphatase) were tested
      at 4 and 24 h after ERCP. All participants were followed at 3 weeks. Symptoms were examined
      and blood tests as above were repeated ahead of stents retrieval and sphincter of Oddi
      monitoring through duodenoscope.
    
  