
    
      The proposed mixed methods study will apply CBPR methods in an innovative, cross-cultural
      project to assess mental health problems in children and community strengths in two refugee
      communities-the Somali Bantu and the Bhutanese-and to design and pilot test a family-based
      intervention for refugees in their native languages (Somali Bantu Maay Maay and the Nepali
      language used by Bhutanese refugees). We will use qualitative research methods developed in
      preliminary research with the Somali Bantu to identify local conceptualizations of mental
      health problems, resilience, attitudes about healing and help-seeking, and preferences for
      mental health services among resettled Bhutanese. The CBPR team will collaborate on mental
      health needs assessments for both communities, with attention paid to shared experiences and
      strengths.

      Findings on risk and protective factors influencing child mental health will inform
      development of a preventive intervention. Community Advisory Boards (CABs) will actively
      participate in the review and selection of intervention components. Based on preliminary
      research with the Somali Bantu community, we anticipate that a family-based intervention
      model will respond well to community requests for parenting support and psychoeducation about
      trauma and effects in families. An intervention positively oriented towards existing sources
      of family resilience and self-efficacy has great potential for improving access to and
      engagement in mental health care and other social services, and for increasing both formal
      and non-formal supports-all essential for reducing mental health disparities.

      In this manner, community and university partners will collaborate to achieve four Specific
      Aims:

      Aim 1: Strengthen existing relationships and decision-making partnerships with the Somali
      Bantu and Bhutanese refugee communities in Greater Boston through community based
      participatory research in partnership with the Shanbaro Community Association and Chelsea
      Collaborative in Chelsea, Massachusetts.

      Aim 2: Collect and analyze qualitative data on local conceptualizations of mental health
      problems and resilience in school-age children (ages 5-17) as well as help seeking and
      services preferences among Somali Bantu and Bhutanese refugee families; use findings to
      inform intervention targets and critical components of a family-based preventive
      intervention, the Family Strengthening Intervention (FSI) for refugees.

      Aim 3: Use qualitative findings to prepare (a) a needs assessment of mental health in
      school-age children, community strengths, barriers to care, and services preferences with
      each target refugee group; (b) a preliminary battery of mental health/psychosocial measures
      for use in mental health assessment of children and caregivers; and (c) a draft set of
      intervention, recruitment, and training materials.

      Aim 4: Use CBPR approaches to recruit and enroll 80 families in a feasibility study, with
      half randomized to care as usual and half to the FSI delivered by trained community
      interventionists; conduct longitudinal assessments at baseline, post-intervention, and 6
      months. Hypothesis 4.1: Participation in the refugee FSI will be associated with improved
      communication and connectedness within families, increased mental health services access, and
      increased knowledge among caregivers and children on the consequences of trauma in refugee
      families. Hypothesis 4.2: Participation in the refugee FSI will be associated with increased
      application of healthy parenting skills, parental self-efficacy, parental supervision of
      children, improved functioning and reduced symptoms of internalizing and externalizing in
      school-age refugee children.
    
  