
    
      1. TITLE OF STUDY

           Diagnosis of diaphragmatic paralysis after interscalene block by measuring the
           inspiratory diaphragmatic thickening incidence and observed clinical consequences.

        2. OBJECTIVES OF THE STUDY

           2.1 Primary Objective: To evaluate the incidence and clinical impact of diaphragmatic
           paralysis after interscalene block under ultrasound.

           To evaluate the clinical consequences of this paralysis. Quantify diaphragmatic
           paralysis: paralysis if present is it always complete.

           2.2 Secondary objective: Assess the feasibility of measuring the diaphragmatic
           thickening as a means simple diagnostics, rapid, non-invasive and non-irradiating
           bedside by the anesthetist in charge of the patient with the conventional ultrasound
           equipment available in the operating room without staff intervention Outdoor (radio
           manipulator, radiologist).

        3. STUDY TYPE

           Single-center prospective study in routine care involving 50 consecutive patients
           conducted from February 2014 for 6 months.

        4. LOCATION OF THE STUDY

           The study will take place in recovery and in the operating theater of the hospital Saint
           Joseph 185 Rue Raymond Losserand 75014 Paris.

           The information and the collection of patient consent will be held in pre-anesthetic
           visit.

        5. RUNNING OF THE STUDY

      5.1 Study Population Major patients scheduled to undergo surgical procedures in the area of
      the shoulder or arm for which locoregional analgesia inter-block type scalénique or
      supraclavicular ultrasound is indicated below.

      5.2 anesthetic Protocol Block design: as recommended by SFAR, usual procedure In immediate
      preoperative patient monitored and infused, fractionated ultrasound-guided injection of 20 ml
      of 7.5% Naropin.

      The surgery is then performed under general anesthesia according to the usual anesthetic
      protocol.

      5.2 Recruitment Mode Preoperatively during the pre-anesthetic visit, patients are informed of
      the purpose of the study. Written consent is collected after oral and written information.

      5.3 Data collection The collected data about the patient are ASA, weight, age, gender, block
      type, type of surgery, the occurrence of complications of the ALR, the administration of
      prophylactic antibiotics and dexamethasone , respiratory pathology history, renal function,
      drug class premedication, the occurrence of respiratory complications. The data is then
      entered in a EXCEL spreadsheet whose treatment will remain internal to GHPSJ.

      5.4 Ultrasound examination of the diaphragm It is non-invasive and non-irradiating. The
      diaphragmatic thickening in recovery is measured before and after the completion of the
      anesthetic block using the ultrasound system, the ultrasound probe and of an aqueous gel by
      trans-thoracic approach.

      It measures the thickness on deep inspiration and expiration in supine position. Each
      measurement is repeated twice. This measurement series lasts 4 minutes, is repeated 15
      minutes after completion of the engine block when a block is found and contralateral. The
      total measurement time is about 12 minutes.

      5.5 Diagnosis of diaphragmatic dysfunction Diaphragmatic paralysis is recognized when the
      inspiratory diaphragmatic thickening fraction is less than 20%.

      7. SCHEDULED DATE FOR START OF THE STUDY: FEBRUARY 2014

      9. PLANNED DURATION OF THE STUDY: 6 MONTHS
    
  