
    
      The use of FBM, showing beneficial effects on wounds, is well described in the literature.
      The reported findings include anti-inflammatory action, better tissue organization,
      acceleration of angiogenesis, stimulation of leukocyte chemotaxis and reduction of donor area
      size in animals and humans. This is a clinical study with a controlled series of cases, whose
      objectives were: (1) to evaluate the effects of FBM, using LED, on the repair process of the
      skin graft donor area treated with Membracel® and LED versus Membracel ®; (2) to evaluate the
      evolution of the quality of the aspects of the skin donor area, through the score obtained by
      the modified Bates-Jensen Scale; the intensity of the pain reported by the participants; the
      size of the wound area until the 7th postoperative (PO) period and the time for
      re-epithelialization of the donor area. Data collection was performed at the Burn Unit of the
      General Hospital "Dr. José Pangella", from Vila Penteado, São Paulo, Brazil, from December
      2018 to January 2020. The sample consisted of 21 participants and 25 donor areas, 13 of which
      were from the control group, which received only conventional treatment (Membracel®) and 12
      from the experimental group: Membracel® and LED. Data collection instruments were used:
      medical records of the participants, anamnesis and physical examination, the scales: pain
      (Visual Analogic Scale - VAS) and Bates-Jensen to accompany the re-epithelialization process
      and the measurement of donor skin areas in the postoperative period. Participants were
      identified by Arabic numbers, according to the order of arrival at the Hospital. Quantitative
      variables were represented by the mean, standard deviation and the median and interquartile
      range [p25; p75]. The comparison of the distributions of these variables between groups was
      performed using the Mann-Whitney test.
    
  