
    
      Fractures of the distal radius, the most common fracture to occur in adults, are increasing
      in incidence and cost due to ageing of the population and the link with senile osteoporosis.
      Young adults also suffer these injuries albeit involving higher-energy mechanisms. Closed
      reduction and casting is often unsuccessful in maintaining adequate alignment and length,
      both of which are crucial to a successful outcome. Thus, there has been a trend toward
      surgical treatment of these fractures. In fractures with preserved joint congruity, 3
      fixation options exist: percutaneous pinning (Kapandji technique), non-spanning external
      fixation, and locked-plates. Locked-plates represent a significant advance in the fixation of
      fractures, especially in osteopenic bone, although their role in distal radius fractures has
      yet to be defined adequately. The Cochrane Group undertook a meta-analysis of RC trials "to
      determine when, and if so what type of, surgical intervention is the most appropriate
      treatment for fractures of the distal radius in adults." The authors concluded: "there is a
      need for good quality evidence for the surgical management of these fractures." The aim of
      this randomized clinical trial is to compare the functional, clinical, and radiographic
      outcomes of these 3 methods. The results will clearly guide surgeons in the choice of optimal
      technique.

      This multicenter prospective randomized trial will involve the Canadian Orthopaedic Trauma
      Society (COTS), an association of trauma surgeons involved in collaborative outcomes research
      with a proven track record of research and publication. Patients with a displaced distal
      radius fracture with joint congruity who meet all eligibility criteria and provide consent to
      participate will be randomly assigned to reduction and fixation with one of three methods:
      volar locked-plate, percutaneous pinning and cast (Kapandji intra-focal technique), or
      non-spanning external fixation. Patients will undergo physiotherapy according to protocols
      adapted to fixation technique. Evaluation at fixed intervals will include functional,
      clinical, and radiological parameters. Functional evaluation will include the PRWE, DASH, and
      SMFA questionnaires. Clinical outcome will evaluate range of motion, pinch and grip strength,
      and dexterity. Standard radiographic parameters will be measured. The primary outcome measure
      will be functional outcome as measured with the PRWE. Appropriate statistical analyses will
      be performed on the data. Sample size calculation reveals the need for 108 patients per
      treatment arm. A census of the centers committed to the study predicts a 12-18 month
      recruitment period. Patient follow-up will end at 2 years.
    
  