
    
      This prospective case-series study will evaluate the performance of the EXD-959 ceramic
      bracket system at baseline (BL), 4, and 6 months post-baseline, and at the time that each
      subject has their study brackets debonded (approx. 4 to 24 months). Bond failures and adverse
      events will be tracked throughout the entire study. A total of 78 study subjects will be
      enrolled in this study (30 new and 48 intercept cases). The patients will be recruited from a
      total of 6 participating study sites.

      Self-Ligating (SL) Practitioners: The sponsor will recruit 4 orthodontist-investigators who
      have experience using and currently use self-ligating style orthodontic brackets.

      Ligating (L) Practitioners: The sponsor will recruit 2 orthodontist-investigators who do NOT
      currently use self-ligating style orthodontic brackets in their practices. These will be
      practitioners who currently use brackets that require that either metal or elastomeric ties
      are used to secure the archwire into the bracket-slots.

      Five new and 8 intercept subjects, who meet the inclusion/exclusion criteria and
      consent/assent to participate, will be enrolled at each study site (n = 13 per site).

        -  New patient subjects who are just initiating full orthodontic treatment will have their
           premolars, canines, and incisors bonded with the EXD-959 brackets, using the related
           EXD-961 instruments, according to the manufacturer's IFU. Their remaining teeth will be
           bonded with the brackets of the orthodontist's choice. Three of the 5 new patients
           recruited may be patients that the orthodontist will choose to initiate treatment with
           the EXD-959 study brackets being applied to the upper teeth only. Having this option
           will allow the investigators to recruit subjects with deeper over-bites where their
           standard of care would be to apply esthetic brackets on the upper teeth and metal
           brackets on the lower teeth.

        -  Intercept patient subjects: Eight subjects will be recruited from patients who are
           currently undergoing orthodontic treatment. Their existing treatment will be
           intercepted. They will have the brackets currently on their upper and lower premolars,
           canines, and incisors debonded and replaced with the EXD-959 study brackets, preferably
           using the related EXD-961 instruments, according the manufacturer's IFU. Three of 8 new
           intercept patients recruited may have treatment initiated on upper teeth only.

        -  In order to evaluate rotation correction, torque control, bracket and bracket- door
           durability, and debonding experiences two types of intercept patients will be targeted:

             -  Intercept - progress: this group will include a minimum of three patients at each
                study site who have moved into rectangular wires; and in whom, the orthodontist-
                investigator believes they will be able to evaluate rotation corrections. For
                example, rotation correction of the upper central incisor which will test the width
                of the bracket's holding points in situations that have wide teeth and greater
                inter-bracket distance.

             -  Intercept-finishing: this group will include a minimum of three patients per study
                site who are estimated to be within 4 months of completing their orthodontic
                treatment; and in whom, the orthodontist-investigator believes they will be able to
                evaluate both torque control and debonding experiences.

      As long as they recruit a minimum of 3 subjects in each intercept category, each
      orthodontist-investigator can then determine the total number of subjects recruited in each
      of the progress- and finishing-intercept groups in order to reach a total of 8 subjects. For
      example, at one site they might recruit 3 progress and 5 finishing subjects, while another
      site might recruit 4 progress and 4 finishing subjects.

      In both SL and L practitioners the EXD-959 bracket system will be used in conjunction with
      the archwires prescribed by the treating orthodontists according to their respective
      treatment philosophies.

      The study patients, treating orthodontists, and orthodontic staff who interact with the study
      subjects, the EXD brackets, and the EXD instruments will provide feedback related to specific
      attributes of the product at defined time-points, using the study documents provided by the
      study sponsor.
    
  