
    
      Cardiac disease (CD) affects millions of European and Americans and new diagnosis rates are
      expected to almost triple over the next 30 years as our population ages. Affective disorders
      including clinical depression, anxiety and psychological distress are common in patients with
      CD. Furthermore, the presence of these disorders significantly impacts quality of life,
      adherence to medical prescription and healthy behaviors. The prevalence of depression,
      ranging from 11% to 25% among heart disease outpatients and 35% to 70% among those who are
      hospitalized. Psychological depression appears to be an important predictor of
      rehospitalization among persons who have been admitted with coronary artery disease. In
      addition, depression in patients with heart failure was found to be associated with the
      course of the disease and its prognosis. The high prevalence of psychological distress among
      the population of patients with heart failure, along with the broad impact on the patient's
      quality of life, requires attention to detail and the implementation of interventions aimed
      at reducing levels of distress. Very few studies describe interventions aimed at alleviating
      distress in patients with heart failure. Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT) is reported to
      improve both the functional and emotional levels of these patients, resulting in the relief
      of their symptoms of depression. Recently Well Being Therapy WBT) have showed promising
      outcomes findings for depression and distress. There is a need to treat patients in their
      real life setting. Recent technological innovations in the ICT provide to monitor and treat
      the patient at a distance outside the hospital. The aim in this study is to study the
      effectiveness of the WBT-WEB in reducing psychological distress, and improving QoL, healthy
      behaviors and medical adherence in HR compared to a CBT and standard clinical procedure of
      patients' management (CM). The same protocol will be carried out in two centres (Hospital de
      Terrassa, Barcelona, Spain; National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, Greece). 300
      patients diagnosed with cardiac disease, and with psychological distress, assessed by
      Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) will be randomized to one of three treatment
      groups: 1) WBT-WEB; 2) CBT and 3) CM. A one-year follow-up will be performed. It is expected
      that WBT-WEB may significantly decrease psychological distress and increase QoL, healthy
      behaviors and medical adherence at follow-up compared to clinical management.
    
  