
    
      Background:

      Pain is a significant problem within and outside of clinical contexts, and understanding the
      phenomenon is imperative for optimizing patient care and understanding the efficacy of pain
      treatment. At the same time, pain anxiety handicaps behavior and productivity, impedes the
      adoption of healthy behaviors and proper healthcare delivery, and is implicated in the
      development and maintenance of chronic pain disorders.

      Pain is commonly perceived as a simplistic attention-capturing stimulus response homeostatic
      monitoring system that serves a tissue-protective function. Contemporary research, however,
      promotes a process model of pain that goes beyond simple transmission of a nociceptive signal
      from a transduced stimulus to include aspects of physiological modulation (e.g., regulatory
      brain activity from midbrain and brainstem, endogenous and exogenous opioids, and
      experiential perception (e.g., perceptual brain activity from S1, PFC, thalamus, S2, insula,
      and thalamus, perceptual exercises such as body vision. Clearly, accurate understanding of
      pain requires require combining signals across brain regions and networks Our lab, using
      machine-learning based multivoxel pattern analysis (MVPA) have trained several now
      widely-used whole-brain neural signatures for pain experience using thermal pain delivery
      devices (e.g., Neural Pain Signature [NPS]), as well as pain-related processes such as
      viewing pictures of others in pain (Vicarious Pain Signature [VPS]), and imagining being
      romantically rejected. Pursuit of this line of work has revealed these signatures are
      sensitive and specific to the type of pain it was developed for, yet generalizable enough to
      work in samples and pain modalities it was not developed in. For example, NPS is specific to
      somatic pain, and rises and falls with levels of somatic pain of many types, including
      thermal pain, mechanical pain, and electric shock, but does not track vicarious pain.

      Our existing signatures do not respond to psychological changes in pain, which is believed to
      be necessary components for understanding pain hyper- and hypo-algesia as well as the placebo
      effect. The placebo effect is a powerful demonstration of the effects of the psychological
      pain context on pain experience. The effect may be directly attributable to emotional and
      attentional processing. Pain processing shifts from nociceptive somatosensory to emotional
      during chronification of pain and there is ample evidence that anxiety and stress modulate
      the amounts of pain reported, the degree of treatment and attention requested, and the degree
      of pain analgesia experienced upon application of placebo. This evidence suggests that
      aversive processing of incoming stimuli may play a role in the pain experience. Placebo
      effects may also simply be somatotopically attention driven, as one previous non fMRI study
      has suggested.

      The basic mechanisms of placebo effects on pain anticipation and pain anxiety, and how they
      relate to placebo effects on pain, are still unknown. Understanding how each of subcomponents
      of pain -- theoretically separable as the detection of incoming sensation, aversive
      experiencing, and somatotopic location -- is affected by a placebo treatment may elucidate
      important facts about pain. This includes how pain is anticipated, processed, and
      subsequently regulated, providing insight into the nature of pain anxiety and how information
      should be delivered to mitigate pain. Such knowledge is essential for enhancing existing
      therapies and creating more nuanced and targeted ones for debilitating pain-related maladies
      such as chronic pain disorders, and important therapeutic procedures that may cause pain
      (e.g., surgical or dental).

      Experimental Design:

      The first hour of fMRI scanning aims to isolate sensation, aversiveness, and somatotopic
      subcomponents of pain into individual neural signatures. We will do so by subjecting
      participants at random to stimulations of painful heat and non-painful warmth on various body
      sites -- left and right masseter, midline chest, midline trunk, left and right forearm, and
      left and right upper-calf -- as well as listen to an aversive sound (e.g., scratching
      chalkboard). Participants will also be asked at various times to follow instructions to
      imagine themselves feeling intense heat pain at a randomly designated body site.

      In the second hour of fMRI scanning, we will examine to what degree the identified isolated
      subcomponents of sensation, aversiveness, and somatotopy respond to placebo treatment for
      heat pain (i.e., the application of an inert cream coinciding with either an instruction that
      the participant will be given "an analgesic cream" relative to "a control cream with no
      effect").
    
  