
    
      Advance in renal transplantation for the treatment of patients with end-stage kidney failure
      have led to significant improvements in patient survival. T-cell directed immunotherapeutic
      agents are capable of preventing early allograft loss and represent the cornerstone of
      current maintenance immunosuppressive regimens. However, recent studies have pointed out that
      the majority (63%) of late kidney failures could be attributable to antibody-mediated
      rejection. Microcirculation inflammation (poly and mononuclear cells within glomerular and
      peritubular capillaries) correlates best with alloantibody-induced endothelial damages and
      complement-fixing anti-HLA antibodies, predicts evolution toward chronic antibody mediated
      rejection (transplant glomerulopathy), and is associated with a poor outcome.
      Microcirculation inflammation, the hallmark lesions of AMR, are frequently observed (75%) on
      screening biopsies performed in sensitized patients having received a renal transplant across
      a positive crossmatch due to preformed DSA, despite intensive prophylactic therapy (including
      polyclonal immunoglobulin, plasma exchanges and rituximab).

      Altogether these findings underscore the need for innovative treatment to better control the
      humoral arm of chronic rejection in patients with donor-specific anti-HLA antibodies.
      Short-term eculizumab treatment might be a promising avenue. Complement blockade with
      eculizumab has been found efficient in reducing the occurrence of AMR lesions in highly
      sensitized patients. A few reports also suggest that complement blockade may be of great
      value as salvage therapy for graft-threatening severe AMR. However, no information is
      available in the literature about the efficacy of complement blockade in curbing the
      progression of subclinical AMR to chronic AMR.

      The primary objectives of this study are:

      • To determine the effectiveness of eculizumab in reducing durably alloantibody-induced
      microcirculation inflammation and preventing chronic microcirculation damages on 12-month
      screening biopsies.

      The secondary objectives of this study are:

        -  To assess the effect of eculizumab on serum creatinine levels, amount of proteinuria,
           and measured and estimated Glomerular Filtration Rate (mGFR) between 3 and 12 months
           post-transplant.

        -  To determine the effectiveness of eculizumab in hampering the appearance of interstitial
           fibrosis and tubular atrophy (IF/TA), and dampening down alloantibody-induced
           accelerated arteriosclerosis on 1-year-post-transplant biopsy.

        -  Incidence of biopsy-proven antibody-mediated acute rejection (rise of creatinine value
           higher than 20% above the baseline value).

        -  To monitor DSA levels at 3, 6 and 12 months post-transplant with solid-phase assay
           (Luminex).

        -  To assess vital signs (such as systolic, diastolic blood pressure, heart rate, weight,
           temperature) and laboratory parameters at every eculizumab administration.

        -  To collect safety data on infections, cardiovascular events, and malignancies

        -  To monitor endothelial, platelet and leukocyte microparticles as well as endothelial
           cell progenitors

        -  To quantify the number of endothelial and NK expressed genes that correlate with AMR

      This is an open-label exploratory study which evaluates eculizumab administration in
      sensitized patients with subclinical antibody-mediated rejection at 3 month-post-transplant.
      Ten patients fulfilling inclusion/exclusion criteria will be enrolled into the study and
      compared with 20 historical controls matched for the sensitization and histological lesions
      at 3 months. The patients enrolled in this study will be given eculizumab from 3 to 12 month
      post-transplant, according to the standard protocol in adults heavier than 40 kg (900 mg
      weekly for 4 weeks, 1200 mg for the fifth infusion and 1200 mg every other week thereafter).

      Clinical and laboratory evaluations including vital signs and safety laboratory values will
      be monitored at predetermined time points.
    
  