
    
      Prostate cancer is the most common cancer diagnosed and the second most common cause of
      cancer death in men in North America.

      Patients with metastatic disease have a poor prognosis, and although hormonal therapy in the
      form of medical or surgical castration can induce significant long-term remissions,
      development of androgen independent disease is inevitable. The current standard of care for
      CRPC is mainly palliative in its intent, and there are only limited proven treatment options
      which include: analgesia, radiation, bisphosphonates and chemotherapy such as mitoxantrone or
      docetaxel, with only the last treatment being associated with an overall survival benefit.

      With the early commencement of androgen deprivation therapy and frequent use of PSA for
      monitoring disease progression, an increasing population of patients with CRPC is now being
      identified by a rising PSA rather than by new disease or symptoms. Early intervention with
      chemotherapy is of unknown benefit in these patients, and thus represents an appropriate
      group for phase II studies to evaluate novel agents with acceptable toxicity profiles.

      Heat shock protein (Hsp) family members, including Hsp27, have attracted attention as new
      therapeutic targets for cancer. Hsp27 is a small, ATP-independent Hsp which is highly
      conserved across species. Hsp27 is expressed in prostate cancer and other malignancies.
      Expression of Hsp27 is induced by cell stress, including cytotoxic chemotherapy, radiation
      therapy, and hormone therapy. Overexpression of Hsp27 confers a resistant phenotype and is
      implicated in castration resistant progression of prostate cancer.

      OGX 427 is a second generation antisense oligonucleotide (ASO) that inhibits expression of
      Hsp27. A number of in vitro and in vivo pharmacological studies have demonstrated that OGX
      427 (or an Hsp27 ASO) has single-agent activity in reducing Hsp27 mRNA and protein,
      inhibiting cell proliferation, and inducing apoptosis in several human cancer cell lines. OGX
      427 has also demonstrated chemosensitizing activity both in vitro and in vivo in combination
      with several cytotoxic drugs, including docetaxel. In an ongoing Phase I trial, OGX-427 has
      been administered as a single agent in doses from 200 to 1000 mg with weekly infusions
      occurring after a loading dose period of three infusions within the first 10 days of
      initiating treatment. OGX-427 treatment has been well tolerated, with the majority of the
      adverse events and laboratory toxicities reported being Grade 1 or Grade 2, although a
      symptom complex of rigors, pruritus, and erythema during or shortly after infusion of drug
      has required steroid prophylaxis and/or treatment in some patients at higher doses. No
      maximum tolerated dose has been identified based on toxicity. OGX 427 administration in
      combination with docetaxel is ongoing in the above-mentioned Phase 1 study.

      Low dose corticosteroids have been shown to have some activity against prostate cancer with a
      beneficial effect on quality of life (QOL). Since chemotherapy for prostate cancer is
      palliative, low-dose prednisone has been used both as a single agent and added to
      chemotherapy regimens.

      This Phase 2 study has been designed to evaluate the anti-tumor effects of OGX-427 plus
      low-dose prednisone versus low-dose prednisone alone in men with CRPC who have not previously
      received chemotherapy for metastatic or locally recurrent disease.
    
  