
    
      The purpose of the study is to investigate whether EMLA 5% cream decreases tinnitus by
      comparing pretrial questionnaires to post trial questionnaires.

      first we are going to invite tinnitus patients for the first visit. in the first visit we
      will confirm that the patients is suitable for the trial (no exclusion criteria are present)
      , perform ear investigation to exclude ear inflammation, perform audiometry to prove
      sensorineural hearing loss. then the patient will fill 3 questionnaires that reflect the
      tinnitus severity and show how much the patient does suffer from this conditions. the
      questionnaires are- beck depression index, tinnitus handicap inventory, Pittsburgh sleep
      quality index.

      Then we will perform randomization: the investigational group will get EMLA 5% cream, the
      control group will get cetomacrogol cream (a lotion cream).

      In the next 4 days the patients (investigational and control groups) will spread the cream
      for 4 hours a day in the post auricular area of the ear/ ears that suffer/s from tinnitus.

      The patient will be instructed to stop the spreading and call the chief investigator When any
      kind of side effect occurs (topical/ systemic)after 4 days of treatment the patient will come
      to the clinic once again and fill the same questionnaires. 3 weeks after the beginning of the
      trial the patient will fill the questionnaires for the third time.

      Regarding the questionnaires:

        1. Beck depression questionnaire is a 21-questions exam that checks the depression level of
           the patient. The minimum score is 1 the maximum is 63. The investigators hypotheses
           states that EMLA cream treatment decreases the Beck questionnaire score

        2. Pittsburgh sleep quality index is a 9 questions exam that measure the quality of sleep.
           the range of results goes between 0-24. The higher the score- the worse is the quality
           of sleep. The investigators hypotheses states that EMLA treatment improves the results
           of the Pittsburgh sleep quality questionnaires.

        3. Tinnitus handicap inventory estimates the degree that tinnitus affects patients life. it
           contains 25 questions . The minimum score is 0 and the maximum is 100 . The
           investigators hypotheses that EMLA cream treatment decreases the score of this
           questionnaire which means that EMLA cream improves patients quality of life.
    
  