
    
      Patients with advanced cancer report physical, emotional, social and existential problems
      that may be due to the cancer itself or its treatment. Previous studies have demonstrated the
      benefit of early inclusion of palliative care (PC) in combination with standard oncologic
      care in reducing depressive symptoms, improving quality of life, increasing survival and also
      decreasing unnecessary invasive procedures. However, patients continue to arrive late at PC,
      even in large comprehensive cancer centers. One of the barriers is the stigma of PC perceived
      by patients and health professionals as "a place to die." The primaries objectives are to
      evaluate the feasibility and satisfaction of patients with advanced cancer submitted to a
      brief psychosocial intervention based on Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT) in addition to
      early PC and to evaluate the impact of these interventions on the reduction of depressive
      symptoms. A randomized, open-label, phase II trial, with two intervention arms and a control
      group. It will be included 150 patients with advanced cancer initiating palliative
      chemotherapy who meet the selection criteria. Participants will be recruited from the
      outpatient oncology clinics from the Barretos Cancer Hospital and will be randomized in one
      of the three treatment arms: arm A, five weekly sessions of brief psychosocial interventions
      based on CBT in combination with early PC; arm B, early PC only; arm C, standard oncologic
      care. The Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS), Patient Health Questionnaire-9
      (PHQ-9), Brazilian version of the Edmonton Symptom Assessment System (ESAS-br), European
      Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Core 15 PAL
      (EORTC QLQ-C15-Pal), 13-item measure of patient satisfaction (FAMCARE-P13), and the Disease
      Understanding Protocol, will be the instruments used for data collection. Patients will
      answer these instruments at baseline and after 45, 90, 120, and 180 days after randomization.
      An interim analysis is planned to occur after the inclusion of 20 participants with complete
      data in each arm; if the Cohen's effect size between the arms A and B is small (d<<0.2), the
      study will continue only with arms B and C.
    
  