
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Latino women are at high risk for cardiovascular (CVD) and other chronic diseases, in part,
      due to sedentary lifestyle, obesity, and poor fitness. Few studies assess long-term physical
      activity, fewer observe maintenance and none have demonstrated effective procedures for
      sustaining exercise. Only one study has demonstrated increased moderate exercise and none has
      demonstrated maintenance of physical activity among Latino women. Theoretically-based
      procedures (shaping, contingency management, relapse prevention, and social reinforcement)
      hypothesized as necessary to maintain physical activity had not yet been tested
      experimentally.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The 210 Latinas were assigned at random to one of three groups: one six month physical
      activity intervention, one physical activity plus maintenance intervention, and one safety
      education control. Exercise training emphasized walking. Bilingual exercise leaders, aided by
      peer models from the community, used shaping procedures to establish daily walking in
      participants. In the maintenance program, family incentives reinforced transfer to community
      exercise and were used to establish positive feedback loops to promote activity within the
      family. Peer led community exercise sessions, and community activism were also used to
      establish social networks which reinforced sustained physical activity.

      Program support was faded out as naturally occurring social support for Community exercise
      was established. Four (baseline, post-intervention, post-maintenance, follow-up), repeated
      measures over 24 months assessed fitness (VO2max), physical activity (PAR), and CVD risk
      factors. Theoretically important mediating variables, such as self-efficacy, social support,
      stage of change for exercise, decisional balance, and home exercise environment were
      explored. Repeated measures analyses were used to determine significant differences among
      groups, time and group by time main effects. This study was the first to attempt to engineer
      maintenance of physical activity among minority women. Results will provide a model to be
      used to sustain physical activity and reduce the risk of cardiovascular and other diseases.
      If effective, this analysis will also serve as a model for designing programs to sustain
      physical activity in the increasingly sedentary general population.

      The study was renewed in January 2000 to continue through December 2001.
    
  