
    
      1. Purpose:The purpose of this study is to provide access to 18F-FDG PET/CT imaging in
           patients with clinical suspicion of cardiac sarcoidosis, and to collect additional data
           about the safety and effectiveness of 18F-FDG PET/CT in this patient population.

        2. Hypothesis:18F-FDG PET/CT has greater sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy compared to
           the current clinical gold standard of diagnosis for CS, the Japanese Ministry of Health,
           Labour, and Welfare (MHLW) guidelines

        3. Justification:Currently a clinical diagnosis CS is diagnosed using a combination of
           diagnostic techniques including imaging and biopsy. Biopsies are challenging as it can
           be difficult to locate the disease or access the desired biopsy location. MRI has been
           proven effective but it is limited as patients with pacemakers and
           cardioverter-defibrillators or patients with renal impairments are unable to have an
           MRI. Finally radionuclide scintigraphy with Gallium-67 or Thallium-201 (201Tl) has been
           useful, but can be non-specific for sarcoidosis. 18F-FDG PET/CT has significant
           advantages over other radionuclide imaging modalities due to superior resolution of PET
           coupled with the affinity of inflammatory cardiac tissue to metabolize FDG. 18F-FDG
           PET/CT has been found to have higher sensitivity and specificity over other
           conventionally used imaging modalities.

        4. Research Method:This will be an expanded access study in which adult subjects with a
           clinical suspicion of CS will be invited to participate, in order to identify potential
           sites for biopsy or provide confirmation of the presence of CS. Based on population
           extrapolation from all diagnosed or suspected cases of CS in British Columbia (BC), as
           well as expert clinical opinion, it is estimated that 10 to 15 patients per year will be
           enrolled in the study. Over a three year period, the expected sample size will be 30 -
           45 patients. All subjects will receive an 18F-FDG PET/CT at the BC Cancer Agency (BCCA)
           - Vancouver Centre.

        5. Statistical Analysis:The planned sample size is 150 patients. The primary endpoint is to
           provide PET/CT imaging to patients diagnosed with or suspected of CS. The secondary
           end-point will be to assess the sensitivity, specificity and accuracy of 18F-FDG PET in
           BC population. Confidence intervals of 95% will be used to assess this using exact
           binomial distribution. All analyses will be performed in direct consultation with a
           qualified statistician.

      Sensitivity (ratio of true positive lesions to total positive lesions), specificity (ratio of
      true negative lesions to total negative lesions) and accuracy (ratio of total correct studies
      to the total number of biopsied lesions) of 18F-FDG PET studies performed by the BCCA will be
      obtained by comparing results of the PET scan with a composite of the outcome of clinical
      examinations, histopathological diagnosis, if those results are available, and results of all
      other available imaging (cardiac MRI, 201Tl, 67Ga). Confidence intervals (95% CI) for
      sensitivity, specificity and accuracy will be calculated using exact binomial distribution.
    
  