
    
      The Swiss Frailty Network and Repository is a Swiss Personalized Health Network (SPHN) driver
      project. The investigators aim to promote the sustainable implementation of a frailty data
      network for research and clinical purposes in strong partnership between all Swiss geriatric
      academic centers.

      One of the five main goals of this project is to validate an electronic frailty index (eFI)
      as a screening tool against a clinical frailty instrument (cFI) (validation study) and the
      investigation of the correlation of the two instruments with the important endpoints
      in-hospital mortality and length of stay in hospital (association study) is at the core of
      the project. For the validation study (4), the investigators will include patients 65 and
      older admitted to acute geriatric care at all partnering sites, where both, the cFI and the
      eFI is collected. For the validation study (4), the investigators will include only patients
      with written project informed consent and consent for subsequent use of the project data (the
      investigators will also ask for general consent whenever possible. For the correlation study
      (5) regarding the cFI and the 2 outcomes. The same requirements apply as for the validation
      study (4). For the association study (5) regarding the eFI screening tool, the investigators
      will utilize data from all patients age 65 and older admitted to acute care at all partnering
      sites. For the eFI, the investigators will only include participants with available written
      general consent for further use of routinely collected health data, or established permission
      for use in exceptional cases by an ethics committee (HRA Art. 34).

      Due to time constraints and great complexity of the local integration of the clinical frailty
      instrument (cFI) as a reference measure at the five different clinic information systems, the
      investigators will only integrate the cFI into the primary system at University Hospital
      Zurich (USZ) during the three-year duration of the project. At all other partner sites, an
      electronic case report form in REDCap will be in place for data entry of the cFI assessment.

      In summary, the investigators will categorize the collection of data for the clinical Frailty
      Instrument (cFI) and the electronic Frailty Index (eFI) screening tool in geriatric
      inpatients 65 years and older (validation study plus correlation study) at all sites as a
      category A research project (not a clinical trial) with only minimal risks at all partner
      sites and the collection of the eFI screening tool in all other acute care patients 65 years
      and older as a further use of non-genetic personal health data in patients where a general
      consent is available.
    
  