
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate whether adjuvant therapy with nivolumab will result in improved overall
      survival (OS) and/or disease-free survival (DFS) over standard observation in patients with
      stage IB >= 4 cm, II and IIIA, non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) following surgical
      resection and standard adjuvant therapy.

      II. To evaluate whether adjuvant therapy with nivolumab will result in improved disease-free
      survival (DFS) over standard observation in patients with stage IB >= 4cm, II and IIIA, NSCLC
      with high PD-L1 expression (>= 50% staining) following surgical resection and standard
      adjuvant therapy.

      III. To evaluate whether adjuvant therapy with nivolumab will result in improved overall
      survival (OS) over standard observation in patients with stage IB >= 4cm, II and IIIA, NSCLC
      following surgical resection and standard adjuvant therapy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the safety profile of nivolumab when given as an adjuvant therapy.

      II. To evaluate and compare disease free and overall survival in patients with tumors that
      express programmed cell death ligand (PD-L)1 in various patterns associated with nivolumab
      and standard observation.

      III. To evaluate and compare disease free and overall survival in patients with tumors that
      have high mutational load associated with nivolumab and standard observation.

      IV. To evaluate OS and DFS by stage. V. To evaluate OS and DFS by each stratification factor.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat
      every 4 weeks for up to 1 year in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients are followed serially with imaging for 1 year.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 6 weeks, every 3 months for
      2 years, every 6 months for 2 years, and then every 12 months for 6 years.
    
  