
    
      Objectives:

        1. Characterize the microbiota of the genitourinary tract and testicular microenvironment
           in infertile men with leukocytes in the semen by using 16S rRNA sequencing to analyze
           the microbiome of de-identified semen samples, and compare the results of semen with
           normal parameters to the results of semen with leukocytes.

        2. Evaluate the influence of the gut microbiome on hormone replacement therapy in
           hypogonadal, infertile men who are being treated with hormone replacement therapy, by
           analyzing multiple de-identified blood samples and rectal swabs collected both before
           and over the course of standard hypogonadism treatment. We will use 16S rRNA sequencing
           on the rectal swabs and hormone level analysis of the blood samples.

      Identification and Enrollment: Subjects who meet inclusion criteria will be identified in UIC
      Urology fertility clinics by attending physician co-investigators during routine chart review
      for standard patient care. The patient will then be approached regarding the study and
      discuss the following: informed consent and information within it, basic information about
      the human microenvironments and significance in layman's terms, and reinforce that
      participation in the study will have no impact on the patient's care. Consent to participate
      will be obtained if the patient elects to proceed. The patient will receive oral and written
      information about the study. The written information includes understandable information
      about the study with extensive information on the study and include a copy of the consent
      form.

      These subjects' medical records will be reviewed for basic data listed below, and if
      hypogonadal also periodically after routine blood draws (see Venipuncture below).

      Patient information management: Patients' names, MRN, and DOB will be stored in a UIC REDCap
      database. Each subject will also be assigned a study identification number generated by a
      random number generator. This ID number will be used to label the respective patient's
      biospecimen.

      Semen collection and storage: As part of standard infertility workup of men, a semen sample
      will be requested after the diagnosis of infertility is made. Semen will be prospectively
      collected by the UIC Andrology Laboratory (820 S Wood St, Room 132, Chicago, IL 60612).

      Patients will be instructed on the following for sample collection (adapted from Hou et al.):

        1. Present for sample provision after 3-7 days of abstinence.

        2. Wash hands 2-3 times with soap and water prior to masturbation.

        3. Wash penis with a focus on glans and coronal sulcus with soap and water followed by 75%
           alcohol, 2-3 times.

        4. Avoid contact of specimen with inside side wall of sample container.

        5. 0.1 mL or less of freshly collected semen will be used for standard semen analysis.

        6. If semen is identified to have any number of round cells, then a leukocyte count will be
           determined by Papanicolaou staining.

        7. The remainder of semen will be transferred into microcentrifuge tubes, with up to 1 mL
           each tube, and stored in a -80C freezer within 2 hours of collection. The -80C freezer
           is in a locked room of the UIC Andrology Laboratory accessible to authorized personnel
           only.[7]

      Venipuncture: Patients will have their blood drawn during standard initial evaluation of
      infertility. This will be performed either by UIC phlebotomy services (1801 W Taylor St Room
      4B, Chicago, IL 60612) or any other phlebotomy site and laboratory based on patient
      preference. The endocrine profile will be determined by testing total testosterone,
      estradiol, sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG), luteinizing hormone (LH),
      follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), and albumin levels. A total of 4.9 mL venous blood is
      required for these tests and thus a total of 3 gold-topped vials would be drawn from a vein.
      Men determined to be hypogonadal (total testosterone <300 ng/dL or bioavailable testosterone
      <150 ng/dL) will be requested to provide a rectal swab as well (see below). As part of
      standard treatment of their condition, these patients will be started on medications to
      increase endogenous testosterone (ie: clomiphene citrate, anastrozole, human chorionic
      gonadotropin, etc). Additionally, as part of standard care, these patients will be requested
      to return for regular assessment of medication side effects and efficacy with laboratory
      monitoring of their endocrine profile. This is carried out in intervals of 3-4 months at the
      attending physician's discretion. The laboratory data of subjects meeting inclusion criteria
      will be recorded in a de-identified REDCap database, identified by the study ID number.

      Rectal swab collection: After review of laboratory results with the patient at the first
      follow-up appointment, if the patient is diagnosed with infertility secondary to hypogonadism
      with no other identifiable causes, he will be requested to provide rectal swabs for analysis
      of the gut microbiome. A rectal swab kit will be provided to the patient. After a bowel
      movement, the subject will be asked to use the swab to collect sample from the anus and
      return the sample in the provided sterile plastic bag. This will be stored in a secure,
      locked cabinet. A rectal swab will then be requested at the same time intervals as follow-up
      bloodwork, collected and stored in the same manner.

      Microbiota profile characterization: Microbiota analysis will be performed by the Igenomix
      laboratory in Valencia, Spain (Ronda Narciso Monturiol, 11 B, Parque Tecnológico Paterna,
      46980 - Paterna -, Valencia, Spain). Once we have prospectively collected patient samples,
      semen and/or rectal swabs, we will periodically send samples to Igenomix for processing, as
      logistically feasible. We will send 1 sample of each type of specimen per patient as
      applicable (i.e. if a patient gave enough semen for 3 additional vials in our storage
      freezer, then 1 vial would be sent to Igenomix; if the patient is also hypogonadal then a
      rectal swab is sent if it is indicated and collected as described above). Each of these
      samples will be identified only by study ID number and will have no PHI. Only the study ID
      number associated with each vial and no other identifying information will be sent with the
      samples, ensuring that no PHI will ever be shared with Igenomix. Igenomix laboratory will
      perform microbiota profiling using 16S rRNA gene sequencing in each specimen. There will be
      no stored samples after the analysis, as all the material will be used for DNA extraction and
      subsequent sequencing. All acquired data will be uploaded into a separate UIC REDCap
      database, with each sample's dataset identified again only by study ID number.

      Data analysis: Data analysis will be performed by Dr. Pagani and UIC co-investigators to
      analyze the data using de-identified data sets from patient chart review and those provided
      by the Igenomix laboratory.

      Cursory analysis of microbiota data sets will determine the exact statistical analyses
      applicable to address our study objectives and hypotheses. We will assess bacterial
      microbiome composition and abundance using statistics computational programs such as the R
      package (R Foundation for Statistical Computing, Vienna, Austria). We will further
      characterize the bacterial communities by creating hierarchical clustering based on published
      methods such as described by Hou et al. (PMID: 23993888). Based on the resulting data, we
      will choose the appropriate statistical procedure to test our 2 hypotheses.

      Study completion: Patients will be followed for 12 months, allowing for 4 follow-up
      appointments and sample collections. At the conclusion of our study, we will destroy any
      remaining biospecimen. All identifiable data will be purged from the REDCap database.
    
  