
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the major pathologic response rate (MPRR) in patients treated with induction
      nivolumab, nivolumab plus ipilimumab, and nivolumab plus platinum-based chemotherapy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Toxicity (assessed by the National Cancer Institute [NCI] Common Terminology Criteria for
      Adverse Events [CTCAE] version 4).

      II. Peri-operative morbidity and mortality. III. CD8 positive (+) tumor infiltrating
      lymphocytes (TILs) in resected tumor tissues of patients treated with nivolumab alone and
      nivolumab plus ipilimumab and nivolumab plus platinum-based chemotherapy.

      IV. Response rates to induction treatment (by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors
      [RECIST] version 1.1).

      V. Recurrence-free survival. VI. Overall survival. VII. To correlate major pathologic
      response with recurrence-free and overall survival.

      VIII. Complete resection (R0) rate. IX. Pathologic complete response (pCR) in resected tumor
      specimens. IX. To correlate response assessed by imaging studies with outcomes (both major
      pathologic response to treatment and long-term recurrence-free survival).

      X. To correlate blood, tissue, and stool-based biomarkers with efficacy and toxicity.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To identify novel prognostic and predictive markers present at diagnosis. II. To determine
      modulation of markers by induction immunotherapy and/or immunotherapy plus platinum-based
      chemotherapy in order to inform future translational studies.

      OUTLINE: Upon confirmation of eligibility, patients will be stratified by stage (I vs. II vs.
      III) and randomized to Arm A or Arm B using a minimization technique. Upon completion of
      enrollment in these two arms, eligible patients will be enrolled to Arm C or D.

      ARM A: Patients receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on days 1, 15, and 29 in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B: Patients receive nivolumab as in Arm A and receive ipilimumab IV over 90 minutes on
      day 1 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM C: Patients receive nivolumab IV over 30 minutes and cisplatin IV over 2 hours on days 1,
      22, and 43. Patients also receive docetaxel IV over 1 hour or pemetrexed IV over 10 minutes
      on days 1, 22, and 43. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for up to 3 cycles in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM D: Patients receive Ipilimumab 1 mg/kg intravenously on day 1 only plus Nivolumab 360 mg
      IV every 3 weeks (D1, D22, D43) plus Cisplatin (or Carboplatin) and Docetaxel IV administered
      every 3 weeks (D1, D22, D43), up to a maximum of 3 cycles for squamous histology NSCLCs, or
      Ipilimumab 1 mg/kg intravenously on day 1 only plus Nivolumab 360 mg IV every 3 weeks (D1,
      D22, D43) plus Cisplatin (or Carboplatin) and Pemetrexed IV administered every 3 weeks (D1,
      D22, D43), up to a maximum of 3 cycles for non-squamous histology NSCLCs. For carcinomas with
      neuroendocrine features and/or differentiation Cisplatin (or Carboplatin) and Docetaxel or
      Cisplatin (or Carboplatin) and Pemetrexed regimens plus Ipilimumab and Nivolumab may be used
      based on the treating physician's preference.

      After completion of study treatment and surgery, patients are followed up at 8 weeks.
    
  