
    
      The eligibility for being considered a medial PKR is either antero-medial osteoarthritis or
      spontaneous osteonecrosis of the knee. The study-protocol has a pragmatic approach to whom of
      the PKR candidates will be considered for same-day surgery, as no preselection of patients
      will be done prior to surgery. I.e., everyone considered for a PKR procedure will be informed
      prior to surgery by a multidisciplinary team (anesthesiologist, nurse, physiotherapist, and
      surgeon) that if the surgery will be scheduled in the morning, he/she will then be following
      a same-day surgery protocol and likely be discharged to home later the same day.

      All of one high-volume surgeon´s (MT) first morning slots for one consecutive year will be
      dedicated to patients who will undergo PKR surgery, and thereby also be included in the
      study. The slots will be filled continuously as the patients are put up for surgery. When all
      slots have been taken within one week any additional PKR cases will be assigned to surgery
      later in the day the same week (as will all the THRs and the TKRs during this period) and
      consequently not taking part in this study. The operation scheduling will be put together on
      a weekly basis, in a strict chronological order, by a team of nurses without any insight from
      the surgeon in question.

      The criteria for discharge will be based strictly on postoperative parameters categorized
      into four dimensions - vital parameters, urinary function, bleeding, and mobilization. The
      vital parameters will be measured and scored by the National Early Warning Score (NEWS),
      where the threshold for discharge will be conservatively set to zero (NEWS 0). The urinary
      function algorithm for discharge will, in short, be if no need for catheterization and less
      than 200 ml of residual volume after spontaneous void. A compression stocking will be removed
      six hours post-surgery and if no ongoing bleeding discharge can be considered. Last, but not
      least, a physiotherapist will evaluate whether basic activity of daily living (ADL) can be
      performed in a safely manner using crutches.

      Primary outcome measures for this three-month follow-up will be safety, i.e. number of
      adverse events and readmissions. Secondary aims will be feasibility such as same-day surgery
      achievement and extra outpatient visits needed and for what reasons. Patient-satisfaction
      will also be evaluated after the participants/patients have ben discharged to their own home.
      A two-arm subgroup analysis will be conducted between those aged <80 yrs and classified as
      ASA <3 and those aged ≥80 yrs. and/or classified as ASA class ≥3.

      Descriptive data will be presented as unadjusted means with standard deviations (SD), medians
      with range, or as numbers with proportions (%). The between-group differences will be
      presented as means with 95% confidence intervals (95% CI) and p values using Welch's test,
      Mann-Whitney U-test and Likelihood Ratio Test (or when violated Fisher's exact test) for
      numerical, ordinal and categorical variables respectively. Multivariate analyses will be
      conducted using logistic regression.
    
  