
    
      The expression modulation of 5-HT7 receptor will be investigate in correlation with the
      immunological context, in different group of MS patients:

        -  Group 1: MS patients with an acute relapse

        -  Group 2: MS stable patients treated with Natalizumab

        -  Group 3: Healthy people (from Etablissement Français du Sang)

             1. 5-HT7 receptor expression evaluation on circulating leukocyte cells Each group
                presents a different inflammatory context. The investigator wish to determine the
                immunological context influence on the 5-HT7 receptor expression and which cells
                express it. To analyze the 5-HT7 expression on circulating leukocyte cells, The
                investigator will perform flow cytometry studies from the whole blood of the three
                groups mentioned above. In a first step, the investigator will analyze the overall
                rate of 5-HT7 circulating positive cells by the use of an antibody against 5-HT7
                receptor whose specificity was validated in our research team. In a second step,
                the investigator will precise which cell type, among the lymphocytes implicated in
                the MS pathology, express the 5-HT7 receptor. The investigator will use antibodies
                against each population t helper cell: Th1 , Th2, Th17 and Treg. The investigator
                will also perform immunostaining on Cytospin (thin layer of blood cells on
                coverslips) to visualize co-labeling and confirm the results of flow cytometry.

             2. Correlation between 5-HT7 receptor expression and mRNA quantity In addition, a
                correlation has been shown between an increase of 5-HT7 positive cells and an mRNA
                quantity up regulated. For the three groups, the investigator will determine the
                5-HT7 mRNA quantity on circulating leukocyte cells. In a first step, the
                investigator will check correlation between the 5-HT7 receptor expression rate and
                the mRNA quantity on circulating leukocyte cells, using quantitative Polymerase
                Chain Reaction (qPCR). In a second step, the investigator will perform cell sorting
                to isolate Th1, Th2, Th17 and Treg cells and specifically extract 5-HT7 mRNA. In
                this way, the investigator can address the 5-HT7 receptor role on one or more
                specific cell types on the MS.

             3. 5-HT7 receptor modulation according to the immunological context In order to
                understand the 5-HT7 receptor potential role on immune response moderation, the
                investigator will identify the immune context by ELISA dosage from serum samples.
                The investigator will investigate on pro-inflammatory markers like IL1b, IFNg, IL17
                and anti-inflammatory markers like IL10 and IL4. These results will be correlated
                with the previous results concerning the 5-HT7 receptor expression/quantity for
                each patient groups.

             4. 5-HT7 receptor role on lymphocyte functions in vitro From blood samples of the
                three groups mentioned above, the investigator will isolate peripheral blood
                mononuclear cells (PBMC) in vitro, to evaluate the 5-HT7 receptor role on their
                function to produce and release cytokines. The investigator will stimulate PBMC
                with one or more 5-HT7 ligands, and will perform ELISA dosage from supernatant with
                pro-inflammatory markers like IL1b, IFNg, IL17 and anti-inflammatory markers like
                IL10 and IL4. The cell immunolabelling will be perform to visualize 5-HT7 receptor
                on the cell surface.

             5. Identification of 5-HT7 receptor isoforms There are three forms of 5-HT7 receptor
                (5-HT7a, 5-HT7b, 5-HT7d). However, no difference has yet been described for their
                pharmacological function. The investigator propose to identify these different
                isoforms by qPCR. As previously described, in a first step, on circulating
                leukocyte cells and in a second step, after cell sorting to isolate Th1, Th2, Th17
                and Treg cells.
    
  