
    
      The ultimate goal of this proposal is to find the best way to rapidly and safely discontinue
      mechanical ventilation in patients recovering from respiratory failure.

      It is common practice in these patients to perform trials of "spontaneous" breathing while
      still connected to the ventilator in order to assess their readiness to breathe without
      assistance. To help with this assessment, new mechanical modes have been incorporated to
      modern ventilators. A recently developed mode, called Automatic Tube Compensation, is
      designed for this purpose ("spontaneous" breathing). Whether this method is superior to
      traditional ones has not been established and the investigators intend to address this
      question.

      The investigators aim to:

        1. compare Automatic Tube Compensation vs. our traditional mode (Continuous Positive Airway
           Pressure) during spontaneous breathing trials in their efficacy to identify patients
           ready be successfully removed from mechanical ventilation

        2. study which physiologic variables better predict successful discontinuation of
           mechanical ventilation in these two modes.

      The investigators plan to prospectively randomize patients on mechanical ventilation at the
      point of weaning evaluation, to undergo spontaneous breathing trials with our current
      ventilatory mode (Continuous Positive Airway Pressure) or the new mode (Automatic Tube
      Compensation). Based on predefined physiologic and clinical variables, clinicians will decide
      whether patients are ready to be removed from mechanical ventilation. The proportions of
      successful discontinuation (no need to reinstitute mechanical ventilation) and the duration
      of the weaning period in both groups will be compared. During the spontaneous breathing
      trials, respiratory variables will be measured and compared between patients with successful
      vs. non successful discontinuation in order to evaluate their predictive value for successful
      outcome.

      Mechanical ventilation is being used increasingly given our growing population with advanced
      age and multiple co morbidities and the rising volume of aggressive medical procedures. It is
      well known to be associated with medical complications and high health care costs. Reducing
      the duration of unnecessary mechanical ventilation while minimizing the risk of premature
      removal of needed assistance is the final objective of this project. Approaching this goal
      will decrease the adverse effects of this treatment and the cost of critical care.
    
  