
    
      INTRODUCTION:

      Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD) is a diagnostic term encompassing Crohn's disease (CD) and
      ulcerative colitis (UC), chronic health conditions (CHCs) characterised by parts of the gut
      becoming swollen, inflamed and ulcerated. Children with IBD are likely to depend on the
      support of others, particularly their parents and carers.

      Parenting a child with a CHC, such as IBD, has been related to feelings of shame and distress
      in the literature. Despite this, gaps have been identified in the support offered to parents
      of children with IBD.

      When considering how to target the distress associated with parenting a child with IBD,
      research suggests that self-compassion interventions may be of particular significance.
      Despite this, no study to our knowledge has explored the benefits of self-compassion for
      parents of children with IBD.

      The current study therefore aims to investigate the effectiveness of an online
      self-compassion intervention (SCI) for parents of children with IBD.

      AIMS:

      Primary Aim: To determine the effectiveness of an online SCI in increasing state
      self-compassion and reducing state shame and distress in parents of children with IBD.

      Secondary Aim: To determine the effectiveness of repeated engagement in the SCI materials in
      increasing trait self-compassion and reducing parental stress in parents of children with
      IBD.

      HYPOTHESES:

      Primary Hypotheses: In comparison to a control group, participants receiving the SCI will: 1)
      report increased state self-compassion immediately following the SCI; 2) report reduced state
      shame immediately following the SCI; 3) report reduced state distress immediately following
      the SCI.

      Secondary Hypotheses: In comparison to a control group, participants receiving the SCI will:
      4) report increased trait self-compassion after repeated engagement in the SCI materials for
      two weeks; 5) report reduced parental stress after repeated engagement in the SCI materials
      for two weeks.

      METHODS:

      DESIGN: See 'Study Design' for information.

      PUBLIC AND PATIENT INVOLVEMENT (PPI): Consultation regarding the suitability and feasibility
      of the design, outcome measures and materials used for this study has been sought through
      Crohn's and Colitis UK' s (CCUK) virtual PPI in research day.

      PARTICIPANTS: A priori power analysis was conducted using G*Power 3. This analysis indicated
      that it would be necessary to recruit 128 participants in total (64 in each condition) in
      order to detect a medium effect size, with 80% power and a critical p-value of .05. A medium
      effect size was predicted as a previous similar study found medium to large effect sizes
      across their results. The power and critical significance levels were set at 0.8 and 0.05
      respectively as recommended in psychological research. The target participant number has been
      inflated by 20% to account for attrition, this means that we will need to recruit 154
      participants in total (77 per group). See Enrolment and Eligibility for more participant
      information.

      DATA COLLECTION AND PROCEDURE: Participants will access a Qualtrics® link which will first
      ask them to read an information sheet, confirm their informed consent and answer a screening
      question to determine eligibility.

      Participants will then be asked to complete a brief demographic questionnaire along with
      baseline (Time 1 [T1]) measures of state self-compassion, state shame, state distress, trait
      self-compassion and parental stress (presented in a randomised order). Participants will then
      be asked to recall a recent parenting event they feel ashamed of and type it into a text box.
      A one-item question will then be administered to assess whether feelings of shame have been
      elicited by the recall task. The randomiser tool on Qualtrics® will then be used to allocate
      participants to either a control condition or the SCI (see 'Arms, Groups and Intervention'
      for more information.). After this initial administration, participants will be asked to
      complete post-condition (Time 2 [T2]) measures of state self-compassion, state shame and
      state distress to assess for any immediate changes. All participants will then be asked to
      complete a mood neutralisation task used in previous research to neutralise any potential
      distress experienced through participation.

      Participants in the SCI group will then be asked to engage in the SCI condition every-day for
      two-weeks. Qualtrics® will be pre-programmed to send participants in this group a daily
      reminder email during this time which will include a link to a Qualtrics® page containing the
      instructions and space to engage in the SCI. Participants in the control group will be told
      they do not need to do anything for two-weeks. After two weeks, Qualtrics® will be
      pre-programmed to email participants with a link for them to complete follow-up (Time 3 [T3])
      measures of trait self-compassion and parental stress. Participants in the SCI group will
      also be presented with a single item to assess participants' adherence to their allocated
      condition (e.g. 'how often did you engage in the task? every day [14 days), most days [10-13
      days], some of the days [5-9 days], not many of the days [1-4 days], none of the days [0
      days]').

      All participants will then be presented with a debrief information sheet and information on
      how to access and continue engaging in the SCI materials.

      See 'Arms, Groups and Intervention' for more information.

      OUTCOME MEASURES: See 'Outcome Measures' for information

      DATA SECURITY: A Data Management Plan (DMP) has been completed in accordance with the
      University of Sheffield's Research Data Management Policy. The DMP describes the data that
      will be collected and how it will be managed both during and after the research.

      PROPOSED DATA ANALYSIS: Preliminary Analysis: Screening, recruitment, random allocation and
      treatment engagement (including dropout) data will be summarised using a CONSORT diagram.
      Appropriate descriptive statistics will be reported. Tests to check for necessary
      assumptions; differences between groups at baseline; and differences between completers and
      non-completers will also be conducted and reported, with appropriate adjustments made to the
      following statistical analysis if necessary. A regression analysis will also be conducted to
      identify any additional predictors of change (e.g. demographic variables, T1 scores) in each
      of the dependent variables (DV)s at T2 and T3.

      Statistical Analysis:

      Hypothesis 1: State self-compassion scores at T2 will be compared using a one-way independent
      ANCOVA, with condition (SCI or control group) as the between groups independent variable
      (IV). State self-compassion scores at T1 will be included as a covariate, as recommended for
      pre-post designs assessing for an intervention effect (Field, 2005). As it has been suggested
      that research exploring SCIs should control for individual differences in self-compassion,
      baseline trait self-compassion scores will therefore be included as a covariate, along with
      any other demographic variables or T1 scores that predicted change in this DV at T2.

      Hypothesis 2: State shame scores at T2 will be compared using a one-way independent ANCOVA,
      with condition (SCI or control group) as the between groups IV. As above, state shame scores
      at T1, as well as trait self-compassion and any other related variables, will be included as
      covariates.

      Hypothesis 3: State distress scores at T2 will be compared using a one-way independent
      ANCOVA, with condition (SCI or control group) as the between groups IV. As above, state
      distress scores at T1, as well as trait self-compassion and any other related variables, will
      be included as covariates Hypothesis 4: Trait self-compassion scores at T3 will be compared
      using a one-way independent ANCOVA, with condition (SCI or control group) as the between
      groups IV. As above, trait self-compassion scores at T1, as well as any other related
      variables, will be included as covariates.

      Hypothesis 5: Parental distress scores at T3 will be compared using a one-way independent
      ANCOVA, with condition (SCI or active-control group) as the between groups IV. As above,
      parental distress scores at T1, as well as trait self-compassion and any other related
      variables, will be included as covariates.

      *Both intention-to-treat analysis (including all randomised participants) and per-protocol
      analysis (only participants who indicate they have engaged in their allocated task for ≥ some
      of the days [5-9 days]) will be ran to enhance interpretations.
    
  