
    
      Inclusion criteria:

        1. Male or female with type 2 diabetes mellitus

        2. 35 years old≤age≤65 years old

        3. 19kg/m2≤BMI≤32kg/m2

        4. Uncontrolled blood glycemia (FPG≥7.0mmol/L and 7.5%<HbA1c≤10%) after oral antidiabetes
           drugs treatment for more than 3 months

        5. Treated by diet controlling, 1 secretagogue agent and another oral antidiabetes drug,
           with the daily dosage of the secretagogue agent not more than 50% of its maximum

        6. Not participated in other clinical studies within the past 3 months

        7. Well know this study and sign the informed consent form

      Exclusion criteria:

        1. Unable to sign the informed consent form

        2. Treated by insulin, even transient usage within the past 1 year

        3. Type 1 diabetes mellitus

        4. Abnormal condition of gastrointestinal tract against the absorption of oral drugs

        5. Insufficient of liver and kidney function: ALT≥2.5 times of the upper limit of the
           normal value range and serum creatinine≥the upper limit of the normal value range

        6. Encountered the cardiovascular events such as the angina pectoris, myocardial
           infarction, severe ventricular arrhythmia, cerebral hemorrhage, cerebral infarction,
           heart failure ect. within the past half year

        7. Usage of the other hormone medicines such as cortical hormone, immunosuppressive agents
           or cytotoxic drugs within the past 2 months

        8. psychotic

        9. Allergic history to sulfonylurea drugs

       10. Diabetic coma or diabetic ketoacidosis

       11. In use of the miconazole

       12. Pregnancy or breeding women

      Primary endpoint:

      Decreasing value of FPG and HbA1c, Dosage of the insulin, Control rate of FPG

      Second Endpoints:

        1. MBG, SDBG, MAGE and MODD in the 48th CGMS

        2. Incidence of hypoglycemia and severe hypoglycemia

        3. Weight change
    
  