
    
      The following is a multicentric, observational, cross-over study intended to apply an easy
      and simple system for the quantitative determination of menstrual losses in women affected by
      Congenital Bleeding Disorders (CBDs).

      The evaluation of menstrual losses represents a scarcely studied field in this specific
      subset of patients (1), but it is very interesting because of the high incidence of
      menorrhagia,changeable according to each type of CBDs, but between 60 and 100% in women in
      the fertile age.

      The system adopted for the determination of menstrual losses, called QUEM (QUantitative
      Evaluation of Menses),is based on the collection of tampons and pads in standard bags which
      are readily vacuum sealed with a simple device for the whole of woman's period. QUEM has
      already been validated in preliminary in vitro and ex vivo studies (both in 87 healthy women
      and in women with CBDs), by comparing it with the gold standard, the Alkaline Haematin
      Method. A correlation coefficient close to 1 was obtained.

      In the current study QUEM will be applied to women in the fertile age (between 18 e 45
      years),with an ascertained diagnosis of CBD (FVII, FX, FII deficiencies, Glanzmann and von
      Willebrand disease, symptomatic Hemophilia A and B carriers), followed up for heavy periods
      at their reference hemophilia centre and needing a specific treatment will be enrolled in
      this multicentric study. Also women with apparently normal menses but a severe bleeding
      disorder will be enrolled. Women with ascertained menorrhagia will be treated with specific
      replacement therapies, already commonly adopted in clinical practice based on the type of CBD
      and scheduled to reduce heavy periods.

      The study will evaluate 4 consecutive menstrual cycles, the first and the second period
      without treatment (when possible) and the following two by the administration of the specific
      treatment.

      The bleeding anamnesis (bleeding score) will be performed by applying an international
      reference method, already validated in von Willebrand Disease type 1 (vWD1) [2] and adopted
      in an Italian multicentric study on 814 patients affected by different types of VWD [3]. The
      determination of this score has been considered useful also for other CBDs. This study has
      already been approved by the IRC of "San Salvatore Hospital"- L'Aquila-Italy. The study is
      already enrolling, in Italy, women. All the needed materials and equipments will be provided;
      patients will be carefully informed about the objectives of the study and they will follow a
      short course illustrating the use and the characteristics of the method proposed (QUEM).
    
  