
    
      Primary objective :

      Describe and compare the distribution of the different monocytic subpopulations according to
      the chemosensitivity profile (group 1) or chemoresistance (group 2) of patients with DLBCL
      and healthy donors (group 3), and identify their specific functionalities.

      Secondary objective :

      To determine the prognostic impact in terms of progression-free survival (EFS) of the
      distribution of the monocytic sub-population (s) defined i during the primary objective, in a
      retrospective study (BMS Ly Trans)

      Design/Methodology : Retrospective, observational, monocentric study.

        1. - Part 1: Phenotypic and functional study of monocytic sub - populations of patients
           with DLBCL.

           - Patient selection from the BMS_LyTrans database : Group 1: 15 patients with DLBCL with
           chemoresistance or relapse less than 2 years after completion of first-line therapy.

           Group 2: 15 patients with DLBCL with chemosensitivity without relapse within 2 years
           following the end of first-line treatment.

           Group 3: 15 healthy patients.

           A - Irish Lab (Nashville)

           - Phenotypic analysis by mass cytometry: This new technology allows the integration of
           multiple data with membrane markers, intracytoplasmic proteins as well as transcription
           factors, thus providing global modeling of signaling pathways

           B - UMR 917 (Rennes) 8 months Cell sorting: The four subtypes of monocytes described
           above will be sorted by flow cytometry according to the expression of CD14, CD16 and
           Slan.

           - High-throughput transcriptional analysis: cell lysis and real-time PCR in order to
           study the expression of genes involved in the mechanisms of
           immunomodulation.Bio-informatics, Integrated analysis: The set of clinical,
           transcriptomic and proteomic data will be analyzed in an integrated way using tools and
           algorithms working within the Irish lab.

        2. - 2nd part (Rennes) - 6 months : Populations differentially expressed between groups in
           part 1 will be analyzed on a cohort of 100 samples. These parameters will be analyzed
           jointly after integration in a database, uni- and multivariate analysis and the survival
           probability will be calculated for groups with a log-rank test.

      Expected benefits :

        1. - To allow a better understanding of the monocyte compartment in DLBCL, particularly
           with regard to the immunosuppressive capacity of some of these cellular subtypes.

        2. - To refine the interest of the biomarker "monocyte level" on EFS in patients with
           DLBCL, highlighting the monocyte subtype involved.

        3. - To continue the collaboration between the two sites, which will allow to combine
           technologies and expertise present in Rennes (patient recruitment, cell sorting,
           molecular analysis (Biomark)) or in Nashville (CyTOF, bioinformatics, integrated
           analysis).
    
  