
    
      The goal of this research is to improve opioid analgesic safety and efficacy by optimizing
      opioid risk recognition, informed decision-making including misuse among 15-24 year olds who
      are prescribed these agents for home use.

      This is a randomized, controlled study design. The investigators will enroll emerging adults
      (aged 15-24 yrs) who are scheduled to undergo a surgical procedure and will be prescribed an
      opioid as part of their routine postoperative care. Comprehensive informed consent will be
      obtained.

      No medical treatments will be altered for the purposes of this educational study. All
      participants will complete baseline surveys to assess their pain medicine familiarity, their
      opioid risk knowledge and perceptions, and their analgesic self-efficacy and their pain
      relief/ risk avoidance preferences. Participants will also be presented (via the survey
      platform) with several hypothetical (mock) scenarios and will be asked to make hypothetical
      decisions about how they would treat pain for each.

      The Intervention group will receive tailored feedback and guidance after each scenario (i.e.,
      the Scenario Tailored Opioid Messages) and the Control group will receive only routine
      analgesic risk and benefit information. Participants will complete the post-scenario/feedback
      surveys to re-assess opioid risk perceptions and self-efficacy and will complete brief health
      literacy surveys.

      On days 7, 14 and at 1 and 3 months, participants will be resurveyed (via emailed qualtrics
      survey link or paper -whichever is preferred) about their opioid risk knowledge, perceptions,
      scenario decision making, analgesic self-efficacy and pain relief/risk avoidance preferences.

      All surveys and datasheets will contain unique identifiers only. Identifiers will be
      maintained separately from survey data (linked only by unique identifier) to maintain
      privacy. Participants will receive up to $50 for participation.
    
  