
    
      MI is an effective counseling method in individuals who are less ready to change their
      behavior (i.e., low motivation). Thus, MI is an ideal counseling method to promote home-based
      walking among AAs with PAD. In our pilot study to promote home-based walking, we used a
      counseling protocol, Patient-centered Assessment and Counseling for Exercise (PACE)(Sallis et
      al), which targets known modifiable determinants of behavior change (e.g., social support).
      Using PACE, we demonstrated an improvement in stair climbing ability and lower limb blood
      flow (as measured by the ankle-brachial index). Improvements in these lower limb outcomes
      offer support for the use of PACE counseling in PAD, but PACE does not specifically address
      low motivation - a critical target for AAs with PAD. In addition, PACE is not culturally
      sensitive. In our proposed trial, we hypothesize that MI will improve walking distance and
      reduce walking impairment more than PACE in AAs with PAD.

      There is a critical need to improve lower limb outcomes in AAs with PAD. Our long-term goal
      is to reduce debilitating functional limitations and amputations in AAs with PAD. The overall
      objective of this application is to determine the most effective counseling strategy to
      improve home-based walking in AAs with PAD. We have assembled an excellent and diverse
      research team with the requisite skills and experience needed for this study. Moreover, we
      have robust pilot data to support the study hypotheses and ensure successful completion of
      the study.

      We will deliver the PACE protocol or MI for 6 months, using both face-to-face visits and
      telephone contact. Our primary outcome is walking distance (as measured by the widely used
      and well-validated 6-minute walk test) at the end of active intervention (6 months).
      Secondary outcomes are walking distance as measured beyond the active phase of intervention
      (12 months), use of home-based walking (as measured by accelerometry), and lower limb blood
      flow (as measured by the ankle brachial index - ABI). Our comparison group will receive the
      same print material as the two interventions as well as contact every three months to update
      any changes in contact information and to assess their health status. We will randomize 204
      participants to one of three arms: Control or Treatment One (Tx1); PACE or Treatment Two
      (Tx2); or MI, also referred to as Treatment Three (Tx3). In addition, we will determine the
      efficacy of PACE (Tx2) to increase walking distance in AAs with PAD, compared to Control
      (Tx1).

      Primary Hypothesis:

      1. At 6 months, AAs with PAD randomized to MI (Tx3) will have a greater increase in their
      walking distance, compared to those receiving PACE (Tx2) and the control group (Tx1).

      Secondary Hypotheses:

        1. AAs with PAD randomized to MI (Tx3) will have a greater increase in their walking
           distance at 12 months - a follow-up period beyond the six months of active intervention
           - compared to those receiving PACE (Tx2) and compared to the control group (Tx1).

        2. At 6 and 12 months, AAs with PAD randomized to MI (Tx3) will have a greater increase in
           their home-based walking and their lower limb blood flow, compared to those receiving
           PACE (Tx2) and to the control group (Tx1).

        3. At 6 and 12 months, AAs with PAD randomized to PACE (Tx2) will have a greater increase
           in their walking distance compared to those randomized to control (Tx1).

      Exploratory Aim:

      We will explore potential mediators (self-efficacy, social support, intrinsic/extrinsic
      motivation) and moderators (co-morbidities, leg symptom type, stage of change) of
      intervention effects on walking distance, home-based walking, and lower limb blood flow among
      AAs with PAD.
    
  