
    
      Background/Rationale: Obesity and physical inactivity have reached epidemic proportions,
      resulting in increased rates of chronic disease, premature death, and substantial health care
      costs. Excess weight is even more prevalent in populations with serious mental illnesses
      (SMI), in part due to medication-induced weight gain and social disadvantage. Since
      individuals with SMI often have cognitive deficits, specialized approaches are required to
      help people manage their weight. Researchers have found that specialized in-person
      interventions focused on diet and activity can help individuals with SMI manage their weight.
      However, these evidence-based practices have not been widely disseminated. Barriers to the
      use of these interventions include reluctance of individuals to participate in groups,
      difficulty finding transportation for frequent visits to clinics, a shortage of trained
      clinicians, and inadequate clinician time to provide the interventions. It is likely that
      these barriers can be addressed with a web-based weight intervention that is tailored for
      individuals with SMI. Specialized web-based approaches have been studied and found to be
      effective in this population, and can deliver content that is intensive and engaging with
      minimal requirements for clinician time.

      Objectives: The investigators on this proposal previously developed a prototype web-based
      system that provides limited diet education to individuals with SMI. The current project
      extends and evaluates this system. The project's objectives are to: 1) build on the prototype
      to develop "eWellness," a comprehensive web-based system that delivers an evidence-based
      weight management program focused on diet and activity, and that meets the needs of
      individuals with SMI; 2) evaluate the effectiveness, in individuals with SMI, of an eWellness
      program compared with a control group; and, 3) characterize, from the perspective of
      individuals with SMI, the strengths, weaknesses, and barriers to the use of eWellness.

      Methods: This is a randomized, controlled trial of individuals with SMI at a community mental
      health center who are overweight and prescribed medications that have weight gain as a common
      side-effect. Participants are assigned to the eWellness program or to continue with usual
      care. Research assessments occur at baseline, 3, and 6 months. Changes in outcomes are
      compared over time between the two groups.

      Significance: By losing weight, individuals with mental illness can decrease their risk for
      medical problems, and improve their quality of life and life expectancy. A web-based system
      that helps individuals lose weight could be feasible to disseminate broadly at medical
      centers, clinics, and community based programs in both rural and urban areas.
    
  