
    
      This is a randomized, open-label, multicenter, phase II study to compare a triplet
      combination of CBP501, pemetrexed and cisplatin with pemetrexed/cisplatin when administered
      to patients with locally advanced (stage IIIB with malignant pleural effusion or pericardial
      effusion) or metastatic (stage IV) non-squamous NSCLC as consecutive i.v. infusions according
      to a once-every-3-weeks schedule.

      The protocol will evaluate full-dose cisplatin and pemetrexed with or without CBP501.
      Patients will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to pemetrexed, cisplatin and CBP501 (Arm A) or
      pemetrexed and cisplatin (Arm B). Randomization will be stratified according to whether or
      not patients are eligible for bevacizumab therapy.

      The combination of cisplatin/pemetrexed has come to be recognized as the new standard of care
      for patients with untreated, unresectable malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) and untreated
      NSCLC non-squamous cell histology.

      Preclinical and clinical findings that support this protocol are:

        -  CBP501 has exhibited interesting preclinical activity in various lung cancer cell lines.

        -  Synergism was documented with CBP501/cisplatin in the preclinical studies with lung
           cancer cell lines.

        -  The dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) of CBP501 was rapid onset allergic reaction, as was
           suggested by preclinical toxicology. Other toxicities were quite limited. No evidence of
           potentiation of either CBP501 or cisplatin toxicity was found in the combination phase I
           trial, and the toxicity of the combination, primarily related to cisplatin, is
           manageable. It is expected that CBP501 and pemetrexed will display non-overlapping
           toxicity profiles in combination, given that hematological toxicity and gastrointestinal
           toxicity are the principal toxicity types of the latter.

        -  Given the acceptable safety of the cisplatin/ pemetrexed combination, it is anticipated
           that the addition of CBP501 to this combination can be evaluated without excessive risk
           in the phase II programs.

        -  The phase I study of CBP501 in combination with pemetrexed/cisplatin (phase I part of
           the mesothelioma program) did not show DLTs or evidence of enhancement of toxicities
           with the triplet combination. The RD of CBP501 25 mg/m², cisplatin 75 mg/m² and
           pemetrexed 500 mg/m² is currently in use in the phase II study with first line
           mesothelioma patients.

        -  Hints of activity were observed during the phase I study with CBP501 and cisplatin.

        -  No pharmacokinetics (PK) interaction was documented between cisplatin and CBP501.
    
  