
    
      Background : While there is a high level of knowledge on HIV/AIDS in rural South Africa,
      structural factors, including poverty and gender inequalities, have critically impeded
      prevention efforts based on modifying individual risk. Attempts to rigorously evaluate
      structural interventions for the prevention of HIV infection in sub-Saharan Africa remain
      under-developed.

      Microfinance is a well-established development tool with nearly 100 million clients world
      wide. Loans to poor households, particularly to women, facilitate business development
      opportunities. Prior research has demonstrated significant economic and social benefits.
      Health benefits have also been documented and include improvements in immunization coverage,
      better nutrition, and contraceptive use. While poverty and HIV/AIDS frequently co-exist, the
      impact of microfinance on vulnerability to HIV has not previously been explored.

      Intervention Design : The IMAGE intervention combines two components:

        1. Microfinance: Implementation of a community-level, poverty-focused microfinance
           programme exclusively targeting women

        2. Gender and HIV training: A two phase participatory learning and action curriculum, has
           been integrated into bi-weekly microfinance meetings. The first phase consists of 10
           structured sessions facilitated by trainers, while the second phase facilitates
           community mobilsation activities from within the microfinance centre.

      Study Design

      The IMAGE Study randomised four pairs of communities that were matched on size and
      accessibility. The intervention communities received the IMAGE intervention from late 2001.
      Comparison communities will receive the intervention strategy approximately three years
      later.

      The study enrols individuals into three pairs of cohorts (intervention and comparison). Data
      is collected on the major health-related endpoints as detailed below. Qualitative and
      quantitative data are also collected to document processes of change and potential pathways
      of impact. Data analysis will be appropriate to the cluster-randomised study design.

      Cohort I : Women recruited to IMAGE intervention and Randomly selected women eligible to join
      IMAGE from control villages. Sample size per arm - 450. Length of follow up - 2 years.
      Primary outcomes: 12 month experience of intimate partner violence

      Cohort II : Young people aged 14-35 living in the households of women in cohort I
      (Intervention and Comparison). Project sample size per arm - 750. Duration of follow up - 2
      years. Primary outcomes - Condom use with last non-spousal partner

      Cohort III : Randomly selected young people aged 14-35 living in Intervention communities and
      Comparison communities. Project sample size per arm - 1500. Duration of follow up - 3 years.
      Primary outcomes - Condom use with last non-spousal partner, HIV incidence
    
  