
    
      Objective

      This screening and registry protocol is designed to facilitate subject recruitment for the
      Center for Neuroscience and Regenerative Medicine (CNRM) sponsored clinical research studies
      on traumatic brain injury (TBI) at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and participating
      CNRM sites. This protocol will serve as a first step for evaluating subjects for possible
      inclusion in CNRM sponsored natural history, observational, or interventional protocols.
      Other approved CNRM protocols may continue to recruit subjects directly into their respective
      studies, and may refer subjects to this study.

      The objective of this protocol is to develop a subject recruitment database that will house
      preliminary data on research subjects who are interested in and potentially eligible for
      current and future CNRM sponsored protocols. The effectiveness of the recruitment methods
      utilized in this protocol will be evaluated to determine the most successful outreach
      approaches and recruitment tools for the enrollment of TBI or post concussive study subjects.

      Study Population

      This protocol will enroll 2500 male and female adult subjects with signs/symptoms or
      diagnosis of TBI or post-concussive syndrome, from participating sites, other CNRM sponsored
      protocols and within the community using various methods of outreach and advertisement.

      Design

      This study involves an initial study visit conducted in one of two ways: at the NIH Clinical
      Center,or at the participating site. Subjects enrolled acutely and/or at a participating site
      may also be provided the option to complete an additional visit at the NIH CC after their
      initial visit. Based on the information obtained during the initial study visit, the subject
      will be referred to appropriate CNRM protocols for further protocol-specific screening prior
      to enrollment, or informed that s/he is not eligible for any other actively enrolling CNRM
      studies at this time. Study procedures may include: physical exam, medical history, nursing
      evaluation, questionnaires completed by interview, blood and urine sample collection, and
      magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).

      Follow-up visits will be conducted by telephone at regular intervals for a year, and then ad
      hoc at potential referral eligibility to update contact information and collect outcome data.
      No treatment is offered under this protocol.

      Outcome Measures

      The outcome measures include accrual of subjects, retention of enrolled subjects and loss to
      follow-up, and referral number and rate of enrolled subjects to other CNRM studies. In
      addition, we will evaluate the frequency and certainty of injury classification (possible,
      probable, or definite TBI).
    
  