
    
      Research question:

      In people attending the Emergency Department who smoke, does a brief intervention (including
      the provision of an e-cigarette and referral to stop smoking services) increase smoking
      cessation in comparison with usual care and is it cost effective?

      Background:

      Tobacco smoking is the leading cause of years of life lost in the United Kingdom (UK), and
      negatively impacts significantly on physical health conditions and recovery outcomes from
      injury or surgery. Currently, smoking prevalence is recorded at approximately 15% of the
      population, but this masks substantial variation between different population groups. Patient
      and Public Involvement (PPI) development work demonstrates that prevalence of smoking for
      people attending the emergency department is approximately 24%. Most current smokers will, if
      asked, state that they want to quit, but need support. The National Health Service (NHS) long
      term plan and the Tobacco control plan for England recommend smokers are supported to quit at
      every contact with the health service by 2023/4. To date there have been no RCTs of smoking
      cessation support in the Emergency Department (ED) setting in the UK, which potentially
      provides a highly motivating opportunistic route to intervention.

      Aims and objectives:

      To undertake a RCT, with internal pilot, comparing a brief intervention (including provision
      of an e-cigarette and referral to smoking cessation services), assessing long term smoking
      abstinence, in people attending Emergency Departments.

        1. To run an internal pilot study, with clear stop/go criteria, primarily to test
           recruitment systems.

        2. To definitively test real-world effectiveness of an ED based smoking cessation
           intervention in comparison with usual care, by comparing smoking abstinence at 6 month
           follow-up between trial groups.

        3. To undertake a cost effectiveness analysis of the intervention in comparison with usual
           care, from an NHS and personal social services (PSS) perspective.

        4. To undertake an embedded mixed-methods process evaluation to assess delivery,
           implementation, fidelity and contamination.

      Methods:

      Randomised Controlled Trial of people who smoke attending an Emergency Department, with an
      internal pilot, health economic evaluation and process evaluation. The primary outcome is
      smoking cessation, self-reported as continuous smoking abstinence, biochemically confirmed at
      6 months. The sample size is 972 (with a power of 90% and a difference in quit rates between
      the groups of 6%).

      Anticipated impact and dissemination:

      The investigators will definitively test an ED based smoking cessation intervention and make
      recommendations for future implementation if effective. The intervention has the potential to
      reduce smoking prevalence by at least 6% based on existing evidence, impacting on improved
      long term health outcomes for approximately 334,000 members of the UK population if adopted
      across the NHS. Results will be disseminated at international conferences and published in
      leading journals to reach academic experts, through NHS networks and the Royal College of
      Emergency Medicine to reach commissioners, managers and members of the public.
    
  