
    
      Global demographic trends clearly show the increase in life expectancy and, as a direct
      consequence of progressive aging, the prevalence of disabling diseases with the relative
      intake of drugs. The impact of certain systemic diseases on the health of peri-implant
      tissues, especially if uncontrolled, has been described by various authors (Mombelli and
      Cionca, 2006; Donos and Calciolari, 2014). Furthermore, the intake of drugs such as thiazide
      diuretics, beta-blockers, anti-inflammatories, proton pump inhibitors and serotonin re-uptake
      inhibitors has been shown to be able to modulate bone metabolism with different mechanisms
      (Vestergaard, 2008). Thus, they may be able to influence peri-implant health.

      Some drugs, such as anti-hypertensive medications have a proved effect on bone metabolism by
      influencing the renin-angiotensin system (Brater et al. 2011).

      In the national report for the year 2019, AIFA (Italian Medicines Agency) has drawn up the
      ranking of the 30 substances with the highest spending rate (The Medicines Utilisation
      Monitoring Centre. National Report on Medicines use in Italy. Year 2019): among these we can
      note fourteen anti-hypertensive drugs, four PPIs, the first of which is pantoprazole (fourth
      place) one SSRI (escitalopram, twenty-fifth place), and one non-steroidal anti-inflammatory
      drug (diclofenac, twentieth place).

      Proton pump blockers (PPIs) are a class of gastric acid secretion inhibitors that are
      currently among the best-selling drugs worldwide. The main clinical uses of PPIs include the
      treatment of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), peptic ulcer, non-ulcer dyspepsia as
      well as in other hypersecretory states including gastrinoma (Gasiorowska & Fass 2008). The
      use of PPIs, especially at high doses and/or in long-term treatments, has been associated to
      an increased risk of hip, wrist and spine fractures (Ye et al. 2011). Different mechanisms
      have been suggested to explain the effects of PPIs on bone metabolism, which include:
      reduction of calcium absorption due to an increased pH in the small intestine (Yu et al.
      2008); reduction of the osteoclastic resorption activity due to the modulation of vacuolar
      ATPase (V-ATPase) at the membrane level in the vesicles of osteoclasts (Mattsson et al 1991);
      inhibition of non-specific alkaline phosphatase (ALP) and FOSFO1 in the vesicles of the bone
      matrix, increasing the expression of osteocalcin and the osteoprotegerin/RANKL ratio (Roberts
      et al. 2007, Delomenede 2009). Regarding in vivo studies and possible interference of PPIs
      with osteoclastic activity, omeprazole was found to modify urinary bone resorption markers in
      humans such as hydroxyproline and calcium levels (Mizunashi et al 1993). Costa-Rodrigues et
      al. (2013) analyzed the concentration- and time-dependent effects of omeprazole, esomeprazole
      and lansoprazole in human osteoclastic and osteoblastic cells, suggesting how they could
      induce direct non-specific cytotoxicity, further amplified by specific inhibitory effects on
      functional parameters such as osteoclastic resorption activity and the osteoblastic ability
      to form a mineralized matrix. However, it is worth remembering that any decrease in bone
      turnover caused by PPIs may be desirable in the context of disorders associated with a high
      rate of osteolysis, such as osteoporosis, Paget's disease and inflammatory conditions such as
      rheumatoid arthritis and periodontal disease, in which a decrease in osteoclast activity can
      lead to a significant improvement in overall bone quality (Rodan & Martin 2000).

      Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are currently among the most common
      antidepressants and their main indications are major depression, generalized anxiety
      disorder, post-traumatic stress disorder, obsessive compulsive disorder, panic attack
      syndrome and bulimia. Their mechanism of action includes primarily the inhibition of the
      serotonin transporter (SERT). The action of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs)
      on certain receptors and transporters such as 5-HT1B, 5-HT2B or 5-HT2C can result in impaired
      bone metabolism through increased differentiation and activation of osteoclasts (Haney &
      Warden, 2008). Reductions in bone mineral density (BMD) have been described, among others, in
      patients suffering from depressive syndromes which appear to be related to alterations in
      serotonin function (Schweiger et al. 2000). These findings suggest the hypothesis that SSRIs
      may have an impact also on the osseointegration process.

      Anti-hypertensive drugs medications have been proven to interfere with bone metabolism
      through different mechanisms. For example, beta-blockers and angiotensin-converting enzyme
      inhibitors are able to inhibit osteoclasts activity by blocking the surface β-2 adrenergic
      receptors, which affects the renin-angiotensin system (Brater 2011), while thiazides may
      enhance bone formation by increasing calcium absorption at the distal convoluted tubule.

      Systemic corticosteroids such as prednisone, prednisolone, methylprednisolone and
      dexamethasone have anti-inflammatory, immunomodulatory, and antineoplastic effects, therefore
      they are commonly used in the treatment of numerous conditions. However, they are also
      associated to various adverse reactions, especially when used at high doses or for long
      periods. Fracture and osteoporosis are among the most common corticosteroid-related adverse
      events (21-30%, Rice et al. 2017). The mechanism of action of NSAIDs is associated with the
      inhibition of cyclooxygenase (COX) enzyme activity. Two forms of COX enzyme are isolated:
      COX-1 and COX-2. The mechanism through which NSAIDs may negatively affect bone healing has
      not been fully explained, but it seems to be mostly related to the COX-2 blockade. Actually,
      it was proven that COX-2 is necessary for mesenchymal cells to differentiate into osteoblasts
      during fracture healing, while cele-coxib and other COX-2 blockers were reported to have a
      negative effect on the healing process by limiting osteogenesis and decreasing the osteogenic
      potential of mesenchymal stem cells (Lisowska et al. 2018).

      The main aim of the study is to investigate if the systemic assumption of medications (such
      as SSRIs, PPIs, anti-inflammatory drugs, and anti-hypertensive drugs) could imply an
      increased risk of developing peri-implantitis.

      Secondary aims will be to evaluate:

        -  the augmented risk of implant failure correlated to the assumption of drugs

        -  the correlation between the use of drugs and implant cumulative survival rate (CSR%)

        -  the relationship between drug dosage and the development of peri-implantitis

        -  relationship between drug dosage and implant failure The present will be a
           single-center, retrospective, observational, comparative study.

      The primary outcome was the measure of the risk of incurring in peri-implantitis in subjects
      assuming systemic medications (SSRIs, PPIs, anti-inflammatory drugs, and anti-hypertensive
      drugs).

      The secondary outcomes include:

        -  estimation of how the assumption of systemic medications could influence survival curves
           and the occurrence of peri-implantitis;

        -  to establish if a relationship exists between the dosage of systemic medications and the
           risk of incurring in peri-implantitis

        -  to establish if a relationship exists between the dosage of systemic medications and the
           risk of incurring in implant failure

      The definition of implant survival will be based on the fact that the implant is still in
      situ, stable, and supporting a functional prosthesis. An implant that was removed or
      spontaneously lost due to failed osseointegration will be considered an implant failure.
      Peri-implantitis will be defined according to the following parameters: 1) presence of
      bleeding and/or suppuration on gentle probing; 2) presence of radiographic bone loss of at
      least 2 mm, beyond crestal bone level changes due to initial bone remodeling, evaluated
      through comparison of baseline (one year after surgical intervention) and follow-up
      periapical radiographs; in absence of baseline periapical radiographs, presence of bone level
      located ≥ 3 mm apical to the most coronal portion of the intraosseous portion of the implant;
      3) presence of an increased probing depth as compared to previous observations.

      The following parameters will be collected from clinical records:

        -  Patient's age and sex at the time of surgical intervention

        -  description of systemic diseases (if any) at the time of surgical intervention

        -  description of pharmacological therapy (if any) at the time of surgical intervention

        -  smoking status (number of cigarettes (if reported)) at the time of surgical intervention

        -  history of periodontal disease before the surgical intervention or at the time of
           surgical intervention

        -  date of surgery

        -  implant position

        -  implant brand and type, diameter, length, diameter of the prosthetic platform

        -  characteristics of the bone regeneration procedure (if performed)

        -  description of surgical complications (if any)

        -  characteristics and timing of prosthetic rehabilitation (provisional and definitive)

        -  date of the last clinical control

        -  date of the last radiographic control

        -  failure occurrence date (if any); the diagnosis of failure was based on the procedure
           described in paragraph 3.1

        -  peri-implantitis occurrence date (if any); the diagnosis of peri-implantitis was based
           on the procedure described in paragraph 3.1

        -  oral hygiene level

        -  frequency of maintenance recall sessions

      Data collection will be performed in a maximum period of 5 months. Data analysis will take a
      maximum of 4 months, for a total duration of 9 months. The collected data refer to clinical
      records of patients treated with implants from January 1st, 2005 to June 30th, 2020 (last
      follow-up included: 6 month visit on December 2020).

      The sample size was calculated in order to evaluate the hazard risk of patients exposed to a
      specific drug (SSRI, PPI, Anti-inflammatory drugs or anti-hypertensive) compared to
      non-exposed patients. The ratio of exposed/non-exposed patients is expected to be 1:4 in the
      cohort. The 5-year incidence in non-exposed patients in a previous series of cases resulted
      0.16, and an HR=2 is expected in the exposed patients. On the basis of these assumptions,
      considering a 10% dropout rate, the sample should be made of 358 subjects (72 exposed + 286
      not exposed ).

      Therefore, will be included a total of 358 patients who was exposed at least to one of the
      study drugs: each subject will be evaluated both in the test group of the exposure drug (vs
      the group of subjects who did not take that drug), and in the control group for the drugs
      that he/she has not taken.

      The calculation was performed using the method proposed by Schoenfeld (Schoenfeld 1983).

      Descriptive statistics will be provided by means of mean values and standard deviations.
      Correlation between baseline parameters and outcomes will be provided through the use of
      logistic regression. Survival tables and Kaplan-Meier analysis will be elaborated for
      survival analysis, considering the occurrence of implant failure and the diagnosis of
      peri-implantitis as events. Cox regression analysis will be used in order to evaluate the
      influence of the use of SSRI and/or PPI on survival curves.

      For all the analysis, the level of significance was set at p<0.05.
    
  