
    
      Many patients are readmitted to the hospital shortly after discharge. Twenty percent of
      Medicare beneficiaries discharged were re-hospitalized within 30 days at a cost to Medicare
      estimated at $17.4 billion. This problem does not only affect the elderly. Medicaid enrollees
      aged 21-64 had 10.7% 30-day readmission rate. Identifying which patients are at highest risk
      is important for allocating resources to those high risk individuals.

      Several studies have attempted to retrospectively identify medical conditions, medications,
      labs, and vitals associated with increased risk of readmission with different levels of
      success. Examples of these include the Charlson Comorbidity Index, LACE, and the Comorbidity
      Polypharmacy Score. Although not always developed for use in predicting readmissions, they
      have been subsequently associated with this.

      While these indices examine objective data, it is thought that health beliefs, abilities, and
      behaviors can also affect the risk of readmissions. Health literacy in particular has been
      shown to be associated with 30 day readmissions after an acute myocardial infarction and in
      general medical patients. Low numeracy has been associated with increased risk of 30 day
      readmission in patients with acute heart failure.

      Inpatient questionnaires are able to identify patients who are more likely than others to be
      readmitted. Additionally, objective qualities such as insurance status, comorbidities, and
      admissions within the past year are predictors of readmission. Due to the unique patient
      populations at different health systems, an institution-specific approach is necessary to
      analyze the specific factors contributing to readmission. Therefore, a survey will be used to
      gauge the most predictive factors of readmissions and ED visits, including objective and
      subjective sections. After further research and modification, the survey will potentially
      serve as a tool for clinicians to select the best approach to post-discharge care and
      follow-up.

      This pilot will attempt to test a survey for predicting readmission through measurements of
      health literacy, numeracy, medication adherence, self-efficacy, and tolerance, and in
      conjunction with co-morbidity indices.
    
  