
    
      Rationale: ECMO treatment has a mortality of 38%, for a large part treatment related due to
      complications. The most feared complication is ischemic stroke for which heparin is
      administered with an aPTT target 2.0-2.5 times baseline (approximately 60-75 sec).

      However, there is no relation between aPTT and the occurrence of stroke (1.2%), but there is
      a relation with the much more frequent occurrence of bleeding complications (55%) and blood
      transfusion. Both are strongly related to outcome.

      Objective: Our objective is to study if reduced anticoagulation targets diminish bleeding
      complications without an increase in thromboembolic complications or a negative impact on
      outcome.

      Study design: Three-arm non-inferiority RCT.

      Study population: All adult Dutch patients treated with ECMO during the 30 months of the
      study.

      Intervention: Randomization between heparin administration with a target of 2-2.5 times
      baseline aPTT (usual care, about 60-75 sec.), 1.5-2.0 times baseline aPTT (45-60 sec.) or low
      molecular weight heparin (LMWH) guided by weight and renal function.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: The primary outcome parameter is a combined endpoint
      consisting of: 1) major bleeding including hemorrhagic stroke according to the ELSO
      definitions; 2) severe thromboembolic complication defined as ischemic stroke, limb ischemia
      (not related with distal perfusion catheter), or acute pump failure with emergency exchange;
      3) mortality at 6 months.

      Secondary outcome parameters are: 1) blood transfusions; 2) health related quality of life
      (HR-QoL) at 6 months; 3) exchange of the membrane oxygenator; 4) vessel thrombosis after ECMO
      removal detected by echography; 5) pulmonary embolism; 6) costs; 7) the individual components
      of the composite outcome; and 8) all thromboembolic complications combined.

      Expected outcomes: We expect that with a target of 1.5-2.0x baseline aPTT or with LMWH the
      primary composite endpoint will be reached in 60% of patients compared to 70% in usual care.
      To show non-inferiority with a significance level (alpha) of 5%, power of 80% and a
      non-inferiority limit (delta) of 7.5% the corresponding sample size is 91 patients per group.
      In other words, if there is a true difference in favor of the experimental treatment of 10%,
      then 91 patients per group are required to be 80% sure that the upper limit of a one-sided
      95% confidence interval (or equivalently a 90% two-sided confidence interval) will exclude a
      difference in favor of the standard group of more than 7.5%. To compensate for a lower effect
      and drop-outs 330 patients will be enrolled. Apart from anticoagulation targets, treatment
      will be as usual so study participation will not lead to a burden for the patient, e.g. no
      extra blood sampling, tests or visits. After 6 months the patients will be contacted for a
      short questionnaire to measure health-related quality of life.
    
  