
    
      Head and neck cancer is one of the most common malignancies in the world, Malnutrition occurs
      frequently at the time of diagnosis as consequences of alcohol consumption and tobacco use
      that is quite common in this patients population, and of local tumor invasion, obstructing
      the function of swallowing and chewing. In addition, during the treatment, mucositis,
      anorexia, dysphagia, mouth sores, and other acute and late toxic effects of radiotherapy (RT)
      and chemotherapy frequently worsen the nutritional status.

      Poor nutritional status and chemotherapy or RT-toxicity, lead to treatment interruption
      frequently and is also associated with higher risk of infection, hospital readmission, early
      death, worse survival outcomes, and deterioration in the quality of life (QoL). According to
      published results, one third of the patient would have benefit from a complete treatment. In
      addition, the correlation exists between some biological parameters (CRP, albumin,
      neutrophils, Hb) and the nutritional status. Therefore, it deems essential to maintain
      nutritional status in head and neck cancer patients undergoing RT and chemotherapy.

      Dietary counseling and oral supplements showed positive influences on nutritional outcomes
      and QoL However, their role is limited when it comes to obstruction or mucositis. Thus,
      enteral feeding may be a choice either through nasogastric tube (NGT) or percutaneous
      endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG). Studies investigated the effects of PEG compared with NGT were
      not conclusive or showing no consistent results on nutritional status, treatment
      interruption, nutrition-related hospital admission, and tube-related complications in the
      head and neck cancer patients receiving RT or chemo-radiotherapy.

      The optimal method and the timing of placement are still debated. Consequently, the aim of
      this study is to collect data on our current daily practice on supplementary nutrition method
      ( NGT, PEG) in head and neck cancers patients treated in our radiation therapy unit and to
      identify factors predicting good treatment outcomes( ie full treatment administration).

      Secondary objectives are to collect nutritional data during the treatment, to study the
      nutritional status in relation to acute or late adverse events, to study the impact of an
      early enteral feeding on clinical and biological parameters.

      Ancillary study: Sarco-Nutrineck The aim of this ancillary study is to collect data on
      prevalence of low muscle mass in this population, treatment outcomes and survival.

      Study measures:

      At baseline: body height and weight, calculated BMI. Biological parameters: albumin,
      orosomucoid, transthyretin, CRP Daily - during the treatment period: weight Weekly - during
      the treatment period: albumin, orosomucoid, transthyretin, CRP. The Nutritional and
      inflammatory status score will be calculated.

      Clinical criteria on the requirement of enteral nutrition (or need for artificial nutrition)
      in case of weight loss persisting at least for three days during radiotherapy:

      The aim of this study is to investigate whether nutritional screening on admission can be
      used to determine risk levels for adverse clinical events and treatment outcome ( full
      treatment administration) in head and neck cancer and to propose a risk stratification based
      on nutritional screening before radiotherapy or concomitant chemo radiotherapy.

      tube (NGT) will be placed according to the following procedure: The weight will be assessed
      on daily basis and will be compared to the figure at baseline, before treatment. If the
      weight loss is superior to 2 kg, the patient will consult a radiotherapist who will perform a
      physical examination, a nutritional assessment (history, appetite change, taste, quantity and
      quality of oral food intake, medication, details regarding weight change and BMI). In
      addition to dietary counselling and oral supplementation, If indicated, analgesic drugs and
      or treatment of associated mucositis will be prescribed.

      In case of persisting weight loss or severe dysphagia or no oral solid food intake, a
      nasogastric tube (NGT) will be placed by a nurse and a personalized nutritional counselling
      by a dietician will be organized.

      Biological exams will be done according to our local practice and standard, and the results
      will be analyzed to assess the safety. Regular clinical exams will be realized. All adverse
      events will reported according to the common terminology criteria for adverse events scale.

      Follow-up period. The patients will benefit from a clinical exam, height, weight, BMI,
      biological exam (including albumin, orosomucoid, transthyretin, CRP) one month after the end
      of the treatment, and then at three months and at twelve months, late toxicities will be
      recorded.

      The aim of this study is to investigate whether nutritional screening on admission can be
      used to determine risk levels for adverse clinical events and treatment outcome (full
      treatment administration) in head and neck cancer and to propose i) isk stratification based
      on nutritional screening before radiotherapy or concomitant chemo radiotherapy ii) decisional
      algorithm on placement of a NGT
    
  