
    
      Patients with sepsis who receive inadequate AI regimen have a high risk of poor clinical
      outcomes. It is therefore critical to achieve adequate concentration of the AI as quickly as
      possible in these patients.

      Pharmacokinetics (PK) describes the drug concentration-time courses in body fluids resulting
      from administration of a certain drug dose, pharmacodynamics (PD) the observed effect
      resulting from a certain drug concentration. The three PK/PD indices most commonly evaluated
      for AI are: the ratio of the maximal unbound drug concentration to the MIC (fCmax/MIC), the
      ratio of the area under the unbound drug concentration-time curve to the MIC (fAUC/MIC) or
      the percentage of a 24 h time period where the unbound drug concentration exceeds the MIC
      (fT.MIC). Dosing regimens are chosen to reach a target value of the main PK/PD index.

      In hospitalized patients, a high between-subject variability is expected on PK parameters,
      related to the severity of the disease (sepsis, neutropenia, organ failure...), weight, age
      (geriatric patients, neonates...) and the co-administration of other medications leading to
      potential drug interactions. The PD variability is strongly influenced by the immune status,
      type of infection, inoculum size, comorbidities.

      The optiPOP protocol aims to define a common framework to PK/PD studies conducted jointly by
      the Antimicrobial Stewardship Team and the Pharmacology department of Cochin hospital.

      These studies will use mathematical population pharmacokinetic modeling methodologies to
      investigate PK/PD parameters of various AI in a range of specific study populations (ICU,
      neutropenic patients…). The effects of covariates on PK and PD parameters will be
      investigated in order to better explain the between-subject variability and to ultimately
      suggest individualized dosage regimens.

      OptiPOP is a prospective, non-interventional, single center study, based on data regularly
      collected during the therapeutic drug monitoring of AI.

      The antimicrobial stewardship team (AST) has a role in advising clinicians for the diagnostic
      and treatment of infectious diseases. It is closely involved in daily therapeutic drug
      monitoring of AI, in collaboration with the department of pharmacology. Patient selection
      will take place in all medical and surgical wards of the hospital. The AST senior physician
      will check the eligibility criteria and propose the study to the patient, in accordance with
      the referring physician. Any adult patient requiring the administration of an AI with at
      least one plasma concentration measurement conducted in Cochin department of pharmacology
      will be eligible. The AST physician will give a briefing note to the patient, and the
      non-oral opposition for the retrieval and analysis of data will be collected.

      No intervention or no charge will be made for this study. It is planned to include 60
      patients per molecule.
    
  