
    
      This study is designed to assess whether a subacromial injection of corticosteroids at the
      time of arthroscopic shoulder surgery influences quality of life scores and activity level
      when compared to a control group. The hypothesis is that intra-operative subacromial
      corticosteroid injection after arthroscopic subacromial decompression surgery will provide a
      more rapid improvement in quality of life scores and activity levels in the post-operative
      period compared with controls. The study will be a placebo-controlled, double-blind
      prospective study. All patients necessitating arthroscopic shoulder surgery presenting to Dr.
      Keith Baumgarten's clinics are eligible for participation. If the patient meets the inclusion
      criteria, then informed consent will be obtained for participation in this study. Each
      patient will undergo a standard shoulder exam to assess active range of motion and complete
      demographics and pre-operative patient determined outcomes surveys (1. Disabilities of the
      Arm, Shoulder, and Hand (DASH) 2. Simple Assessment Numeric Evaluation (SANE) 3. Western
      Ontario Rotator Cuff (WORC)) and the Marx shoulder activity level survey (MARX). Patients
      will then undergo arthroscopic shoulder surgery. After arthroscopic surgery the experimental
      group will undergo a subacromial corticosteroid injection + marcaine while the control group
      will undergo a subacromial marcaine injection. Outcomes will be assessed using the same
      quality of life surveys and an activity level survey at post-operative visits at the time
      intervals: 2 weeks and 3 months and by U.S. mail at 5 months and 1 year. Active range of
      motion will be assessed at post-operative visits: 2 weeks, 6 weeks, and 3 months. Subjects
      that meet criteria to undergo arthroscopic shoulder surgery will be provided informed consent
      to receiving either a subacromial corticosteroid injection or placebo injection at the end of
      surgery. Patients will be expected to complete all pre- and post-operative quality of life
      surveys and activity level surveys. It will take less than 20 minutes to complete all listed
      surveys at each pre- and post-operative visit. Active range of motion will be assessed at
      each post-operative visit and subjects will be expected to take part in this physical
      examination as well. The duration of subject participation is 1 year from the date of initial
      surgery.
    
  