
    
      Background:

      Peritoneal carcinomatosis is uniformly fatal if untreated; improved outcomes are seen with
      aggressive cytoreductive surgery (CRS) and heated intraperitoneal chemotherapy (HIPEC).

      The selection of chemotherapeutic agent for HIPEC is largely based on primary tumor histology
      and provider preference as opposed to knowledge of the potential efficacy of a specific agent
      for an individual patient.

      HIPEC is intended to target small or microscopic residual disease following complete
      cytoreduction; however, the actual efficacy and additional benefit of HIPEC is in question.

      The SMART System provides an ideal platform upon which to perfuse small peritoneal tumor
      tissue implants and simulate HIPEC treatment ex vivo.

      Tissue response to simulated ex vivo HIPEC treatment in the SMART System could inform
      chemotherapeutic agent selection for subsequent cytoreduction and intra-operative in vivo
      HIPEC treatments.

      Objective:

      To determine the correlation between ex vivo simulated HIPEC in the SMART System and in vivo
      HIPEC with respect to two measures of response to treatment: percent necrosis and Ki-67

      Eligibility:

      Histologically confirmed peritoneal carcinomatosis from appendiceal, colorectal, ovarian, or
      peritoneal mesothelioma histologies

      Absence of extra-abdominal metastatic disease

      Participant deemed able to undergo complete cytoreduction

      Age >= 18 years of age

      Design:

      This is a Phase I study of cytoreductive surgery (CRS) and heated intraperitoneal
      chemotherapy (HIPEC), with randomization to one of two accepted HIPEC treatment regimens as
      determined by primary histology.

      At the time of cytoreduction, representative peritoneal tumor biopsies will be obtained
      before and after intra-operative in vivo HIPEC treatment.

      Tumor nodules harvested before intra-operative HIPEC will be placed in the SMART System,
      exposed to simulated ex vivo HIPEC treatment, and then perfused, with subsequent assessment
      of percent necrosis and Ki-67.

      Tumor nodules harvested after intra-operative HIPEC will be placed in the SMART System and
      perfused, with subsequent assessment of percent necrosis and Ki-67.

      The correlation of percent necrosis and Ki-67 assessment following simulated ex vivo HIPEC
      and intra-operative in vivo HIPEC will be determined.
    
  