
    
      Every year millions of people worldwide suffer from stroke, being one of the leading causes
      of death and longterm disability. This leads to cognitive and motor impairments, resulting in
      loss of independence in their daily life together with an additional psychological impact in
      mood disorders and depression. Evolving to a chronic condition, stroke requires continuous
      rehabilitation and therapy. Personalised Virtual-Reality (VR) approaches have been shown to
      accelerate the recovery process compared to non-Information and communication technologies
      (ICT) based interventions. However, most of these novel VR approaches are suitable only for a
      reduced subset of patients, generally those with better recovery prognostics and better motor
      control. Thus, the idea of training the central nervous system was established, through
      EEG-based neurofeedback (NF) and motor-imagery (MI). Although the benefits of MI-NF have been
      illustrated in a plethora of studies, the reduced ability for stroke patients to use NF does
      not allow an accurate control, reducing the capabilities of MI-NF systems. The aim of this
      project is to develop a novel and more inclusive rehabilitation system with the use of novel
      ICT technologies, in order to overcome current limitations. This will be achieved by
      identifying the neural correlates of motor action during motor imagery through brain imaging
      (fMRI), and differences in brain activation with different training feedback protocols for
      formulating user-specific models that will be used later in NF-MI rehabilitation sessions.
      This will facilitate the use of neural interfaces to train the central nervous system;
      specifically, the investigators will develop a personalized EEG-based immersive NF through VR
      for MI training. The ultimate goal is to generalize the findings into a VR-NF-MI training
      paradigm for both admitted and ambulatory patients as well as continued domestic care.
    
  