
    
      Advance care planning (ACP) is the process of thinking through and articulating in advance
      one's preferences for future medical care. It has long been promoted as a way for people to
      receive medical treatment consistent with their values, goals, and preferences. While ACP
      typically involves decision-making about specific life-sustaining treatments, choosing who
      will make medical decisions when the patient cannot is considered by many to be the single
      most important ACP action a person can take. When patients fail to designate a healthcare
      spokesperson (henceforth spokesperson), it leads to uncertainty about who will make medical
      decisions, what treatments are to be accepted or declined, and on what basis-which can lead
      to familial conflict, unwanted and costly medical care, and avoidable patient suffering. So,
      too, when patients choose the "wrong" person to represent them, the patient's wishes are less
      likely to be known or respected. The investigation team's own research suggests that when
      patients prefer fewer aggressive medical treatments, there is significantly lower concordance
      between spokespersons' decisions and patients' wishes.

      Patients, families, and ACP experts have identified several qualities as being especially
      important for spokespersons to have. Ideally, spokespersons should know the patient's values,
      be available when needed, be trustworthy and caring, have good judgment, and be able to stand
      up under pressure. That said, many individuals (and state laws) assign spokespersons on the
      basis of relationship (spouse, parent, etc.) rather than personal qualities. Surprisingly, no
      interventions (to the team's knowledge) are explicitly designed to help people consider the
      actual qualities of the person chosen as spokesperson, much less engage this individual to
      confirm that this person can fully represent the patient's wishes should the need arise.

      To address these gaps, the investigative team has developed a novel intervention that
      includes a "serious game" to help people consider the qualities desired in a spokesperson,
      then engage the person they choose for this role. Combining a serious topic with an enjoyable
      activity ("gamification") has been effective at changing health-related behaviors in multiple
      settings with the target population ("sandwich generation" and older adults). The game
      element of the intervention, "Who Would You Choose: Serious Fun" (WWYC), prompts players
      (using scenarios and metaphors) to choose a spokesperson whose qualities are best suited to
      the role. At the end of the game, players identify a real-life spokesperson based on the
      qualities considered during gameplay. Then, using an online interface, WWYC will spark
      communication between the player and their chosen spokesperson.

      The long-term goal of this project is to help people make more thoughtful and informed
      choices when selecting a spokesperson, and to help these spokespersons be better prepared for
      the role of surrogate decision-maker. The current mixed methods study proposed here is
      designed to learn whether and how WWYC helps individuals select an appropriate spokesperson
      for healthcare decisions, as assessed via three specific aims:

      Aim 1. To explore how playing the novel game Who Would You Choose affects people's choice of
      a spokesperson. Using qualitative methods including focus groups and one-on-one interviews,
      the investigative team will explore how WWYC affects individual players' thought process for
      choosing a spokesperson, and whether the player's choice changes as a result of game-play.

      Aim 2. To establish that WWYC is a feasible way to help individuals choose and engage a
      spokesperson. The investigative team will judge it feasible if: 1) 100 individuals are
      recruited to play the game; 2) >75% of game players report that playing the game is helpful
      for choosing a spokesperson; 3) >75% of game players endorse the game; 4) >75% of
      spokespersons engage with WWYC (using its online interface) following player request.

      Aim 3. To integrate qualitative and quantitative data to explain how the experience of
      playing the game relates to their spokesperson's willingness to engage. The investigative
      team hypothesizes that a positive player experience with WWYC will be associated with
      successful engagement with their spokesperson.
    
  