
    
      STUDY DESIGN AND PATIENT SELECTION

      DESIGN

      Multicenter, observational, cross-sectional, prospective, cohort study with a one-year
      follow-up. Approximately 450 patients will be gathered (according to the calculation of the
      sample size, 382 patients would be necessary), of both sexes (with stratification Male:Female
      1:1), age ≥ 65 years, under the care of Internal Medicine Services, who meet the criteria of
      the 2016 Heart Failure Guide of the European Society of Cardiology for the diagnosis of Heart
      Failure, and that have LVH (Septum or Posterior Wall > 12 mm).

      Patients will be duly informed of the study and their written informed consent will be
      requested prior to their enrollment in the study.

      Once included in the study a series of clinical, analytical and echocardiographic parameters
      will be collected and measured.

        -  It will be performed:

             -  Bone-cardiac scintigraphy with Tc-DPD (or similar: Tc-PYP or Tc-HMDP)

             -  Analysis to rule out monoclonal protein:

                  -  Proteinogram and serum immunoglobulins.

                  -  Free light chains in serum -Freelite-

                  -  Immunofixation in serum and urine.

        -  The number of readmissions, emergency visits and mortality in the following 12 months
           will be recorded to compare the readmission and mortality rates during one year of
           patients with and without CA

        -  The prescribed pre- and post-diagnostic treatments will be described, according to
           clinical practice (without intervention).

        -  No intervention, whether diagnostic or follow-up, that is not the usual clinical
           practice will be applied to patients.

      POPULATION Inpatients or outpatients of Internal Medicine Services with diagnosis of Heart
      Failure from the participating centers, selected by the inclusion and exclusion criteria
      defined for our study, in appropriate number, according to the calculation of the sample
      size, to assess the main objective.

      SELECTION OF HOSPITALS AND PATIENTS All eligible patients will be candidates to enter the
      study (that is, all those who meet the inclusion criteria and do not meet any exclusion
      criteria).

      The study will involve all Spanish hospitals that voluntarily desire to participate and that
      have the necessary diagnostic methods to carry out the study. To participate in the study, no
      minimum hospital size (number of beds) has been set.

      DATA COLLECTION AND WORK STRATEGY IN EACH HOSPITAL. The number of cases to be collected by
      each hospital will be calculated proportionally based on the total number of beds in each
      center. The number of patients that each center should include refers to the total number of
      patients.

      Data collection will begin the same week of the year for all hospitals. All cases that meet
      inclusion criteria and none of exclusion and sign the consent will be collected
      consecutively, with gender stratification (50% men and 50% women of the number of patients
      assigned to the center) until at least the number of patients assigned to the center is
      completed . Optionally, patients may continue to be included, in that week or in subsequent
      weeks,as long as it is done consecutively and stratified by sex (without selecting the
      cases).

      ETHICAL ASPECTS The patients included in this study will be treated according to standard
      medical care, since being a prevalence study that does not change the usual clinical
      practice. The study will be carried out in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki and
      the Spanish Organic Law on the Protection of Personal Data and Guarantee of Digital Rights.

      The study has been approved by the Clinical Research Ethics Committee (CEI) of the Virgen
      Macarena-Virgen del Rocío University Hospitals. In those cases that are necessary, the
      approval of the other local CEIs will also be requested.

      The researchers of each participating center will explain to each patient all the aspects of
      the study and the patients will be given an information sheet giving details of it, making it
      clear that participation is voluntary and that they can leave the study at any time if they
      wish. If the patient wants to participate, both the investigator and the patient himself, or
      his legal representative in case of disability, must sign the informed consent. The patient
      will be given a copy of the consent.

      DATABASE An online Database will be developed to record the data of the study patients.

      STATISTIC ANALYSIS Continuous variables will be expressed with the value of the mean and
      standard deviation or as median and interquartile range, depending on the normality of their
      distribution. Categorical variables will be expressed in percentages or rates. A descriptive
      analysis of the data will be made, calculating the prevalence rates, and a comparative
      analysis in relation to different variables, such as gender, age and other factors that are
      of interest for the objective of the study.

      The comparison will be made using the Chi-square test in the categorical variables and the
      Student's T test for normal quantitative variables. For non-normal quantitative variables,
      the non-parametric U-Mann Whitney test will be used. Regarding the follow-up data, the
      association of different variables with the re-entry and mortality data will be assessed
      using univariate and multivariate analysis. Survival curve analysis will also be performed
      using the Kaplan-Meier method using log-rank test. A p <0.05 will be considered statistical
      significance.
    
  