
    
      Study Design and Methods. The investigators will use prospective methods to assess the
      utility of pharmacogenetic guided treatment (PGT) of TRD. The use of genetic testing for PGT
      subjects, and clinical care guided by the individual's genetic results are the only subject
      activities in this study that represent a departure from standard clinical care. Other
      activities carried out within the context of this study are conducted in accordance with
      accepted clinical practice by a trained and licensed psychiatrist. These include (but are not
      limited to) the use of prescription medications, laboratory testing, vital sign measurements,
      mood scales and diagnostic interviews, electrocardiograms, and imaging studies. Standard
      clinical activities will be conducted at the discretion of the attending psychiatrist,
      determined by the clinical needs of the individual patient. All laboratory testing conducted
      for the purposes of clinical treatment (diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of illness) will
      be conducted at the VA San Diego or VA Palo Alto accredited clinical laboratories. No
      investigational medications or devices will be used in this study.

      Setting: Clinical care will be conducted at the Veterans Affairs San Diego Healthcare System
      and Veterans Affairs Palo Alto Healthcare . Patients with TRD will be recruited from multiple
      sites in the local VA Systems. Clinical care will be provided by a VA psychiatrist.

      Genotyping: After obtaining written consent, patients will give a saliva sample from which
      genomic DNA is prepared using established protocols. DNA samples will be assigned a coded
      subject identification number that will not contain any sensitive personal information. The
      code key will remain at the VASDHS at all times. Samples will be sent to a CLIA certified
      laboratory (Pathway Genomics) for genotyping and analyzed using the commercially available
      Mental Health DNA Insight Test. Unused DNA sent for genotyping will be destroyed. No DNA
      storage outside the VASDHS will be permitted. No other clinically relevant information will
      be uncovered by the genetic testing.

      Randomization & Study Design: Patients will be randomly assigned to one of two groups:
      Pharmacogenetic guided treatment (PGT) and treatment as usual (TAU). All patients will
      provide a saliva sample at the start of their participation 5-7 days before their initial
      clinic appointment: All subjects will be genotyped and analyzed using the Mental Health DNA
      Insight Test. The treating physician for the PGT group will receive the report before the
      first clinic visit. The treating physician for the TAU group will receive a sham report.

      Patients will remain blind into which treatment group they are assigned until completion of
      the study. The study physicians will not be blinded due to the need to review the PGT report.
      However, bias will be reduced by using patient self-reports of their mood using the 16-item
      quick inventory of depressive symptoms self report (QIDS-SR16) scale. All patients will then
      be seen by a study psychiatrist at 4 weeks and 8 weeks follow-up. All patients will complete
      self assessment inventories at each visit. In addition they will assess tolerability using a
      standardized side effect checklist. Overall functional impairment and symptom severity will
      be assessed using the Clinical Global Impressions Scale (CGI). Primary study outcome will be
      the CGI score at the end of the study (8 weeks). A Comprehensive Suicide Risk Assessment will
      be done at study initiation and a clinical suicidality assessment will be conducted at every
      visit according to usual clinical practice.
    
  