
    
      Continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion (Insulin pump therapy) is a well established tool
      for the management of type 1 diabetes. In clinical trials, insulin pump therapy has been
      shown to have increased efficacy over multiple daily injections. However, the overall
      glycemic control in patients using insulin pumps has been disappointing. The recommended
      duration of "needle use" in insulin pump treatment is 48 hours, based on anecdotal
      observations.

      One of the reasons for the suboptimal control may be that patients do not adhere to the
      advice of changing their pump infusion line every 48 hours. However, it is possible that the
      loss of glycemic control may be related to instability of insulin in the pump/line. In
      addition to premeal loss of control after 48 hours of line change, very little is known about
      post-prandial hyperglycemia leading to loss of efficacy of the insulin via an insulin pump
      bolus. The development of continuous glucose monitoring system (CGMS) and new tests for short
      term fluctuations in glucose control such as 1,5-anhydroglucitol make it easier to evaluate
      the impact of short term loss of control in patients using the insulin pump who delay
      changing their lines.

      The different variables will be compared between the two insulins using a paired t test.

        1. Glycemic control will be will be compared 24 to 100 hours after pump infusion line
           change using CGMS and daily serum 1,5-anhydroglucitol.

        2. Post prandial glycemic excursions in plasma glucose following a standardized breakfast
           48, 72, and 96 hours after a pump infusion line change will be compared.

        3. The used pump infusion line will be collected from the patient and analyzed for insulin
           binding to the plastic, as well as other possible effects that may determine its role in
           loss of glycemic control.

        4. Comparison of some of the markers of coagulation, inflammation, protein glycation and
           oxidative stress 48, 72, and 96 hours after a pump infusion line change.
    
  