
    
      Death from opioid overdose is now considered a national emergency 1. Prescribing of narcotics
      by physicians, particularly in the perioperative period, remains a significant contributor to
      opioid addiction 2,3. There is a critical need to identify post-operative pain control
      alternatives that eliminate narcotic usage. Without such information, clinicians will
      continue to rely on opioids to manage their patients' pain. Prior work supports the notion
      that there is little difference between the effectiveness of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory
      drugs (NSAIDs) and that of opioid analgesics in controlling pain following surgical
      procedures4-8. Recent clinical trials have concluded that a combination of centrally and
      peripherally acting analgesics improves patients' satisfaction and pain control 9-13.
      Clinical investigators have focused upon limiting opioid use rather than on eliminating the
      administration of narcotics. 14,15 not surprisingly, there are no established evidenced-based
      guidelines for postoperative outpatient non-opioid pain control. The majority of U.S.
      surgeons continue to rely on opioids as the sole outpatient pain regimen, as suggested by a
      number of current guidelines16,17.

      Our observation is that adequate outpatient pain control after uncomplicated laparoscopic
      appendectomy or cholecystectomy can be achieved with minimal breakthrough drugs when used in
      combination with around the clock non-opioid medications.

      The amount of opioids prescribed at discharge after laparoscopic appendectomies and
      cholecystectomies is quite variable16,17. An average prescription is for 200-350 Oral
      Morphine Equivalents (OME) or 26-46 tabs of 5mg oxycodone with the lowest amount reported of
      150 OME (20 tabs of 5mg oxy)18,19. One of the most conservative guidelines, the Michigan
      Surgical Quality Collaborative, recommends prescription of 75 OME after laparoscopic
      cholecystectomy

      AIMS AND OBJECTIVES.

        1. Characterize the need for breakthrough pain medication in a cohort of post-operative
           subjects treated utilizing a 3-day pain regimen consisting of ibuprofen and
           acetaminophen for postoperative outpatient pain control without the use of opioids.

        2. Test the non-inferiority of a regimen consisting of ibuprofen when prescribed on as
           needed basis in controlling breakthrough pain compared with a regimen using oxycodone.

      HYPOTHESIS

      We predict that a non-opioid regimen can safely control post-operative pain as effectively as
      management protocols which include narcotics.

      At the completion of the proposed research, our expected outcomes are to demonstrate that the
      ibuprofen/acetaminophen regimen provides adequate pain relief in patients who undergo
      uncomplicated laparoscopic cholecystectomy and appendectomy.

      We also expect to have demonstrated that when breakthrough pain occurs, non-narcotic
      medications are as effective as opioids. These findings will be relevant to some 10 million
      surgeries per year in the U.S. where the patients may never need opioid exposure.

      STUDY DESIGN/METHOLOGY

      In this single-center, randomized, double-blind intervention trial, adult subjects will be
      enrolled after routine uncomplicated laparoscopic appendectomy or cholecystectomy for the
      management of outpatient pain. All participants will provide written informed consent.

      All subjects will receive two oral analgesic medications (ibuprofen 600mg and acetaminophen
      500mg) three times per day with meals, to consume for three days following discharge from the
      hospital. For breakthrough pain, with a double-blind approach with opaque capsules for the
      medications, subjects will be randomized to receive five packages of two pills containing
      either ibuprofen 600mg (Arm 1) or oxycodone 5mg(Arm 2). They will be instructed to consume
      breakthrough medications no more than twice per day.

      The subjects will maintain a pain log and will record their pain intensity prior to meals
      each day, and also the maximum pain intensity for the given day, using a verbal pain
      Numerical Rating Scale (NRS) that ranges from 0 to 10.

      A research team member will contact each subject daily by phone for seven days and confirm
      the subject is consuming their medications and collect information regarding pain intensity.

      Subjects will be asked the following questions:

        -  To rate their pain on a scale of 0 to 10 daily, average and maximum.

        -  To report the # of breakthrough pain medication pills taken that day and how many total
           remain

      If the subject reports a pain score of 8 or greater after taking the both breakthrough
      medications during a 24 hour period, they will be considered a study failure. Patient will be
      told to contact their surgeon for follow up. The research coordinator will follow up these
      subjects to confirm they have spoken to their treating physician.
    
  