
    
      Delirium during intensive care unit (ICU) stay is frequent and associated with significant
      morbidity, mortality and healthcare related costs. International guidelines suggest its
      prevention. However, curative treatment remains unclearly established. Despite a
      non-unequivocal literature, haloperidol is the first line recommended neuroleptic.
      Dexmedetomidine, an alpha2-adrenergic receptors agonist has shown its efficiency in the
      treatment of delirium in intubated patients but also in its prevention. Dexmedetomidine
      represents a widely used alternative to haloperidol. Only few studies have compared the
      efficacy of dexmedetomidine in non-intubated ICU patients as a first line curative treatment
      of delirium. Main objective of 4D trial is to demonstrate that dexmedetomidine decreases
      delirium duration compared to placebo.

      The 4D trial is an investigator-initiated, prospective, multicenter, randomized,
      double-blinded, two-arm trial, randomizing 300 non-intubated ICU patients with diagnosis of
      agitated delirium to receive dexmedetomidine or placebo as a cure. The primary outcome
      measure is a composite of duration of agitation or delirium or the use of intubation with
      deep sedation and mechanical ventilation. Secondary outcomes include mortalities at 7 and 28
      days, ICU length of stay and occurrence of adverse effects. The sample size will allow the
      detection of a 50% decrease of agitation duration (120 minutes), of an absolute reduction of
      delirium duration (1 day) and of a 50% relative decrease of intubation and mechanical
      ventilation, with a type 1 error rate of 1.8 % (error risk inflation due to components of
      composite) and power of 90 %, assuming a 15 % incidence of intubation and mechanical
      ventilation requirements, an agitation duration of 240 minutes and a delirium duration of 3
      days. One hundred and 10 patients by group will be needed. A intermediate analysis is
      scheduled and requires the inclusion of 150 patients in each group.

      The 4D trial may provide important data on the safety of commonly used sedative
      dexmedetomidine and could have a significant impact on future treatment of non-intubated ICU
      patients presenting with agitated delirium.
    
  