
    
      During fetal development the developing babe pushes against the uterine wall, often kicking
      and punching the unfortunate mother, especially during the last few months of pregnancy. The
      striking out against the resistance of the uterine wall causes joint compression in the arms,
      legs, and spine and that sensory feedback triggers bone growth. Unfortunately in the
      premature infant they are robbed of that exercise opportunity and are either splayed out in
      an incubator trying to copy with movement against gravity or swaddled so that movement isn't
      really an option. As a result bone density loss occurs in essentially all premature infants
      and osteopenia or significant loss can be an issue.

      Between 1995 and 2008 there was a good deal of work done on identifying the importance of
      exercise and movement for premature infants. Moyer-Mileur was the leading researcher in the
      USA who demonstrated that simple exercise programs could prevent or decrease bone density
      loss. Although there is a shortage of trained therapists to provide these exercises safely
      they became a fairly common practice by 2010. At about that time the neonatologists at the
      Asante facility asked to incorporate the exercises into the NICU therapy program and after
      appropriate training the exercises began.

      The Asante NICU is highly developmentally oriented. Infants grow 150 million brain cells an
      hour during the last few months of pregnancy. Any of the multiple stressors of prematurity
      can create cortisol and affect that brain growth. For that reason therapists became concerned
      with the joint compression exercises. While they were good for bone and muscle health the
      exercises were not always welcomed by the infant. Even the most gentle compassionate
      therapist is not always welcome if the infant just wants to sleep or be left alone.
      Therapists sought a system that could provide the needed exercise but in a manner more
      developmentally appropriate. It took two years of experimenting with different types of
      materials and different strengths of elasticity before the Prepod design finally evolved.
      Then the obvious hypothesis was - Will the Prepod be as effective in decreasing bone density
      loss as the traditional therapy exercises?? After multiple issues replacing originally
      planned DEXA measurements with safer UTS measurements, the first subjects were enrolled in
      2013. Unfortunately in 2015 an issue with the ultrasound machine was identified; the
      anti-theft anklets the infants wore emitted signals that had corrupted the data. The study
      needed to be restarted in 2015, removing the anklets prior to measurement. It then proceeded
      without incident, with expected completion late 2018. At the IRB (Institutional Review Board)
      review winter of 2017 the overseeing group concluded that the data for length of stay was so
      compelling that continuing the study wasn't likely to change anything and basically amounted
      to withholding care from the traditional exercise infants. They ordered early closure of the
      study, despite the small number of study participants.
    
  