
    
      People with type 1 diabetes (T1D) are recommended to engage in regular exercise for a variety
      of health and fitness reasons. However, moderate-intensity exercise is associated with an
      increased risk of hypoglycaemia in people with T1D. Current guidelines are to reduce insulin
      dose and/or increase carbohydrate consumption in the context of the exercise bout. However,
      despite the many advances in insulin formulations and delivery devices, hypoglycaemia remains
      a significant risk. Mini-dose glucagon taken before an exercise bout has been shown to be an
      effective non-caloric strategy to prevent exercise-induced hypoglycaemia. However, even the
      reduced doses (150-200 µg) used in previous studies might still be rather high translating
      into potential side-effects (i.e. hyperglycaemia, gastrointestinal symptoms, etc.). Lower
      doses (below 100 µg, micro-glucagon) may be sufficiently effective to counteract
      hypoglycaemia risk associated with exercise and associated with better tolerance. Moreover,
      there is little information on the effects of subcutaneous glucagon on glycogen stores and
      changes in exercise metabolism. Greater understanding of exercise-associated metabolism
      following mini- and micro-dose glucagon using techniques such as magnetic resonance
      spectroscopy (MRS), continuous glucose monitoring (CGM), stable isotope tracers, and indirect
      calorimetry may result in novel approaches to improve blood glucose management in people with
      T1D. Utilising these techniques may also further our understanding of the optimal glucagon
      dosing (timing and amount) during exercise to manage hypoglycaemia and reduce the risk of
      adverse events. Proof-of-principle study to assess effects of different doses (mini and
      micro) of subcutaneous glucagon analog Dasiglucagon (Zealand Pharma, Copenhagen, Denmark) on
      the change in blood glucose concentration during moderate-intensity exercise in people with
      T1D. Secondly, to investigate exercise-metabolism following Dasiglucagon injection using 3
      tesla magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) and indirect calorimetry. Third, to assess
      participant experience of Dasiglucagon during exercise and the incidence of adverse events.
    
  