
    
      Venetoclax has been approved in combination with azacitidine or decitabine or low-dose
      cytarabine for the treatment of newly-diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia (AML) in adults who
      are age 75 years or older, or who have comorbidities that preclude use of intensive induction
      chemotherapy. There are several clinical trials of Venetoclax for the treatment of AML. In
      trial M14-358 (NCT02203773), 91% of the combination of venetoclax and azacitidine were
      Caucasian, while about 87% of the the combination of Venetoclax and decitabine were
      Caucasian. In another trial M14-387 (NCT02287233), up to 94.9% of the combination of
      venetoclax and low-dose cytarabine group were Caucasian. However, the actual proportion of
      Asian or other races is unknown in both trials. Therefore, there is not enough data from
      Chinese other Asian races regarding its efficacy or adverse reactions in clinical trials.

      According to a venetoclax population pharmacokinetic study published in 2016, which
      integrated 505 subjects from 8 clinical trials, concluded that race was not a covariate that
      affect venetoclax PK. However, only 6 Asians (1.19%) were included, and most of the subjects
      were chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) or non-Hodgkin's
      lymphoma (NHL), and the results may not be directly generalized to AML patients. The
      pharmacokinetics of Venetoclax is affected by many factors, and the most influential factors
      may be fat content from dietary and concomitant use of CYP3A inhibitors or inducers. In
      particular, patients with hematological malignancies often require antifungal agents (such as
      voriconazole, posaconazole) as prophylaxis or treatment of fungal infections during
      chemotherapy. Therefore, these two factors will be considered in this study.

      The most common side effect after using venetoclax is cytopenia. About 40% of patients
      developed severe neutropenia, 4.7% required interruption of treatment, and 3.7% required
      dosage reduction in phase 2 clinical trials. Although no patient requires permanent
      venetoclax treatment discontinuation because of neutropenia, 9% of patients need to
      discontinue venetoclax treatment due to infection. The incidence of severe thrombocytopenia
      and anemia is 18% and 15%. Recent studies have found that the incidence of neutropenia and
      infection seems to be inversely related to the blood concentration of venetoclax, that is,
      the higher the blood concentration of venetoclax, the lower the incidence of neutropenia and
      infection.

      This observational study is designed to examine the plasma concentration of venetoclax in
      patients with CLL or AML, to create a pharmacokinetic model of venetoclax in Chinese
      population, and to analyze the extent to which CYP enzyme inhibitors and inducers may have
      effect on venetoclax plasma concentration. Moreover, the association between therapeutic
      effectiveness, adverse events, and venetoclax plasma concentration will also be analyzed in
      this study, and the final purpose is to establish the principle of clinical dose adjustment
      in the future.
    
  