
    
      The pathophysiology of the diabetic nephropathy was initially considered to be merely
      secondary to a non-immune mechanism, specifically due to metabolic (hyperglycemia) and
      hemodynamic (glomerular capillary hypertension - mechanical stretching) factors. However, our
      understanding of the pathophysiological processes that lead to diabetic nephropathy and its
      progression is now clearer and involved not only a non immune mechanism, but also
      immune-mediated and inflammatory mechanism. Activation of the immune system, with the
      participation of a chronic inflammatory state, plays a central role in the pathogenesis of
      diabetic nephropathy. Evidence for the involvement of the immune system in the pathogenesis
      of diabetic nephropathy was derived from the elevated levels of proinflammatory cytokines
      such as IL-1, IL-6, IL-18, and TNF-α. These factors are important predictors of the
      development of diabetic nephropathy, and recently it was shown that these inflammatory
      cytokines play a determinant role in the development and progression of the microvascular
      diabetic nephropathy. The first published study that showed the implication of the
      inflammatory cytokines in the pathogenesis of the diabetic nephropathy was in 1991.
      Mycophenolate Mofetil (MMF) is an immunosuppressant drug, used to prevent rejection,
      especially acute rejection in various organ transplantations, mainly kidney transplantation
      since 1995. In the last decade there are increasing reports describing the beneficial use of
      MMF in immune- mediated and auto-immune disorders such as Systemic Lupus Erythematosus, IGA
      nephropathy and other glomerulopathies.

      Unfortunately, the potentially beneficial effects of MMF on diabetic nephropathy were not
      examined in clinical DM and is limited to diabetic rats. In a recent study, Utimura et al.
      have demonstrated that MMF largely prevented the development of albuminuria and glomerular
      injury in experimental diabetic nephropathy. The beneficial effect of MMF was not related to
      its action on glomerular hemodynamic or improvement of metabolic control, but probably
      related directly to its immunosuppressive and anti-inflammatory properties.
    
  