
    
      introduction: Evidence has been arising suggesting that Botulinum toxin type A (BTX-A)
      injections can relax smooth muscles fibers in the treatment of obesity and Detrusor muscle
      over-activity, similar effect on cavernosal smooth muscles would help in the treatment of
      erectile dysfunction (ED) resistant to oral and intracavernous (IC) therapy, thus avoiding
      surgical treatment options.

      patient and methods: All patients will perform penile color Doppler evaluation to confirm a
      vascular etiology, a trimix solution (PGE1 10 ug + Phentolamine 1 mg + Papaverine 30 mg) was
      injected IC during the penile Doppler study.

      The control group: received an IC 1 ml saline injection one day after the penile
      Doppler/trimix test.

      The treatment group B: received a single IC injection of BTX-A 50 units one day after the
      penile Doppler/trimix test.

      The treatment group C: received a single IC injection of BTX-A 100 units one day after the
      penile Doppler/trimix test.

      Assessment for all groups was done by penile color Doppler exam, Sexual Health Inventory for
      men (SHIM), Sexual Encounter Profile questions 2 and 3 (SEP 2 & SEP 3), and the global
      assessment question (GAQ) were completed pre-treatment and 2 weeks after treatment also, 3
      and 6 months after treatment.

      Procedure:

      At least 1 day after the penile color Doppler test, the patient is placed in the supine
      position flaccid and stretched penile length and girth would be measured from tip of the
      penis to the pubic bone will be done. A rubber band will be applied to the base of the penis.
      The skin will be prepped with alcohol swabs followed by the IC injection of 50 units of BTX-A
      for patients in treatment group B and 100 units of BTX-A for patients in treatment group C
      with direct pressure will be applied for 2 minutes. The rubber band will be removed after 15
      minutes.

      Patients and controls will fill the Sexual Health Inventory for men (SHIM) questionnaire and
      answer the ,Sexual Encounter Profile questions 2 and 3 (SEP 2 & SEP 3), and the global
      assessment question (GAQ) before and 2 weeks, 3 months and 6 months after treatment .

      The rational for selecting the minimum 2-weeks waiting period is to give a chance for the
      BTX-A to reach its maximum effect. Possible Risks include pain and prolonged erections, also
      3 months and 6 months after treatment do detect safety, efficacy and durability.
    
  