
    
      Decitabine at escalating dose levels will be given IV X 5 days followed by Carboplatin given
      IV on Day 8 at a dose corresponding to an area under curve (AUC) of 5. The maximum dose of
      Decitabine (20 mg/m2) is based on the results of the myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) clinical
      trial that demonstrated biological and clinical efficacy at this dose (15-17). It is
      recognized that higher doses of decitabine can be administered, myelotoxicity being the most
      significant adverse event. This protocol will assess the lower less toxic but biologically
      active dose.

      Decitabine dose will be escalated as follows.

      Dose level -1: 5 mg/m2 IV per day (QD) X 5 days Dose level 1: 10mg/m2 IV QD X 5 days Dose
      level 2: 20mg/m2 IV QD X 5 days

      Each cycle will consist of 28 days, with delays to allow blood count recovery. Correlative
      blood draws will occur on Day1 (baseline) and on Day 8 before Carboplatin for cycle 1 and 2.

      The escalation phase will follow the standard 3+3 design. That is, patients will be accrued
      to each dose level in cohorts of up to 3-6 patients. Escalation will continue until a DLT is
      observed, the highest dose-level is reached, or medical judgment indicates. The goal of the
      phase I cohort is to ensure the safety and tolerability of the combination, not to define the
      maximum tolerated dose.

      An initial 3 patients will be enrolled at dose level 1. If all 3 patients in dose level 1
      complete 4 weeks of therapy without dose limiting toxicity (DLT), the study will proceed to
      enroll 3 patients at dose level 2. If all 3 patients in dose level 2 complete 4 weeks of
      therapy without DLT, we will accrue 3 more to ensure that only 0 or 1 of 6 have a DLT and
      then proceed to the phase II cohort. As dose level 2 represents full doses of both agents,
      there will be no further dose escalation beyond dose level 2.
    
  