
    
      Aims and objectives

      The overall aim of this pilot study is to assess the feasibility and acceptability, as well
      as examine potential effectiveness (from baseline to the end of the intervention), of a
      self-help online mindfulness-based intervention for Arab parents of children with T1D.

      The specific objectives are to:

        1. Assess the acceptability of a guided self-help intervention for Arab parents of children
           with T1D.

        2. Ensure recruitment, randomisation and intervention procedures are feasible.

        3. Assess time to complete the intervention, for example whether it is feasible for parents
           to practice mindfulness (10-20 mins) and answer the log sheet daily.

        4. Evaluate the ability of the proposed outcome measures (anxiety, depression and
           mindfulness) to identify change when comparing the mindfulness group to the wait-list
           control group.

      Hypotheses

        1. Mindfulness self-help intervention will be an acceptable intervention for parents of
           children with T1D.

        2. The procedures of the pilot study will be feasible (i.e., recruitment, randomisation and
           deliver of the intervention).

        3. The time for practice of mindfulness and completion of the log sheet daily will be
           feasible.

        4. The mindfulness self-help intervention will reduce levels of psychological distress and
           improve trait mindfulness in some participants.

      Participants Sample size of 12-15 per group is recommended for a pilot phase II trial. The
      investigators need to recruit 30 parents (15 per group) for the pilot trial, which represents
      approximately half of the potential participants from the pre-existing list (although the
      investigators hope to recruit up to 40 to allow for some attrition at follow-up). Given that
      the participants on this list have already taken part in a research study on this topic and
      have indicated that they would be interested in participating in further studies, the
      investigators believe that the required recruitment rate is achievable.

      Nonetheless, if sufficient participants aren't recruited through pre-existing list the
      investigators will place a post via Kuwait Diabetes Society on Twitter and Instagram. The
      post will contain the invitation and the link to the survey.

      Randomization Participants will be randomly assigned to either the mindfulness intervention
      group or the wait list group using the randomization.com website
      http://www.randomization.com.

      Design. This study will be a randomised pilot trial of a guided self- help online mindfulness
      intervention for parents of children with T1D. The study will have two independent variables:
      one between-participant variable with two levels, treatment condition (mindfulness-based
      guided self-help vs. waiting list group), and one within-participants variable with two
      levels, time (time one and time two). The dependent variables are anxiety, depression and
      mindfulness.

      In the current study, the mindfulness guided self-help intervention will be delivered over a
      five-week period. The mindfulness training's are MP3 ( i.e., is an audio coding format for
      digital audio) self-help audio recordings that will be delivered online (i.e., Mindfulness
      introduction, Mindful breathing). A Clinical Psychologist, Hend Saab, recorded these audios
      files. Other mindfulness skills will be provided to the parents as a script (PDF file), for
      example mindfulness eating. Potential participants asked to read the information sheet and
      give their consent to participate in the current study.

      The first session will be delivered using a pre-recorded video. The pre-recorded video will
      be initiated by the investigators and sent to all participants in the intervention group at
      the same day and time. After participants have watched the first pre-recorded video session
      they will be required to tick a box to indicate that they have watched the introduction. Once
      they have finished watching the introductory pre-recorded video, this will be followed by a
      brief description of the five core mindfulness skills and mindfulness breathing guided
      practice. Week two, involves mindfulness breathing guided practice, mindfulness body scan
      guided practice and integrates mindfulness into other aspects of life. From the third session
      till the fifth session, parents will require to practice mindfulness breathing guided
      practice daily and other assignments using the log sheet.

      During the intervention, participants will receive guided support in the form of a weekly 30
      minute phone call. The investigators will conduct the guided support phone calls. The
      guidance will consist of: 10 minutes reviewing previous assignment (i.e., mindfulness
      breathing exercise) for the last week, 15 minutes introducing, delivering and discussing the
      next mindfulness exercises, and finally 5 minutes for questions. In order to ensure
      intervention fidelity, a checklist will be used for each phone call. Participants will also
      receive supportive emails per week to encourage them to practice. Feedback on the
      acceptability and feasibility of the intervention materials will also be sought from parents
      (intervention group) of children with T1D at the end of the intervention.

      Data Analyses. Statistical analysis will be carried out with statistical package for the
      social sciences (SPSS). Descriptive analysis (i.e., frequencies, means and standard
      deviations) will be calculated for all demographics and clinical variables. Descriptive
      results will include recruitment numbers, completions, dropout rates, and missing data. In
      addition, mean scores will be calculated for the participants' rating of the intervention's
      acceptability and frequency. Changes in the three outcome measures in each group from
      baseline to post-intervention will be assessed by measuring by a series of 2 (group) by 2
      (time) ANOVAs.
    
  