
    
      The present study was approved by the Human and Animal Ethics Committee of the institution
      and the participants were only randomized to participate after having signed the informed
      consent form.

      A population of elderly hypertensive patients registered at a reference center for
      hypertension treatment was selected. The sample size was calculated considering a test power
      of 80% with significance level of 5% and estimating a difference to be observed within the BP
      values of 7 mmHg for systolic blood pressure (SBP) and 4 mmHg for diastolic blood pressure
      (DBP). The sample calculated was 25 participants in each group being selected 20% more in
      case of losses.

      An electronic chart was created with numbers for the patients that were randomized into
      control (CG) and intervention groups (IG).

      The IG was included in an USPAP and the control group was kept under the usual care of the
      service that includes orientation to perform PA according to the World Health Organization
      recommendations.

      Before the beginning of the protocol clinical and laboratorial data collected included:
      weight, height, waist circumference, fasting glucose, hemoglobin A1C and lipid profile.

      In addition to that health-related quality of life was assessed with the Short Form 36-item
      Health Survey (SF-36). The SF-36 Questionnaire includes one multi-item scale that assesses
      eight health concepts: 1) functional capacity; 2) physical aspects; 3) pain; 4) general
      health status; 5) vitality; 6) social aspects; 7) emotional aspects; and 8) mental health.
      The score of each health concept ranges from 0 to 100, in which zero means the worst general
      health state and one hundred the best health state.

      All patients underwent physical tests to evaluate their physical fitness: cardiorespiratory
      fitness test (Cooper Test) and abdominal resistance test. Patients were classified according
      to the Physical Aptitude Classification Tables for Users of Public Parks.

      The BP was assessed with office BP measurements using OMRON - HEM 705 CP® semi-automatic
      devices according to the VI Brazilian Hypertension Guidelines (BHG). Home blood pressure was
      also performed following the same technics of office measurements and according to the III
      Brazilian Guidelines of Home Blood Pressure Monitoring with 3 measurements in the morning
      fasting and 3 at night before dinner in four consecutive days.

      The physical activity prescriptions were individualized so that the patients would have no
      doubts regarding execution when performing the exercise without the presence of the
      prescribing professional. The prescribed physical activity was aerobic and walking was the
      chosen one. The activity was prescribed in a planned, structured and repetitive way aiming to
      maintain or improve one or more components of physical fitness. To achieve those goals
      patients attended to 2 supervised sessions that took place in a one week period in
      non-consecutive days. They were instructed to perform training at least 3 times a week during
      30 minutes or more with a moderate intensity of 40 to 60% of their reserve heart rate which
      mean walking slightly breathless but being able to pronounce complete phrases according to
      the VI BHG recommendations. The total number of sessions prescribed was 36 throughout the 12
      weeks. The minimum of 30 sessions was needed so the results could be validated.

      Health educational strategies were used simultaneously to data collection to improve
      adherence of both groups. Motivational actions were used specific for the IG. Weekly phone
      calls were carried out to the IG in order to know about the number of sessions performed that
      week, the duration of the practice and the total number of steps of each session. All
      participants received a pedometer and a diary to register activities.

      Safety was assessed considering: need to interrupt training due to lesions, falls,
      incapacitating pain or acute events related to training that would require medical
      assistance.

      After 12 weeks all participants were reevaluated and all procedures were repeated to evaluate
      the effects of the intervention.

      Data collected was analyzed with software Statistical Package of Social Science, version
      23.0, Chicago, USA. Qualitative variables were presented in absolute numbers and percentages
      with the comparison between them being made with Qui Square Test or Exact Fisher Test.
      Proportion comparison in the groups was performed applying Wilcoxon Test. Quantitative
      variables were initially analyzed in terms of its distribution with Shapiro-Wilk test. Mean
      variables comparison was performed with T-Student test for paired and unpaired samples. The
      results were presented as mean values and standard deviation and p value < 0,05 was
      considered significant.
    
  