
    
      Introduction:

      Much of the practice of surgical wound closure and subsequent care is based upon tradition
      and individual preference rather than science. Most patients undergoing cesarean deliveries
      at Hartford Hospital have a subcuticular running closure. Occasionally, patients have a
      staple closure, at the discretion of the operating surgeon. With newly introduced wound
      closure techniques, we intend to compare an approved closure technique (Dermabond) with the
      more traditional suture closure via a prospective, observer blinded, randomized, controlled
      trial.

      Methods:

      Study participants will include all women who provide informed consent prior to undergoing
      cesarean section at Hartford Hospital. Patients will be excluded from the study if they will
      require a vertical skin incision; are allergic to Dermabond; or have a temperature > 100.2 F
      preop or intraop. Qualified patients will then be randomized to skin closure with either the
      Dermabond wound closure technique or suture.

      Closure method randomization will be performed prospectively by placing closure modality
      options in opaque sealed envelopes prior to the initiation of the study. The envelopes will
      be available in the operating room. The circulating nurse will open the envelope to reveal
      the randomization arm prior to skin closure and the surgeon will utilize the indicated
      technique. The circulating nurse will record the length of time needed to close the skin
      incision. The surgeon will complete a short survey immediately post operatively regarding
      ease of use of the closure modality as well as expected cosmetic outcome.

      If a patient is randomized to suture, surgeon preference will dictate whether 4-0 vicryl or
      4-0 monocryl will be used as well as whether Keith or curved needle will be utilized. Patient
      demographics and contact information will be obtained prior to initiation of the procedure.

      Prior to initiation of surgery, the operative field will be prepared by dry shaving the site
      with a disposable razor then cleansing the abdomen with Betadine using sterile technique.
      Hibiclens soap will be substituted for patients who are sensitive or allergic to iodine. A
      first generation Cephalosporin will be administered ~ 30 minutes preop for patients
      undergoing scheduled cesarean delivery. If the procedure is unscheduled, a first generation
      Cephalosporin will be administered after cord clamp if the patient has not already received
      antibiotics preoperatively.

      The patients' post operative pain medicine requirements and pain self assessment scores will
      be monitored during their post operative hospital course as documented in the medication logs
      on their charts. Most patients will be discharged on postoperative day three or four unless
      complications arise.

      All patients will be seen in the office for a 6-week post partum follow up. A medical
      professional will assess their wounds. The patient and the medical professional will be
      queried regarding their satisfaction with cosmetic outcome of the wound. The patient will
      also be queried regarding continued pain medicine requirements. If the patient does not show
      up for their post partum visit, they will be called to obtain this information and to arrange
      a time for follow-up.

      Each medical professional will be provided with a disposable camera. The camera will be used
      to take pictures of each patient's wound at the 6-week follow up visit. Specific guidelines
      will be provided regarding the distance and angle at which the pictures should be taken to
      ensure optimal and uniform photo clarity. The pictures will be reviewed at a later time by a
      panel of observers who will be blinded to the type of wound closure that the patient
      received. The observer will assess each picture for wound cosmesis and healing to provide
      standardized objective evaluation of wound closure outcomes.

      Power and Sample Size:

      The primary outcomes will be surgical time (wound closure only), patient satisfaction and
      blinded observer-rated cosmesis. Using a 1:3 randomization scheme, group sample sizes of 25
      (test/Dermabond) and 75 (control/suture) would achieve 80% power to detect a difference of
      1.0 between the null hypothesis that both group means for satisfaction and cosmesis are 3.0
      ("average") and the alternative hypothesis that the mean of the Dermabond group is 2.0
      ("above average") with estimated group standard deviations of 1.5 and with a significance
      level (alpha) of 0.05 using a two-sided, two-sample t-test.

      Assuming the average closure time for the suture group is 6 minutes (SD +/-1), and
      hypothesizing an average closure time in the Dermabond group of 1.5 minutes (SD +/- 0.5
      minutes), these sample sizes would afford better than 99% power to detect differences in
      surgical (closure) time between the two groups.

      The Women's Health Department at Hartford Hospital performs an average of 12 procedures per
      week (range 10-15). If 70% of the eligible women consent to participate, it should take
      approximately 12 weeks to accrue the minimum number of subjects. However, if the
      participation rate is 80%-85%, only 10-11 weeks should be required for accrual.

      Data Analysis / Statistics:

      Descriptive statistics on continuous variables (e.g., height, weight, maternal age,
      gestational age, surgical (closure) time) will consist of means, standard deviations and 95%
      confidence intervals. Frequencies of race and ethnicity also will be run. To evaluate the
      primary outcomes between treatment arms, differences in closure time, patient satisfaction
      and observed healing, t-tests will be utilized. Subgroup comparisons (e.g., within the suture
      group between curved and Keith needles) also will be performed with t-tests. Secondary
      analyses of dichotomous (yes/no) variables, including surgeon responses to "Did you find this
      method effective?" and "Did you find this method burdensome?" will be evaluated with a c2
      test. Although infections may occur and will be noted, the rate is anticipated to be so low
      that statistical assessment will not be necessary. Statistically significant differences will
      be considered as analyses resulting in p<0.05. All analyses will be performed with SPSS v.
      11.5 (Chicago, IL, 2003).
    
  