
    
      Patients will be enrolled during the preoperative anaesthetic assessment. Premedication will
      be achieved with oral administration of hydroxyzine 1 mg/kg the morning before surgery.

      The induction of general anaesthesia will be achieved using TARGET CONTROLLED INFUSION (TCI)
      of propofol associated to TCI of remifentanil or sufentanil, depending on randomization.

      The conditions of endotracheal intubation will be evaluated by the Percentage Of Glottic
      Opening Score (POGO) and the Cormack and Lehane Score.

      Mechanical volume-controled ventilation will aim to maintain normocapnia. The baseline
      inspiratory gas will be a mixture of 45% oxygen and 55% nitrous oxide.

      Bispectral Index recording and vital signs monitoring (heart rate and arterial blood
      pressure) will be used to monitor the depth of anaesthesia.

      Dexamethasone 0.3 mg/kg will be administered after induction of general anaesthesia as part
      of our routine practice.

      Patients will be extubated as soon as possible after the end of the surgery and transferred
      to the PACU.

      Nurses in charge patients included in the study will be blinded to the opiod agent
      administered peroperatively.

      Postoperative pain will be assessed using the simple numeric scale. A pain score above 3/10
      will prompt the intravenous administration of titrated morphine chlorhydrate, as guided by a
      written protocol.

      Patient will be transferred from the PACU to the ambulatory surgery unit when the Aldrete
      score is greater or equal to 9. Every patient included will received 1 gr of intravenous
      paracetamol two hours after the arrival hour in the PACU.

      Pain monitoring will be continued in the ambulatory surgery unit, and morphine chlorhydrate
      will be orally administered (10 mg) if pain score is above 3/10.

      Post anaesthetic discharge for home readiness will be given when the Post Anesthetic
      Discharge Scoring System (PADSS) is greater or equal to 9.

      48 hours after the surgery, one of us, blinded to the opiod agent received by the patient,
      will contact every included patient by phone, in order to evaluate postoperative pain,
      potential side effects including nausea and vomiting, and patient satisfaction.
    
  