
    
      The purpose of this study is to ascertain whether the use of next generation rib orthosis
      belts (such as the RibFx) can improve patient outcomes following traumatic rib fractures
      within our population, whether it be by improving pain control, decreased respiratory
      complications, or increased patient satisfaction. The investigators hypothesize that the use
      of elastic rib belts will improve rib fracture pain control without compromising pulmonary
      function (statistically significant improvement in pain control without significant
      impairment in respiratory function or increase in respiratory complication). The
      investigators feel as though answering this question can help us as providers to improve the
      quality of care to our patients in our department.

      Rib fractures are a common traumatic injury, and can cause substantial morbidity and
      mortality in the trauma population. As rib fractures most often are not treated with surgical
      intervention, there is demand for non-operative strategies to promote healing, pain control,
      and mechanical/musculoskeletal support. This can also help decrease the administration of
      potentially harmful pain medications such as opioid or narcotic pain medication. Further, as
      rib fracture pain can often be long lasting, this can truly increase quality of life for
      patients as they recover from these injuries.

      The objectives of the clinical trial are to determine if rib orthosis via the use of the
      RibFx belt can improve patients after traumatic rib fractures by improving pain control
      without compromise of respiratory function or increase respiratory complications of rib
      fracture.

      Per Jeffords Institute for Quality Data of the University of Vermont, there were 190 patients
      admitted the to Acute Care Surgery (Trauma) service at the University of Vermont Medical
      Center during the year 2016. Assuming that these numbers remain fairly static overtime as
      they have in the past, the investigators would expect approximately 16 patient admissions per
      month with the diagnosis of rib fracture (seasonal fluctuations do exist with more traumatic
      admissions during the summer months). The goal time period for the trial would be to conduct
      this trial during the summer, with a goal of 50 total patients. The investigators would
      therefore expect an enrollment period (data collection phase) of approximately 3 months.

      During the study, appropriate patients will be recruited both to the control arm of the study
      and the intervention/comparison arm in a specified / non-randomized sequence as seen in the
      schematic below (First 5 patients control, next five patients intervention, next five
      patients control, next five patients intervention, next five patients control, final 25
      patients intervention). Control arm will include 15 total patients. All will be consented to
      the study upon admission (first 24 hours of index hospitalization for injury) with full
      knowledge that they will either be undergoing no intervention other than receiving the
      current standard of care for rib fracture care per our institution's standard, and if
      assigned to the rib belt group, expected to wear the rib belt during their recovery.

      The current standard of care for rib fractures at our institution is as follows: includes
      oral and IV analgesia and other multimodal pain control as appropriate, including muscle
      relaxants such as methocarbamol (robaxin) unless there is a contraindication, pulmonary
      hygiene/toilet and respiratory care (including frequent evaluations by physicians,
      respiratory therapists, and nursing staff, early mobilization, and monitoring for pulmonary
      complication (via vital signs, pulse oximetry, oxygen requirement, chest imaging if
      appropriate).

      All patients will undergo initial "Pre-test" testing which will include baseline pain scores
      (1-10 traditional pain scale assessed every 8 hours, then averaged over the 24 hour period),
      initial narcotic consumption (in MME) for first 24 hours of hospitalization, maximum
      incentive spirometry score for first 24 hours of hospitalization, and pre-test questionnaire
      result (see attached questionnaire #1). As the study continues their relevant data will be
      collected, including both objective (incentive spirometry scores, opioid pain medication
      consumption, incidence of atelectasis and pneumonia) and subjective (pain scores, survey
      result) clinical data. Concurrently, The investigators will complete the trial with the
      intervention (RibFx belt) phase in which participants will be enrolled in the interventional
      arm of the study. The objective and subjective data will be collected in an identical
      fashion- the only difference between groups will be that this group will have been fitted
      with the RibFx belt for their hospital course and discharge.

      The participants (both in the control and interventional groups) will again be asked to
      complete essentially the same brief surveys in a post-test fashion at two set time points:
      between 24-48 hours after initial enrollment in the study (Questionnaire #2)(if patient has
      been discharged at this point, they will be sent home with this survey and instructed when to
      complete), and at 3 weeks post-injury (this will be done at their clinic visit, assuming they
      are not still admitted to the hospital at this time point).

      Patients will also be sent home with a work-book to record their incentive spirometry scores
      and pain scores (all patients will be sent home with an incentive spirometer, and all
      patients in the interventional group will be sent home with their Ribfx belt).

      The following additional data will also be quantified from the medical record via manual data
      extraction: ICU length of stay, hospital length of stay, pulse oximetry and respiratory rate
      scores (taken from already collected vital signs every four hours), body mass index (BMI),
      bronchodilator (such as albuterol or other inhaled beta agonist) use, age, sex/gender,
      tobacco history/pack years, days on mechanical ventilator, narcotic requirement (in mean
      morphine equivalents or morphine equianalgesic dose per day).

      In addition, an independent radiology physician will analyze the chest x-rays, CT chests of
      the patients enrolled in the study and grade them in a blinded fashion) on a scale for the
      following characteristics: Degree and quantity of rib fracture, presence and degree of
      atelectasis, presence of COPD/emphysematous change or other parenchymal lung disease,
      presence and degree of pneumothorax, bilateral vs. unilateral disease, presence of
      intrapleural fluid, evidence of "flail chest" segment, and presence of pulmonary contusion
      and other noted pathology (see the attached Radiology Grading Form document). The
      investigators will measure the degree of radiological severity and compare the control and
      interventional group to determine what differences in initial disease severity exist (so they
      can be accounted for).

      Each patient in the interventional arm will be fitted with a RibFx orthosis belt, which is to
      be worn during the majority of their day (excluding showering/bathing). It will be encouraged
      (though not mandatory) to wear at night. Patients in both the control and interventional arm
      will be expected to participate in pulmonary hygiene / toilet exercises with guided and
      independent incentive spirometry as per our normal routine and standard of care. There are no
      other interventions or procedures that the patients will be subjected to for the research
      trial- other procedures/interventions will be performed only if the clinical care team feels
      they are indicated.

      Patients will be assessed with three short questionnaires in a pretest , posttest fashion at
      both the onset of the study, 24-48 hours after enrollment, and at their follow-up appointment
      3 weeks after (2 post test questionnaires). The initial evaluation will occur on initial
      assessment prior to placement of the rib belt (or, for the control/ non-intervention group,
      at the onset/first 24 hours of the study).

      Each of the questionnaires is essentially the same with only brief modifications made in the
      first two questions to make them appropriate for the timing during the clinical course.
      However these are all attached (see Questionnaire 1,2,and 3).

      Patients in both the intervention and control arms will present in post-admission follow up
      at a time period of 3 weeks post injury (range, 2-4 weeks) following their hospital
      admission, and will be asked to fill out a brief survey regarding their respiratory function
      and pain control. This survey will also inquire into compliance with the use of incentive
      spirometer, and compliance with the use of the RibFx belt (for patients in the intervention
      arm).

      The surveys are a novel series of questionnaires using previously validated tools such as the
      COPD Assessment Test or CAT (Jones PW, Harding G, Berry P et al 2009) and the Brief Pain
      Inventory (BPI) in order to subjectively assess each patient's own breathing/ respiratory and
      pain symptoms. The surveys also have additional questions gaging their pain medication usage,
      compliance with their treatment therapies (including IS and rib belt usage, when applicable).
      The survey is designed to be completed in ten minutes. The survey was constructed with the
      assistance of a professor psychologist who specializes survey construction (Author ACB).
      There will be no financial compensation for survey completions.

      All surveys will be adapted to apply to the unique population being surveyed- the post-trauma
      population. This may involve removal of some questions that are not applicable to the rib
      fracture patients. There are several questions on the questionnaire that might not be
      applicable to the control group- they are simply instructed to not complete those four
      questions.

      The surveys have been modified in order to be more easily comprehended to the average
      patient, and to require minimal additional instruction (so that the patient can complete them
      independently with no additional prompting).

      In this study, The investigators will utilize a quasi-experimental design to compare 35
      subjects to themselves in a pre-test, post-test fashion. In addition, the investigators will
      have an additional 15 non-interventional control patients to observe for temporal changes in
      patient's symptoms not secondary to the intervention itself. However, it is important to note
      that the study is not powered to detect differences between the control group and the
      intervention group. The purpose of the control group is to observe for differences that occur
      in this population over time regardless of intervention (it should be assumed that pain will
      improve as time increases from the set injury point, regardless of intervention). Further,
      this preliminary data could potentially be used to calculate an accurate power calculation
      for a definitive randomized controlled trial.

      Groups will be compared by demographical and clinical data to determine what potentially
      confounding differences exist between the arms of the study. Relevant objective data that
      will be used to determine group differences include (but not limited to): age, sex, tobacco
      use status (active/former/none), presence of asthma, presence of COPD, or presence of
      restrictive lung disease, home oxygen use, obstructive sleep apnea/ CPAP use, chronic pain
      incidence, narcotic/opioid medication consumption, obesity/ BMI. The investigators will also
      measure relevant variables of their clinical course such as regional
      block/anesthesia/epidural administration. Radiological appearance of presenting imaging
      (either CT Chest or chest X-ray) will be compared by a dedicated and blinded radiologist who
      will grade the initial imaging based on severity including the following variables: number of
      fractures, bilateral vs. unilateral, degree of displacement, presence of lung contusion,
      presence of pneumothorax, presence of intrinsic lung disease, pleural effusion or blood.

      Survey results (both pretest and posttests) will be compared using the appropriate
      statistical methods depending on the questions construct: with Chi squared performed for
      categorical variables (such as multiple choice) and unpaired t test for continuous variables
      (such as likert scale rankings).

      The investigators have performed a power calculation to determine if the following hypothesis
      can be reasonably answered with the trial of this size: the investigators hypothesize that
      the RibFx belt can improve pain control in the post-rib fracture setting for patients without
      impeding pulmonary functioning. The investigators anticipate seeing an improvement in pain
      scores and/or narcotic consumption within the rib belt group, without seeing significant
      differences in pulmonary function (although do expect a nonsignfiicant trend toward improved
      pulmonary function).

      In order to perform our power function the investigators reviewed the literature to determine
      prior similar samples to our expected cohort. The investigators performed our power
      calculation with the goal of 80% power (with 2-sided alpha= 0.05). The investigators
      anticipate based on prior studies (Fabricant et al that the baseline chest wall pain score
      (MPQ PPI and MPQ PRI) were a median of 3 (range 0-5) and a mean of 28 +/- 16 (range 0-70)
      respectively1. Looking at a study for Bugaev et al, the investigators can also anticipate
      pain medicine requirements in the form of Mean Equianalgesic Dose (MED) of opioid pain
      medication. In this study, the MED for rib fracture patients was found to be 135.8 (IQR
      50.83-440.0). Finally, Butts CA et al 3 studied incentive spirometry volume (ISV) scores in
      this population of patients and found their median ISV (in ml) was 1250 (IQR 750-1250).

      For a one-group pre-post design, a sample size of 30 subjects would provide 83% power to
      detect a 20% decrease in MPQ PRI, assuming a within subject correlation of 0.8 for MPQ PRI
      scores and using a two-sided type I error rate of 0.05. A sample size of 35 (the planned size
      of the intervention group), provides an 88% power to detect a 20% decrease.
    
  