
    
      Currently, rotator cuff healing is defined as "intact", "attenuated", or "failed" based on
      the observation (or not) of a recurrent defect (i.e., a "gap") in the tendon using MRI or
      ultrasound imaging. The investigators' previous work has identified a new outcome, in which
      there is no detectable defect or "gap" in the repaired tendon, but the repaired tendon has
      undergone significant retraction. The investigators call this outcome "failure with
      continuity".

      Current imaging methods are inadequate to determine the extent to which the repaired rotator
      cuff tendon has "failed with continuity". The investigators have developed an imaging
      technique to detect this phenomenon. Specifically, radio-opaque markers are sutured onto the
      repaired tendon. The distance between the tendon markers and the bone is measured from CT
      scans taken within 2 weeks of surgery, and compared to the distance measured at 3, 6, 12 and
      24 months. If the tendon retracts away from the bone during healing, this distance will
      increase over time. Healing of the tendon will also be monitored in the traditional manner by
      MRI scans at the same time points. The investigators will investigate the relationship
      between tendon retraction, MR imaging and clinical outcomes including shoulder strength and
      patient satisfaction.

      The investigators expect to show that tendon retraction is common, occurs early
      post-operatively, with or without repair continuity as assessed by traditional imaging, and
      significantly correlates with clinical outcomes. The immediate and highly significant
      consequence of this finding would be a paradigm shift in the investigators' understanding of
      tendon repair healing, now incorporating the magnitude, timing and location of tendon
      retraction as well as the continuity of the repaired tissue. This information would yield a
      more precise understanding of rotator cuff tendon healing, allowing for advances in treatment
      strategies that improve surgical healing and clinical outcomes and result in more durable
      rotator cuff repairs over time.
    
  