
    
      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of the investigational Zenith FLIM
      Diagnostics imaging device that's modality is a direct support during lumpectomy cancer
      surgery to achieve the common goal of improving patient quality of life by decreasing rates
      of re-operation. The team is fully dedicated to bringing the Gold Standard in the operating
      room, enabling margin assessment, in real time, at the histological detail.

      Our operative technique involves removing the main lumpectomy specimen, marking two of its
      borders with suture to orient the specimen for correct pathologic evaluation. Next, we take 6
      shave margins in all directions around the lumpectomy cavity (superior, inferior, medial,
      lateral, posterior, anterior) and anchor an orientation stitch at the far side of the margin,
      again, for pathologist to understand which side was farthest away from the lumpectomy
      specimen.

      The research coordinator along with the surgeon will be able to insert the lumpectomy
      specimen into the Zenith FLIM device followed by the 6 shaved margins (one by one) in a
      matter of minutes once the specimens have been resected. To be clear, the Zenith FLIM
      analysis will be taking place in-vitro. The machine will be placed a good distance from the
      patient, in an ante-room, and does not require sterility. Of course, if the surgeon breaks
      sterility while handing off the specimens for FLIM analysis, he or she will have to
      re-sterilize as would be standard if sterile conditions are broken for any other reasons
      (having to re-scrub because sterility is broken is a common procedure). Once the specimens
      are placed in the Zenith FLIM, the specimens will no longer be sterile, but there is no need
      to maintain sterility of the specimens once they are in-vitro. In fact, even in the absence
      of Zenith FLIM analysis, once the specimens are placed in cups for pathologic evaluation,
      they are no longer sterile. In other words, loss of sterility of the specimen is a necessity
      of the operation regardless of Zenith FLIM analysis.

      The device is an in-vitro test and would be tested against the gold standard: the pathologic
      evaluation of resected tissue. The test results would not be used for any diagnosis. Neither
      the test nor the unit comes in contact with patients under any circumstance. The Zenith FLIM
      margin results will be compared directly with pathology. The effectiveness of the Zenith FLIM
      Diagnostics margin results will be compared directly with pathology and evaluated in this
      study.
    
  