
    
      Aim: To investigate the criteria with the longest overall and disease-free survival and
      lowest recurrence rates in liver transplantation for hepatocellular cancer (HCC).

      Introduction: When the liver transplant criteria for HCC were examined, we saw that many
      criteria defined in their original articles did not include the rates of extending the Milan
      criteria, survival and recurrence rates of non-milan patients who were within the newly
      defined criteria. Therefore, information on which of the criteria defined for liver
      transplantation in HCC extends the Milan criteria more, which has a longer survival rate and
      which has a lower recurrence rate is lacking. In order to eliminate this deficiency or at
      least to have a rough idea, we aimed to compare the results of liver transplantation,
      performed for HCC in our institute which is a high-volume liver transplant center, by
      analyzing it according to the existing defined criteria. Thus, we were able to compare the
      criteria in a homogeneous patient group that was formed as a result of the same inclusion and
      exclusion criteria in the same period of time. The highest overall and disease-free survival,
      the lowest recurrence rate, and the criterion that extends the Milan criteria will be
      introduced. In addition, this study is the first comprehensive comparison of liver transplant
      criteria for HCC.

      Methods: Between March 2002 and July 2020, the data of 424 patients who underwent liver
      transplantation due to HCC at the Liver Transplantation Institute of İnönü University will be
      retrospectively analyzed from the prospectively recorded data bank and automation system.
      Tumor size, tumor number, differentiation and microscopic venous invasion data will all be
      recorded from the data in the explant pathology report. Since the primary aim of our study is
      cancer-related survival in patients who can be transplanted, 31 patients with tumor invasion
      outside the liver (extrahepatic portal vein tumor thrombosis, perihilar lymph node
      metastasis, diaphragmatic invasion etx) and 70 patients with follow-up period after liver
      transplantation below 90 days will be excluded from the study. The remaining 323 patients
      will be included in the study and their data will be analyzed. First, demographic data, tumor
      characteristics, overall and disease-free survival and recurrence rate of 323 HCC patients
      who were the study group, will be calculated, and then these patients will be divide groups
      according to be within or beyond the criteria, than survival and recurrence rates will be
      calculated. It was then examined whether these expanded criteria actually extended the Milan
      criteria. It was checked whether a defined Expanded criterion allowed liver transplantation
      for patients outside of Milan while excluding patients within Milan from liver
      transplantation. How far the expanded criteria expand the Milan and survival of the patients
      who beyond Milan but within the criteria were analyzed separately. Thus, the most useful
      criterion for liver transplantation in HCC treatment will be revealed.
    
  