
    
      Aim/ Objective

      The aim of this study will be to assess the efficacy of transoral neuromuscular stimulation
      training during wakefulness on snoring.

      Patients and Methods

      This is a prospective observational study, recruiting patients from the sleep clinics at the
      Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery in Queen's Hospital, Barking,
      Havering and Redbridge University Hospitals National Health Service (NHS) Trust

      Sample size planned is up to 200 participants.

      Study Protocol

      A. Screening Participants will be identified from Queen's Hospital, Barking, Havering and
      Redbridge NHS Trust. There will be a screening phone call to ensure suitability based on an
      inclusion criterion and offer first line information about the trial. If suitable,
      participants will be given a written information sheet and invited to undertake a 2 day home
      sleep study (using WatchPAT). If the average apnea-hypopnea index (AHI) from these 2 days is
      below 15/h, the participants will be invited for a clinical examination.

      B. Recruitment visit

        -  Clinical airway examination by Ear, Nose and Throat (ENT) consultant

        -  Review of inclusion and exclusion criteria

        -  Informed consent

        -  Inclusion into trial

      C. Pre-therapy period (day -14 to -1):

        -  Bed partner daily subjective assessment of snoring (Visual Analogue Scale -
           participant's bed partner will be required to complete daily visual analogue scoring of
           the participant's snoring, with 1 being "no snoring" and 10 being "intolerable snoring")

        -  Oral examination (detailed examination by dentist to document pre-therapy oral state

        -  Participant and bed partner to complete sleep quality questionnaires (Pittsburgh Sleep
           Quality Index, Epsworth sleepiness score (ESS) and subjective sleep quality
           questionnaire) on Day -1

      D. Therapy phase (day 1-42)

        -  Face-to-face meeting, instruction on use of the intraoral device

        -  Participant to use the Snoozeal device for 20 minutes once daily

        -  Bed partner daily subjective assessment of snoring (VAS)

        -  Participant daily assessment of side effects/adverse events and time of use

        -  Participant and bed partner to complete Sleep quality Questionnaires (Pittsburgh Sleep
           Quality Index, Epsworth sleepiness score and subjective sleep quality questionnaire) at
           day 42

        -  Weekly follow up phone call from research team to confirm compliance. Compliance will
           also be cross checked using the total time of use recorded by the device.

      E. End of Therapy Review (day 43 - 49)

        -  Review of device integrity by visual inspection

        -  Oral examination (detailed examination by dentist to document post therapy oral state)

        -  Repeat Sleep Study - 2 night sleep study with WatchPAT

      F. Follow Up phase (day 43-56)

        -  Participant advised to stop using device

        -  Bed partner daily subjective assessment of snoring (VAS)

        -  Subject and bed partner to complete Sleep quality Questionnaires (Pittsburgh Sleep
           Quality Index, Epworth sleepiness score and subjective sleep quality questionnaire) at
           day 56

      G. Post Therapy Review (day 57)

        -  Face-to-face meeting and feedback

        -  Collection of participant data sheets

        -  Participant subjective overall assessment

      Data Analysis

      The pre and post sleep studies will be performed using WatchPAT. Parameters recorded:
      saturation, AHI, snoring sound parameters.

      AHI will be identified and analyzed by WatchPAT data and software. The WatchPat is an
      approved FDA sleep study device. Snoring will be quantified subjectively by both the bed
      partner using a visual analog score, and objectively during the home sleep study as frequency
      of snores (number of snores / hours of sleep) and % total sleep time spent snoring. Sleep
      quality will be quantified subjectively by PSQI score. Sleepiness will be quantified
      subjectively by ESS score.
    
  