
    
      Same day bi-directional endoscopies (EGD-esophagogastro-duodenoscopies and colonoscopies) are
      routinely performed in endoscopy units. Little however is known if the order of sequence of
      the two procedures (i.e. EGD (upper endoscopy) before colonoscopy (lower endoscopy) or
      vice-versa) is of any consequence. Those who favor performing EGDs prior to colonoscopies
      (EGD first approach) argue that the sedation necessary for EGD is then carried over to the
      colonoscopy and thus allows for a better tolerated colonoscopy. Additionally, abdominal
      bloating caused by insufflation of air during colonoscopy could lead to reduced tolerance of
      the subsequent EGD. Others however, argue that the gaseous distention of the small intestine
      caused by performing the EGD first leads to a more difficult and uncomfortable colonoscopy
      thereafter, likely due to a mechanical effect of air migrating to the proximal colon. Studies
      comparing procedural sequences in same day endoscopies have revealed conflicting results to
      date.

      Some studies show that using the EGD first approach before allows for better procedural
      quality, decreased overall patient discomfort, less sedation, and a much higher chance of
      determining the diagnosis in the undifferentiated patient (e.g. occult GI bleeding). Other
      studies either show no difference in overall patient discomfort and satisfaction between both
      procedures, or even preference for colonoscopy before EGD. While some of these studies use
      moderate sedation, others use no sedation at all making generalization of these results
      difficult.

      The use of carbon dioxide (CO2) for insufflation during upper and lower endoscopies has
      recently become popular over traditionally used room air, especially after studies revealed
      lesser post-procedure patient discomfort with the use of CO2. Whether its use affects the
      preferred sequence of procedures is still unknown.

      Institutional variation across Canada regarding the sequence of procedures for same day
      bidirectional endoscopies is currently based on a combination of personal preferences and the
      few studies available. Given the absence of any formal guidelines in this area, we undertake
      the current study to test the hypothesis: In patients requiring same day bi-directional
      endoscopies, performing an EGD prior to Colonoscopy with carbon dioxide (CO2) used as an
      insufflator is the best tolerated sequence associated with decreased sedation use and
      increased patient satisfaction/comfort.
    
  