
    
      A laryngoscope is a medical instrument that is used to get a view of the voice box and the
      space in between the vocal cords. A laryngoscope is used to place a breathing tube into the
      trachea (windpipe or airway) to protect the patient's airway and provide a way to help a
      person breathe during surgery; this is called intubation. The placement of a breathing tube
      into the windpipe is a skill that is not easily mastered. In fact, the placement is difficult
      or impossible using the usual technique in 1-3 of every 100 patients. The ease of placing
      this breathing tube depends in part on how easily and how much of the vocal cords are able to
      be seen directly using a laryngoscope.

      In a small number of patients, the Levitan First Pass Success (FPS) Scope has been shown to
      be more effective and easier to insert even in patients who have difficult airways. This
      study will evaluate the use of the LFS compared to the other conventional laryngoscope in
      subjects with a simulated difficult airway. The goal of this study is to determine the
      effectiveness and safety of the LFS in a large number of patients with simulated airway
      difficulties.

      The results obtained during the study may provide useful information to health care providers
      who cannot place a breathing tube in patients that are either in operating rooms or in
      emergency situations requiring intubation by paramedics. An example would be a trauma
      situation where a paramedic is having difficulty attempting an intubation when a patients
      c-spine is being protected from any movements.

      The LFS is an affordable and transportable device, which makes this an attractive asset for
      health providers in smaller community settings or in paramedic vehicles which may not have
      the capacity to stock or ability to afford a variety of different scopes and must choose a
      more limited selection.
    
  