
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The clinical trial literature on surfactant clearly demonstrated that surfactant therapy
      resulted in improved early respiratory status and improved mortality rates for premature
      newborns infants suffering from respiratory ailments due to surfactant insufficiency.
      However, the clinical trial experience regarding efficacy did not ensure that the same
      benefits would be conferred on patients outside the clinical trial environment during routine
      medical care.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The investigators had already demonstrated in an epidemiological study published in the New
      England Journal of Medicine (May 1994) that morbidity, mortality, and resource use among very
      low birth weight inborn infants declined once surfactant became available. This study
      broadened the focus to include infants excluded from the original study. The hypotheses for
      the study centered on the investigators' belief that infants who were in the 1500 to 2500
      gram weight group also experienced reduced mortality, morbidity, and resource use
      post-surfactant, as did those who were mature with severe respiratory disease, and those who
      were outborn i.e. those who were transferred to a perinatal center. Finally, because of the
      significant focus on health care reform and quality assurance in clinical care the
      investigators included a hypothesis focusing on the impact of payer on mortality, morbidity,
      and resource use. The original study identified that the payer was not a factor
      differentiating the newborns with regard to any measures of outcome or resource use. The
      investigators hypothesized that this would remain the case. However, they suspected that
      there might be some indications in their analysis among patients who were outborn that HMO or
      managed care was influencing not only where births were occurring, but how well fragile
      newborns did in the clinical environment. All the analyses used analytic datafiles from the
      National Perinatal Information Center's Perinatal Center Database. A pre-and post-surfactant
      period was created using eleven perinatal centers who provided data on all newborns from 1985
      and 1992. Infants were divided into two groups according to whether they were born before or
      after surfactant was introduced into clinical practice. Regression models controlling for
      race, sex, and birthweight were used to assess morbidity, mortality, and resource use.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  