
    
      Objective:

      The ability to discriminate successive signals separated by time intervals in the
      millisecond-range is an important element in analyzing the temporal characteristics of
      sensory input. When two identical stimuli are presented with a sufficient time interval
      between them, they are readily perceived as being two separate events. As they are presented
      progressively closer together, there comes a point when the two separate stimuli are
      perceived as one. However, the neural mechanism of temporal discrimination is unclear.
      Therefore, our major objective is to analyze, in detail, the effect of cortical excitability
      and inhibition on temporal sensory discrimination in healthy subjects.

      Study Population:

      We intend to study 25 adult healthy volunteers.

      Design:

      Assuming the cortical circuit in the somatosensory area plays an important role in temporal
      discrimination, we plan to investigate the relationship between cortical excitability and the
      ability of temporal discrimination. We hypothesize that the extent of cortical excitability
      affects the ability to discriminate. Cortical excitability will be modulated by using
      repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS). Comparison of cortical excitability
      changes will be determined before and after rTMS in the primary somatosensory cortex (SI).
      The change in cortical information processing in SI will be studied using multi-channel
      electroencephalography (EEG) recording of paired-pulse somatosensory evoked potentials (SEPs)
      delivered at rest. Activity assessment in the cortical circuit will be measured by the
      recovery curve of the amplitude of paired-pulse SEPs.

      Outcome Measures:

      The primary outcome measure will be the change in amplitude of the paired-pulse SEP component
      (P27) in 5-ms interstimulus interval condition for three types of rTMS. The secondary outcome
      will be the amplitude of paired-pulse SEP components during other interstimulus interval
      conditions (10 to 200 ms).
    
  