
    
      Children and adolescents registered with confirmed diagnosis of cancer will be assessed for
      eligibility criteria and enrolled in the study. Subjects will be randomized into study and
      control groups using table of random numbers generated by computer. Sequentially numbered,
      opaque, sealed envelopes will be used for concealed allocation. After randomization, subjects
      will be interviewed 1 hour prior 1st dose of chemotherapy. Subjects will receive the
      antiemetic drugs for four days as per the allotted arm. All doses will be administered under
      supervision and 30 minutes before chemotherapy. The data will be collected from each patient
      from day 1 to day5 from the last dose of chemotherapy. The details will contain different
      items dealing with demographic and clinical characteristic of the subjects. A Diary will be
      maintained for nausea and vomiting episodes. It will help in collecting data regarding
      nausea, vomiting along with some additional variables like chemotherapy related toxicities,
      requirement of any rescue medication. The subjects will be given the diary for symptom
      assessment on day 1 and it will be filled up under the supervision of the investigator on day
      1 till completion of chemotherapy. The diary will be given to the subjects following the
      completion of chemotherapy to record all the events (incidence and severity of nausea,
      vomiting, requirement of rescue medication and other toxicities ) and will be contacted by
      phone or in person by the investigator. Edmonton's symptom assessment criterion will be used
      in the diary for assessing severity of nausea. The NCI's CTCAEv4.03 criterion will be used to
      assess the severity of vomiting and adverse events based on the data provided by the patient
      in the diary. Patients/attendants will be explained about the filling of the diary and will
      maintain it for recording of vomiting. A modified intention-to-treat population will be used
      for efficacy analysis. Proportion of patients with CR during acute phase, delayed phase and
      overall period will be compared between the two arms.
    
  