
    
      Cerebral autoregulation (CA) is the ability of cerebral vascular system to contract or
      diastole with the change of perfusion pressure, and to maintain the stability of cerebral
      blood flow. It has been found that there are different degrees of CA damage in patients with
      traumatic brain injury, ischemic stroke, hemorrhagic stroke, aneurysmal subarachnoid
      hemorrhage, ischemic hypoxic encephalopathy and sepsis. At the same time, studies have shown
      that CA damage or loss is related to brain dysfunction and poor prognosis in patients with
      neurocritical diseases. Therefore, early assessment and intervention of CA can help identify
      individuals with high risk of complications and improve outcome.

      Targeted temperature management (TTM) is a kind of body temperature management started when
      the core temperature of patients is higher than 37.5 ℃, including achieve hypothermia
      (TTMhypo) and maintain normal temperature (TTMnorm). TTMhypo has been widely considered as
      one of the neuroprotective therapies for a variety of brain diseases and injuries, including
      ischemic stroke, traumatic brain injury, hypoxic brain injury caused by out-of-hospital
      cardiac arrest and neonatal hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy. Its neuroprotective effects in
      reducing brain edema, reducing intracranial pressure, reducing brain metabolism and
      inhibiting apoptosis have been recognized. However, the existing studies mainly focus on the
      effect of TTMhypo on the mortality and neurological outcome of patients with severe
      neurological diseases in ICU. There is no large clinical study on the effect of targeted
      temperature management (TTM) on cerebral autoregulation in patients with severe neurological
      diseases. Due to the controversy of TTMhypo on mortality and neurological outcome, this study
      aime to reduce the patient's core temperature to normal. Patients with severe neurological
      disorders who still had cerebral autoregulation dysfunction, had fever, and needed to reduce
      the core temperature to normal. Therefore, the effect of TTMnorm on cerebral autoregulation
      before and during cooling was observed.The main measures were the THRR, Mx and TOx during
      cooling.
    
  