
    
      Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the fifth most common malignancy in the world and the third
      most common cause of cancer-related deaths complicating liver cirrhosis in most cases. In
      Egypt, there has been a remarkable increase of the proportion of HCC among CLD patients from
      4.0% to 7.2% over a decade. This rising proportion may be explained by the increasing risk
      factors such as the emergence of HCV over the same period of time, the contribution of HBV
      infection, improvement of the screening programs and diagnostic tools of HCC as well as the
      increased survival rate among patients with cirrhosis to allow time for some of them to
      develop HCC. The only curative treatment modalities for HCC are surgery, local ablation, and
      liver transplantation which have high recurrence rate either due to viral hepatitis infection
      or cirrhosis leading to low success rate and high economic burden..

      Unfortunately, the majority of patients have unresectable disease at diagnosis. So, patients
      search for palliative very expensive therapies including chemotherapy and radiotherapy which
      often fail to eradicate tumor lesions completely and tend to result in many adverse
      events.Thus, novel approaches for treatment options are needed for patients with advanced HCC
      .

      In recent years, immunotherapy has emerged as an efficacious treatment modality with
      encouraging efficacy and slight adverse events in cancer therapy. Cytokine-induced killer CIK
      cells therapy has been evaluated as an adoptive cell immunotherapy for cancer patients in a
      number of clinical trials and the promising efficacy of CIK cells on malignancies has been
      proved. . Clinical studies have demonstrated that it is an excellent method to prevent tumor
      recurrence and has preliminarily shown its efficacy in inhibiting recurrence and metastasis
      of primary HCC -Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC)from patients with primary HCC were
      incubated in vitro and induced into CIK cells in the presence of various cytokines such as
      interferon-gamma (IFN-ã ), interleukin-1 (IL-1), IL-2, and monoclonal antibody (mAb) against
      CD3. CIK cells infusion will be performed Once every week, with a total of at
      least4infusions. Infusion will be given intrahepatic or via peripheral veins .

      The serial biological events following CIK cells administration to a cancer patient includes
      (a) immune activation and effective lymphocytes (mostly C D3+CD 5 6+Tlymphocytes)
      proliferation starting early after the first administration , ( b) clinically measurable
      antitumor effect mediated by activated immune cells over weeks to months ,and (c) potential
      delayed effect on patient survival several months or even longer after the first
      administration.

      Our team have many grants in field of HCC biomarkers discovery and managements from NIH as
      multicenter studies which got many international publication. As well as grant for the use of
      laboratory techniques in the cultivation of stem cells for specialized cells used in the
      treatment of different diseases which got publication in this era. we aim in this project to
      cultivate patients cells in vitro to get CIK cells and study the safety and efficacy of
      immunization with specific antihepatocellular carcinoma Cytokine -induced killer cells in
      Egyptian patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma as treatment or adjuvant treatment
      in comparison with traditional treatment.
    
  