
    
      Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) has become the most common form of coronary
      revascularization worldwide. Although PCI is a safe procedure, it may have multiple risks
      including bleeding, coronary dissection, abrupt vessel closure, and myocardial necrosis. It
      is estimated that approximately 25% of patients undergoing PCI have significant
      postprocedural creatinine kinase (CK)/creatinine kinase myocardial band (CK-MB) elevations
      and approximately 50% of patients have significant post-procedural troponin elevations.
      Initially, it was felt these elevations were simple enzyme leaks with no long-term
      implications.

      Now, several studies have demonstrated that periprocedural infarction is associated with
      short-, intermediate-, and long-term adverse outcomes, most notably mortality. Pretreatment
      with antiplatelets such as aspirin and clopidogrel play an important role in reducing
      cardiovascular events (CV events) following PCI.

      Omega -3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) have antiplatelet effect. It may also improve
      response to aspirin and clopidogrel in low-response patients.

      This study is a randomized clinical trial (RCT) evaluating the effect of omega 3 supplement
      [with 400mg Eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and 200mg docosahexanoic acid (DHA)] on biomarkers of
      cardiac necrosis (CKMB and troponin I) in patients undergoing elective PCI. Eighty patients
      planed to do elective PCI will be categorized into two groups. The first group will be
      received standard regimen for PCI (aspirin, clopidogrel, and heparin) and the second group
      will be treated with standard regimen in addition to 3 gram omega 3 (12 hours before PCI).
      Blood samples will be drawn in all patients before and 8 and 24 h after intervention for
      cardiac biomarkers assessment (CK-MB, troponin I)and inflammation marker C-reactive protein
      (CRP). Major adverse cardiac events (MACE) will be evaluated as a second endpoint.
    
  