
    
      Idiopathic normal pressure hydrocephalus (iNPH) is an important differential diagnosis of
      dementia in the elderly patients. It is characterised by an enlargement of the ventricular
      system and can lead to cognitive deficits, gait disturbance and incontinence. Treatment
      consists of a ventriculoperitoneal shunt. A major challenge is the identification of patients
      who suffer from iNPH and who will benefit from shunt surgery. Typically, cerebrospinal fluid
      (CSF) is withdrawn by a spinal tap, and walking speed and steps per distance are measured
      before and thereafter. In patients who benefit from the test tap the diagnosis iNPH is made
      and the indication for shunt surgery is ascertained. The diagnostic procedure is not
      standardised.

      Little is known about the examinations and time-points suited best to predict surgery
      outcome. Thus, patients may undergo surgery who do not benefit, and patients who would
      benefit may be missed.

      This study aims at defining a diagnostic algorithm to improve the prediction of surgery
      outcome in patients supposed to suffer from iNPH. In 25 serial patients, motor function will
      be analysed in detail by functional tests and a treadmill-based analysis before and after the
      test tap at different time-points. In addition, neuropsychological tests and MRI
      investigations (DWI and pw) will be done, and patients will fill-out a micturition diary.
      Patients who do not respond to the test tap will be offered a lumbar drainage for continuous
      CSF release as diagnostic escalation with repeated tests thereafter. Patients who finally
      undergo shunt surgery will be re-assessed to identify those who responded to surgery.
      Thereby, post-hoc analyses will identify those parameter(s) that had the best predictive
      value for surgery outcome. To confirm the parameters derived from such exploratory analyses,
      these parameters will be validated in another series of 25 patients.

      The results of this study have the potential to improve the clinical routine and to provide a
      strategic advantage for the University Hospital Zurich.
    
  