
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To evaluate the safety and feasibility of a GVAX pancreatic cancer vaccine (GM-CSF
           gene-transfected allogeneic pancreatic cancer vaccine) when administered alone or in
           combination with a single intravenous dose or daily metronomic oral doses of
           cyclophosphamide as neoadjuvant and adjuvant treatment in patients with resectable stage
           I or II adenocarcinoma of the head, neck, or uncinate process of the pancreas.

        -  To assess the immune cell infiltrates, particularly T-regulatory cells (Tregs) and CD4+
           and CD8+ effector T cells, after neoadjuvant GVAX pancreatic cancer vaccination.

        -  To assess the changes in the number and function of peripheral mesothelin-specific CD8+
           T cells and CD4+, FoxP3+, and GITR+ Tregs after each GVAX pancreatic cancer vaccination
           when administered alone or in combination with a single dose or metronomic doses of
           cyclophosphamide.

      Secondary

        -  To estimate disease-free and overall survival of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  To estimate the effect of immune parameters on disease-free and overall survival of
           these patients.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

        -  Arm A: Patients receive GVAX pancreatic cancer vaccine intradermally (ID) on day 1 and
           undergo pancreaticoduodenectomy on day 15. Approximately 6-10 weeks after surgery,
           patients receive an additional dose of the vaccine. Beginning approximately 1 month
           after vaccination, patients receive standard adjuvant chemoradiotherapy comprising
           gemcitabine, fluorouracil or capecitabine, and radiotherapy over 26-28 weeks. Beginning
           approximately 4-8 weeks after the completion of chemoradiotherapy, patients receive the
           vaccine on day 1. Treatment with the vaccine repeats every 28 days for 4 courses.

        -  Arm B: Patients receive low-dose cyclophosphamide IV on day 0 and GVAX pancreatic cancer
           vaccine ID on day 1. Patients undergo pancreaticoduodenectomy on day 15. Approximately
           6-10 weeks after surgery, patients receive low-dose cyclophosphamide IV on day 0 and the
           vaccine on day 1. Beginning approximately 1 month after vaccination, patients receive
           standard adjuvant chemoradiotherapy comprising gemcitabine, fluorouracil or
           capecitabine, and radiotherapy over 26-28 weeks. Beginning approximately 4-8 weeks after
           the completion of chemoradiotherapy, patients receive low-dose cyclophosphamide IV on
           day 0 and the vaccine on day 1. Treatment with cyclophosphamide and the vaccine repeats
           every 28 days for 4 courses.

        -  Arm C: Patients receive GVAX pancreatic cancer vaccine ID on day 1 and low-dose oral
           cyclophosphamide twice daily on days 1-7. Patients undergo pancreaticoduodenectomy on
           day 15. Approximately 6-10 weeks after surgery, patients receive the vaccine on day 1
           and low-dose oral cyclophosphamide twice daily on days 1-7 and 15-21. Beginning
           approximately 1 month after vaccination, patients receive standard adjuvant
           chemoradiotherapy comprising gemcitabine, fluorouracil or capecitabine, and radiotherapy
           over 26-28 weeks. Beginning approximately 4-8 weeks after the completion of
           chemoradiotherapy, patients receive the vaccine on day 1 and low-dose oral
           cyclophosphamide twice daily on days 1-7 and 15-21. Treatment with the vaccine and
           cyclophosphamide repeats every 28 days for 4 courses.

      Patients undergo blood sample collection periodically for correlative laboratory studies,
      including immune cell analysis. Immune cell analysis includes monitoring the quantitative
      change of peripheral blood lymphocytes, including regulatory T cells (Tregs), and functional
      analysis of T-cell immune response. Tumor tissue samples collected at the time of surgery are
      analyzed for tumor antigens and infiltrating immune cells by immunohistochemistry and
      quantitative real-time PCR.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically.
    
  