
    
      Soy foods have been part of Asian food systems for millennia. In the past decades, both soy
      proteins and polydextrose have been widely used in a variety of food products. Helping
      consumers to feel less hungry is an approach to weight management because it has the
      potential to decrease inter-meal hunger and hence reduce overall energy intake. Considering
      the possible satiety effect of soy protein and polydextrose, inclusion of these molecules in
      the diet could therefore potentially reduce the energy intake and assist with weight
      management in order to attenuate the rise in obesity incidence globally. The study will
      provide data for the first time on how soy protein and soluble fiber impact on satiety and
      acute energy intake in those of Chinese ethnic origin. The research sets out to determine the
      effect of soy protein and polydextrose on satiety and food intake in Asians. It specifically
      attempts to comprehend the physiological mechanisms involving blood glucose, insulin, urea,
      plasma amino acids, gut hormones and the rate of gastric emptying of soy protein and
      polydextrose on appetite ratings, satiety and subsequent food intake. The study will recruit
      healthy young Chinese male, who will return for four test sessions on non-consecutive days.
      At each session, the subjects will be given a standard breakfast, followed 180 min later by a
      soybean curd preload and a buffet lunch 90 min after the preload. Four preloads will be
      tested: (1) low protein, (2) high protein, (3) low protein with polydextrose, and (4) high
      protein with polydextrose. Each soybean curd preload will be tested once by each subject.
      Blood samples from cannulated veins and fingerpricks will be collected before the preload,
      15, 30, 45, 60, 75 and 90 min after the preload for the analysis of glucose, insulin, urea,
      plasma amino acids, and gut hormones. At the same time points as when blood samples
      collected, gastric emptying measurements will be carried out using ultrasound. Subjective
      motivational ratings for hunger, fullness, desire to eat and prospective food consumption
      will be measured by the use of visual analogue scales (VAS).
    
  