
    
      There were 6312 primary hip replacements performed in Scotland during the one year period
      2007 - 2008. Patients undergoing hip arthroplasty commonly have significant comorbidity and
      associated polypharmacy providing many potential challenges for the anaesthetic doctor. The
      optimal way to anaesthetise these patients remains to be fully established although many
      potential methods exist. The main choice is between general anaesthesia (GA) and regional
      anaesthesia (RA) or a combination of the two. In a recent systematic review, RA was found to
      reduce post-operative pain, morphine consumption and nausea and vomiting compared with
      systemic analgesia.

      Spinal anaesthesia is a popular form of RA used in many patients undergoing hip arthroplasty.
      Opioid drugs are frequently added to the spinal injection in order to prolong post-operative
      pain relief. However, this is associated with side effects including respiratory depression,
      urinary retention, nausea and vomiting, and pruritus. Such adverse effects may be
      uncomfortable for the patient and can delay mobilisation, recovery and eventual discharge.

      In patients undergoing hip arthroplasty, peripheral nerve blockade has been shown to improve
      pain scores and reduce morphine consumption. A peripheral nerve block called the fascia
      iliaca plane block has shown significant promise as a method of providing sensory blockade of
      the main nerves which supply pain to the hip. The use of ultrasound for the performance of
      fascia iliaca plane block has been shown to increase reliability compared with the landmark
      technique though the clinical benefits of this have not yet been fully investigated.

      Compared to nerve stimulation or landmark techniques of nerve localisation, ultrasound has
      been shown to increase success rates, reduce block onset time, increase block duration,
      reduce volumes of local anaesthetic required and increase patient satisfaction.

      The investigators hypothesise that by increasing the success rate of the fascia iliaca block
      with ultrasound, it will be possible to achieve superior analgesia post-operatively. Our aim
      is to assess whether the ultrasound guided fascia iliaca plane block can be used as an
      alternative to intrathecal morphine in the provision of post-operative analgesia for primary
      hip arthroplasty. If this is the case, intrathecal opioid could be removed from the spinal
      anaesthetic. This could in theory have significant safety benefits whilst also reducing side
      effects. Ultrasound guided fascia iliaca block has not yet been evaluated clinically as a
      method of providing post-operative analgesia following primary hip arthroplasty. The
      investigators believe that further investigation of this technique will provide a valuable
      contribution to existing knowledge and will change current practice.
    
  