
    
      Participants: Twenty-eight, healthy, active, recreationally-trained adults ages 18-35.

      Procedures (methods): All subjects will report to the Applied Physiology Laboratory in Fetzer
      Rm 025 for phase I of the study for a total of 7 visits. A randomly selected subset of 8
      participants will continue to phase II, and return to the lab for an additional 3 visits to
      evaluate feasibility. Visit 1 will consist of a physical, enrollment and consenting. Visits,
      2, 3, and 4 will be separated by a minimum of 24 hours. During visit 2, participants will
      perform a maximal oxygen consumption (VO2max) test on a cycle ergometer. During visit 3
      participants will be asked to complete a 6-minute oxygen kinetics test on a cycle ergometer;
      lactate threshold and oxygen saturation will be measured at baseline, minutes 2, 3 and 6
      during the 6 min ride. During visit 4, participants will perform a 3-minute critical power
      (CP) test and will provide a saliva sample, to be measured for cortisol levels, immediately
      prior to and after the CP test. Following visit 4, participants will be randomly assigned, in
      a double-blind fashion, to either a placebo or mushroom blend treatment group. Participants
      in the placebo and treatment groups will be asked to consume 2 servings, 3 times daily for 7
      days. Following supplementation, participants will return to the laboratory for visits 5-7,
      each of which will be separated by a minimum of 24 hours. The same protocol performed during
      visits 2-4 will be repeated in the same order for visits 5-7; the VO 2max test, the 6 min
      oxygen kinetics test, and the CP test with a pre and post saliva sample. The randomly
      selected subset of 8 participants will continue into phase II (n=4 for treatment; n=4 for
      placebo). During phase II, the 8 participants in the placebo and treatment groups will be
      asked to consume 2 servings, 3 times daily for 14 additional days to determine feasibility of
      a longer supplementation phase. Following supplementation, the same protocol performed during
      visits 2-4 will be repeated in the same order for visits 8-10, each of which will be
      separated by a minimum of 24 hours.
    
  