
    
      For this study, 40 healthy elderly and 40 patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) will be
      included. Sample size was calculated combining results of a pilot study using the Swipe-Slide
      Pattern (SSP) task (Nackaerts et al. 2020, Behav Brain Res) and literature on complex task
      training (Lin et al. 2012, Neuroimage; Sidaway et al. 2016, J Mot Behav). The pilot study
      showed that movement time at retention, after ST training, was on average 2.824s ± 1.015 for
      sequence swiping. Based on the literature, we assumed a 13.5% difference between DT and ST
      training at retention. Importantly, we hypothesized a similar benefit from DT-training in PD
      patients and HC. Using a β = 0.20 and α = 0.05 sample size was calculated for a repeated
      measured ANOVA analysis with a within-between factor interaction design (within: pre vs post
      vs retention; between: ST vs DT). Total sample size was estimated at 62 participants, divided
      in 31 in ST-training and 31 in DT-training. Taking into account a 30% dropout (either from
      the study or due to data loss), this resulted in 40 subjects in ST-training and 40 in
      DT-training. PD patients and HC will be divided equally across training types, resulting in
      40 PD patients and 40 HC to be randomized to a ST or DT training arm. Patients will be tested
      during the OFF phase of the medication cycle, i.e. approximately 12 h after last medication
      intake.

      Participants will first undergo an inclusion session at home. During this session, they will
      undergo an extensive behavioral test battery, assessing cognitive and motor skills. Patients
      will start this session in the OFF phase of the medication phase and will therefore be asked
      to postpone their morning medication. First, motor skills will be assessed by means of the
      Movement Disorders Society Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (MDS-UPDRS) and Clinch
      token transfer test (C3T). Cognitive assessment includes the Mini-Mental State Examination
      (MMSE), Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) and Trail Making Test (TMT). Additionally,
      tablet skills will be tested extensively using a newly developed test battery, including
      performance of tapping between two spots, swiping in a single direction and swiping in
      multiple directions in random order, in single and dual task conditions. Additionally, a
      mobile phone task will be performed in which participants have to type in a pre-defined phone
      number on a smartphone. This part of the assessment will take approximately 60 min.
      Afterwards patients will be able to take their regular medication and several questionnaires
      will be filled out. These include the New Freezing Of Gait Questionnaire (NFOG-Q), the
      non-gait freezing questionnaire, the Dexterity questionnaire (DextQ-24), the Mobile Device
      Proficiency Questionnaire (MDPQ-16), questions regarding smartphone and tablet use and
      remaining parts of the MDS-UPDRS. Furthermore, daily levodopa doses will be recorded. Healthy
      controls will undergo a similar protocol, though disease-specific assessments and
      questionnaires will not be performed (i.e. MDS-UPDRS, NFOG-Q, non-gait freezing questionnaire
      and medication intake).

      Following inclusion, participants will be invited to the radiology dept. UZ Leuven. They will
      train the SSP-task on an MRI-compatible tablet, while their hemodynamic responses are
      measured using fMRI. Training will include two runs of 7 min 50 s, either as ST or DT
      depending on randomization. The SSP-task is based on the finger movements that have to be
      made to unlock smartphones or tablets or the trajectory that can be used to quickly form
      words using a keyboard on a smartphone. During this test, participants will have to make
      different pre-defined patterns. To reduce cognitive load, the pattern will be visible in one
      of the upper corners of the screen. During the task, participants will be able to see the
      lines they are drawing. Every pattern will begin in one of nine circles and will consist of
      equally long movements. Participants will be asked to move the hand without fully lifting the
      finger stylus from the screen to maintain the online trace. In addition, participants will be
      instructed to return to a fixed starting point when the pattern is complete. The secondary
      task consists of counting the number of red or green lights that are illuminated in the
      peripheral view during task performance. An MRI-compatible version of the touch-sensitive
      tablet will be used. Participants will see the trace of their pen on the tablet by means of a
      built-in mirror on top of the head coil. In addition to the task-based fMRI, a
      high-resolution T1-weighted anatomical scan and diffusion weighted imaging will be performed.
      Before and after training, ST and DT performance on the SSP-task will be assessed outside the
      scanner, using a different pattern to avoid learning. Participants will also perform the
      mobile phone task and tapping between two spots test. Additionally, participants will fill
      out the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) and Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index
      (PSQI).

      From day 2 till 5, participants will continue practice of the SSP-task at home. For this,
      participants will be asked to perform the SSP-task on a tablet each morning, for patients
      this will be just before taking their regular medication. These training sessions will be
      limited to 10 minutes and contain the pattern that was learned on day 1, as well as two new
      patterns to allow variation. The patterns will be offered in a random order, as research has
      shown that random practice can improve retention and transfer in both healthy elderly adults
      and patients with PD. On day 5, the researcher will go to the participants' home and perform
      an immediate retention test, involving the single- and dual task version of the SSP-task. On
      days 6 and 7 participants will not practice to allow for a retention period. On day 8, all
      participants will have a (delayed) retention/transfer scan, consisting of two runs in either
      ST or DT mode: (i) a run containing the learned pattern; and (ii) a run including a new
      pattern to assess transfer. Again, ST and DT performance on the SSP-task will be assessed
      outside the scanner, using a different pattern to avoid learning. Participants will also
      perform the mobile phone task and tapping between two spots test. To minimize head movements
      during the scan itself, a vacuum fixation pillow to accommodate these difficulties will be
      used.
    
  