
    
      This proposal aims to study the issues of health behaviors in the domains of diet, exercise,
      stress, and sleep. We aim to improve health behaviors in these domains by evaluating
      lifestyle choices and communication preferences with a three phase investigation. Phase 1 has
      the specific objective of lifestyle assessment. Phase 1 will evaluate dietary habits and
      choices, exercise practices, perceived stress levels, and quantity and timing of sleep
      utilizing a web-based health survey. The web-based survey tool will populate a secure
      research database. The data will include demographic information, anthropometric data,
      actigraphic data to measure exercise levels and sleep time, and laboratory studies that
      measure glucose metabolism, lipids, and other laboratory markers for cardiovascular risk
      assessment.

      Phase 2 constitutes a pilot study in a limited number of university students to determine the
      feasibility of causing healthy behavior change with the use of electronic messaging to
      university students up to six times per week over 8 weeks. Experience from this feasibility
      study will inform the design of Phase 3.

      Phase 3 will measure improvements in the lifestyle behaviors of students as a result of
      health coaching and electronic feedback messages over an 8 week period comparing their
      indices of health with a control group that does not receive the coaching and electronic
      feedback messages. Utilizing lessons learned from Phase 2, subjects randomized to an
      intervention arm but not subjects randomized to a control arm, will receive health coaching
      and electronic messages at the rate of up to six times per week over an 8 week period. Before
      and after this intervention period, measurements of lifestyle choices, anthropometrics,
      actigraphy for objective exercise and sleep patterns, and cardiac-relevant laboratory studies
      will be measured. Data from the intervention group will be compared with that of the control
      group.
    
  