
    
      Sepsis, defined as life threatening organ failure resulting from a dysregulated host response
      to infection, remains a leading cause of death in critically ill patients and has been
      included as a health priority in a 2017 WHO resolution. Diagnosis of this disorder is
      challenging because the clinical signs and symptoms of systemic inflammation in sepsis
      overlap with those of non-infectious critical conditions i.e. severe inflammatory response
      syndrome (SIRS) e.g. cardiac arrest and burns. Early and accurate diagnosis of sepsis is
      critical for improving patient outcomes and reducing antibiotic usage. Delays in antibiotic
      administration are associated with worse outcomes; however paradoxically, indiscriminate
      prescription of antibiotics to patients without bacterial infections increases both rates of
      morbidity and antimicrobial resistance. The rate of inappropriate antibiotic prescriptions in
      the hospital setting is estimated at 30 to 50% and would be decreased by access to improved
      diagnostic tests.

      There is currently no gold standard laboratory test that can broadly determine the presence
      and type of infection. Although new polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based molecular
      diagnostics can profile pathogens directly from blood culture, they suffer from sensitivity
      issues due to dependence on sufficient numbers of pathogens in the blood sample. They are
      also limited to detection of a discrete range of pathogens. As a result, there is a growing
      focus on molecular diagnostics that profile the host immune response. Current sepsis
      groupings are based on clinical criteria such as the presence of shock, infection source, or
      organ failure, but such groupings may not represent the underlying biology driving the host
      response. They have also failed to adequately match patients for novel interventions. If the
      heterogeneity of sepsis truly reflects heterogeneity in the host response, characterisation
      of these underlying host response types will be fundamental to enabling precision sepsis
      therapeutics.

      In a previous multi-centre, clinical-temporal study in three cohorts of patients admitted to
      the intensive clinical care unit (ICU); (i) out of hospital cardiac arrest (n=36 - SIRS
      group)) (ii) pulmonary sepsis (n=84) (iii) abdominal sepsis (n=64) and 30 healthy controls,
      validated potential host immune biomarkers. Using 202 samples from these cohorts, the
      investigators derived a set of gene biomarkers which can identify patients with severe
      inflammation and discriminate sepsis from non-infected inflammation across a broad range of
      clinical conditions. Other biomarkers have been identified for use for other purposes e.g.
      prognosis/severity. Our patent arising from this work has been filed and entered PCT stage.
      From these patented markers a parsimonious set of 17 genes has been further delineated, which
      are under further evaluation. A sub-panel of two gene entities has been identified that can
      accurately detect severe inflammation using receiver operating characteristic/area under the
      curve (ROC) analysis with a value of approximately 0.98. A panel of three/four gene entities
      has been identified for discrimination of SIRS from all sepsis types (ROC 0.89-0.92), all
      depending on sensitivity or specificity range settings.

      Better diagnostics for sepsis-driven inflammation are needed in both inpatient and outpatient
      settings. In low-acuity outpatient settings, contributing circa 80% of total UK antibiotic
      use, a simple diagnostic to discriminate a septic inflammatory process from an innocuous,
      self-limiting condition, would assist in appropriate antimicrobial use, appropriate triage,
      avoiding further investigations, and appropriate escalation / admissions. In higher-acuity
      settings, causes of non-infectious inflammation are important to exclude; a decision model
      for antibiotic prescription should include a non-infected, non-healthy cause. A reliable
      diagnostic, such as ours, needs to distinguish all three presentations: non-infected
      inflammation, sepsis, and relative health. It will represent a major step-change in provision
      of diagnostic/stratification capability, vastly improve decision and patient management
      pathways and potentially reducing antibiotic overuse in the acute medical and critical-care
      environment.

      These biomarkers once validated in an independent cohort via qPCR for mRNA and their
      commensurate proteins, together with an accompanied easy-to-use, clinically oriented scoring
      system will represent a complete data package which can be rolled out internally, subject to
      the appropriate further accreditation and/or leveraged for development of point-of-care
      devices by commercial partners. This latter option could prove useful for dissemination of
      the test to other patent-appropriate global territories.

      There is an urgent need to validate these findings in several ways; Using an independent
      patient cohort, where laboratory scientists are blinded to the clinical phenotypes of the
      recruited patients and clinicians are not aware of the gene expression data.

      Using a bioinformatics approach to validate the results in already published datasets

      This project will use different approaches to validate these novel SIRS or sepsis-associated
      biomarkers identified by Artificial Neural Network (ANN) and parametric data mining of
      previously published datasets and further validated previously from a previous well
      characterised clinical cohort;

        1. Public Health England laboratories will assess biomarker mRNA expression using a qPCR
           approach, with RNA purified from patient and control whole blood

        2. Public Health England and Cardiff laboratories will assess protein biomarkers using
           ELISA assays

        3. Proteomic analysis of blood by external collaborators

      Further data analysis will be conducted using ROC curve analysis and arithmetic algorithms
      and/or other statistical/bioinformatics methods. Assessment of specificity and sensitivity
      and positive and negative predictive values using well established methods will also be
      conducted to evaluate the performance of the biomarker panels in discriminating patient
      control and disease groups.
    
  