
    
      Background

      Bullous pemphigoid (BP) is the most common autoimmune blistering skin disease. It
      characteristically affects the elderly (>70 years) with an annual incidence of 5 to 35 per
      million. This is comparable with the incidence of eosinophilic esophagitis that we determined
      with approximately 14 per million. Eosinophilic esophagitis has been recognized as an
      emerging medical problem and, consequently, several studies with anti-IL-5-antibodies have
      been performed and are still ongoing. It should be noted, however, that, in contrast to
      eosinophilic esophagitis, the incidence of BP is dramatically increasing with an average of
      17% per year. Moreover, with the increase of the proportion of the elderly in the
      industrialized world, the medical problems associated with BP will even be more visible in
      the near future. For instance, patients with BP have an increased mortality risk of 2.3. In
      the US, an increase in mortality of BP patients has been noticed from 1979 to 2002. Taken
      together, BP is a frequent disease that affects mostly the elderly.

      BP often starts with extremely pruritic skin lesions resembling eczema or urticaria before
      vesicles and blisters arise. In 10-30% of patients, BP also involves the oral mucosa. Disease
      severity can be determined by means of the autoimmune bullous skin disorder intensity score
      (ABSIS) that evaluates the involved area as well as the disease activity. The disease is due
      to an autoimmune response to structural components of junctional adhesion complexes leading
      to the damage of the dermal-epidermal junction with subepidermal blister formation.
      Specifically, autoreactive B and T cell responses against the hemidesmosomal antigens BP180
      and BP230 have been identified. Serum levels of autoantibodies to BP180 reflect the disease
      severity and activity. The T cells are memory CD4+ cells producing both Th1 and Th2
      cytokines, mostly IL-4, IL-5 and IL-13. IL-5 as well as eotaxin are abundantly found in
      blister fluids. The production of IL-5 is indeed associated with blood eosinophilia and
      significant eosinophil infiltration in the skin of BP patients. Eosinophils are thought to be
      critically implicated in blister formation by releasing toxic granule proteins (ESP, MBP) and
      proteolytic enzymes.

      Systemic corticosteroids have been widely used for the treatment of BP. Nevertheless, the use
      of steroids is limited by their side effects. in therapy-resistant cases, immunosuppressive
      drugs such as azathioprine, chlorambucil, cyclophosphamide, cyclosporine, methotrexate,
      mycophenolate mofetil are employed, but their corticosteroid-sparing effect and overall
      benefit in BP is highly disputed. 70% of the relapses are usually observed within three
      months, 85% within 6 months after stopping therapy.

      Since eosinophils are characteristically found in the skin at early stages of the disease
      before blisters occur and contribute to tissue damage, targeting eosinophils by reducing
      their number and activation might thus be a promising alternative therapeutic approach.
      Anti-IL-5 antibody therapy has been shown to be effective in depleting eosinophils, e.g. in
      diseases such as eosinophilic esophagitis and hypereosinophilic syndrome.

      Objective

      To determine the safety and efficacy of mepolizumab in patients with bullous pemphigoid.

      Methods

      clinical trial with 750 mg mepolizumab over three months, evaluate time period from start of
      therapy until relapse, ABSIS-Score, Pruritus Score, Antibody levels, immuno pathological
      evaluation of skin biopsy.
    
  