
    
      Definitions of goals

      General Analyze the effectiveness of physical exercise with blood flow restriction on the
      diameter and the flow of vessels, muscle strength and circumference of the forearm in
      patients with CKD prior to making arteriovenous fistula.

      Specific

        -  Draw the profile of patients with CKD as the clinical and laboratory features
           (hematocrit, hemoglobin, urea, creatinine) and glomerular filtration rate;

        -  Assess the vascular conditions, muscle strength and circumference of the upper limb of
           the non-dominant forearm before and after exercise programs;

        -  Compare the physical exercise programs with and without blood flow restriction vascular
           changes, muscle strength and circumference of the non-dominant arm;

        -  To correlate the diameter measurements and blood flow to the muscle strength and
           circumference of the upper limb not dominant.

      Methodology Study design This is a randomized controlled trial, blind and endowed with
      allocation concealment to be developed in Physiotherapy clinic and Nephrology at the Clinical
      Hospital, Federal University of Pernambuco and Cardiopulmonary Physiotherapy Laboratory in
      the Department of Physical Therapy, Federal University of Pernambuco, the From December 2015
      to November 2016, following approval of the Committee of Ethics in Research / the Health
      Sciences Center.

      After approval by Committee of Ethics in Research / the Health Sciences Center according to
      Resolution 466/2012 of the National Health Council and the explanation of the study,
      participants will be asked to sign the Informed Consent (IC).

      The recruitment and evaluations will be carried out by a single evaluator, who will be
      blinded when randomization, allocation and interventions.

      Inclusion criteria The sample will consist of patients with Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD)
      Stage 4 or 5, of both sexes, from 18 years of age, in conservative or dialysis treatment with
      medical indication of arteriovenous fistula as an achievement of hemodialysis.

      Exclusion criteria Are excluded those that present cognitive impairment or changes that
      hinder understanding, realization of activities and interpretation of the issues; a history
      of making arteriovenous fistula in both upper limbs or some other type of vascular surgery in
      upper limbs, with some type of vascular access in upper limbs or in nearby regions; to
      develop some kind of manual work with heavy loads; Trauma-orthopedic lesions in the cervical,
      shoulder, elbow, wrist and untreated (or) hand; signs of thrombophlebitis and hypoplasia /
      agenesis of the upper limbs.

      Study design After enrollment in the nephrology clinic of the Clinical Hospital / Federal
      University of Pernambuco will initially applied the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE), to
      exclude the possibility of cognitive impairment.

      Anamnesis It will be performed in the clinic of Nephrology, after the MMSE through
      questionnaire with open and closed questions. The data used are: sex, age (years), weight
      (kg), height (m), body mass index (BMI), blood pressure (BP) (mmHg) (Brazilian Society of
      Cardiology, 2010), etiology and stage CKD, serum creatinine (mg / dL) and urea (mg / dL) of
      the last test reported in medical records and Glomerular Filtration Rate (mL / min)
      (Cockcroft; GAULT, 1976), hematocrit (%) and hemoglobin (g / dL) and current medications.
      These data will be checked in an interview and medical records of patients that will be
      opened during the interview will last approximately 15 minutes. After the date for physical
      examination will be scheduled.

      Physical exam It will be held on Cardiopulmonary Physiotherapy laboratory at Federal
      University of Pernambuco. The patient will designate its upper limb non-domimant, according
      to the guidelines of the Kidney Disease Outcomes Quality Initiative Guidelines (VASCULAR
      ACCESS WORK GROUP, 2006). Then will take place the forearm circumference assessments,
      morphology of the vessels and handgrip strength. This will take the total duration of
      approximately 50 minutes.

      Circumference forearm The circumference of the forearm will be performed by perimetry (tape
      nylon). The patient will be sitting in the chair with the supinated forearm and elbow flexed
      at 90 °. The tape is positioned at the distal 2 cm of the cubital fossa (KONG et al, 2014).
      Will be held 3 measurements, registering the highest value.

      Morphology vessel To evaluate the radial artery are measured the internal cross-sectional
      diameter (mm) at flow rate of [systolic peak (cm / sec) and average velocity (cm / s)]. For
      the cephalic vein, will be measured basal venous outside diameter (mm) and venous outer
      diameter after placement of tourniquet (mm), and distensibility of the cephalic vein (%) for
      upper limb (UL) by ultrasonography [Sonoace R3 ( Samsung Medison - South Korea)]. A linear
      transducer 10 megahertz multifrequency (RUS et al, 2005; Kumar et al, 2010; RUS et al, 2005)
      will be used.

      Handgrip strength Will be assessed by manual dynamometer (Smedley Dynamometer - Type hand
      mark Saehan - Korea) to evaluate the maximum voluntary contraction (MVC). Will be conducted
      two tests with rest interval of five minutes after the first reading, is considered the
      greatest value.

      Evaluations of the circumference of the forearm, the vessel morphology and handgrip strength
      will be performed by the same evaluator before and after the interventions, which will be
      blinded as to the randomization of patients to interventions and their implementation (KONG
      et al, 2014).

      Intervention Protocol Will run for eight weeks for each patient, being developed in five days
      of the week (2 days with supervision by the physiotherapist on an outpatient basis and 3 days
      at home).

      After randomization, patients will be divided into two groups, experimental (EG) and control
      (CG).

      Experimental group For experimental group, will be held isometric and isotonic concentric to
      the flexor muscles of the elbow and wrist using tennis ball, halter and handgrip added to
      partial occlusion of blood flow to tourniquet application.

      Between exercise modalities will be given two minutes apart.

      Partial occlusion protocol for prescription tourniquet for treatment:

      Application of the tourniquet Will be held in conjunction with exercises for the experimental
      group group will be determined in the interview. The partial occlusion of blood flow will be
      induced by inflation of a tensiometer on the upper arm and the stethoscope is placed on the
      medial aspect of the elbow crease, (3M ™ Littmann® Classic II SE, USA) to verify the absence
      of the arterial pulse. After the disappearance of the sound, the cuff is deflated slowly,
      observing the first arterial pulse, which is used 50% of it to occlusion during training, and
      graduated in mmHg. This pressure will be maintained for the three types of exercises in all
      grades, including the 2-minute interval during periods of rest (LOENNEKE et al, 2015).

      Tennis ball For exercises with tennis ball, will initially be 3 sets, where one series with
      10 grips (each squeeze lasting 3 seconds, 1 second rest), increasing 5 grips every week, 60
      seconds rest every series. There will be two minutes of rest, then will repeat the same
      sequence. After, it will be given two minutes of rest for the next activity (KONG et al,
      2014).

      Halter The exercises are performed with load of 1 kg (during the first two weeks of
      training), 2 kg (for the last two weeks of the first month) and 3 kg for the last 4 weeks.
      The exercise will be conducted through elbow flexion, with the patient seated. The exercise
      will consist of three sets of 10 movements, maintaining shrinkage for 3 seconds, followed by
      1-second standing (extension member). Between each series of 10 contractions will rest 60
      seconds. 2 will be given minutes of rest at the end of this, before the next activity (SALIMI
      et al, 2013).

      Handgrip They will be performed 3 sets of dynamic manual hold exercises in the intensity of
      40% of MVC, with a frequency of 20 contractions per minute (duty cycle of 2/2 of contraction
      and 1 second rest). After 3 sets of 20 contractions, will be given one minute of rest. This
      activity will be performed to volitional fatigue, and recorded the time and amount of sets
      performed per patient (Hunt et al, 2012; UY et al, 2013).

      Home program At home will be performed isometric exercises with tennis ball on the same
      frequency as in performing ambulatory without applying the tensiometer. Will be held the two
      sequences (3 sets of 10 grips) once daily for three days this week, which will be guided
      verbally by the trainer and delivered all the guidelines through leaflet, materials for the
      exercise and a daily control conducting training. Links will be held daily to help control
      procedures. Appendix 6 presents the check-list for muscle training the experimental group
      (Hunt et al, 2012).

      Group control In the control group (CG) will be held the same isometric and isotonic
      concentric ambulatory and home with the same duration, frequency and intensity, except is not
      to apply the tourniquet.

      Completion of the program The program will end at the end of the 3rd day of the last week of
      the completion of home procedures, and scheduled the revaluation and its realization in
      sequence.

      It will be recorded the frequency of patients to outpatient care and conducting training at
      home in both groups by the instructor. Patients who do not carry 75% of the program will be
      given as loss of tracking.

      Tabulation plan and analysis Spreadsheets Data will be recorded primarily in chips
      assessments of each patient, and then will be transferred to the Microsoft Office Excel
      spreadsheets type, version 2010® and later to the software Statistical Package for the Social
      Sciences (SPSS) version 20.0 for Windows for statistical analysis.

      Statistical methods for data analysis Initially descriptive data analysis will be carried
      out, which may be presented as mean ± standard deviation, confidence interval of 95% and
      frequency distribution. The normal distribution is used for the continuous variables, using
      the Shapiro-Wilk test and the homogeneity using Levene's test. At the end of the program will
      be realized the Student t test for paired comparing pre and post between the same groups and
      the Mann-Whitney test for comparisons between groups of non-paired samples. For correlations
      will be used the Pearson or Spearman correlation test. It will be considered p value less
      than 0.05 as significant. For data analysis, SPSS for Windows version 20.0 is used.

      Budget - funding

      Material - Cost (R $) A4 reams of paper, 75g / m² - 5 units - 50.00 Black ink cartridges for
      the printer - 03 units - 90.00 Color ink cartridges for printer - 02 units - 70.00 Pens - 01
      box with 50 units. - 8:00 pm Test copies and instruments - 35.00 Clipboard - 7.00 Photo
      copies - 50.00 1 compact disk box with 10 units - 10.00 Aneroid sphygmomanometer manual
      Premium - 1 unit - 60.00 Handgrip with adjustable load of 5 to 20 kg - 3 units (42,00 each R
      $) - 126.00 Handgrip with adjustable load of 10 to 40 kg - 3 units (55,00 each R $) - 165.00
      Rubberized dumbbells 1 kg - 3 units (R $ 12.90 each) - 38.70 Rubberized dumbbells 2 kg - 3
      units (R $ 20.90 each) - 62.70 Rubberized dumbbells 3 kg - 3 units (R $ 29.90 each) -89.70
      Tennis Balls - 54 units (R $ 6.00 each) - 324.00 Nylon tape metric - 1 unit - 5.00 Ultrasound
      R3 Sonoace (Samsung Medison - South Korea) * - 75,000.00 Stethoscope 3M ™ Littmann Classic II
      SE, USA - 420.00 Manual dynamometer (Smedley Dinamometer - Type hand mark Saehan - Korea * -
      1,499.00 Total - 78122.10

      * Available in the research sites. The total cost for the research project will be the
      responsibility of the researcher, at no cost to the institution.
    
  