
    
      Primary objective:

      The primary objective is to compare the pharmacodynamic response of insulin detemir and NPL
      insulin with respect to duration of action in a 32-hour euglycaemic glucose clamp experiment
      following single dose administration in subjects with type 1 diabetes.

      Secondary objectives:

      The secondary objectives are:

        -  to additionally characterise the pharmacodynamic profiles of insulin detemir and NPL
           insulin in a 32-hour euglycaemic glucose clamp experiment following single dose
           administration in subjects with type 1 diabetes.

        -  to characterise the pharmacokinetic profiles of insulin detemir and NPL insulin
           following single dose administration in subjects with type 1 diabetes.

        -  to assess the safety and tolerability of insulin detemir and NPL insulin following
           single dose administration in subjects with type 1 diabetes.

      Trial design:

      This is a randomised, single centre, double-blind, two-period crossover trial. Each subject
      will be randomly allocated to two single dose administrations on two separate dosing visits.

      Trial population:

      Thirty (30) male and female subjects with type 1 diabetes [age 18-65 years (incl.) and body
      mass index between 18.0 and 32.0 kg/m2 (incl.)] will be randomised into the trial.

      Assessments:

      Pharmacodynamics: The glucose infusion rate and plasma glucose concentration will be measured
      during a euglycaemic glucose clamp running for 32 hours after dosing.

      Pharmacokinetics: Serum concentrations of insulin detemir and insulin lispro will be measured
      frequently during the first 32 hours after dosing.

      Safety: Adverse events, laboratory safety variables (haematology, biochemistry, urinalysis),
      physical examination, vital signs and hypoglycaemic episodes.

      Trial products:

        -  Insulin detemir (Levemir® Novo Nordisk), 100 U/mL in 3 mL Penfill® cartridges

        -  Insulin lispro protamine suspension (Humalog® NPL, Eli Lilly), 100 U/mL in 3 mL
           cartridges
    
  