
    
      Anterior cruciate ligament repair (ACLR) is a surgical procedure of the knee associated with
      moderate to severe postoperative pain lasting beyond 24 hours following surgery. Provision of
      adequate postoperative analgesia is a prerequisite for performing this procedure on
      outpatient basis. By virtue of their analgesic effects, peripheral nerve blocks (PNBs), such
      as adductor canal block (ACB), have thus become part of the care standard for this surgical
      procedure.

      Though ACB provides effective pain relief, the duration of analgesia associated with this
      block is limited to eight hours postoperatively. As a result, patients having outpatient ACLR
      may experience severe pain following discharge, require additional opioid analgesics to
      control their pain, and even visit the emergency department for acute pain management.
      Consequently, perioperative care for the young outpatient population undergoing this
      procedure is an area where improvement is needed.

      Mixing adjuncts with local anesthetics can prolong the duration of analgesia of PNBs; both
      dexmedetomidine and dexamethasone have been shown to effectively extend the duration of PNB
      analgesia by 60% and 80% hours, respectively. The use of dexamethasone is wide spread, and
      dexmedetomidine is progressively gaining popularity.

      At Toronto Western Hospital, the use of adjuncts is left to the discretion of the
      anesthesiologists administering PNB; and dexamethasone is occasionally used to prolong block
      duration. The alternative approach to prolonging block duration is using ambulatory ACB
      catheters, but this is an expensive option that is applicable to select patients, and it is
      not available at the TWH.

      Importantly, these adjuncts seem to exert their effect through independent mechanisms; thus
      there may be an advantage to combining adjuncts together. Further prolongation of the
      duration of analgesia is desirable, as the prolongation of block duration associated with
      each of these two adjuncts, alone, falls short of the duration of worst postoperative pain
      following ACLR. Consequently, the investigators aimed to explore whether the combination of
      these two adjuncts offers an incremental benefit over either of them alone, by examining
      their potential additive or synergistic effect.

      This randomized controlled trial compares the effect of using perineural dexamethasone,
      dexmedetomidine, and their combination to Control on the duration of postoperative analgesia
      in patients having ambulatory ACLR with ACB.
    
  