
    
      Currently approximately 240 million surgical procedures are done worldwide on a yearly basis.
      lnguinal hernia repair is one of the most performed surgeries in ambulatory setting. Despite
      currently available analgesic drugs, post surgical pain management remains challenging in
      this group of patients, as the pain score appears inadequate (mean VAS of 5.8 +/- 1 .22 cm)
      one day after surgery with the use of common analgesics. Beside accounting for patient
      discomfort, pain is also a major contributor to prolonged length of hospital stay and is a
      health care quality indicator. With multimodal pain management the intention is to reduce
      pain with less side effects of analgesics. Multimodal pain management is the combination of
      different pharmacologic mechanisms of action, which work by acting at different sites within
      the central and peripheral nervous system, thereby having an additive or synergistic effect
      and reducing the necessity of opiates. With this in mind, a potential new target for
      analgesic drugs are group- ll metabotropic glutamate receptors subtypes (mGlu2 and mGlu3
      receptors) localized in the spinal cord and other regions of the nociceptive system. Growing
      evidence from animal models show that activation of these receptors occur via the
      glutamate:cystein antiporter and can induce analgesia in models of inflammatory and
      neuropathic pain. They depress pain transmission at synapses between primary afferent fibers
      and second order sensory neurons on the dorsal horn of the spinal cord.

      N-Acetylcysteine (NAC) is on the market since 1968 and is an over the counter available
      agent, mostly known for its role as mucolytic agent in cystic fibrosis and for the treatment
      of acetaminophen intoxication. lt is a safe agent with little to no side effects. Recent
      studies have shown NAC can inhibit nociceptive transmission in rats and in healthy humans.NAC
      can induce analgesia by activating the glutamate:cystein antiporter, causing endogenous
      activation of the mGlu2/3 receptors. Therefore, NAC can potentially become a cheap and safe
      additive in the multimodal pain management. However, evidence for usage of NAC in the context
      of multimodal pain management is still lacking. Only one available study in humans evaluated
      the effect of NAC in the perioperative setting. Despite being a randomised controlled trial,
      there are several limitations in this study; the study arms are too small and only morphine
      consumption is presented. Also, blinding might have not as good as suggested since oral NAC
      has a typical flavour and the placebo was lemonade.

      Due to these limitations, still no answer on the question whether NAC can be an additive in
      current multimodal pain management is provided.

      Objective of the study:

      Primary Objective:

      To evaluate the efficacy of intravenous NAC in comparison with placebo in terms of pain
      relief after unilateral inguinal hernia repair measured by a visual analogue scale (VAS
      0-100) at day 1 after surgery.

      Secondary Objective(s):

        1. Difference in pain scores between NAC and placebo direct after surgery, before discharge
           and in following 3 days postoperative.

        2. Difference in time before first pain medication is administered postoperative between
           NAC and placebo.

        3. Difference in total consumption of opiates in the hospital (mg) between NAC and placebo.

        4. Difference in time from surgery to discharge between NAC and placebo.

        5. Difference in postoperative pain medication at home necessary to reach adequate pain
           relief between NAC and placebo (acetaminophen / NSAID's/ opiates).

        6. lf there is a difference in 5, is there also a difference in adverse effects of pain
           medication (like nausea, obstipation) between NAC and placebo.
    
  