
    
      This randomized control trial will compare buprenorphine to morphine, two currently used
      medications for the treatment of NOWS, to determine whether the use of buprenorphine for NOWS
      treatment will reduce the number of days of pharmacological treatment. After an infant is
      born they will be monitored for signs of NOWS. Once an infant reaches treatment thresholds,
      they will be randomized using a double dummy design to either the buprenorphine or morphine
      treatment arm. After randomization infants will receive a syringe with either morphine or
      placebo every 4 hours and every 8 hours infant will receive 1 sublingual application of
      buprenorphine or placebo. To maintain the blind infants enrolled in the study will receive
      both interventions. During the study medication doses will be weaned by 10% of the
      stabilization dose. Study intervention will continue until 20 percent of the maximal dose has
      been reached. Use of a second line drug will be permissible after randomization and after an
      infant has had 2 consecutive escalations. Second line drug will be phenobarbital, in addition
      to the study drug. Infants in both groups will be evaluated and scored for NOWS symptoms to
      determine if weaning study medication is permissible each day. NOWS scores that do not reach
      the threshold for escalation will wean in accordance with standard clinical practice. If NOWS
      symptoms increase during treatment, infants will have the dose of the study drug increased by
      10% to the previous day's dose. When stable for 24 hours, the weaning process will continue.
      The NICU Network Neurobehavioral Scale (NNNS) will be administered prior to starting study
      medication and once off study medication but prior to discharge to examine proportion of
      infants in each medication arm for the abnormal NNNS profiles which has been associated with
      atypical early childhood outcomes including behavior problems and low IQ scores. Development
      at 18 months of age will also be assessed to examine any differences in both arms of the
      study.
    
  