
    
      The purpose of this multi-site trial is to investigate the use of prone positioning in
      SARS-CoV-2 infected patients who are not intubated. The APPEX-19 study is a pragmatic
      adaptive randomized controlled unblinded trial. The study compares a smartphone tool that
      recommends non-ICU patients with COVID-19 or who are under evaluation for COVID-19 to lie in
      a prone position (i.e, with their stomach and chest facing down) to usual care.

      Participants who are assigned to the intervention arm will receive a text message containing
      a link to an online website that reviews how to safely self-prone position and a
      recommendation to self-prone position 4 times for 1-2 hours each during the day and at night
      every 24 hours. Participants will also receive twice daily reminders to self-prone using the
      same smartphone platform.

      All participants will receive twice daily Qualtrics online surveys to answer questions about
      which body positions they used in bed and their level of comfort and shortness of breath.
      Participants will receive these twice daily text messages until they are discharged, until
      they are transferred to the ICU, until they die, until their lung function declines, or until
      14 days pass since enrollment. Thus, most participants will receive twice daily text messages
      for about 1 week; it is expected that almost all patients will receive twice daily text
      messages for no longer than 14 days. Medical charts will be reviewed daily to track routine
      clinical data to determine outcomes.

      Boston Medical Center (BMC) / Boston University will be one of the 16 sites and the data
      coordinating center for this multisite trial. The unique design of the study means that if
      evidence accumulates that one treatment is better than the other, more participants will be
      chosen to receive the prone position intervention that works over time. Thus, the trial will
      both show what works, implement what works, and make sure that the most participants receive
      the treatment that works.
    
  