
    
      The proposed study will pursue the following primary aims:

      Aim 1: Examine the acute effects of a moderate dose of cannabis (12.5% THC) combined with an
      intoxicating amount of alcohol (BAC=0.08) on driving simulator performance of young drivers.
      Simulated driving performance, tests of cognition, verbal memory, and mood will be measured
      concurrently with BAC and levels of cannabinoids in biological fluids before and after acute
      drug exposure in male and female drivers aged 19 to 29. BAC and biological fluids will be
      measured up to 5 hours following drug exposure.

      Aim 2: Explore the effects of driving history, driving attitudes, and individual difference
      measures (e.g., demographics, drug and alcohol use, etc.) on the acute effects of alcohol and
      cannabis on driving simulator performance of young drivers. Exploratory analyses will be
      undertaken to determine if the acute effects of cannabis plus alcohol on the driving
      simulator task are influenced by these measures.

      Study Design and Duration

      This study will be a within-subjects, double-blind, double-dummy, placebo-controlled,
      counterbalanced, randomized clinical trial assessing the impact of alcohol and cannabis
      combined on driver behaviour. Although a placebo condition is part of the study, this is not
      a treatment study.

      Initial contact with potential participants will be made via telephone, and study personnel
      will conduct a telephone screen for eligibility. Upon eligibility confirmation by telephone,
      participants will be asked to attend CAMH for an eligibility assessment. Participants will
      attend CAMH for a total of 6 study sessions (an eligibility assessment, a practice day, and 4
      test sessions).

      At each of four test sessions, participants will undergo one of these alcohol and cannabis
      exposure conditions: 1) placebo alcohol and placebo cannabis; 2) intoxicating dose of alcohol
      and placebo cannabis; 3) placebo alcohol and active cannabis, and; 4) intoxicating dose of
      alcohol and active cannabis. The order of these conditions will be randomly assigned.
      Participants will complete the alcohol manipulation followed by the cannabis manipulation.
      The alcohol and cannabis exposure sessions will be separated by at least 72 hours.

      Participants will be asked not to use cannabis for 72 hours and alcohol for 48 hours prior to
      attending CAMH.

      In certain instances, the Qualified Investigator may ask a participant to return for
      re-screening, e.g. repeat of urine test or other assessments performed for eligibility
      assessment. Also, in case of unforeseen delays in scheduling study participation, the
      Qualified Investigator will determine if there is a need to ask a participant to repeat some
      assessments, e.g., physical examination.
    
  