
    
      Hypothermia is a well-known complication of general and neuraxial anaesthesia. After a
      caesarean section under spinal anaesthesia, 30 to 40% of the mothers have a core temperature
      <36°C. Perioperative hypothermia induces maternal thermal discomfort and shivering, but also
      increases the amount of blood loss and the risks of postoperative wound infections and
      cardiac complications. In addition, maternal hypothermia may also have an impact on neonatal
      outcomes. Prevention of maternal hypothermia in women scheduled for caesarean delivery is
      consequently necessary, and is an important part of enhanced recovery after surgery. Active
      warming is efficient in preventing postoperative hypothermia. Forced-air warming is the most
      commonly used modality of active warming. However forced-air warming should be applied for at
      least 60 minutes to be efficient. As surgical duration for a caesarean is lower than one
      hour, this technic does not appear really appropriate in this context. In addition, upper
      body forced-air warming is uncomfortable for women and can interfere with bonding.
      Consequently forced-air warming is not generally used during caesarean delivery. Warmed IV
      fluid is another option to prevent perioperative hypothermia, but with contrasting results,
      depending mainly on the device and on the amount of perioperative fluids infusion. Co-loading
      IV fluid is recommended to prevent maternal hypotension induced by spinal anaesthesia in the
      context of caesarean delivery. Small released fluid warmings routinely used in scheduled
      surgery, are able to warm IV fluid administered with high flows, such as in co-loading IV
      fluid. But the efficiency of these devices to prevent maternal hypothermia has never been
      explored in the context of caesarean section under spinal anaesthesia with co-loading.

      The investigators hypothesized that warmed IV fluid administered in co-loading with enFlow®
      or Fluido®Compact decreases the incidence of postoperative maternal hypothermia after
      caesarean section under spinal anaesthesia.

      The investigators will perform a double blinded randomized controlled trial comparing active
      IV warming with enFlow® or Fluido®Compact versus placebo.

      Indeed at the beginning of the study, the performance of the enFlow device were tested. But
      in February 2019, a study published in Anaesthesia showed that uncoated aluminium plates in
      fluid warming systems, such as those used in the enFlow system, yielded potentially harmful
      concentrations of aluminium when using balanced electrolyte solutions (ref Perl Anaesthesia
      2019). Consequently this device was quarantined unless there are no alternative fluid warmers
      available Of note no adverse event has been reported associated with the use of enFlow®
      device. Consequently, we choose to continue our study with the Fluido®Compact, which is a
      very similar small fluid warmer but with coated aluminium plate.

      After obtaining written informed consent from the patients, 70 pregnant women ASA status 1 or
      2 and scheduled for caesarean delivery will be enrolled and randomized into two groups:
      active IV fluid warming vs no active warming. Written informed consent will be obtained
      before randomisation using an Internet based randomisation system. Participants will be
      randomized just after their arrival in the operative room. The clinicians in charge of the
      patients, the researcher and the woman will be blinded. In the operative room, a venous
      cannula will be inserted into the forearm, and an infusion of Ringer's lactate solution
      fluids will be initiated. An enFlow® or Fluido®Compact device will be placed on the IV for
      all the patients, but turned on only in the group active warming. The device will be hidden
      in all the patients. Every patient will have a spinal anaesthesia in sitting position with
      hyperbaric bupivacaine 10mg, sufentanil 3µg and morphine 100µg. An IV co loading with
      Ringer-Lactate 1000 ml will be started at the beginning of the spinal administration. All the
      women will be monitored using heart rate, continuous SpO2, non-invasive arterial blood
      pressure every 1-minute until the baby is born, and then every 5 minutes. Maternal arterial
      hypotension will be corrected with ephedrine or phenylephrine as appropriate. All the women
      will receive carbetocin 100µg just after baby extraction. While in the operative room, all
      the data will be collected on a standardized data collection sheet. In case of maternal
      temperature <35°C during surgery, an active warming blanket will be used. The enFlow® or
      Fluido®Compact device will be taken off at the end of the surgery just before leaving the
      operative room.

      In addition, postoperative data will be collected during the admission to the
      post-anaesthesia care unit (PACU). In case of maternal temperature <36°C in the PACU, a
      warming blanket will be used.

      The sample size calculation revealed that 62 participants were required to ensure that a 30%
      decrease in the incidence of postoperative maternal hypothermia will be detected (power = 0.9
      ; α= 0,05). The investigators decided to enroll 70 women because of the risks of secondary
      exclusions and of lost of follow up.
    
  