
    
      Gluten is the most important protein component of some grains, notably wheat, rye, and
      barley, which are the basis for a variety of wheat-derived alimentary products consumed
      throughout the world (bread, pasta, pizza etc). However the "engineering" of
      gluten-containing grains created the conditions for human diseases related to gluten
      exposure. These forms of gluten intolerance represent a heterogeneous set of conditions,
      including celiac disease, wheat allergy and gluten sensitivity (GS), that, combined, seems to
      affect about 10% of the general population. The frequency of not-celiac GS is however still
      unknown, even though it is possible that this condition have been undiagnosed and
      under-diagnosed by the physicians for a long time. The immune responsiveness to wheat
      antigens represents a complex process, and its establishment and maintenance are not
      completely elucidated. The most frequent diseases caused by wheat ingestion are T
      cell-mediated disorders, i.e. celiac disease and IgE-mediated allergic reactions. However,
      besides celiac disease and wheat allergy, there are cases of gluten reactions in which
      neither autoimmune nor IgE-mediated allergic mechanisms are involved. These are generally
      defined as GS. Some subjects, who experience symptoms when eating gluten-containing products
      and show improvement when following a gluten-free diet (GFD), may have GS instead of celiac
      disease or wheat allergy. GS patients are unable to tolerate gluten and develop an adverse
      reaction when eating gluten, that, usually, and differently from celiac disease, does not
      lead to small intestinal damage. Gastrointestinal symptoms in GS patients may resemble those
      associated with celiac disease, but the overall clinical picture is generally less severe and
      is not accompanied by the occurrence of autoantibodies (i.e. anti-tTG or EMA) or autoimmune
      disease (i.e. Hashimoto's thyroiditis). Typically, the diagnosis is made by exclusion, and an
      elimination diet and an "open challenge" (i.e., the monitored reintroduction of
      gluten-containing foods) are most often used to evaluate whether health improves or worsen
      with the elimination or reintroduction of gluten in the diet, respectively.
      Gluten-sensitivity can cause both gastrointestinal and extra-intestinal symptoms; among the
      former, the most frequent are IBS-like symptoms including abdominal pain, bloating, diarrhea,
      constipation and alternate bowel habit. However, as it is not known what component of the
      cereals causes the symptoms in so called "gluten-sensitive" patients, we prefer to speak of
      "Not-celiac wheat sensitivity" (NCWS). Furthermore, in our experience, NCWS patients can
      suffer from multiple food hypersensitivity and need of a more restricted diet with the
      elimination of cow's milk, egg and other foods, in addition to wheat. For these reasons,
      before to undergo the gluten challenge, the patients will undergo an oligoantigenic diet.

      This study has two major aims:

        1. Evaluation of the effective dependence from the wheat of the IBS-like manifestations
           presented by subjects with suspected NCWS. The study will be done after a period of GFD,
           comparing two groups of suspected NCWS subjects: administering wheat flour or placebo
           (for 15 days).

        2. Identification of possible markers (serological, biochemical, immunological,
           histological features, expression of cytokines and other constitutive mucosal proteins
           from peripheral blood mononuclear cells, mucosal lymphocytes and fecal biomarkers) that
           may be of help to diagnose the condition of NCWS. In particular, the investigators will
           search for markers of NCWS in the colon mucosa of the patients with IBS-like symptoms.
    
  