
    
      Stroke, which is the leading cause of disability, cognitive impairment and death in the US,
      imposes significant financial and personal burden. Although the residual effects of stroke
      affect many aspects of life, many aspects are not addressed by traditional rehabilitation
      treatments. In particular, persons with mild stroke, typically defined as a stroke with no or
      slight motor impairment and a high level of independence in basic activities of daily living,
      often experience emotional problems, subtle but significant cognitive impairment and
      decreased participation in productive, social and leisure activity. Despite these problems,
      persons with mild stroke are typically discharged to home without further referral to health
      or rehabilitation services other than follow-up with primary care physicians.

      This application is in response to RFA PA-11-335 (Lab to Marketplace: Tools for Biomedical
      and Behavioral Research), a special 2-year Phase I SBIR program to accelerate the translation
      of behavioral research from academic to the marketplace. The project is based on the
      extensive research that developed and tested reliable and valid measures of activity
      participation (Activity Card Sort, or ACS) and cognitive skills supporting performance of
      simple and complex functional tasks (Functional Behavior Profile, or FBP). These measures
      have been used to guide treatments to help persons with mild cognitive impairment and their
      families support functional independence. These measures and the results of other studies
      will be used to build a dynamic online self-management tool designed to help persons with
      mild stroke develop individualized strategies that will support optimal recovery.

      The investigators propose to evaluate the feasibility of Better Living After Stroke through
      Technology (BLAST) to help stroke survivors and family members return back to their
      productive and meaningful lives by proactively 1) helping them set their activity goals using
      ACS, 2) assessing their behavioral/functional capabilities using FBP, 3) recognizing symptoms
      indicative potential secondary stroke risks, 4) engaging support from online/community
      resources, and 5) offering tailored self-management recommendations using evidence-based
      strategies on how to achieve their activity goals and avoid secondary stroke based on their
      capabilities, stroke-related symptoms and available social resources.

      Stroke survivors and family using the BLAST system are expected to have 1) better life
      satisfaction as measured by the Overall Recovery item of the Stroke Impact Scale; 2)
      increased activity as measured by Activity Card Sort; 3) better problem-solving and task
      performance as measured by Functional Behavior Profile; and 4) fewer caregiver concerns as
      measured by the Stroke Caregiver Needs Scale.

      Specific Aims: 1) to evaluate the acceptability of BLAST ; and 2) to evaluate the preliminary
      effect of BLAST on self-efficacy, participation, and community reintegration.
    
  