
    
      The aim of the planned in-vivo trial is to investigate the effectiveness of the the caries
      infiltration technique for the repression of approximal caries progression. .

      Within the framework of this investigation it is intended that the hypothesis be
      substantiated that carious cavities, which have been treated with the caries infiltration
      technique, exhibit significantly reduced radiological progression than those cavities that
      have been treated using standard treatments.

      Modern dentistry, which is focused more towards preventive and minimally invasive treatment,
      attempts - with the aid of fluoride therapies and improved oral hygiene - to prevent the
      onset and progression of carious lesions as much as possible.

      Even today, approximal lesions pose a particular problem to the treating dentist. A primary
      reason for this is the difficulty accessing the localized area of the carious cavity.
      Treating this area usually requires invasive treatment, in which healthy tooth structure must
      be removed. Furthermore, it is possible that the filling material may deteriorate as a result
      of the aging process, meaning that the restoration will require replacement at some point in
      the future. In order to prevent this, the development of a treatment oriented towards
      prevention and minimal invasion is key.

      For a number of years there has been an option to seal pits and fissures on the occlusal
      surfaces, which is assessed in the literature as being highly efficacious and effective
      (Splieth et al. 2010, Ahovuo-Saloranta et al. 2008, Griffin et al. 2008). It constitutes a
      vital component of the caries prevention approach especially in the event of an increased
      risk of caries (Hiiri et al. 2010). In recent years there has been an attempt to transfer
      this treatment concept to applications in the approximal area, in order to prevent
      unnecessary substance ablation. A fissure sealing resin and a dental adhesive were used for
      the first time in an attempt at creating a surface diffusion barrier (Gomez et al. 2008,
      Gomez et al. 2005, Paris et al. 2006, Martignon et al. 2006, Robinson et al. 2001). Coating
      the tooth surface in the approximal area with various plastic foils after tooth separation
      opened up a whole new treatment approach for dealing with these carious lesions (Alkilzy et
      al. 2010, 2009).

      The caries infiltration technique constitutes an additional new treatment concept. Here, the
      surface alone is not exclusively coated but a diffusion barrier is instead created inside the
      cavity itself, through the penetration of the "infiltrant" into the carious lesion (Paris et
      al. 2010, Meyer-Lueckel et al. 2010, 2009, 2008, Phark et al. 2009). In current studies, it
      has been possible to demonstrate inhibition of the progression of carious lesions with the
      infiltration technique, both in bovine teeth in situ and in artificially generated carious
      lesions in human teeth in vitro (Paris et al. 2010).

      The development of the infiltration technique started back in the 1970's with the first
      low-viscosity plastic materials. However, these were never put into clinical application due
      to their toxicity (Robinson et al.1976). During their course of development, adhesive systems
      were employed for sealing carious lesions (Donly et al. 1992, Garcia-Godoy et al. 1997).
      These also exhibit a caries-inhibiting effect. However, it has only been possible to
      determine limited penetration depths. The reason for this is the surface morphology of the
      carious cavity, with a very limited pore volume on the surface, and the characteristics of
      the adhesive itself (Paris et al. 2007). In order to facilitate removal of the limiting
      surface layer, a hydrochloric acid gel was used for the infiltration technique in place of
      orthophosphoric acid gel for the adhesive technology. Using this conditioner it was possible
      to guarantee better penetration of the materials up to a depth of 58 µm due to an erosive
      removal of the surface layer (Meyer-Lueckel et al. 2007, Paris et al. 2007, 2009). In order
      to better utilize the capillary effect in the altered surface and to thereby increase the
      penetration depth of the material, monomer mixtures were developed with a high penetration
      coefficient. These enable a fast penetration of the infiltrant into the altered carious
      surface up to a depth of 750 µm (Paris et al. 2007, 2009). The sealing of the carious cavity
      is now no longer restricted to the surface alone, but also encompasses the body of the
      cavity.

      The anticipated result of this trial shall deliver information on the long-term effectiveness
      of caries infiltration and thereby result in an improvement in caries prevention within the
      scope of dental treatment, and prevent the progression of existing carious lesions . This is
      a micro-invasive form of treatment, which largely facilitates the delay or avoidance of
      conventional invasive initial dental treatment with the associated inevitable loss of healthy
      tooth structure. Further studies on the optimization of the infiltration technique can be
      built upon these results. In the long-term, it will be possible to use these findings to
      develop new prevention and treatment options for approximal carious lesion .
    
  