
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the proportion of patients with tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI)-resistant or
      intolerant, chronic phase chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) (chronic phase [CP]-CML) attaining
      major cytogenetic response (MCyR) at 6 months of treatment with second line ponatinib
      (ponatinib hydrochloride) therapy.

      II. To estimate the time to toxicity related to ponatinib for patients with TKI-intolerant or
      TKI-resistant CP-CML.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the proportion of patients achieving a MCyR, complete cytogenetic response
      (CCyR), major molecular response (MMR) and complete molecular response (CMR) at 3, 6, 12, 18
      and 24 months of treatment with ponatinib after one TKI failure (by resistance or
      intolerance).

      II. To estimate the time to CCyR, MMR, MCyR and CMR for patients treated with ponatinib as
      second line therapy for CP-CML.

      III. To evaluate the durations of hematologic, cytogenetic and molecular response to
      ponatinib after one TKI failure.

      IV. To define the time to progression and overall survival for patients with CML in chronic
      phase treated with ponatinib after one TKI failure.

      V. To evaluate the toxicity profile of ponatinib in patients with CML in chronic phase after
      one TKI failure.

      VI. To evaluate the probability of developing v-abl Abelson murine leukemia viral oncogene
      homolog 1 (ABL) mutations for patients with CML in chronic phase treated with ponatinib after
      one TKI failure.

      VII. To analyze differences in response rates and in prognosis according to pre-treatment
      mutations and patient characteristics.

      VIII. To investigate mechanisms of resistance in patients who develop resistance to ponatinib
      used as second line therapy for CP-CML.

      IX. To evaluate symptom burden in patients with CP-CML receiving ponatinib.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To investigate the presence of micro-ribonucleic acid (miRNA) that may be predictive of
      outcome.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive ponatinib hydrochloride orally (PO) once daily (QD). Treatment continues for
      up to 5 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up within 30 days.
    
  