
    
      1. PCOS Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is the most common endocrinopathy among women of
           reproductive age, associated with reproductive and metabolic dysfunction with a
           prevalence of 5-10% of reproductive aged women.

           Diagnostic criteria vary and according to the Rotterdam ESHRE/ASRM- Sponsored PCOS
           Consensus Workshop Group PCOS is defined when at least two of the following three
           criteria are present: [i] polycystic ovaries, by ultrasound [ii] oligo and/or
           anovulation, and [iii] clinical and/or biochemical signs of hyperandrogenism.

           The clinical presentation varies from amenorrhea and a sonographic picture of polycystic
           ovaries but with subtle phenotypic abnormalities or signs of hyperandrogenism, to
           advanced Stein and Leventhal syndrome with clinical heterogeneity as the rule. Moreover,
           women with PCOS might exhibit features of the metabolic syndrome, including impaired
           glucose tolerance (IGT), obesity and dyslipidaemia ,with their associated long- term
           sequelae, namely endometrial carcinoma, hypertension, type 2 diabetes (T2D) and
           cardiovascular disease.

           Impaired Glucose Intolerance (IGT) and PCOS Impaired glucose tolerance, or insulin
           resistance, are defined as decreased insulin-mediated glucose utilization. It has long
           been recognized as a major risk factor for diabetes. Moreover, it was shown that
           lifestyle intervention or metformin in patients with IGT, may reduce the prevalence of
           T2D. Several dynamic invasive tests and calculated indices are currently available for
           detecting IGT. While the euglycemic clamp technique is considered the most accurate test
           for the assessment of insulin resistance, this cumbersome test is frequently replaced by
           the simple measurement of the ratio of fasting glucose to fasting insulin, or the 2-hour
           glucose level after a 75-g oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) (WHO criteria, impaired
           glucose tolerance [IGT] >140 mg/dL to 199 mg/dL). As a result, reports of the prevalence
           on IGT in women with PCOS vary depending on the sensitivity and specificity of the tests
           employed and the heterogenic phenotypes of PCOS.

           Obesity - definition, significance and prevalence among women with PCOS:

           Obesity, a common clinical manifestation of PCOS patients, is linked to insulin
           resistance and failure or delayed response to the various COH treatments.The associated
           health detriments of this major health problem are increased with increasing body mass
           index (BMI). Data regarding the impact of obesity on IVF cycles outcome is
           controversial, ranging from studies reporting on no effect of increasing BMI on IVF
           success rates to those demonstrating a lower cumulative live birth rates in overweight
           patients. PCOS and assisted reproduction PCOS women with insulin resistance undergoing
           ovulation induction with gonadotropin have a longer duration of treatment, use a higher
           total FSH dose, have an elevated cancellation rate and a lower conception rate.
           Improving insulin sensitivity through both lifestyle and pharmacological intervention
           were suggested to ameliorate the aforementioned abnormalities, restore ovulation and
           enhance pregnancy in women with PCOS.

           In vitro fertilization (IVF) and embryo transfer (ET) is an effective therapy for PCOS
           patients and results in pregnancy rates that are comparable with those for women with
           tubal factor infertility. Moreover, because the number of multiple pregnancies can be
           kept to a minimum by transferring small numbers of embryos, IVF-ET became a reasonable
           option to PCOS patients who are refractory to conventional infertility modalities or who
           have coexisting infertility factors.

           Many controlled ovarian hyperstimulation (COH) strategies have been offered for the
           treatment of patients with PCOS undergoing IVF.

           In an attempt to examine the influence of BMI on IVF outcome in patients undergoing COH
           with either GnRH-agonist or antagonist, the investigators found that while in patients
           with BMI>25 kg/m2, COH with either GnRH-agonist or antagonist achieved a comparable
           outcome, in those with BMI<25 kg/m2, the use of GnRH-agonist suppressive protocol
           revealed a significantly higher pregnancy rates.

           Moreover, in another study of PCOS patients undergoing IVF-ET cycles, the investigators
           demonstrated that COH utilizing the midluteal long GnRH-agonist suppressive protocol was
           the protocol of choice in lean patients, probably due to its ability to lower the high
           basal LH milieu and its detrimental effect of oocytes' quality and implantation
           potential.

        2. Device Description ENDOBARRIER The EndoBarrier Gastrointestinal Liner system received CE
           Mark on 11 December 2009 and is indicated for the treatment of obesity and Type 2
           diabetes. The implant is indicated for a maximum implant duration period of twelve
           months. The intent of the EndoBarrier is to facilitate glycemic control and weight loss
           by mimicking portions of the Roux-en-Y bypass procedure. The device consists of 3
           components: the implant, the delivery system, and the removal system.

      The procedure entails bypassing the duodenum and the proximal jejunum with a 60 cm
      non-permeable polymeric sleeve which is attached to the duodenal wall. This sleeve prevents
      the contact of food with the duodenal wall, thereby re-capitulating one of the major
      properties of the RYGB operation. With this technique, control of diabetes is accompanied by
      weight loss, with no need for medications that may cause weight gain / hypoglycemia and may
      serve to replace or postpone surgery.

      In a recent paper by de Moura et al, Twenty-two subjects with uncontrolled type 2 diabetes
      and a body mass index between 40- 60 kg/m ² were implanted with the EndoBarrier and followed
      prospectively for 1 year.

      The authors found statistically significant reductions in fasting blood glucose (- 30.3 ±
      10.2 mg/dL), fasting insulin (- 7.3 ± 2.6 lU/mL), and HbA1c ( - 2.1±0.3%) in patients
      undergoing the procedure.

      The study conclusions were that EndoBarrier improves glycemic status in obese subjects with
      diabetes and therefore represents a non-surgical, reversible alternative to bariatric
      surgery. Internal data from GI Dynamics reveals that obese subject (average BMI of 44 kg/m²)
      and uncontrolled diabetes ( average A1c of 8.4 %) who were implanted with EndoBarrier for one
      year showed the following:

        1. A reduction of 2.1% of the A1c level, with a value of less than 7% in 80% of the
           subjects.

        2. An average reduction of 20 Kg (representing 16% of the excess weight).

        3. A 29% reduction in the triglyceride level and a 14% reduction in LDL-c. After 12 months
           the EndoBarrier was removed and the subjects remained in follow up for additional 18
           months. During this period, the achievement was maintained.

      3. Study Design: This is a two arm open-label three phase trail investigating the effect of
      an EndoBarrier device on fertility and metabolic parameters in obese insulin resistant (IR)
      PCOS women Arm 1: women seeking pregnancy after failed IVF treatment cycle/s. Arm 2: women
      seeking pregnancy after failure to ovulate in response to clomiphene citrate (CC) -
      clomiphene resistant.

      Phase 1: (treatment phase) - Six months with Endobarrier Phase 2: (follow-up phase) - Twelve
      months after Endobarrier retrieval Phase 3: (long term observation phase) - to see whether
      and when a pregnancy was achieved within the second year after retrieval.

      4. Methods and assessments: 4.1 Visit 1- screening All potential patients will be screened
      for eligibility at visit 1. Informed consent (ICF) will be explained to the patient prior to
      conducting any study procedures. A discussion in which the patient is explained about the
      advantage and disadvantage of the trail and the trail procedures will be taken. If
      participation is agreed to by the patient after they read the ICF, the patient will sign and
      date the ICF, and get a copy of the signed and dated form.

      The following activities will occur on Visit 1:

      The patient signs the ICF form A patient number will be assigned to the patient. Inclusion /
      Exclusion criteria will be reviewed. Demographic data : Age. Medical history evaluation and
      concomitant medication record. A physical and gynecological examination (including Ultrasound
      of Ovaries) will be conducted.

      An oral OGTT 75g will be performed. Fasting Laboratory measurements will be performed A date
      for visit 2 will be scheduled.

      4.2 visit 2 - Gastro screening

      The following activities will occur on Visit 2:

      The patient will be referred to the Gastroenterology department for Gastroscopy.

      The patient will be instructed to start 40 mg Omeprazole twice daily 3 days prior to visit 4
      (Implantation of the Endobarrier).

      The patient will be instructed to start contraceptive from now on. Diet consultation will be
      performed The patient will be asked to answer the "Visual analog scale" (VAS) questionnaire.

      A date for visit 3 will be scheduled.

      4.3 visit 3 - Endobarrier implantation The patient will arrive in a fasting state. The
      patient will be asked about any AE's and change in medications. Vital signs, weight, waist
      circumferences will be measured. Fasting Laboratory measurements will be performed Under full
      anesthesia (in order to achieve the best conditions for the accurate positioning of the
      device) gastroscopy will be performed and a guide wire will be inserted to the jejunum.

      The Endobarrirer device will be inserted over the guide wire and introduced into the duodenal
      bulb. The correct location of the device will be evaluated by the endoscope.

      Under fluoroscopy the device will be operated and the sleeve will be released from its
      capsule. Contrast material will be injected thorough the sleeve to insure full opening.

      After full expansion of the sleeve, the anchoring mechanism will be operated and the sleeve
      will be anchored by small hooks to the duodenal bulb.

      Correct hooking will be visualized endoscopically.

      4.4 visits 4-9 The patient will be asked about any AE's and change in medications. Vital
      signs, weight, waist circumferences will be measured. Fasting Laboratory measurements will be
      performed Diet consultation will be performed. The patient will be asked to answer the
      "Visual analog scale" (VAS) questionnaire.

      4.5 visit 10- pre-retrieval visit The patient will be asked about any AE's and change in
      medications. Vital signs, weight, waist circumferences will be measured. Fasting laboratory
      measurements will be performed The patient will be asked to answer the "Visual analog scale"
      (VAS) questionnaire

      4.6 visit 11- Endobarrier retrieval The retrieval procedure will be performed after sedation.
      A retrieval hood will be connected to the endoscope tip. A scope will be introduced to the
      duodenum. A retrieval grasper will be inserted through the scope. By pulling the drawstring
      the anchoring hook will collapse and when all hooks are within the plastic retrieval hood the
      endoscope will be withdrawn safely out.

      The patients will be referred to the infertility Clinic for treatment.

      4.7 visit 12-19 - once in 3M follow up Patient will come to a visit once every 3 months,
      until pregnancy is achieved or until the end of the study period.

      Patient will be asked about any AE's and change in medications. Gynecological exam (may
      include Ultrasound of Ovaries) may be performed. Fasting laboratory measurements will be
      performed The patient will be asked to answer the "Visual analog scale" (VAS) questionnaire.

      Patient will be required to provide the site will data regarding last fertility treatment

      **In case pregnancy is achieved patient is requested to inform the site within 1 week.

      Relevant information regarding the fertility treatment will be collected
    
  