
    
      Human Immunodeficiency Virus /Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (HIV/AIDS) continues to be
      one of the most devastating worldwide pandemics. In response to the HIV/AIDS epidemic, the
      Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS in 2010, urged countries to improve access to
      HIV/AIDS testing and counseling in an effort to increase the number of people who know their
      HIV status, thereby attempting to decrease transmission and increase treatment. Thus, an
      effective country response is to increase voluntary testing and counseling, particularly
      among at-risk populations. Ensuring patients receive their test results is an essential
      component of these efforts.

      Chile, since 1991, has seen an increase of notified cases of HIV/ AIDS among certain regions
      of the country. The Chilean government offers free screening for HIV using only the ELISA
      test. In addition, many Chileans fail to return to receive their test results, as do many
      other individuals worldwide. In the United States, the Center for Disease Control reported
      that when using the "gold standard of HIV testing" (the ELISA) 30% of people with negative
      results and 39% of people with positive results do not return for their test results.

      In Western counties, as well as several Latin American countries, the use of rapid testing
      technology to identify HIV 1 and 2 has increased the percentage of people who learn their
      serological status when compared with those who are tested using the traditional ELISA
      method. Neither the rapid test nor ELISA yield a definitive diagnosis, so further
      confirmation testing is required using the Western Blot to rule out the possibility of a
      false positive result. Nonetheless, by providing quick turn-around, rapid testing helps to
      facilitate individuals receiving their initial test results, thereby increasing the their
      probability of being quickly referred to appropriate health services for confirmatory testing
      and treatment.

      Although the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) currently has approved six different rapid
      tests for clinical use to detect HIV 1 and 2, the OraQuick Advance Rapid Assessment (OQA) is
      the only one that is administered orally.

      OQA testing can be conducted in geographical locations where laboratory facilities capable of
      performing ELISA assays are unavailable. Thus, HIV screening programs that adopt OQA can
      extend their reach far beyond previous locations.

      Despite OQA's growing success and popularity in many different settings globally, Chile has
      yet to accept OQA or any rapid testing as a viable alternative to ELISA testing. The Chilean
      government has delayed approval for the adoption of OQA pending additional evidence among
      Chileans that it offers a more advantageous alternative to ELISA testing with equal
      specificity.
    
  