
    
      There is an unresolved difficulty in the evaluation of haemorrhagic symptoms in
      thrombocytopenia due to the very nature of the scale, which is the international standard at
      this time (WHO scale). This scale is based on the level of blood loss and is applicable to
      any haemostasis disorder. We will keep it as the standard but have decided to be particularly
      rigorous in the data collection and will perform daily haemorrhagic assessment.

      Several sequences of missing data can be imputed for one patient. Each sequence of missing
      data will be replaced if and only if the number of consecutive days missing does not exceed
      15%* of the total length of the patient's stay. If one sequence of missing data is longer
      than the 15%, no replacement will be done for the patient. (Example: If the total stay is 30
      days, the maximal length of a missing data sequence accepted is 4 days). The following
      strategies will be used to replace missing data:

      • The first observation is missing: Next observation carried backwards (NOCB) assigns the
      next known score after the missing value to the missing one.

      • The last observation is missing: Last observation carried forward (LOCF) assigns the last
      known score before the missing value to the missing one. (Suppose that the situation is
      stable whilst the patient is leaving the hospital.)

      • Sequence of one or several missing data with non-missing data before and after the
      sequence: Last and Next1 assigns the average of the person's last known and next known
      observation to the missing value. The score is rounded down to the nearest whole number if
      needed. (Ex mean (1+2) =1)

      * 15% rounded up to nearest whole number.

      1 : Engels, J.M. 2003. Imputation of Missing Longitudinal Data : a Comparison of Methods.
      Journal of Clinical Epidemiology 56 (2003) 968-976

      Following a quality analysis of EFFIPAP study's recruitment, it was decided by the sponsor to
      increase the number of patients. Approximatively thirty additional patients will be included
      in order to replace non analyzable patients for the following reasons : wrongly included,
      non-transfused patients, consent withdrawal. Those 30 additional patients will allow us to
      reach our initial target of 810 analyzable patients in order to respond to the main objective
      of the study
    
  