
    
      The report from a National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke Workshop on
      priorities for clinical research in intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) in December 2003
      recommended clinical trials for evaluation of blood pressure (BP) management in acute ICH as
      a leading priority. The Special Writing Group of the Stroke Council of the American Heart
      Association in 1999 and 2007 emphasized the need for clinical trials to ensure evidence-based
      treatment of acute hypertension in ICH. Consequently, we propose to conduct a five-year
      international, multicenter, open-labeled, randomized, controlled, Phase III trial to
      determine the efficacy of early, intensive antihypertensive treatment using intravenous
      nicardipine for acute hypertension in subjects with co-morbid hypertension and spontaneous
      supratentorial ICH. The primary hypothesis of this large, streamlined, focused trial is that
      the group treated with intensive BP reduction (systolic BP [SBP] of 140 mmHg or less -
      hereafter referred to as the intensive treatment) using intravenous nicardipine infusion for
      24 hours reduces the proportion of death and disability at 3 months by 10% or greater
      compared with the group treated with the standard BP reduction (SBP of 180 mmHg or less -
      hereafter referred to as the standard treatment) among patients with ICH treated within 4.5
      hours of symptom onset. The underlying mechanism for this expected beneficial effect of
      intensive treatment is mediated through reduction of the rate and magnitude of hematoma
      expansion observed in approximately 38% of patients with acute ICH. The trial will recruit a
      maximum of 1,280 subjects with ICH who meet the eligibility criteria. The primary outcome is
      the proportion of death and disability at 3 months defined by modified Rankin scale (mRS)
      score of 4 to 6. The proposed clinical trial is the natural extension of numerous case
      series, a subsequent pilot trial funded by the National Institutes of Health National
      Institute of Health (NIH), and a preliminary randomized controlled trial in this patient
      group funded by the Australian National Health and Medical Research Council, that have
      recently confirmed the safety and tolerability of both the regimen and goals of the
      antihypertensive treatment in acutely hypertensive patients with ICH proposed in the present
      trial. The proposed trial will have important public health implications by providing
      necessary information regarding the efficacy and safety of antihypertensive treatment of
      acute hypertension observed in up to 75% of the subjects with ICH. BP treatment represents a
      strategy that can be made widely available without the need of specialized equipment and
      personnel and therefore can make a major impact upon outcome in patients with ICH.
      Substantial reduction in morbidity and mortality appears possible if the estimates of
      treatment effect sizes from current pilot trials are accurate.
    
  