
    
      Up to 200 FAST Stages 2-4 patients with cognitive impairment will be randomized into
      data-driven health coaching vs. control groups. The participants will be treated and
      monitored for 24 months.

      Subject Identification and Recruitment Study participants will be recruited from a
      high-volume memory clinic and a large physician medical group. Up to 200 participants will be
      enrolled in this prospective randomized study (up to 100 in each treatment arm).

      Procedures for Obtaining Informed Consent All participants will receive the Experimental
      Research Subject's Bill of Rights prior to signing the informed consent form (ICF),
      authorization of use and disclosure of protected health information (PHI), and authorization
      of medical record release for the subject's treating physician, will be obtained from each
      participants prior to enrolling in the study. A copy of all signed ICF's will be given to the
      participants, and the investigator will retain the original.

      FAST staging (see Attachment II for the FAST administrating and scoring) will be done before
      participants are consented to determine whether they or a legally appointed representative
      (LAR) can consent to participate in the study. In this study, participants with FAST stages
      2-4 will be recruited (see Inclusion Criteria).

        -  Considerations for consenting FAST stages 2-3 subjects: FAST stages 2-3 participants are
           usually competent to make medical and legal decisions, and will be consented directly,
           unless there is a caregiver, legally appointed representative, or other reason to think
           that an informed consent cannot be given by the participants without approval by a
           reliable informant acting on their behalf.

        -  Considerations for consenting FAST stage 4 (mild dementia) participants: FAST stage 4
           participants will be consented by having them give oral or written assent, indicating
           their preference with regard to study participation. In addition, the caregiver or
           legally appointed representative of a demented participants will be consented to assure
           full understanding of study procedures and willingness on behalf of the participants to
           participate in the study.

      This approach has been evaluated by the Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences at
      Johns Hopkins, and found to adequately ensure informed consent (Black et al. 2010). They
      concluded that ADRD participants should not be excluded from study participation if they
      cannot directly consent themselves, so long as their caregivers can consent, and the
      participants can assent, either verbally or in writing, their preference to participate in
      the study.

      The caregiver or legally appointed representative will be required to accompany participants
      to participate in the required procedures. A copy of the appropriate document (e.g., the
      power of attorney for healthcare) will be obtained and filed with the original ICF.
    
  