
    
      After radical prostatectomy, a part of all patients suffer from urinary incontinence. Until
      now, only few information exists about the functional anatomy of the male pelvic floor,
      especially in incontinent men. Transperineal ultrasound is non-hazardous, cheap and easy
      available method to visualize the pelvic floor and is well established in gynecological
      examination. literature described the technique of transperineal ultrasound but there are no
      well established reference lines measured and the number of examined men in the series are
      small. The investigators want to confirm the published data and probably find new reference
      lines/parameters, e.g. the distance between the posterior wall of the symphysis to the
      posterior wall of the urethra in a direct, horizontal line. At the moment, the authors
      published data about urethral mobility, bladder neck opening and urethral angle. The
      investigators estimate that there is also a possible significant difference in the distance
      from the urethra to the symphysis in incontinent men compare to continent men after radical
      prostatectomy.

      Incontinent men can be treated by pelvic floor exercises or, in case of persisting
      incontinence, with operative treatment. There exists several techniques of implanted slings
      and meshes, similar to the better known TVT (tension free vaginal tape) in female urinary
      incontinence, besides the gold standard - the implantation of an artificial sphincter
      prosthesis. The sling-operations are less invasive, cheaper and preferred by patients du to
      the fact, that normal micturition is still possible. Nevertheless, around 20% of patients
      stay incontinent after sling operation. At the moment, it is unknown why they do not profit
      from the sling. In a previous study functional pelvic cine-MRI in patients with
      post-prostatectomy incontinence before and after implantation of a bulbourethral composite
      Suspension were compared. The investigators could find significant differences in the
      membranous urethral length and could show an elevation oft he bladder neck postoperatively
      but no significant MRI differences were found between patients showing clinical success or
      failure. With perineal sonography, the investigators want to establish a prediction tool for
      sling-operations in patients with urinary stress incontinence after radical prostatectomy.

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate whether perineal ultrasound in men is an adequate
      possibility to evaluate the pelvic floor and its function in the regard of urinary
      incontinence. The study is trying to find a prediction tool for bulbourethral composite
      suspension (sling-operation) using transperineal sonography. The investigators further want
      to establish and confirm parameters/standards to measure the male pelvic floor with the new
      technique of perineal sonography in men. Further the investigators want to to compare
      findings from perineal sonography with data from functional MRI in men with urinary
      incontinence following radical prostatectomy before and after bulbourethral composite
      suspension. Findings from perineal sonography with results from questionnaires concerning
      quality of life will be compared.

      There is a comparison study with two arms to compare the anatomy and function of the pelvic
      floor with perineal ultrasound from men prior to RALP due to prostate cancer, without prior
      history of diseases involving the pelvic floor.

      Participants will be asked to participate the study during routine consultations in the
      department of Kantonsspital Winterthur or selected in our database of the clinical
      information system searching for radical prostatectomies in the past and recruit these
      participants by telephone.

      In a modified lithotomy position (supine position with elevated legs), probands will get an
      examination of their pelvic floor by using a common ultrasound probe head on the perineum.
      During the examination, the bladder should be filled with around 300ml. If patient appear
      with empty bladder, the examination can be repeated on an other date. During the examination,
      the pelvic floor is observed during rest, coughing and valsalva-maneuver. One examination
      takes around 30minutes. During ultrasound, the investigators want to illustrate the urethral
      mobility, the bladder neck opening and the urethral angle as well as the distance from the
      urethra to the symphysis.

      Urinary incontinence is measured by 24h pad test: Probands have to collect their pads, and
      scale them before and after using it during 24 hours, to measure the difference. The
      difference (after-before) shows the amount of lost urine. The results don't have to be exact
      and a result with a precision of approximately 50ml (= 50g) is acceptable.

      Results from urinary analysis (culture) are taken out of medical history from the hospitals
      database during the period of incontinence to exclude urinary tract infection. If no data is
      available, urinary analysis will be collected.
    
  