
    
      A. Background:

      Individuals on dialysis due to kidney failure have very prescriptive diets. These diets help
      increase dialysis effectiveness and help patients control blood levels of electrolytes
      including potassium and phosphate, acid-base balance, blood pressure, and fluid between
      dialysis treatments. However, patient compliance with these diets is often very low, and one
      reason for this low compliance is disguesia (abnormal taste sensations) which can make the
      diets unpalatable. The investigators hypothesize this disguesia, and subsequent lack of
      adherence to a dialysis friendly diet, is a result of either vascular taste (tasting one's
      own blood through the basolateral side of taste cells) or altered chemical composition of
      saliva in between dialysis appointments. However, to study these hypotheses, data are needed
      on the types of substances that may contribute to the disguesia. Substances for which the
      concentration is influenced by kidney function (in healthy people) or dialysis (in patients)
      are the prime candidates for the disguesia under our hypotheses.

      B. Objectives:

      The investigators will study how dialysis patients perceive sodium, calcium, potassium,
      creatinine, urea, phosphate, glutamate (umami taste), and iron solutions, and whether
      alterations in saliva may contribute to altered sensations from these compounds. These
      solutions will be used to:

        1. Determine whether dialysis patients recognize the flavour of specific stimuli as similar
           to the disguesias experienced between dialysis treatments.

        2. Determine if the intensity of the flavour from these solutions is more or less intense
           at the beginning of dialysis compared to the end.

        3. Determine if patients' ratings for the solutions differ from healthy, control
           individuals.

        4. Determine if saliva of patients contains different concentrations of analytes such as
           sodium, potassium, creatinine, urea, phosphates, iron, or glutamates from healthy
           controls.

        5. Determine if concentrations of these analytes in saliva decrease over the course of
           dialysis treatment.
    
  