
    
      This is randomized controlled trial to determine the efficacy of autologous, micro-fragmented
      adipose tissue (MFAT) injection under ultrasound guidance for meniscal injuries in active
      duty military personnel. The control for this study, to which MFAT will be compared, is
      trephination with saline injection into the meniscal tear. Eighty (80) healthy,
      phyisically-fit men and women with confirmed, acute meniscal tears will be recruited and
      placed into one of two treatment groups.

      Percutaneous trephination with MFAT: Micro-fragmented adipose tissue will be obtained by
      using a minimal manipulation technique in a closed system (Lipogems®), without the addition
      of enzymes or any additives. The final product will consist of micronized fat tissue yielding
      fat clusters with preserved vascular stroma of about 500 microns with intact stromal vascular
      niches and harboring regenerative cellular elements. Approximately 1-2 mL of micro-fragmented
      adipose will be injected into the meniscus with an 18-gauge x 3.5 inch needle under
      continuous ultrasound guidance. An additional 4-5 mL will be injected into the knee joint. No
      other biological or pharmacological agents will be used in combination with the
      micro-fragmented adipose.

      Percutaneous trephination with saline: In this group, the physician will identify the
      mensical lesion using ultrasound and will trephinate the torn meniscus with normal saline
      (0.9%) solution using an 18 guage x 3.5 inch needle. Approximately 1-2 mL will be injected
      into the meniscus and an additional 4-5 mL will be injected into the knee joint under
      ultrasound guidance.

      Both Groups: Participants will be followed for adverse events and changes in shoulder pain
      intensity on an 11-point numerical rating scale (NRS; 0-10, with anchors "no pain" and "pain
      as bad as you can imagine"); the Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS); the
      PROMIS Physical Functioning short form; knee physical and ultrasound examinations; and a
      5-point subject global impression of change (SGIC) scale. Subjects will be examined at 1
      month, 2 months, 3 months, 6 months, and 12 months after the treatment.
    
  