
    
      Objective: The objectives of this pilot study are to gain insight into the safety,
      feasibility and clinical effects of infusion of a temporary acting GABAA agonist (muscimol)
      by convection-enhanced delivery into the subthalamic nuclei (STN) of Parkinson s disease (PD)
      patients undergoing deep brain stimulation (DBS) surgery.

      Study population: Eight adult male and female patients with medically-intractable PD who are
      preparing to undergo DBS surgery and who meet all Inclusion and Exclusion Criteria will be
      enrolled. Six subjects will be treated (2 may be screening failures).

      Design: We propose a single center pilot study of infusion of muscimol into the bilateral STN
      of PD patients that will undergo DBS. Subjects will be enrolled into 1 of 2 cohorts. Both
      cohorts will contain 3 patients each (total of 6 patients). Patients in both cohorts will
      undergo pre-, intra- and post-operative PD assessments. The first cohort will undergo
      bilateral perfusion of half of the volume (infusion of 8 microliters)of the STN with muscimol
      (8.8 mM) and gadolinium-DTPA ([1 mM] in off and on medication states on sequential days). The
      second cohort will undergo bilateral perfusion of the entire of the volume (infusion of 16
      microliters) of the STN with muscimol (8.8 mM) and gadolinium-DTPA ([1 mM] in off and on
      medication states on sequential days). Distribution of muscimol using a surrogate imaging
      tracer (gadolinium-DPTA) will be tracked using real-time MR-imaging and correlated to
      clinical effect. After the infusions are completed, the catheters will be removed and
      patients will undergo placement of bilateral STN DBS. Patients will be evaluated using
      standard PD rating scales to determine the effects to STN neuronal suppression and to compare
      the effects of muscimol pharmacologic neuronal suppression to DBS effects.

      Outcome measures: To determine the distribution of muscimol in the STN and to provide an
      anatomic correlate for clinical effects of neuronal suppression, real-time 3D-volumetric
      MR-imaging will be used during infusions. To assess safety, tolerability and clinical effects
      of muscimol infusion, standard PD rating scales (motor subsection of the Unified PD Rating
      Scale, timed-up-and-go gait assessment and peg board bradykinesia testing) will be performed
      following infusion and correlated to real-time infusion MR-imaging studies. To compare the
      effects of muscimol infusion to STN DBS, the assessments obtained during infusion will be
      compared to the similar assessment 6 months after DBS placement.
    
  