
    
      Millions of Americans are at risk for sight-threatening diseases and are either unable to
      access eye care services or unaware that eye care screening could reduce their risk of vision
      loss. In addition, there is a national shortage of eye care providers. Primary care providers
      lack resources to effectively screen for sight-threatening conditions. Of the three leading
      causes of permanent vision loss and blindness in adults in the United States (namely,
      diabetic retinopathy, glaucoma, and age-related macular degeneration), all three diseases
      largely affect structures in what is referred to as the "posterior part of the eye." This
      encompasses the retina and the optic nerve, as well as accompanying vasculature. The
      posterior part of the eye requires advanced instrumentation, training, and technological
      advances to visualize pathology and optimize examination in the posterior part of the eye,
      and accordingly screen for sight-threatening eye diseases in a manner that was not feasible
      previously. However this is still largely restricted to eye care-specific settings that have
      the training and resources available to invest in these technologically-advanced instruments.
      Thus, there remains a critical need to develop safe, effective, readily available, and
      efficient methods and tools to optimize examination and screening for sight threatening
      diseases. In addition, these tools should be applicable in a variety of eye care settings,
      including inpatient and outpatient clinical contexts in order to optimize eye care. In the
      absence of such tools, patients will continue to have limited access to eye care and remain
      at risk for sight-threatening eye conditions that otherwise could be prevented and managed
      appropriately.

      Diabetes mellitus is a leading cause of death and disability worldwide. The World Health
      Organization estimates that more than 346 million people worldwide have DM and it is
      estimated that 552 million people may be affected by 2030. Diabetic retinopathy is the most
      common microvascular complication of diabetes, affecting nearly all patients with a history
      of diabetes for 15 years or more. Among US adults aged 40 or older, an estimated 28.5%-40.3%
      of diabetics have diabetic retinopathy and 4.4%-8.2% have vision-threatening retinopathy,
      with higher estimates among non-Hispanic black individuals. Epidemiological studies from the
      National Eye Institute reveal that diabetes is the leading cause of vision loss in
      working-age adults in the U.S., and guidelines recommend that patients with diabetes undergo,
      at minimum, a yearly dilated examination of the posterior part of the eye. This is
      particularly important to detect and treat diabetes-associated eye conditions, as patients
      are often asymptomatic until an advanced stage, at which point vision recovery may be
      limited. Despite the absence of visual symptoms in those patients with no or with early
      diabetic eye complications, conditions such as diabetic retinopathy have a recognizable
      latent stage, which is readily diagnosed and graded by retinal imaging (fundus photography).
      Given its prevalence and clinically-silent (but examination-apparent) progression, diabetic
      retinopathy is an ideal screening disease. Furthermore, visual outcome favors early detection
      and treatment.. There are effective, universally agreed-upon treatments for diabetic
      retinopathy which include laser photocoagulation for proliferative retinopathy, intravitreal
      injections and focal photocoagulation for diabetic macular edema, and improved glucose and
      blood pressure control. Despite guidelines for annual screening and benefits of early
      detection as it relates to vision outcomes and overall diabetic disease control, there is a
      substantial gap in care in regards to annual retinal screening for diabetics. It is estimated
      that nearly half of adults with DM in the US do not receive recommended screenings. Screening
      may be even more sporadic in areas of the world with a shortage of ophthalmologists.

      This study seeks to determine whether a smartphone camera and an attachable device with
      optics and illumination specific for imaging the posterior part of the eye is an effective
      screening tool that could be used to optimize the posterior eye exam, and to improve access,
      ease of diagnosis, and early intervention in eye diseases.

      Glaucoma is another disease affecting the posterior part of the eye, specifically the optic
      nerve, and is the second leading cause of blindness worldwide. In particular, open-angle
      glaucoma is a chronic, insidious disease with progressive loss of peripheral to central
      vision. When diagnosed and treated early, however, permanent vision loss, which manifests in
      later stages of the disease, may be prevented. The diagnosis of glaucoma typically relies on
      both structural changes to the optic nerve and functional visual field deficits. Diagnosing
      and screening glaucoma in resource-poor settings can be challenging. For example, a study of
      the Frequency Doubling Technique (FDT) perimetry in rural India found very low sensitivity
      for this test (7%), whereas studies in industrialized settings have found much higher
      sensitivity (59%). Furthermore, many structural testing modalities such as OCT of the retinal
      nerve fiber layer and stereoscopic optic nerve photography require both specialized equipment
      and expert analysis in order to be effectively used in diagnosis.

      Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is the leading cause of irreversible blindness in the
      developed world. Worldwide, 14 million people are blind due to wet AMD. By 2020, an estimated
      196 million people will suffer from AMD worldwide. The US population with AMD will double by
      2050. Dry AMD accounts for 90% of AMD patients, but wet AMD causes the majority of visual
      impairment. Dry AMD is characterized by drusen of various size and characteristics and
      pigmentary changes with a classification system. Fundus photography is an established method
      of performing this characterization. Patients with dry AMD are at risk for progression to wet
      AMD, which occurs at a rate of 13% within 5 years. When dry AMD progresses to wet AMD,
      changes occur in the fundus appearance including the presence of retinal fluid and bleeding.
      Wet AMD requires prompt treatment to prevent vision loss. The visual acuity at initiation of
      anti-VEGF therapy is the best predictor for final visual acuity 2 years after therapy.
      Treatment of wet AMD with anti-VEGF therapy results in improvement or stabilization of vision
      in over 90% of wet AMD patients. Currently patients with dry AMD are evaluated annually for
      possible progression and then are instructed to monitor their vision daily at home and
      approximately half of cases of wet AMD come through patient symptoms and half through
      asymptomatic physician follow-up. Several home monitoring systems have been developed,
      including Amsler grid and Foresee Home monitoring using Vernier hyperacuity. Fundus
      photography is another method for monitoring due to the visually apparent changes that can
      occur, and utilization of a low-cost, smartphone-based fundus photography system would
      greatly increase access.

      Additionally, within pediatric populations, there is a similarly critical need to develop
      effective, efficient, and child-friendly methods to evaluate for pediatric eye (particularly
      intraocular/posterior eye) diseases. Pediatric patients can pose a challenging exam, where
      general anesthesia is sometimes needed if a child is unable to tolerate a complete eye exam.
      Refined instrumentation and technological advances that are more comfortable for the
      pediatric patient may make it possible to explore novel, noninvasive photographic tools to
      optimize eye care in this special patient population within a wider range of established care
      settings and minimize the need for exam under anesthesia or distress to the patient. For
      example, leukocoria (or a white red reflex) can be an important referral to ensure that a
      patient does not have an eye cancer called retinoblastoma. Given the difficulty in examining
      some patients, providers at times have to take these patients to the operating room for exams
      under anesthesia, which has risks of anesthesia along with high cost.

      Importantly, Retinopathy of prematurity (ROP) occurs when abnormal blood vessels grow over
      the retina and cause blindness in premature babies. ROP happens more often because more
      babies are surviving at younger ages due to advances in neonatal care. Screening for ROP is
      challenging because many hospitals do not have children's eye specialists on staff or nearby.
      This is a much larger public health problem in developing countries where the neonatal care
      has improved but ophthalmic expertise in pediatric eye diseases is lacking. ROP telemedicine
      program allows physicians to send images to be interpreted at larger medical centers, like
      the U-M Kellogg Eye Center. Babies born before 31 weeks and weighing less than 1,500 grams
      undergo repeated screenings to monitor for ROP. Photographs of the babies' eyes are taken
      using a pediatric retinal camera. Kellogg team routinely evaluates images together or
      remotely to make follow up and treatment decisions.

      As the above examples indicate, there is a need for cheap, reliable, and user-friendly
      diagnostic modality for screening for posterior eye disease, particularly in resource-poor
      communities and internationally, in order to prevent blindness. Increasing the accessibility
      and portability of the eye exam holds great promise in improving the reach of ophthalmic
      care, in both the remote community and inpatient settings. Ophthalmology is uniquely suited
      for remote screening and evaluation given the optical transparency of the eye and the
      importance of the ocular examination in diagnosing eye disease. This study evaluates a
      smartphone-based camera capable of capturing high quality, wide field images of the retina.

      This is a multi-site, cross-sectional diagnostic study being conducted at multiple sites . At
      each site, patients will be approached in the clinic, inpatient, and operating room settings.
      Photographs will be taken with our smartphone-based camera along with the standard of care,
      including traditional desktop fundus photography. The feasibility and accuracy of a
      smartphone-based camera for diagnosing eye diseases will be tested.

      Several ophthalmology specialists will grade the smartphone fundus photographs, the
      traditional retinal photographs, and the documented eye examination for eye disease in
      question (such as diabetic retinopathy, age related macular degeneration, glaucoma,
      retinopathy of prematurity, etc.). The agreement between the graders for the diagnosis of eye
      disease will be assessed. The sensitivity and specificity of diabetic retinopathy or glaucoma
      diagnoses with the smartphone will also be assessed, using traditional retinal imaging as the
      reference standard and in a separate analysis using the ophthalmologist's examination as the
      reference standard. The following are the aims of the project:

      Aim 1: to assess the sensitivity and specificity of diagnosis of posterior eye disease (e.g.,
      diabetic retinopathy, glaucoma, macular degeneration) with a smartphone camera relative to
      (A) ophthalmologist examination in outpatient and inpatient care settings and (B) traditional
      fundus photography when feasible.

      Aim 2: to assess the feasibility of our smartphone-based camera as a pediatric-friendly
      approach for imaging of posterior eye disease (retina and optic nerve head) in the
      outpatient, inpatient, and operative care settings, and to assess sensitivity and specificity
      of diagnosis in screening for important pediatric conditions (e.g. leukocoria and retinopathy
      of prematurity).

      Aim 3: to assess the agreement between masked graders in diagnosis of different diseases
      involving the posterior eye as imaged by our smartphone-based camera.
    
  