
    
      JNJ-24681585 is a histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitor. It is a drug in development for
      treatment of cancer. In this study, the safety (the effect on the body) of the drug in
      patients with advanced or refractory solid malignancies or lymphoma will be studied. The
      maximum dose that can be tolerated by patients will be determined. The absorption, break
      down, and elimination of the drug will be studied and in some patients the effect of food on
      these processes will be examined. Antitumor activity of JNJ-26481585 will be evaluated.

      JNJ-26481585 will be administered in a continuous regimen with 21-day treatment cycles. The
      dose of JNJ-26481585 will start low and will be increased during the study in groups of 2 to
      6 patients. The dose each patient receives at study entry will not increase, but patients who
      receive drug at a later enrollment time may receive a higher dose. If a group of patients
      does not have severe side effects, the next group of patients will get a higher dose. The
      dose will increase until some patients have severe side effects. The dose will then be
      decreased to a dose level where severe side effects are observed in less than 1/3 of
      patients. Once a safe dose level has been determined an additional group of 12-24 patients
      will be treated.

      The amount of JNJ-26481585 in the blood will be measured and the effect on the disease will
      be evaluated in all patients. In some patients, the effect of food on the absorption, break
      down, and elimination of the study drug will also be studied.

      Patients will be screened for eligibility within 4 weeks before study treatment is given. The
      treatment will consist of 21-day treatment cycles in a continuous once daily dosing regimen.
      The duration of treatment will depend on adverse effects and whether there is benefit from
      the treatment. The design of a cycle may be adjusted during the course of the study to
      include days when there is no treatment (a pause) as guided by clinical observations. The
      dosing regimen may be adjusted to twice daily or three times daily intake as guided by
      information on how rapidly your body breaks down and eliminates the study drug. Patients will
      be informed if there are changes in the design of a cycle or the dosing regimen.

      During the first treatment cycle, patients are required to stay in the hospital for 3 or 4
      nights. In addition there are 8 or 9 daytime visits during Cycles 1 and 2 (combined) that may
      take up to 12 hours after the morning dose at 2 or 3 occasions and up to 4 hours after the
      morning dose at the other 6 occasions. From Cycle 3 onwards, there is only 1 daytime visit
      per treatment cycle, and these visits usually take up less time.

      Throughout the study, especially during Cycles 1 and 2, patients will undergo frequent blood
      and urine tests, procedures to assess safety including heart function, and tests to assess
      the course of the patients illness. Two weeks after the last dose of the study drug, patients
      are required to return to the study site for follow-up assessments. JNJ-26481585 will be
      provided as capsules and will be taken by mouth once daily throughout treatment. The starting
      dose level will be 2 mg but the dose received by an individual patient will be determined at
      the time of enrollment. Modifications to the treatment schedule or dosing regimen may be
      explored during the course of this study. Patients can continue receiving treatment as long
      as there is benefit as evaluated by the study doctor and there are no unacceptable side
      effects.
    
  