
    
      Azacitidine is an effective and well established therapy in patients with acute myeloid
      leukemia (AML). In fact, in previous measurable residual disease (MRD) triggered studies,
      azacitidine allowed for a delay towards an overt hematological relapse in the majority of
      patients. However, the majority of patients ultimately relapsed even though they received
      multiple cycles of preemptive therapy. Hypomethylating agents (HMA) can enhance antitumor
      immune responses by upregulating tumor antigene expression, class 1 major histocompatibility
      complex, and co-stimulatory molecules, while concurrently dampening this antitumor effect by
      upregulating expression of checkpoint receptors or ligands, including programmed cell death
      protein 1 (PD-1), programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1), and cytotoxic
      T-lymphocyte-associated protein 4 (CTLA-4). Upregulation of these immune checkpoint molecules
      might be a mechanism of resistance to hypomethylating drugs. It has been shown that PD-L1
      Messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) is up-regulated acute myeloid leukemia cluster of
      differentiation 34 (CD34+) cells and importantly, patients resistant to treatment with
      hypomethylating agents such as azacitidine have an up-regulated expression compared to
      responding patients. In addition, it is known that PD-1 promoter demethylation correlates
      with a higher PD-1 expression and a worse response rate to hypomethylating agents as well as
      a shorter overall survival. In this context it is of note that PD-1 promoter demethylation
      can be caused by hypomethylating agents and hence the mode of action of the drug itself could
      cause resistance to therapy in these patients. This might also explain why hypomethylating
      agents are not curative and can not eradicate early leukemic progenitor cells. The
      investigators, therefore, perform a phase II trial evaluating a combination therapy of
      pembrolizumab and azacitidine in nucleophosmin (NPM1) mutated AML patients with MRD and
      impending hematological relapse after conventional chemotherapy. This trial aims at improving
      response rates observed with single agent azacitidine within the studies NCT00422890 and
      NCT01462578.
    
  