
    
      Venetoclax has been approved for treatment of adult patients with chronic lymphocytic
      leukemia (CLL). Currently, there is not enough data of CLL populations from Chinese or other
      Asian regarding its efficacy or adverse reactions. In the phase 3 MURANO trial (NCT02005471),
      only 8 Asians (2.06%) were included, while other phase 1 or phase 2 studies did not show the
      percentage of Asian population. According to a venetoclax population pharmacokinetic study
      published in 2016, which integrated 505 subjects from 8 clinical trials, concluded that race
      was not a covariate that affect venetoclax PK. However, only 6 Asians (1.19%) were included,
      and some of the subjects were small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL), non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL)
      or healthy volunteers.

      The pharmacokinetics of venetoclax is affected by many factors, and the most influential
      factors may be fat content from dietary and concomitant use of CYP3A inhibitors or inducers.
      In particular, patients with hematological malignancies often require antifungal agents (such
      as voriconazole, posaconazole) as prophylaxis or treatment of fungal infections during
      chemotherapy. Therefore, these two factors will be considered in this study.

      The most common side effect after using venetoclax is neutropenia. About 60.8% of patients
      developed any grades neutropenia, 43.3% required dose interruption, 8.2% required dosage
      reduction, and 2.6% required permanent treatment discontinuation because of neutropenia in
      phase 3 MURANO trial. Recent studies have found that the probability of ≥ grade 3 neutropenia
      and infection seems to be inversely related to the blood concentration of venetoclax, that
      is, the higher the blood concentration of venetoclax, the lower the probability of
      neutropenia and infection.

      This observational study is designed to examine the plasma concentration of venetoclax in
      patients with CLL or AML, to create a pharmacokinetic model of venetoclax in Chinese
      population, and to analyze the extent to which CYP enzyme inhibitors and inducers may have
      effect on venetoclax plasma concentration. Moreover, the association between therapeutic
      effectiveness, adverse events, and venetoclax plasma concentration will also be analyzed in
      this study, and the final purpose is to establish the principle of clinical dose adjustment
      in the future.
    
  