
    
      Over the past decade there has been a growing debate about the clinical value content of a
      single individual diagnostic indicator of disease onset, progression or therapeutic
      intervention. In particular there has been a discussion about the comparative value of a
      single biomarker versus a panel (3-6 different analytes) versus a multi-analyte profile (>10
      different analytes) of biomarkers to provide high content clinical information about a
      specific disease onset, progression, remediation or treatment efficacy.

      With the advent of personalized medicine, and recognition of the high degree of biological
      variability in human pathobiology, it is important to understand the comparative value of a
      single biomarker/diagnostic versus a panel versus a profile. In addition, the growth of
      Preventive Medicine has spurred the development of "Wellness" in individual patients, and the
      necessity for understanding and measuring the transition from a state of health (wellness) to
      ultimately a state of full blown disease onset. This complex process occurs via a multitude
      of biological pathways and networks and manifests at a biochemical and clinical systems
      level.

      In a previous study currently being analyzed, MaiHealth measured a Multi-Analyte Profile of
      approximately 800 patients consisting of 400 cardiovascular compromised individuals and 400
      control patients. This preliminary study was a single time point only, in which 25 individual
      analytes were measured as well as 3 calculated ratios or values for the 800 individuals.

      The current study is a small cohort time course study over 6 months involving therapeutic
      intervention with an FDA-approved statin.

      The overall goal of the study is to determine the predictive capability of a single versus
      panel versus multi-analyte profile set of biomarkers in cardiovascular compromised patients
      with therapeutic intervention. The ultimate application of this research is information
      delivery and behavioral intervention.
    
  