
    
      IMPACT. Our proposed project will contribute to improved quality and efficiency of VA health
      care by: (1) providing an effective program of Enhanced Fitness counseling that will result
      in a significant increase in physical activity of sufficient magnitude to achieve noted
      improvements in glycemic control, and (2) developing and disseminating materials that can be
      used throughout the VHA for physical activity promotion for older, overweight adults.

      BACKGROUND. The nation is experiencing a marked increase in obesity, and diabetes. Users of
      the VA medical facilities report higher than national average rates of obesity and diabetes.
      Current projections indicate that 70% of veterans using the VA medical care are overweight,
      20% have diabetes, and 30- 40 % have metabolic syndrome. Approximately 30 % of VA health care
      costs are attributable to care for diabetes alone. Incidence and prevalence of these
      conditions increase with age and are associated with high medical costs. This is especially
      true of the older adult who typically has added comorbidities and functional limitations. The
      VHA has aggressively addressed the existing epidemic by implementing various programs and
      performance measures aimed at attaining optimal medical management of dyslipidemia, diabetes,
      and obesity. The component of all of these initiatives that has received the least amount of
      attention is physical activity despite overwhelming evidence that physical activity can
      favorably alter all of the medical conditions described above. The VA system-wide has been
      ill equipped to provide feasible, cost effective physical activity programs despite the
      imperative to seek ways to reduce incident diabetes and reduce potential health care costs.

      OBJECTIVES. We propose an innovative home-based enhanced fitness counseling intervention that
      involves a unique partnership between veteran, primary care provider, and exercise counselor
      directed at the older adult. The proposed project, Enhanced Fitness, seeks to improve
      glycemic control in older, overweight adults with impaired fasting glucose receiving primary
      care at the VA. A novel design, adaptive randomization, will allow us to assess the impact of
      our intervention at an early stage and then reassign individuals to a more intense or reduced
      intervention based upon patient compliance. Due to the national implementation of MOVE! in
      primary care for the treatment of obesity we will consider MOVE! as part of usual care for
      this population. Primary Hypothesis. Compared to usual care (plus MOVE!), individuals
      receiving Enhanced Fitness counseling will have significantly improved glucose metabolism
      (fasting insulin). Secondary Research Hypotheses and Objectives. (1) Compared to usual care
      (plus MOVE!), individuals receiving Enhanced Fitness counseling will have significantly
      improved secondary outcomes related glycemic control (fasting blood glucose, HOMA-IR, HbA1c,
      metabolic syndrome score), physical function (self report and physical performance),
      disability, and health related quality of life; and (2) To determine differences in cost and
      health care utilization between groups.

      Note: 7/5/2010: An amendment was submitted and approved to drop the adaptive randomization
      component of the study. This was necessary due to low levels of noncompliance observed during
      the first follow-up assessment. The primary and secondary objectives of the study were not
      affected by this amendment.

      Another amendment was submitted and approved to: 1) evaluate the association between APOE,
      diabetic risk and physical function; and 2) to examine associations between inflammatory
      markers, diabetic risk, and physical function.

      METHODS: For the proposed study we will target older adults (ages 60 and over) who are
      overweight (body mass index >24-40) with impaired fasting glucose (100 - 125). We propose a
      three-year, randomized controlled clinical trial (n=300) to determine the effect of our
      1-year Enhanced Fitness counseling intervention on glucose metabolism. A novel design,
      adaptive randomization, will allow us to mimic primary care by altering treatment based upon
      patient compliance. We will use a "train the trainers" approach for dissemination of results
      at the local, VISN, and national level.
    
  