
    
      3 populations were included: advanced NSCLC patients receive a single-agent docetaxel regimen
      palliative chemotherapy without restriction of lines; NPC patients receive paclitaxel and
      carboplatin doublet regimen whether as induction chemotherapy for local advanced patients or
      palliative chemotherapy for metastatic patients; BRC patients receive a single-agent
      docetaxel regimen after 4 cycles of adriamycin and cyclophosphamide for adjuvant
      chemotherapy. Patients are randomly assigned into the BSA-based dosing group and
      pharmacokinetically-guided dosing group. In the BSA-based dosing group, NPC patients receive
      paclitaxel (175mg/m2) and carboplatin (AUC=5) treatment, NSCLC and BRC patients receive
      docetaxel (75mg/m2) treatment, 3-weekly and for up to 6 cycles. BSA group and PK-guided group
      are with a same starting dose. DTX exposure (AUC) and PTX exposure (TC>0.05) are calculated
      from a published PK model with an established limited sampling strategy. Dose of subsequent
      cycles of PK-guided group patients is calculated base on the previous cycle PK results,
      according to optimal target algorithm. The optimal target for DTX exposure is 2.5 - 3.7
      µg•h/mL. Dose reductions were permitted in both arms according to instructions. The study had
      a power of 80% to detect a 23% reduction of grade >3 neutropenia with PK-guided arm for DTX
      sub-study in NSCLC. A sample size of 100 NSCLC patients was estimated by using Fisher's exact
      test to provide a 5% two-sided alpha significance level to observe a decrease in the
      hematological toxicity with a power of 0.8. This is based on the reported toxicity rates of
      85% with dose of 75mg/m2 and 63% with 60mg/m2. Objective response rate is evaluated by
      imaging examination (CT or MR scan) every 2 cycles. Toxicities are evaluated by patients'
      diary for toxicity reports and physician's evaluation at day 10 and day 21 at every cycle.
      Blood samples are collected every cycle. And survival information is collected by clinic and
      telephone follow-up. Research Hypothesis: 1. The concentrations variability dosed by BSA, and
      the limitation of BSA- and MTD-based dosing. 2. Verify that paclitaxel TC>0.05 and docetaxel
      AUC are the most relevant predictor of related toxicities and clinical outcomes. 3. Verify
      the feasibility of dosing algorithm based on paclitaxel TC>0.05 and docetaxel AUC, quantify
      its effect on both reducing toxicity and improving Effectiveness. 4. The effect of using dose
      modification and administration of G-CSF based on toxicity determined by paclitaxel TC>0.05
      and docetaxel AUC measurement. 5. Prove the ability of PK-guided dosing strategy in reducing
      DTX and PTX related hematologic and non-hematologic toxicities, and the effect on treatment
      efficacy.
    
  