
    
      Eligible participants will be randomized to the HIIT or moderate-intensity continuous
      exercise conditions. Each condition will involve a two-week supervised exercise period
      consisting of ten sessions. Exercise prescriptions for each condition will be progressive in
      nature over the two week supervised period and will be matched for external work.
      Specifically, individuals randomized to HIIT will begin with four intervals lasting 1-minute
      each at ~85-90% peak oxygen uptake [VO2peak] and increased to 10 X 1-min intervals by day 10.
      Individuals randomized to moderate-intensity exercise condition will begin with 20 minutes of
      continuous activity at ~55-60% V02peak and gradually increase the duration to 50 minutes by
      day 10. Participants will self-select exercise modality (walking outdoors, elliptical
      machine, treadmill walking, or stationary cycling). One trainer will supervise participants
      during the 2-week training program. Participants will complete 3 of the 10 training days (day
      4, 7 and 9) at home unsupervised. Participants will wear a heart rate monitor during each
      exercise session (supervised and unsupervised) to monitor exercise intensity and ensure
      compliance. In addition, participants will record their exercise bouts in a logbook on both
      lab and home training days.

      Participants in both conditions received 10 minutes of behavioural counseling each day they
      trained in the lab (for a total of 70 minutes). Following the supervised training,
      participants will be instructed to maintain HIIT or moderate-intensity continuous exercise
      three days per week independently. Specifically, individuals randomized to HIIT will be
      prescribed three exercise sessions per week involving 10 X 1-minute intervals at ~85-90%
      VO2peak, while participants randomized to moderate-intensity continuous exercise will be
      prescribed three session per week of 50-minute continuous exercise at ~55-60% VO2peak.
      Training logs will be provided and participants will be instructed to estimate exercise
      intensity based on physiological cues taught during supervised training days.
    
  