
    
      Although human papillomavirus (HPV) is a necessary cause of cervical cancer, HPV infection
      itself is inefficient and insufficient to cause cancer. New evidences have suggested
      endogenous and exogenous sex hormones confer risk of developing cervical cancer. In
      unscreened populations, incidence of cervical cancer starts after menarche and constantly
      increases before menopause, after then the incidence is flattening and declines [21]. Indeed,
      after menopause, newly incident CIN3 is seldom detected[22]. Large-scale epidemiological
      studies also showed high number of full-term pregnancy[23] (rather than abortion) and
      long-term use of hormonal contraceptives[24] to be independent risk factors of cervical
      cancer. These evidences pointed to female sex hormones to be another culprit of cervical
      cancer.

      The role of estrogen and ERα on HPV-induced cervical carcinogenesis is best demonstrated by
      the pK14-HPV E6/E7transgenic mice which, without estrogen exposure, develop benign skin
      tumors only. However, when these mice are treated with exogenous estradiol at physiological
      level, they develop cervical cancers in nearly 100% efficiency[25-28]. These cervical
      neoplasia recapitulate characteristics of human cervical cancer in all aspects: originated
      from the squamous-columnar junction, with early lesions of atypical squamous metaplasia, CIN
      and to invasive squamous cell carcinoma [29]. Most importantly, removal of exogenous estrogen
      or castration of these mice led to diminish of progression and partial regression of
      pre-existing neoplasia[30].

      The investigators design an open, randomized, multi-center trial of tamoxifen and letrozole
      in treatment of recurrent or persistent squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix. Patients with
      recurrent or persistent SCC of cervix who are not amenable for further cytotoxic treatment
      will be randomized by block and by participating center to one of the two arms. The block
      size will be two . Medication will be given orally in daily dose of tamoxifen (Nolvadex) 20
      mg, letrozole (Femara) 2.5 mg until disease progression or until the end of the study.

      Primary end point of the study is the response rate (complete response and partial response
      rates) for tamoxifen and letrozole arms. Secondary end points include progression-free
      survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) compared to the historical results, ECOG Performance
      Status, quality of life and outcome predictors (biomarkers and clinical characteristics) of
      responsiveness and survival. The experienced survival data of the participating center will
      be compared.
    
  