
    
      Arab women in Israel are at high risk of low health literacy due to lower levels of education
      and low socio-economic status. Health literacy (HL) refers to the skills and competencies
      enabling people to obtain and interpret health information and apply their knowledge to
      inform health-related decision-making. It's also defined as "the degree to which individuals
      have the capacity to obtain, understand, and process basic health information and services
      needed to make appropriate health decisions".

      The objective of the first stage of the study is to explore health literacy needs and
      preferences of Arab women through conducting Focus Group Discussions (FGDs) with women in
      East Jerusalem. Six different focus groups will be conducted at three of the six municipality
      community centers in East Jerusalem. Participants will be recruited through identified
      community centers.

      Each group will meet once for up to two hours. The study will be explained to them by an
      investigator who has been trained in the administration of focus groups, and they will be
      asked to sign a consent form. Discussions will be recorded without the names of the
      participants (they will be instructed not to use their names once the recording begins). At
      the end of the meeting, each participant will receive a bag and pamphlets with information
      regarding women's health.

      The second stage will employ conducting a HL intervention tailored to the participants' needs
      and preferences as presented in the FGDs. Objectives include increasing the percentage of
      women who utilize patient-doctor communication skills and increasing their cardiovascular
      disease (CVD) knowledge.The intervention consists of four sessions that will be conducted in
      municipality-sponsored women's groups in Jerusalem and other Arab communities. Questionnaires
      will be completed before and three months after the intervention. The study answers the
      following: Can HL workshops improve patient-doctor communication skills and CVD knowledge in
      Arab women.
    
  