
    
      Background/Purpose:

      Osteoporosis is under-recognized in older men. At age 50 years, 1 in 5 men can expect to
      suffer a major osteoporotic fracture in their remaining lifetime, comparable to the risk of
      prostate cancer. Men are more than twice as likely as women to experience complications after
      a fracture, and have greater excess mortality after hip fracture. Because risk factors are
      common in Veterans, osteoporosis is particularly prevalent in the Veterans Health
      Administration (VA) system. More than half of male Veterans over age 50 years have osteopenia
      or osteoporosis, a rate nearly double the non-Veteran population.

      Fractures resulting from osteoporosis have negative consequences on functional status,
      mortality, and quality of life, with high rates of pain, depression, and loss of
      independence. After a hip fracture, nearly 75% of patients spend time in a nursing facility,
      and only 20% regain their prior level of ambulation. Many fractures are associated with
      substantial excess mortality; men with a hip fracture have excess annual mortality of 20%
      that persists up to 10 years. Osteoporotic fractures also have an important economic impact.
      It is estimated that hip fractures result in 43 million dollars of excess cost to the VHA
      annually.

      Osteoporosis screening and treatment services within VA are ineffective overall. Overall,
      screening rates were 8% for men over age 65; far lower than expected based on the prevalence
      of osteoporosis risk factors in the population. Moreover, even among men in whom screening
      was completed, it was not associated with lower overall fracture rates because osteoporosis
      treatment and adherence following screening were extremely low.

      Attempts to improve osteoporosis screening using traditional quality improvement programs
      have been minimally effective. Electronic health record (EHR) alerts alone do not improve
      osteoporosis screening rates and do nothing to address adherence. However, one distinct
      osteoporosis screening paradigm has been suggested, and form the scientific premise for the
      models proposed in this application. A fracture Liaison Service (referred to here as "Bone
      Health Service", BHS) represents a centralized model that has been successful in improving
      secondary osteoporosis screening and treatment adherence after a fracture has already
      occurred. In this model, a team of nurses led by a bone specialist identify patients with
      fracture within the entire health system, and arrange for evaluation and treatment. Such
      models have reduced 2-year fracture rates by 56% and are cost saving or highly
      cost-effective.

      Objectives:

      The investigators propose a pragmatic group randomized trial of PACT teams from both Durham
      and Richmond VAMC's. A PACT's will be randomized into 2 groups: a control group (no
      additional support), and a centralized Bone Health Service (BHS) model where teams will
      manage the screening and treatment of high-risk for fracture male Veterans.

      Outcomes for all patients eligible for osteoporosis screening within the randomized PACTs
      will be assessed by investigators masked to group assignment. Outcomes for PACT providers
      will be assessed using qualitative methods (nominal group technique).

      Patient-level outcomes:

        -  Eligible proportion screened

        -  Medication adherence

        -  PACT fracture rates

        -  Harms

        -  Bone mineral density

      Provider and facility level outcomes:

        -  Change in Dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) volume

        -  Bone mineral density (sub-sample of patients)

        -  Change in metabolic bone disease clinic volume

        -  PACT provider time and satisfaction (qualitative analyses)

      Health system and policy level outcomes

        -  Program cost effectiveness

      Methodology:

      The investigators will compare the 1 screening models by enrolling, screening and randomizing
      PACT teams. 39 teams will be randomized, an estimated 24 teams at the Durham VA health care
      system and 15 at the Richmond VA medical center. Teams will be randomized to 1 of 2 arms:
      Bone Health Service or usual care (no additional support). A sub-set of providers will be
      recruited to complete a nominal group qualitative interview during year 3. Also a random
      sub-set of patients (900) will be recruited to complete a DXA scan to measure bone density
      beginning in year 4. Outcomes will be assessed at year 1, 2, 3, and 4.
    
  