
    
      Hereditary hemochromatosis (HH) is the most common hereditary metabolic abnormality among
      Caucasians. Homozygosity for the Cys282Tyr mutation, which is the most common known mutation
      with a predisposition to iron overload, occurs with an estimated frequency of 8 per 1000 in
      the Caucasians. Hemochromatosis in its advanced stages is associated with severe cardiac
      complications including congestive heart failure, premature coronary artery disease, and
      cardiac arrhythmias. The clinical manifestations of HH are due to increased iron absorption
      and abnormal iron cycling with excessive iron deposition in various organs. Mutations of the
      Hfe gene on chromosome 6 have been recently identified. Although the pathophysiology remains
      incompletely understood, a homozygote mutation in Cys282Tyr is present in 84 to 100% of
      clinically confirmed HH cases. This discovery permits the early diagnosis of this disease and
      could be used for screening to identify asymptomatic cases. Therefore, the NHLBI in January
      2000 launched a 30 million dollar project named HEIRS (HEmochromatosis and IRon overload
      Study) to screen 1,000,000 adults for HH, and recently completed enrollment.

      <TAB>

      Increased left ventricular wall thickness and mass has been found to be early cardiac
      manifestations of HH appearing before the onset of contractile dysfunction. Interestingly, a
      report also indicates that functional abnormalities of the heart can be seen in predominantly
      asymptomatic HH patient group. Such abnormalities of diastolic function are detected by
      Doppler echocardiography. Observations support the theory that asymptomatic cardiac
      dysfunction is detectable with non-invasive cardiac imaging in patients with HH. <TAB>

      <TAB>

      Although the pathophysiology of cardiac dysfunction in HH has not been well characterized, it
      is speculated that enhanced production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) may be responsible
      for tissue damage. Therefore, biochemical and/or genetic markers of oxidant stress might be
      helpful in determining whether this mechanism is involved in producing cardiac dysfunction.

      In this protocol, we propose a retrospective pilot study with a small-sized nested
      prospective study of cardiac function in patients with HH. The intention is to utilize
      obtained results to design a larger definitive study if results are warranted. The following
      hypotheses will be tested: Cardiac abnormalities 1) can be diagnosed with conventional
      non-invasive cardiac imaging in HH patients with New York Heart Association Functional Class
      I (asymptomatic), 2) limit patients' exercise capacity, 3) are associated with an elevated
      oxidant stress level, and 4) are improved by phlebotomy and its efficacy correlated with a
      reduction in oxidant stress.
    
  