
    
      In several randomized controlled trials comparing vegan or vegetarian diets to omnivorous
      dietary approaches, significant weight loss has occurred in the absence of significantly
      different changes in reported energy intake between groups. This is different than what is
      seen in studies using traditional weight loss diets (reduced energy omnivorous diets), which
      demonstrate a greater reduction in energy intake corresponding to greater weight loss. In
      observational cohort studies, among Adventist Health Study-2 participants following five
      different diets, BMI was found to be lowest among vegans and highest among omnivores; yet
      energy intake did not significantly differ among the five groups, averaging 2,000 kcals/day,
      with the exception of lower energy intake among semi-vegetarians.

      This difference in body weight without observed differences in energy intake could possibly
      be explained by higher levels of physical activity among vegan and vegetarian participants,
      which have been observed in some of the cohort studies. Physical activity, however, was
      controlled for in the randomized trials either giving participants identical exercise
      recommendations, or holding exercise levels constant across experimental groups.

      This present study will utilize the Bite Counter to estimate the differences between calories
      consumed between a vegan diet and an omnivore diet. The significance of using the Bite
      Counter is that it is a simple way to estimate energy intake. While there are many devices
      that measure energy expenditure (e.g. various exercise scales and equipment), there are few
      devices that account for energy intake. Traditional methods of estimating energy intake tend
      to utilize dietary recalls, but these procedures require much more effort and do not provide
      real time feedback like the Bite Counter does. Therefore, this study will contribute to
      current research by capturing data on dietary differences between vegans and omnivores, as
      well as assessing the usability of this device for dietary self-monitoring. The study will
      also use an objective physical activity and sleep tracker (the MisFit) to examine differences
      in exercise and sleeping between omnivorous and vegan participants.
    
  