
    
      Older people like to continue to think clearly, remember accurately, and make good decisions.
      The loss of the ability to live independently is one of the greatest fears adults express
      when considering old age. As physical fitness declines, the brain also ages. While cognition
      in areas related to wisdom and experience improve in older adults, others like memory,
      attention, and reaction time can decline and affect daily life. As life expectancy increases,
      maintaining cognition is critical to productive and healthy aging. Older adults want to
      continue to negotiate the environment, perform routine tasks (e.g. driving), learn new
      things, and live independently. Cognitive impairment creates significant challenges for
      individuals, their families and friends, and clinicians who provide their health care.
      Furthermore, available research indicates that cognitive impairment is not detected in
      substantial proportions of older people in primary care who have the condition. Early
      detection allows for earlier diagnosis and appropriate intervention, education, psycho-social
      support, and engagement in shared decision-making regarding life planning, financial matters,
      and health care. Based on this, there is a need for scalable, implementable intervention
      programmes which can be introduced in the community.

      Previous studies have corroborated the efficacy of certain aspects of training which can
      promote delay in cognitive decline. Specifically, these encompass nutritional, cognitive and
      physical activity. Individually, these components have been extensively validated and proven
      effective in negating cognitive decline. However, little attempts have been made to evaluate
      the effectiveness and feasibility of combining these components into a multi-modal program.
      The only preceding study to have proven efficacy of multi-modal programs in improving
      cognition was carried out in the FINGER trial. However, to date, no similar studies have been
      carried out locally. Therefore, this study aims to address these questions; by using a mixed
      method approach; combining both qualitative and quantitative methods to assess the
      achievability of such a programme.

      The programme aims to identify individuals at risk of cognitive decline and is offered to
      ensure intervention measures are adopted at early stages. The multi-domain program comprises
      a combination of nutritional guidance, group physical activity and cognitive training
      segments; all of which are individually regarded as proven interventions for cognitive
      impairment. The program will be coordinated between three commercial entities, Holmusk,
      Neeuro and ProAge and is funded by the National Innovation Challenge (NIC), MOH, Singapore.
      As part of the programme, the investigators will be utilizing a locally developed risk score
      created from the Singapore Longitudinal Aging study (SLAS), that can be widely administered
      and is applicable to the local population. Therefore, the study aims to use a mixed methods
      approach to evaluate:

        1. The feasibility and sustainability of implementing the programme, which will be assessed
           based on several considerations such as reach, implementation and maintenance or areas
           of improvement.

        2. The effectiveness of the programme on cognitive decline and improvement in fitness and
           nutrition.
    
  