
    
      The investigator proposed to gargle patients with chlorhexidine acetate before ESD to improve
      the oral microenvironment and reduce the pathogenic bacteria in the oral cavity. The main
      purpose of the study is to evaluate the preventive effect of chlorhexidine acetate gargle on
      the infection of early upper gastrointestinal cancer after endoscopic ESD therapy.

      Patients and Methods:

      Patients:

      Inclusion criteria:

        1. Diagnosis of early gastrointestinal cancer

        2. in line with endoscopic ESD treatment indications

        3. no limitation of age

      Exclusion criteria:

        1. patients do not agree with the mouthwash

        2. The patient requested surgery

      Methods

      Screening and enrollment:

        1. Patients with early-stage upper gastrointestinal cancer diagnosed endoscopically in the
           ivestigator's hospital.

        2. ESD indications evaluation: endoscopic ultrasonography was used to assess the depth of
           lesion infiltration and surrounding lymph nodes. Abdominal or chest CT was used to
           further evaluate local lymph nodes and distant metastases.

        3. Patients with indications for treatment sign informed consent

      Treatment programs:

        1. After the patient signed the informed consent, they will be divided into the
           experimental group and control group according to random envelopes in accordance with
           the sequence of patients were admitted. Patients in the treatment group are given twice
           daily three days before endoscopic treatment.Patients in the controlled group will not
           receive gargle.

        2. Treatment of second-generation cephalosporins or levofloxacin (allergic cephalosporins)
           intravenously half an hour before ESD procedure to prevent infection.

        3. The main steps of ESD include: marking around the lesion, submucosal injection to fully
           lift of the lesion, cutting the mucosa around the circumference, submucosal peeling to
           completely separate the submucosa and the muscularis propria to achieve a complete
           resection of the lesion, and checking the wound surface vessels and lesions.

        4. Monitor blood routine and body temperature changes on the first and third days after
           treatment. If there are signs of infection in the clinic, monitor PCT and add
           appropriate antibiotics.

      Calculation of sample size: According to the postoperative infection rate of 10%, 25%
      improvement is given after the gargle is administered, and the error range is calculated at
      2%. The sample size needs 306 cases.
    
  