
    
      As head and neck cancer differ from other types of cancer due to the complication of facial
      disfigurement which may increase the psychological vulnerability of patients due to the
      society's emphasis on physical attractiveness. Moreover, a number of devastating
      complications of the cancer itself and the side effects of its treatment such as fatigue,
      pain, problem with speech and swallowing, breathing problem, mucositis, xerostomia, and
      trismus which further exerts detrimental effects on many functions and activities of daily
      living which causes further psychological distress and decreasing quality of life. Hence, it
      is of utmost importance to investigate on psychosocial interventions which could enhance PTG,
      hope, optimism and QoL as well as reducing internalized stigma and experiential avoidance of
      head and neck cancer patients which in turn bring about the ultimate outcome of restoring
      mental and physical well-being of the cancer survivors. Acceptance and commitment therapy
      (ACT) and mindfulness-based stress reduction (MBSR) have been reported to enhance positive
      psychology and alleviate psychological distress in cancer patients. But the effect of ACT and
      MBSR on PTG, hope, optimism, QoL, depression, anxiety and experiential avoidance among head
      and neck cancer patients have not been studied. Hence, there is a need to conduct a 3-armed
      randomized control trial to evaluate the effects of ACT and MBSR on PTG, hope, optimism, QoL,
      internalized stigma and experiential avoidance compared with control group with no
      intervention across time.

      Below are the objectives of this study:

      General objective:

      To examine the effects of acceptance and commitment therapy (ACT) and mindfulness-based
      stress reduction (MBSR) on posttraumatic growth (PTG), hope, optimism, quality of life,
      depression, anxiety, and experiential avoidance among head and neck cancer patients.

      Specific objectives:

        1. To examine the changes in the degree of posttraumatic growth (PTG), hope, optimism,
           quality of life, depression, anxiety, and experiential avoidance of head and neck cancer
           patients in the acceptance and commitment therapy (ACT) group compared with those in the
           control group at post-intervention, 6 months and 12 months after intervention compared
           with pre-intervention.

        2. To examine the changes in the degree of posttraumatic growth (PTG), hope, optimism,
           quality of life, depression, anxiety, and experiential avoidance of head and neck cancer
           patients in the mindfulness-based stress reduction (MBSR) group compared with those in
           the control group at post-intervention, 6 months and 12 months after intervention
           compared with pre-intervention.

        3. To determine whether there are any difference in the changes in the degree of
           posttraumatic growth (PTG), hope, optimism, quality of life, depression, anxiety, and
           experiential avoidance between those in the acceptance and commitment therapy (ACT)
           group and mindfulness-based stress reduction (MBSR) group at post-intervention, 6 months
           and 12 months after intervention.

      Study Setting:

      The study will be conducted the Oncology and Otorhinolaryngology unit of Advanced Medical and
      Dental Institute, Universiti Sains Malaysia and Oncology and Otorhinolaryngology unit of
      Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia Medical Centre. The Oncological and Otorhinolaryngology units
      of AMDI, USM have about 200-250 registered head and neck cancer patients currently under
      follow up. These units receive new cases of head and neck cancer every week. While the
      Department of Otorhinolaryngology and Department of Oncology of UKMMC have an estimated
      350-400 registered head and neck cancer patients while the Department of Oral and
      Maxillofacial Surgery of UKMMC has an estimated 100-150 registered oral cancer patients under
      follow up (oral cancer is grouped under head and neck cancer).

      Study design:

      This is a multicentre 3-armed longitudinal double blind randomized control trial which is
      expected to run for a duration of 3 years (from July 2021 to June 2024).

      Sample size:

      The sample size is determined based on G-Power 3.1.9.2 for repeated measures, between-within
      interaction ANOVA. Based on the previous study, the sample size was calculated based on the
      continuous response, Post-traumatic growth inventory from the study conducted by Labelle et
      al. (2014), with medium effect size (0.23), an alpha of 0.05, two-tailed. The results
      indicated that the total sample of 63 for three equal-sized groups is needed to achieve a
      power of 0.95. In anticipation of a drop-out rate of 30%, the estimation for sample size is
      90 respondents for total respondents and 30 respondents for each group.

      Sampling method:

      Sampling method use in this study is by consecutive sampling.

      Recruitment of subjects:

      The participants were recruited from the source population which included all newly diagnosed
      head and neck cancer patients who has been treated only with surgery or still remain
      untreated registered under the Oncology and Otorhinolaryngology unit of Advanced Medical and
      Dental Institute, Universiti Sains Malaysia and Oncology and Otorhinolaryngology unit of
      Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia Medical Centre. These patients will be approached by the
      research team and explained on the study objectives and procedures.

      Randomization:

      Participants will be randomized into three groups, such as acceptance and commitment therapy
      (ACT) group, mindfulness-based stress reduction (MBSR) group and control group on waiting
      list. The participants will be randomized into one of the three groups in a 1:1:1 allocation
      ratio by block randomization. The allocation sequence is concealed in opaque, sequential
      numbered envelope.

      Data collection:

      Data collection is carried out by a research assistant who is not involved in conduct of the
      study and data analysis. In the pre-intervention phase (T1), the participants in all three
      groups are administered the following questionnaires:

      (i) Socio-demographic and clinical questionnaire which includes age, gender, marital status,
      employment, education, monthly income, religion, stage of cancer and type of head and neck
      cancer.

      (ii) The Posttraumatic Growth Inventory-Short Form (PTGI-SF) to assess the degree of PTG of
      the participants (iii) The Dispositional Hope Scale to assess the degree of hope of the
      participants (iv) The Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) to assess the severity of
      depressive and anxiety symptoms (v) The Life Orientation Test-Revised (LOT-R) to assess the
      degree of optimism (vi) The Acceptance and Action Questionnaire (AAQ-II) to assess the degree
      of experiential avoidance (vii) The Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Head & Neck
      (FACT-H & N) to assess the degree of quality of life

      Then the assessments with the following questionnaires are repeated immediately
      post-intervention (T2) and 6 months after intervention (T3) among participants in all the
      three groups:

      (i) The Posttraumatic Growth Inventory-Short Form (PTGI-SF) to assess the degree of PTG of
      the participants (ii) The Dispositional Hope Scale to assess the degree of hope of the
      participants (iii) The Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) to assess the severity of
      depressive and anxiety symptoms (iv) The Life Orientation Test-Revised (LOT-R) to assess the
      degree of optimism (v) The Acceptance and Action Questionnaire (AAQ-II) to assess the degree
      of experiential avoidance (vi) The Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Head & Neck
      (FACT-H & N) to assess the degree of quality of life

      Blinding:

      The participants will be blinded for the study as randomization into designated groups are
      conducted by a research assistant not involved in the study and the allocation is concealed
      in opaque, sequential numbered envelope. Therefore, the participants will not know which
      group they are allocated to. Although participants in the ACT and MBSR groups undergo
      psychosocial intervention earlier, the participants in the control group (who are assigned in
      the waitlist) will also undergo ACT once they have completed assessments at three-time frames
      (T1, T2, and T3). All the participants will also be blinded regarding the hypotheses of the
      study.

      The researchers will be blinded for the study as randomization of participants into
      designated groups are conducted by a research assistant not involved in the conducting the
      study and data analysis. Data collection will also be caried out by the research assistant
      who is not involved in conducting the study and data analysis and blinded regarding the
      hypotheses of the study. Moreover, the data analysis will be performed out by statisticians
      who are not involved in conducting the study and blinded regarding the hypotheses of the
      study.

      Interventions:

      Both ACT and MBSR intervention will be conducted in a group of 10 for each session. The ACT
      and MBSR modules covered over 8 sessions, 1 hour in each session. The sessions will be held
      every week according to the patient's appointment date for chemotherapy treatment.

      Therapists:

      The trainee therapists are two post-graduate students who enrolled in their Doctor of
      Philosophy (Ph.D.) in psychology. They received training approximately 16 hours of ACT
      intervention and 16 hours of MBSR intervention. In ACT intervention training, trainee
      therapists will learn about general core concepts of ACT, principals, model, framework, and
      philosophy. Besides, they also will learn how to apply ACT therapy including engagement with
      each element in hexaflex, integrating exercises, metaphors, techniques, and mindfulness in
      ACT sessions and clinical practices. In the MBSR training, the trainee therapists will learn
      the basic overview and concepts of MBSR including mindfulness, body scan and yoga. Besides,
      they also will experiential learning about formal and informal practices, recording and home
      practices.

      Data analysis:

      Data analysis will be performed using SPSS version 26 software. Descriptive statistics will
      be used to analyze demographic data while inference analyses will be used to evaluate the
      significant difference between intervention and waitlist groups. In order to identify the
      efficacy of acceptance and commitment therapy (ACT) and mindfulness-based stress reduction
      (MBSR) on the measured variables, several tests will be carried out. The comparison of mean
      differences pre-intervention (T1), post-treatment (T2) and 6 months after intervention (T3)
      will be examined to determine whether any changes in the measured variables (PTG, hope,
      optimism, QoL, depression, anxiety, and experiential avoidance) in the ACT, MBSR and control
      groups across the three timelines by using repeated measure ANOVA. Then, the mean differences
      of measured variables (PTG, hope, optimism, QoL, depression, anxiety, and experiential
      avoidance) between ACT, MBSR and control groups at each timeline will be determined by using
      the one-way ANOVA. The effect sizes will be calculated to determine how substantially
      patients' perception towards measured variables changed with and without ACT and MBSR
      interventions. Statistical significance is set at p < 0.05 and two-tailed.
    
  