
    
      1. TELEPHONE SCREEN:

           Initial contact will be by a phone call (or, rarely, a drop-in visit) initiated by a
           potential study participant. A member of the research staff will advise the potential
           participant of the study rationale, protocol, risks, benefits, and visit schedule. We
           request a waiver of the requirement to obtain signed informed consent for the screening
           process, which will usually take place over the phone. We believe we meet the criteria
           for the use of this waiver because the screening procedure presents no more than minimal
           risk of harm to the subjects and involves no procedures for which written consent is
           normally required outside of the research context. The information obtained during the
           screening phone call is the same type of information that would be collected on patients
           setting up an appointment for an abortion. The telephone script and screen are included
           in Attachment 2. If the subject does not meet inclusion criteria, the information
           collected during the screening process will be destroyed. Potential subjects interested
           in participation will be scheduled for a screening visit.

           Each subject will undergo a minimum of 3 visits all of which will be performed in the
           Family Planning Research Office at Magee-Womens Hospital. She will also receive a
           minimum of 3 follow-up telephone calls. Those subjects who do not pass the pregnancy by
           the first follow-up visit will be scheduled for return visits as indicated on the Study
           Flow Sheet (see attachment) and described below.

        2. SCREENING AND ENROLLMENT: Visit length 1 ½ hours.

             1. After obtaining consent for a screening ultrasound evaluation, a transvaginal and a
                transabdominal ultrasound examination will be performed to ascertain gestational
                age. The transvaginal ultrasound results will be used to confirm gestational age
                and document an intrauterine gestation for the study protocol. Vaginal ultrasound
                to confirm estimated gestational age (EGA) will use the following criteria:

                  -  EGA (days) = mean sac diameter + 3025

                  -  EGA (days) = embryonic pole + 4226

                  -  Mean sac diameter ([length + width + depth]/3) should be used only when no
                     embryonic pole is present.

                  -  If the ultrasound EGA is different from LMP EGA by 4 days or more, then the
                     ultrasound EGA should be used as the study EGA.

             2. Written informed consent will be obtained at the screening visit prior to any
                research activities. The investigator or one of the co-investigators, who are
                physicians, will sign the informed consent document.

             3. After obtaining informed consent, a medical history and initial laboratory tests
                (hemoglobin and blood type) will be obtained. If the pelvic examination is normal,
                the endovaginal ultrasound confirms that the gestational age will be less than 63
                days on the day of the mifepristone administration, and the laboratory tests
                satisfy the entry criteria, the subject will be asked to participate in the study.

             4. A HIPAA compliant "Release of Medical Records" form will be signed to allow future
                access to medical records related to any care provided during the study by another
                health care provider.

        3. VISIT 1: The subject will return prior to reaching 64 days gestation. This day will be
           considered Study Day 1. Visit length 30 minutes.

             1. The research staff will administer a pre-study questionnaire. The subject will
                complete a Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) assessment.

             2. Eligibility criteria will be reviewed and, if indicated by a history of bleeding
                since screening, a vaginal ultrasound will be performed.

             3. A licensed clinician will distribute the medications after completion of the
                questionnaire. The medications will be kept in a locked file in the research office
                and a log will be generated to track medication usage, lot numbers, and expiration
                dates. All subjects will take the mifepristone and misoprostol in front of the
                research clinician.

                  -  She will receive mifepristone 200 mg orally and swallow the tablet in front of
                     one of the researchers. THE SUBJECT CANNOT RECEIVE THE MIFEPRISTONE UNTIL A
                     MINIMUM OF 24 HOURS AFTER COMPLETION OF THE INFORMED CONSENT.

                  -  Within 5 minutes of mifepristone administration, the subject will be given
                     four 200 µg tablets of misoprostol to place between the cheek and gum (2 on
                     each side) and to allow them to remain in that location for 30 minutes. After
                     this time lapse, any remaining tablets will be swallowed. The subject will not
                     need to wait in the office during the 30 minutes.

             4. The subject will receive a prescription for codeine (30 mg) or hydrocodone (5 mg),
                #20 and an instruction sheet with the phone numbers to call if she has any
                questions or problems.

             5. Rh-immune globulin will be administered if she is Rh-negative.

             6. The subject will be scheduled for follow-up 24 ± 1 hours after administration of
                the misoprostol.

        4. VISIT 2: 24 ± 1 hours after misoprostol administration. Visit length 1 hour.

             1. Endovaginal and abdominal ultrasound examinations will be performed.

                  -  If the vaginal ultrasound examination demonstrates a gestational sac, the
                     subject will receive a "rescue" dose of vaginal misoprostol (four 200 µg
                     tablets of misoprostol), which will be placed by the clinician. A follow-up
                     appointment will be scheduled for study Day 15 (range Day 13-17)

                  -  If the vaginal ultrasound does not demonstrate a sac the abortion will be
                     considered complete and telephone follow-up contacts will be the only
                     scheduled evaluations from this point forward.

             2. All subjects will complete a post-study VAS, which will take about 5 minutes to
                complete.

        5. TELEPHONE FOLLOW-UP #1: Study Day 8 (range Day 6-10). Call length 10 minutes. Subjects
           will be contacted to assess their clinical status including bleeding, cramping, and
           medication requirements. If necessary, based on the subject's responses, appointments
           for evaluation by a clinician will be made at that time.

        6. VISIT 3/TELEPHONE FOLLOW-UP #2: Study Day 15 (range Day 13-17). Visit length (if
           required) 1 hour, call length 10 minutes)

             1. Subjects who had expelled the gestational sac as based on prior ultrasound
                examination will receive telephone follow-up to assess their clinical status.
                Appointments for evaluation by a clinician will be made as necessary. A post-study
                acceptability questionnaire will be performed with these subjects over the
                telephone, which will take about 5 minutes to complete.

             2. Subjects who had not expelled the gestational sac on prior examination will return
                to the office for this visit. Endovaginal and abdominal ultrasounds will be
                performed.

                  -  If the vaginal ultrasound shows an intrauterine gestation with embryonic
                     cardiac activity, the subject will be offered and advised to have a surgical
                     abortion to be done as soon as possible. After the D&C, the subject will
                     complete a 5-minute post-study acceptability questionnaire. She will also have
                     a telephone follow-up on Study Day 36.

                  -  If the vaginal ultrasound shows the gestational sac to be present without
                     embryonic cardiac activity, the subject may have a D&C and complete the
                     acceptability questionnaire or can pursue expectant management and return on
                     Study Day 36 (range Day 32-40).

                  -  If the vaginal ultrasound demonstrates absence of the gestational sac, she
                     will complete a post-study acceptability questionnaire at the end of her visit
                     which will take about 5 minutes to complete and all further follow up will be
                     performed by telephone.

        7. VISIT 4/TELEPHONE FOLLOW_UP #3: Study Day 36 (range Day 32-40). Visit length (if
           required) 30 minutes-1 hour, call length 10 minutes.

             1. Subjects who had expelled the gestational sac as based on prior ultrasound
                examination or who had a D&C will receive telephone follow-up to assess their
                clinical status. Appointments to be evaluated by a clinical will be made as
                necessary.

             2. If the subject must return for this visit, endovaginal and abdominal ultrasound
                examinations will be performed. If the vaginal ultrasound shows the gestational sac
                to still be present, the patient will be offered a surgical abortion.

             3. At the completion of the surgical abortion or if the ultrasound demonstrates
                absence of a sac, a 5-minute post-study acceptability questionnaire will be
                performed.

        8. OTHER

             1. The subject will be questioned at each visit regarding side effects experienced
                from the medications, bleeding and cramping, pain medication required, and other
                medications used since the last visit.

             2. If the subject does not return for a scheduled visit, she should be telephoned to
                reschedule the visit. If the patient is unable to return for her follow-up, the
                required information regarding bleeding history, medications, medication side
                effects, and questionnaire answers can be obtained over the phone. If the subject
                is unable to be reached by phone within two weeks of her scheduled visit, a
                certified letter must be sent indicating her need to return. Subjects will be
                considered lost to follow-up only if the final visit is not completed by the time
                the study is closed.

             3. If the subject fails to return for her Visit 2, but returns at some later time
                during her study participation period and is found to have a retained gestational
                sac or continuing pregnancy on ultrasound, she may receive an additional vaginal
                dose of misoprostol (4 tablets; up to Study Day 12) or be offered a D&C (at any
                time).

             4. The subject will be counseled not have intercourse or drink alcohol until the
                completion of the abortion is confirmed.

             5. Contraceptive counseling will be performed throughout the study. A method of
                contraception should be instituted after the abortion has occurred and before the
                subject resumes sexual activity.

             6. Endovaginal ultrasound may be performed at any time other than what is required by
                the protocol if felt to be necessary by the clinician.

             7. Standard suction curettage will be performed for continuing pregnancy at visit 3 or
                persistent sac at visit 4, uterine hemorrhage, or incomplete abortion.
    
  