
    
      Focus Group:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will take part in a focus group or individual
      interview. A focus group is a group of people who are asked questions about certain topics
      and then discuss these topics with other group members. During the focus group, you will talk
      about ways that African American women may increase their physical activity. You will also be
      asked questions about the ways in which you support other women to help them become more
      physically active. There will be 4 focus groups, each made up of 8-10 women. The focus group
      session should take 1 1/2 to 2 hours.

      The focus group will be audiotaped and transcribed (the spoken words will be typed up). Your
      individual name will not be used during the focus group and will not be recorded. For
      example, you will be listed as Participant #1. After the focus group comments are copied
      down, the focus group tapes will be destroyed. The study staff may also interview you alone.
      During the individual interview, you will talk about ways that African American women may
      increase their physical activity. You will also be asked questions about the ways in which
      you support other women to help them become more physically active. The staff will interview
      10 women. The individual interview should take 1 1/2 to 2 hours.

      The individual interview will be audiotaped and transcribed. Your individual name will not be
      used during the interview and will not be recorded. For example, you will be listed as
      Participant #1. After the interview comments are copied down, the interview tapes will be
      destroyed.

      Length of Study:

      You will be on study until you complete the focus group session.

      This is an investigational study. Up to 40 women will take part in the focus groups. All will
      be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.

      Intervention:

      You will need a partner (a female friend or family member) to take part in this study. Both
      you and your study partner will need to meet the same eligibility requirements, and both of
      you will be enrolled as participants. If you choose a partner that is not eligible, you will
      will need to choose another eligible partner before you can be enrolled in the study.

      Screening:

      Before you can take part in this study, you will be asked if you are between the ages of 18
      and 65 years old, if you are currently not engaging in physical activity for more than 3 days
      per week and more than 20 minutes each day, and if you are ready to be physically active. You
      will be asked if you have a home address where information can be mailed, are able to read at
      a 6th grade level, and are able to participate in a training course that will take place on a
      weekend.

      You will also be asked if you are pregnant or plan to become pregnant during the next 12
      weeks. You will also be asked if you plan to move outside of the Houston area in the next 12
      weeks. If you are pregnant, plan to become pregnant, and/or plan to move, you will not be
      able to take part in this study.

      Baseline Tests:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will complete the following
      tests and procedures:

        -  You will be asked how you are feeling and how often you exercise.

        -  Your height and weight will be measured.

        -  You will fill out a questionnaire about issues related to your physical activity. It
           will take 45-60 minutes to complete.

        -  You will take a walking test, in which you will walk for 6 minutes at a comfortable
           pace.

        -  You will receive a pedometer (a monitor that shows how far you walk).

        -  You may receive an accelerometer and complete a 7-day accelerometer assessment. An
           accelerometer is a small device that is worn on your hip that measures the amount of
           physical activity you do.

      Study Groups:

      You will be randomly assigned (as in the flip of a coin) to 1 of 2 groups. You will have an
      equal chance of being assigned to either group.

      Group 1:

      If you are in Group 1, you will take part in an 8-hour training course conducted as 2
      in-person 4-hour sessions (for example, scheduled on 2 Saturdays in a row) to help you learn
      how to support the exercise habits of your study partner. At this course, a trainer will give
      you information and you will take part in activities with your study partner. Sample
      activities include role playing and watching a video. This will take place on a weekend. The
      goal of the training course is to help you and your partner engage in physical activity. You
      will be asked to be physically active for 30 minutes each day.

      You will receive a workbook and a DVD about physical activity. You will also be given a form
      to complete each time you speak with your study partner about physical activity. You will be
      asked to speak with your partner at least 1 time a week about your physical activities.

      Each week during Weeks 1-4, 8, and 12 you will be asked to answer questions on the form given
      to you at the training course about the conversations you have with your study partner, and
      to complete recorded conversations via toll-free number. All telephone diaries must be
      completed and returned to research staff members by week 12 of the study.

      At Weeks 4 and 8, you will be called and asked several questions about your mood and your
      physical activity. The phone call should take about 45 minutes.

      At Weeks 5 and 9, you will be mailed a physical activity newsletter.

      Group 2:

      If you are in Group 2, at Weeks 4 and 8, you will be called and asked several questions about
      your mood and your physical activity. The phone call should take about 45 minutes.

      At Weeks 5 and 9, you will receive a physical activity newsletter.

      End-of-Study Visit:

      At Week 12 of the study, you will complete the following tests and procedures:

        -  You will be asked several questions about your mood and your physical activity.

        -  Your height and weight will be measured.

        -  You will take a walking test, in which you will walk for 6 minutes at a comfortable
           pace.

        -  You may receive an accelerometer and complete a 7-day accelerometer assessment. An
           accelerometer is a small device that is worn on your hip that measures the amount of
           physical activity you do.

      Length of Study You will be on study for 12 weeks.

      This is an investigational study. Up to 80 women will take part in this study. All will be
      enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  