
    
      Entamoeba histolytica infection results from ingestion of the cyst of Entamoeba histolytica
      from fecally-contaminated food or water. Local invasion results in amebic dysentery and
      metastasis to amebic liver abscess. The diagnosis of intestinal amebiasis is ideally made
      using an E. histolytica-specific stool antigen detection test or using real-time polymerase
      chain reaction (PCR). The two major clinical syndromes of amebiasis are amebic colitis and
      amebic liver abscess. Together they are estimated to result in 50 million cases of colitis
      and liver abscess and 100,000 deaths worldwide each year. In developing countries,
      colonization with E. histolytica has been observed in 5% or more of poor children. Patients
      with amebic colitis typically present with a several week history of gradual onset of
      abdominal pain and tenderness, diarrhea and bloody stools (dysentery). The pathological
      lesions in the colon include ulceration of the intestinal epithelium and invasion into the
      lamina propria by trophozoites. Inflammation, with infiltrating neutrophils and mononuclear
      lymphocytes is pronounced, but inflammatory cells near the amebae are killed with pyknotic
      nuclei characteristic of apoptotic death. Amebic liver abscess is a rare form of the disease
      that is almost exclusively limited to adult males.

      Cryptosporidiosis in humans is caused primarily by two species, Cryptosporidium parvum and C.
      hominis. There are annually approximately 1.4 cases/100,000 in the United States reported to
      the Centers for Disease Control. Infection results from ingestion of fecally contaminated
      water or food containing the infectious oocyst form. Sporozoites are released from the oocyst
      in the small intestine and attach to the epithelial cell surface. Upon invasion of the
      epithelial cells the parasite undergoes both the sexual and asexual stages of the life cycle.
      Infection with C. parvum in a normal host leads to days to several weeks of non-bloody
      diarrhea.

      In many people E. histolytica and Cryptosporidia infections resolve without symptoms. A major
      emphasis of this study will be to study the host, environment, and parasite factors
      controlling susceptibility to E. histolytica and Cryptosporidia infection and disease, to
      begin to answer the question of why all infections do not cause disease. At the same time,
      want to improve diagnostic techniques for these diseases.

      This study will continue a cohort of 420 children (average age now 10.5 years) that the
      research team has been following since birth and measure the incidence of amebiasis and
      cryptosporidiosis prospectively. In addition, 500 live births will be enrolled into an
      existing cohort.

      This work has several objectives. The first objective is to compare current "gold-standard"
      diagnostic techniques for these diseases with newer antigen detection and polymerase chain
      reaction techniques. The second objective is to delineate the protective role of innate and
      acquired immunity to E. histolytica. The investigators hypothesize that protective immunity
      is mediated both by innate immune responses initiated via Toll-like Receptor stimulation and
      acquired responses including mucosal immunoglobulin A (IgA) and systemic Interferon-γ.
      Acquired immune responses (peripheral blood mononuclear cell cytokine production and fecal
      IgA anti-cross reacting determinant) during amebic and cryptosporidial infection and disease
      will be determined in the children in the cohort. The third objective is to test for the
      association of genetic polymorphisms in innate and acquired immune genes with incidence of
      amebiasis. The investigators hypothesize that common genetic polymorphisms in genes of the
      innate and acquired immune system influence susceptibility to E. histolytica and
      Cryptosporidia infection or disease. The final objective is to test the role of human genetic
      polymorphisms and microbiome in protection from undernutrition. Genome wide scans and
      microbiome compositional analyses will be performed on children to determine if the
      nutritional status of the child correlates with these measurements.
    
  