
    
      For patients with aortic valve disease requiring surgical treatment several options are
      available. In some instances the valve can be repaired, however replacement of the valve is
      usually necessary. The choice for a particular aortic valve replacement procedure is
      influenced by several inter-related factors (e.g. prosthesis, procedure itself, patient age,
      concomitant disease, atrial fibrillation, center's experience, and preference of the
      referring cardiologist, the attending surgeon and the patient). Often, more than one type of
      prosthesis seems suitable for the individual patient, whereby the decision for a particular
      prosthesis is made rather arbitrarily.

      With the current knowledge on outcome of patients after aortic valve replacement with
      different types of prosthesis (pulmonary autograft according to Ross, bioprosthesis,
      mechanical heart valve), no specific recommendation can be given. This is especially true for
      the autograft, since no long-term outcome is yet available from clinical practice.

      In 2001 the German Ross Registry was established by our working group. Although the Ross
      procedure was expected to be a lifelong solution for aortic valve disease, it seemed
      appropriate to make a collaborative effort to establish a multicenter long term follow-up
      study to examine longitudinal clinical outcomes associated with the procedure, as well as,
      attempt to resolve and identify the many technical considerations necessary for successful
      execution of the procedure. With these issues in mind, we have already included about 1400
      Ross operated patients from nine participating centers into the registry with up to fourteen
      years follow-up. The first release of an annual report was presented in February 2004. The
      main limitation of this Registry is the limited maximal time span of follow-up keeping in
      mind that the next years of the follow-up are most important for evaluating the Ross
      procedure because possible degeneration of the aortic valve substitute may occur.

      Therefore long-term observation is required.
    
  