
    
      Cataract is a clouding of the crystalline lens which causes vision loss and blindness if
      untreated. Cataract surgery is the most frequently performed surgical intervention in
      medicine with an incidence of 880 surgeries per 100.000 population in 2010 amounting to a
      total number of over 160.000 surgeries per year in the Netherlands.1,3 The number of
      individuals with cataracts is predicted to reach 30 million by the year 2020.2 Due to aging
      of the general population this number of cataracts will only grow in the future.

      For the last decade conventional phacoemulsification cataract surgery (CPCS) is the dominant
      form of cataract surgery in developed countries, accounting for over 90 percent of these
      procedures.4 The basic phacoemulsification procedure has remained largely unchanged over the
      past 20 years, including a series of steps: creating corneal incision, capsulorhexis and
      lensfragmentation.4 Although highly successful, each of the steps mentioned above are created
      manually which affects the safety and effectiveness of the procedure.

      Since the first human eye was treated by femtosecond laser cataract surgery in 2008, the
      femtosecond-laser assisted cataract surgery (FLACS) became an innovative growing new
      technology in the world of cataract surgery.4-7 Femtosecond-lasers are capable of performing
      some of the most delicate and essential key steps during cataract surgery: capsulotomy, lens
      fragmentation, and corneal incisions. 'Automating' these steps and performing them with
      increased precision could lead to an improved quality of capsulotomy, easier lens
      fragmentation, and more precisely positioned corneal incisions, which in turn, lead to
      improved visual and refractive outcomes, a decrease in intra- and postoperative complication
      rates, and increased quality of life.

      In order to remove the crystallized human lens, a circular opening in the capsular lens bag,
      capsulotomy, needs to be created. After removing the lens an intraocular lens (IOL) can be
      inserted in the empty capsule bag. However, one of the factors affecting postoperative
      achieved visual acuity and refraction, is the behaviour of this IOL in the capsular bag.
      Preoperative measurements need to be obtained in order to calculate the required IOL. One of
      the challenges of these IOL calculations is determining exactly where in the eye the IOL will
      end up, the effective lens position (ELP). The position of the IOL is crucial for the IOL's
      general performance because it influences the postoperative IOL tilt, decentration, and
      posterior capsule opacification (PCO). Considering the anatomical variety between patients,
      the predictability of an individual's ELP remains an educated guess.

      The ELP, and therefore the amount of IOL tilt, decentration and PCO, of an IOL is mainly
      influenced by the interaction between the IOL and the lens capsule, especially during the
      time of capsule shrinkage. Theoretically, the positive optical effect of an IOL is lost when
      there is more than 7 degrees of tilt or more than 0.4 mm of decentration.8 Furthermore,
      studies have shown the effect of axial displacement of an IOL on refractive error. There is
      approximately 1.25 D change per millimetre of the IOL's longitudinal displacement.9 This
      reflects the importance of a stable and predictable ELP.

      As mentioned above, the anatomy of an individual's eye is unique and therefore, each ELP will
      be different when placing the IOL in the capsular bag. Therefore, a new lens type has been
      developed: the FEMTIS® FB-313 laser lens (FEMTIS-IOL, Oculentis). This IOL has a special
      haptic system and is designed to be clasped in the capsular bag opening and therefore, the
      ELP of this IOL is theoretically more stable and predictable, resulting in a higher
      predictability of refractive and visual outcomes. However, in order to provide as much
      stability as possible a (nearly) perfect capsulotomy is needed. Several comparative studies
      have shown that femtosecond-lasers produce a more precise, circular, reproducible, and better
      centered capsulotomy compared to conventional manual capsulorhexis.6-7 The combination
      between the femtosecond-assisted capsulotomy and the implantation of a FEMTIS-IOL in the
      capsular opening, could definitely contribute to the search of perfection in cataract
      surgery.

      In this study the investigators will investigate the stability of lens position and the
      visual outcome after implantation of the new FEMTIS-IOL using FLACS capsulotomy compared to
      conventional placement of the IOL in the capsular bag. So far, there are no published studies
      using the FEMTIS-IOL. Therefore, the investigators will perform this randomized control
      trial.
    
  