
    
      Nephrolithiasis is a major worldwide source of morbidity, constituting a common urological
      disease affecting 10-15% of the world population. Consistent technical advancements provide
      surgeons and patients with several options for the treatment of renal calculi, including
      extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL), percutaneous nephrolithotomy (PCNL), retrograde
      intrarenal surgery (RIRS), and conventional open surgery.

      Percutaneous nephrolithotomy (PCNL) is generally considered a gold standard in renal stones
      particularly larger than 2cm or lower calyceal larger than 1cm offering high stone-free rates
      after the first treatment as compared to the other minimal invasive lithotripsy techniques.

      Percutaneous nephrolithotripsy (PCNL)is a procedure to remove kidney stones from the kidney
      through a small incision in the skin and it was initially described in the literature by
      Fernström and Johansson in 1976. Traditionally, the prone position was considered the only
      position to obtain renal access for PCNL. In 1987, Valdivia Urìa presented the supine PCNL.

      PCNL is also recommended in the case of smaller stones in patients with contraindications for
      shockwave lithotripsy (SWL), such as shockwave resistant stones and anatomical malformations,
      or when a patient elects PCNL as a procedure of higher efficacy. However, serious
      complications although rare should be expected following this percutaneous procedure as,
      Perioperative bleeding, urine leakage from nephrocutaneous tract, pelvicalyceal system
      injury, pain.( Kyriazis et al 2015) colon injury, hydrothorax, pneumothorax, prolonged leak,
      sepsis, ureteral stone, vascular injury and acute loss of kidney, all are individually
      confronted complications after PCNL.

      PCNL techniques include: standard PCNL (S-PCNL), mini-PCNL (also called miniperc),
      ultra-mini-PCNL (UM-PCNL) and the recently introduced micro-PCNL. One of the most important
      differences between the various PCNL techniques is the size of renal access, which
      contributes to the broad spectrum of complications and outcomes.
    
  