
    
      The purpose of the study is to examine whether high dose N-acetylcysteine (NAC) blocks the
      adverse effects of increased kynurenic acid (KYNA) on selected measures of brain chemistry,
      function and behavior, through the inhibition of kynurenine aminotransferase (KAT) II, which
      converts kynurenine to KYNA. The study will be a double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized
      cross-over challenge study, in which people with schizophrenia are pretreated with either
      high-dose NAC, 140 mg/kg up to a maximum of 15 g, or placebo, then receive tryptophan (TRYP),
      6 gms. The tryptophan challenge method robustly increases peripheral measures of kynurenine
      and KYNA in humans and putatively increases brain KYNA levels, through the CNS conversion of
      kynurenine to KYNA; a process that is observed in both rodents and nonhuman primates. The
      investigators will evaluate the ability of NAC to inhibit the conversion of kynurenine to
      KYNA with the following primary outcome measures: 1) the investigators will measure serum
      kynurenine and KYNA before and after NAC/placebo pre-treatment and TRYP administration and
      examine whether NAC compared to placebo blocks the peripheral conversion of kynurenine to
      KYNA; 2) the investigators will use the arterial spin labeling (ASL) technique to measure
      whole brain and frontal gray matter cerebral blood flow (CBF) before and after NAC/placebo
      pre-treatment and TRYP administration and examine whether NAC compared to placebo attenuates
      the effects of TRYP on ASL CBF measures; 3) the investigators will use magnetic resonance
      spectroscopy (MRS) to measure glutamate and glutathione levels in the medial prefrontal
      cortex (mPFC) before and after NAC/placebo pre-treatment and TRYP administration and examine
      whether NAC compared to placebo increases MRS glutathione and glutamate measures; and 4) the
      investigators will use diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) to measure white matter fractional
      anisotropy (FA) before and after NAC/placebo pre-treatment and TRYP administration and
      examine whether NAC compared to placebo increases white matter FA.

      The investigators will have two secondary endpoints. First, if the investigators observe that
      NAC attenuates the effects of TRYP on ASL and/or increases mPFC glutamate levels or white
      matter DTI FA, then the investigators will examine whether these effects are related to
      changes in cognitive measures of attention, verbal and visual memory, and working memory.
      Second, the investigators will use measures of serum KYNA and peripheral blood mononuclear
      cell (PBMC) kynurenine 3-monooxygenase (KMO) activity levels to examine whether the level of
      these measures is related to the observed effects of NAC on our neuroimaging and cognitive
      outcome measures.

      The investigators hypothesize that NAC will inhibit KAT II, which will be reflected in the:
      1) decreased peripheral conversion of kynurenine to KYNA; and 2) increased CBF, glutamate,
      and white matter fractional anisotropy (FA). In addition, the investigators hypothesize that
      the NAC effects on the neuroimaging measures will be related to improved performance on
      cognitive measures of attention, verbal and visual memory and working memory. These observed
      effects of NAC will be greater than those seen with placebo. The investigators further
      hypothesize that the NAC effects on ASL CBF, glutamate, and FA measures will be independent
      of NAC-induced changes in MRS glutathione, i.e., not due to the NAC oxidative stress
      mechanism, but, rather, will be correlated with NAC-induced reductions in the peripheral
      conversion of kynurenine to KYNA. Finally, the investigators hypothesize that the observed
      effects of NAC on CBF, glutamate, and FA will be related to baseline serum KMO activity and
      KYNA levels. The demonstration that NAC reverses the adverse impact of increased KYNA levels
      will importantly support the development of KAT II inhibitors for the enhancement of
      cognition in schizophrenia.
    
  