
    
      Cystic fibrosis related diabetes (CFRD) is the most common secondary complication of Cystic
      fibrosis. It affects nearly 20% of adolescents and 40-50% of adults. Undiagnosed CFRD is
      associated with significant decline in lung function and nutritional status with an increase
      in mortality. This emphasises the importance of screening for CFRD in children with CF to
      minimise the nutritional and pulmonary consequences of diabetes.

      The UK CF trust guidelines, the European consensus statement and US Cystic Fibrosis
      Foundation clinical care guidelines recommend the 2hr (1.75g/kg) oral glucose tolerance test
      as a screening tool on an annual basis in all CF patients without CFRD.

      The American Diabetes Association (A.D.A) recommends that annual screening for CFRD should
      begin by age 10 years in all CF patients who do not have CFRD. The European Consensus
      Statement on this is in agreement for screening to start at age 10 years. This standard is
      often applied within the United Kingdom.

      The current gold standard screening tool, the Oral Glucose Tolerance Test, is resource
      intensive. This requires an individual/child and a parent to attend a clinical facility while
      fasted and requires trained health care professionals to take venous samples, analyse and
      interpret the results.

      There are also problems encountered in standardising the test. The patient should be fasted
      and must travel to clinic for the test in the morning. The OGTT, if done at hospital, can
      therefore affect an individual's time off work, time off school, can cause inconvenience and
      expensive for an individual, parent and child to travel to clinic. The unpredictability of
      workload for hospital staff means that test times are often not strictly adhered to or
      accurately recorded. In patients with cystic fibrosis there is also an additional risk of
      cross infection when they attend the hospital for OGTT. These factors limit the uptake of
      OGTTs for screening in children with cystic fibrosis.

      To overcome these issues a simple, disposable, self-administered electronic OGTT Kit
      containing everything required to perform the OGTT at home with simple written and pictorial
      instructions has been used in this study.

      The aim of this study is to establish if the self-administered electronic Oral Glucose
      Tolerance Test kit can increase the annual uptake of screening for CFRD in children who are
      between 10 and 17 years of age with CF.
    
  