
    
      Stroke is a clinical syndrome characterized by the rapid onset of focal neurological signs,
      lasting more than 24 hours or leading to death, with a presumed vascular cause. The main
      causes of stroke is it occur due to infarction and due to hemorrhage. In the U.S,
      approximately 40 percent of people who die from stroke are male, with 60 percent of deaths
      occurring in females. Worldwide, cerebro-vascular accidents (stroke) are the second leading
      cause of death and the third leading cause of disability. Stroke, the sudden death of some
      brain cells due to lack of oxygen when the blood flow to the brain is lost by blockage or
      rupture of an artery to the brain, is also a leading cause of dementia and depression.
      Globally, 70% of strokes and 87% of both stroke-related deaths and disability-adjusted life
      years occur in low- and middle-income countries. Over the last four decades, the stroke
      incidence in low- and middle-income countries has more than doubled. During these decades
      stroke incidence has declined by 42% in high-income countries.

      The incidence of a stroke increases rapidly with age, doubling every decade after 55 years
      old. There are various risk factors for stroke, including both modifiable (e.g., diet,
      co-morbid conditions) and non-modifiable risk factors (e.g., age, race).Other risk factors
      which is short-term risks or triggers (e.g., infectious events, sepsis, stress),
      intermediate- term risk factors (e.g., hypertension, hyperlipidemia) and long-term risk
      factors for stroke (e.g., sex, race). Risk factors for stroke in the young also likely differ
      from those in older patients. Recovery and rehabilitation is the most important aspects of
      stroke treatment. In most strokes cases the patient recover quickly, and sometimes patient
      recovery is variable. Rehabilitation process includes physical therapy, speech therapy and
      occupational therapy. Physical therapy involves using exercise and other physical means
      (e.g., massage, heat) and may help patients to regain their ROM and use of their arms and
      legs and prevent muscle stiffness in patients or with permanent paralysis. Speech therapy may
      help patients regain the ability to speak. Occupational therapy may help patients regain
      independent function and re-learn basic skills (e.g., Getting dressed, preparing a meal and
      bathing). Stroke is a common, serious, and disabling global health-care problem, and
      rehabilitation is a major part of patient care.Potentially beneficial treatment options for
      motor recovery of the arm include constraint-induced movement therapy and robotics. Most
      favorable interventions that could be beneficial to improve aspects of gait include fitness
      training, high-intensity therapy, and repetitive-task training.
    
  