
    
      Unintended pregnancy (unwanted and/or mistimed pregnancy) heightens the risk for adverse
      birth outcomes, including preterm birth and very low birth weight (< 1500 grams), which have
      significant public health costs. Despite decades spent attempting to reduce the proportion of
      pregnancies that are unintended, nearly half (45%) of all pregnancies are unintended. Among
      women living in poverty, rates of unintended pregnancy are considerably higher. In this
      study, investigators focus instead on the reduction of a risky maternal health practice
      associated with adverse birth outcomes that are more common when pregnancies are unintended:
      maternal prenatal smoking. The study focuses on rapidly increasing maternal-fetal bonding, a
      mediator of the relationship between unintended pregnancy and maternal health practices
      during pregnancy, through a recently piloted intervention, BLOOM (Babies and Moms, connected
      by Love, Openness, and Opportunity). Specifically, the investigators will examine change in
      maternal-fetal bonding across pregnancy and implications for change in maternal smoking
      during pregnancy. The proposed study will use a randomized clinical trial design in a
      longitudinal, multi-ethnic cohort study of 160 predominately low-income women (ages 18 or
      older) who are 12-16 weeks pregnant and planning to continue their pregnancies and be primary
      caregivers to their infants. Participants will be randomly assigned into one of four groups
      for the intervention; the control group will receive treatment as usual. Participants
      assigned to one of the three treatment groups will either receive fetal Doppler monitors to
      listen to their babies' heartbeats for one minute per day over a two-week period; receive
      texted attachment exercises; or will be assigned to both interventions. Participants will
      complete an in-depth initial assessment that includes sociodemographic measures as well as a
      battery to capture maternal-fetal bonding and self-reported smoking. Participants will also
      be asked for a saliva sample for biochemical validation of smoking via cotinine levels, a
      biomarker for nicotine. The 2-week intervention will be conducted within two weeks following
      Assessment 1. Participants will then be asked to complete a follow-up survey and saliva
      assessment near the beginning of their 3rd trimester to assess maternal-fetal bonding and
      smoking to allow for examination of change across pregnancy. Impacts of prior interventions
      to reduce unintended pregnancy and its associated adverse infant outcomes have been modest;
      reducing the negative association between unintended pregnancy and adverse outcomes through
      enhancing maternal prenatal attachment makes this project highly significant. This project
      will be the first to target maternal-fetal bonding through the use of inexpensive fetal
      Doppler monitors, making it highly innovative. The positive impacts of this work include
      information that will be used to reduce the impact of unintended pregnancy for adverse infant
      health outcomes.
    
  