
    
      Stroke is the leading cause of long-term disability in the United States and people with
      stroke deserve our maximum effort to restore in them as much function as possible; yet,
      mainstream stroke rehabilitation remains mired in traditional treatment approaches that may
      be suboptimal. However, for the past 5 years we have been endeavoring to advance stroke
      rehabilitation by including noninvasive brain stimulation. This study will explore whether
      the safety and functional results from noninvasive brain stimulation in patients with chronic
      stroke when given by researchers in a laboratory setting can be replicated in acute stroke
      when given by trained clinicians in the real-world clinical setting.

      As background, a phenomenon in stroke is that compensatory overuse of the non-stroke
      hemisphere can inhibit surviving neurons in the stroke hemisphere. In this way, people with
      stroke are "doubly disabled" - first, by the stroke itself and, second, by exaggerated
      interhemispheric inhibition (IHI) arising in the non-stroke hemisphere and acting on
      surviving neurons in the non-stroke hemisphere. Investigators cannot bring the killed neurons
      back to life but they can up-regulate the surviving neurons suppressed by IHI. Repetitive
      transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) is a noninvasive way to do this.

      rTMS has not yet entered mainstream clinical use for stroke, likely because it has not been
      explored in the acute rehabilitation setting with application by clinicians. With prior
      National Institutes of Health funding, Dr. Carey has considerable experience in using rTMS in
      the laboratory setting for chronic stroke. He will now take rTMS out of his lab and into the
      real-world setting of Courage Kenny Rehabilitation Institute (CKRI), the primary referral
      center for acute stroke rehabilitation in our region, where clinicians will be trained in
      rTMS. Five daily rTMS treatments (active or sham) will be given to the non-stroke primary
      motor area (M1). After each treatment, patients will receive their conventional
      rehabilitation training. This approach is innovative because of the rTMS parameters used and
      because the application will be given by trained clinicians with oversight by the Principal
      Investigator, as opposed to laboratory researchers. Expected outcomes are improved hand
      function with no major adverse effects. Data will serve as a springboard to larger clinical
      trials.

      Specific Aim #1: Determine the safety of 5 treatments of 6-Hz primed low-frequency rTMS
      combined with conventional therapy in adults with acute stroke.

      Adverse effects will be measured through observation for seizures, investigator screening,
      physician exam, and tests of cognitive function and motor function in the nonparetic hand.

      Investigators hypothesize there will be a) no seizures, b) no cognitive decline and c) no
      motor decline.

      Specific Aim #2: Compare the effectiveness of active vs. sham rTMS on functional outcomes in
      adults with acute stroke.

      Adults with acute stroke will be randomized to receive either active rTMS or sham rTMS. Both
      groups will also receive conventional therapy, consisting of the normal rehabilitation used
      at this rehabilitation center. Investigators hypothesize that, from admission to discharge,
      active rTMS will produce greater functional gains in the paretic hand compared to sham rTMS,
      as measured by standard tests.
    
  