
    
      Patients and method: Consecutive patients treated for thyroid enlargement at our institution
      were evaluated for inclusion. Participants were randomly allocated to receive total
      thyroidectomy using harmonic scalpel HS or using ligature conventional thyroidectomy CT
      Follow-up visits were after 1 week, 1 month, and 6 months, Study variables included operative
      time, length of incision, operative bleeding, postoperative drainage, hospital stay and
      complication.Preoperative preparation was performed for patients with thyrotoxicosis by
      antithyroid drug, and they were all euthyroid at the time of surgery. The routine
      pre-operative workup included measurement of thyroid-stimulating hormone and thyroid hormones
      (T3 and T4), as well as plasma levels of total calcium. In addition, a pre-operative
      laryngoscopy was performed.

      A prophylactic antibiotic in the form of a third-generation cephalosporin was administered 2
      hours before the operation. The operation was performed with the patient in the supine
      position under general anesthesia with endotracheal intubation. A Kocher incision, was made
      at the lower neck crease two finger above suprasternal notch.

      In the HS group, using the new harmonic scalpel device Focus (Ethicon Endo Surgery,
      Cincinnati, OH, USA) was used for cutting and coagulation . For closure of and division of
      superior and inferior arteries and veins we set the instrument at a power 2 i.e. more
      coagulation. And when smaller vessels like capsule veins we set it to the level 5 i.e. more
      cutting The superior artery and vein was divided close to the gland to avoid damage to
      superior laryngeal nerve. And control of any bleeding from the bed using the active blade of
      harmonic. Finally we insert drain.

      In the conventional group, mono- and bipolar coagulation, as well as ligatures, were allowed.

      In both groups, the Intra-operative bleeding was estimated by weighing the gauzes before and
      after use. Furthermore, blood from suction (when used) was also recorded. Operation time was
      recorded.

      Patients were discharged 24 hours after the procedure. Oral antibiotic coverage was
      recommended after discharge. Plasma levels of total calcium were measured on the first
      post-operative day. The need for oral substitution with calcium and/or vitamin D analogues
      during hospital stay and at patient discharge was recorded together with complications.

      Follow-up was performed on postoperative day 7, and then at 1 month, 3 months, and 6 months.
      . Patients were also seen at our clinic if they developed symptoms between follow-up visits.
      At follow-up, serum thyroid hormone concentrations and serum levels of total calcium were
      measured, and complications recorded. Postoperative laryngoscopy was performed within 4 weeks
      after surgery in all patients to evaluate vocal cord function.

      All assessments were conducted by investigators who were blinded to the experimental
      condition. The primary endpoint was operative time and secondary end points were operative
      bleeding, postoperative drainage, costs and complications.
    
  