
    
      According to statistics of the American Cancer Society, an estimated 73,800 individuals will
      be diagnosed with melanoma and 9,900 will die of the disease in 2015 in the Unites States
      despite current therapy. This protocol attempts to exploit an approach to melanoma
      immunotherapy using a naturally occurring barrier to xenotransplantation in humans to
      increase the effectiveness of immunizing patients against their melanoma. The expression of
      the murine (1,3)galactosyltransferase [alpha(1,3)GT] gene results in the cell surface
      expression of (1,3)galactosyl-epitopes (alpha-gal) on membrane glycoproteins and glycolipids.
      These epitopes are the major target of the hyperacute rejection response that occurs when
      organs are transplanted from non-primate donor species into man. Human hosts often have
      pre-existing anti-alpha-gal antibodies that bind alpha-gal epitopes and lead to rapid
      activation of complement and cell lysis. The pre-existing anti-alpha-gal antibodies found in
      most individuals are thought to be due to exposure to alpha-gal epitopes that are naturally
      expressed on normal gut flora leading to chronic immunological stimulation.

      These antibodies may comprise up to 1% of serum IgG. In this phase 2b study, patients with
      advanced stage melanoma will receive immune checkpoint inhibition consisting of ipilimumab,
      nivolumab, or pembrolizumab per the treating physician's standard of care. In addition to the
      immune checkpoint therapy, half of the patients will also receive dorgenmeltucel-L.
      Dorgenmeltucel-L is composed of irradiated allogeneic melanoma cell lines (HAM-1, HAM-2 and
      HAM-3). These cell lines have been transduced with a recombinant Moloney murine leukemia
      virus (MoMLV)-based retroviral vector expressing the murine (1,3)GT gene. Endpoints of the
      study include safety assessments, efficacy, and immunological responses.
    
  