
    
      Background:

        -  Cancer relapse is a significant clinical problem following allogeneic hematopoietic stem
           cell transplantation (allotransplant), affecting up to half of all patients. Effective
           treatment options are extremely limited and, for most cancers, rarely curative.

        -  Several Clinical Center (CC) protocols are evaluating treatment for post-allotransplant
           relapse. Relapse often progresses quickly; patients require rapid assessment of protocol
           options in order to expedite initiation of treatment.

        -  Basic information is needed to improve management of relapse after allotransplant
           clinical information regarding risk of relapse and cancer behavior after allotransplant,
           and information on the biology of relapse after allotransplant in order to identify risk
           factors, target prevention strategies, detect early relapse and develop effective
           treatments.

      Objectives:

      Primary Objective:

      To provide a mechanism for systematic, comprehensive evaluation of individuals with relapsed
      hematologic malignancy after allotransplant and, if available, their donors, to streamline
      identification of protocol options, enrollment and initiation of therapy.

      Eligibility:

        1. Individuals who have received allotransplant treatment for hematologic malignancy
           ("Recipient-Subjects"). Analyses (secondary aims) will consider two comparison cohorts:

             1. Relapse Cohort: Cancer progression, relapse or persistently stable (unremitting)
                disease

             2. Remission (Control) Cohort: Cancer response or remission at/after Day 100

        2. Individuals who are being enrolled on Clinical Center protocols to undergo
           allotransplant therapy for hematologic malignancies and are being evaluated at the
           Clinical Center for planned allotransplantation. (Recipient-Subjects)

        3. Related donors of eligible allotransplant recipients ("Donor-Subjects")

      Design:

        1. Recipient-Subjects will have clinical and research evaluations at baseline and three and
           six months post-allotransplant, at six-month intervals through three years
           post-allotransplant, then yearly. Evaluation after relapse treatment response and for
           new protocol options is permitted.

        2. Donor-Subjects will be enrolled at the time of their clinical evaluation and cell
           collection for Recipient-Subject therapy. Return evaluation for additional clinical
           product collection is permitted.

        3. Accrual Ceiling: 500 consented subjects (350 Recipient-Subjects and 150 Donor-Subjects)
           over 5 years, averaging 70 Recipient-Subjects and 30 Donor-Subjects enrolled per year.
    
  