
    
      Lifestyle behaviour changes represent the foundation of pediatric weight management and are
      usually promoted through individual and/or group-based counseling to encourage the adoption
      and maintenance of health lifestyle behaviours including nutritional intake, sleep and
      physical activity. Consensus on the need for comprehensive, behavioural interventions exists,
      but the nature of these interventions vary considerably. The intensity of the intervention
      (i.e. number of contact hours) may be a key determinant of efficacy, but little detail on the
      characteristic of these contact hours for optimal delivery is currently available.

      In this proof of concept study, we will evaluate the enhancement of behavioural change
      strategies utilizing technology that provides direct feedback on behaviour change. These
      devices will be incorporated into a PHR and supplemented with a related e-learning module.

      This study will examine the feasibility and perceived usefulness of incorporation of a
      personal electronic device to encourage behaviour change in children and youth enrolled in a
      weight management program. We intend to incorporate this device within an established PHR and
      supplement with evidence-based e-learning.

      This is a prospective, randomized pilot study of children and youth (ages 5-17 years)
      enrolled in a multidisciplinary pediatric weight management program (at McMaster Children's
      Hospital) for 4 months. This pilot study will include 10 children/youth and parent dyads from
      each of 3 age groups: 5-9 years, 10-13 years and 14-17 years. All families will utilize a
      personal electronic device that they can utilize with the individualized PHR. Participants
      will be randomized to receive, or not receive, regular communication with and access to the
      clinical team outside of their routine clinical visits, this will occur through a secure
      portal in the PHR.
    
  