
    
      Kidney transplantation is the treatment of choice for end stage renal disease (ESRD).
      Unfortunately, there are significant and persistent gender and racial disparities in access
      to transplantation and the successful navigation of transplant evaluation process. The
      process includes understanding suitability/eligibility for transplantation, obtaining a
      referral to a transplant center for medical evaluation, completion of medical testing for
      transplant candidacy, and asking family and friends to donate. Women and ethnic minorities
      are less likely to be informed of the option of transplantation, referred to a transplant
      center, and complete the medical evaluation needed to be placed on the kidney transplant
      waiting list. Modifiable barriers to completing these steps include: lack of knowledge, lack
      of social support, and inability to discuss transplantation and living donation. As a result
      chronic hemodialysis (HD) becomes the default treatment. HD clinics are unique social
      environments in that patients receive their treatments in a group setting which facilitates
      social networks and the formation of unique micro-communities based on their assigned shift.
      The robust influences of social networks are well-described in other chronic conditions like
      obesity, diabetes, and smoking, however, there is scant information on the impact of social
      networks in HD clinics. Differences in social network structure by gender and race may create
      critical barriers in the kidney transplant process. White men tend to have diffuse networks
      which are better for communicating novel information. Women and minorities tend to have
      clustered/dense networks, which tend to reinforce attitudes and behaviors. It has been
      speculated that social networks negatively affect transplantation through the clustering of
      inaccurate information, negative attitudes, and exposure to failed transplants. Our previous
      observational research, however, suggests that HD patient social network structure can
      facilitate the completion of pre-transplant steps by providing patients with needed
      information and support. Further insight into HD social networks has the potential to guide
      measures to reduce transplant disparities. Our overarching hypothesis is that hemodialysis
      social networks facilitate the spread of information and behaviors, and that using a targeted
      social network intervention will improve access to transplantation especially among women and
      minorities. To address this hypothesis, we will pursue the following specific aims:

      Aim 1: Characterize hemodialysis patient social networks by gender and race. Using our
      previously validated survey, we will model social networks of hemodialysis patients in two
      independent clinics.

      Hypothesis 1: Female hemodialysis patients of all race and ethnicity have dense (higher
      clustering coefficient) social networks when compared to male HD patients.

      Aim 2: Assess the relationship between network structure and knowledge, attitudes, and
      behaviors towards kidney transplantation. Using the network information from Aim 1, we will
      analyze the clustering of information, attitudes, and behaviors towards kidney
      transplantation.

      Hypothesis 2: Patients in dense HD clinic social networks have similar attitudes (both
      positive and negative) about transplantation and behaviors (initiating transplant discussion
      and completing steps in the kidney transplant process) as compared to patients in diffuse
      networks.

      Aim 3: Compare and contrast the diffusion of knowledge, attitudes, and behaviors regarding
      transplantation through HD social networks by targeting either the most clustered (as
      measured by clustering coefficient) or the most central members (as measured by betweenness
      centrality) of the network to disseminate a transplant education intervention. We will assign
      every HD clinic shift to one of the two targeting strategies and we will measure the spread
      of information, attitudes, and behaviors by comparing the targeted patients to the other
      patients on their shift.

      Hypothesis 3: Targeting patients with high clustering coefficient will be the most effective
      method to spread information and favorable attitudes toward transplantation, as well as
      completion of steps toward transplantation.
    
  