
    
      Anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) tears of the knee are frequently repaired by surgically
      implanting a tendon graft in place of the torn original cruciate ligament. The graft may be
      taken from the patient having the repair (an autologous graft) or from a cadaver (an
      allograft). Complete recovery from surgical repair of an anterior cruciate ligament
      reconstruction requires that the graft becomes firmly engrafted at the site, surrounding
      tissues are healed and strength is restored in muscles that control movements at the knee.
      The recovery process typically requires from six months to one year. Pain in the early phase
      of recovery is typically moderate to severe and may be a major factor determining patient
      return to normal activity. It may also be a major factor limiting the patient's ability to
      cooperate with rehabilitation maneuvers.

      Traditional methods of treatment for pain include use of opioid pain killers (such as
      morphine) and/or femoral nerve block at the groin. The potential hazards of opioid pain
      killers include opioid side effects (nausea, vomiting, constipation, drowsiness, respiratory
      depression and the potential for developing opioid dependency=addiction). Pain in the early
      phase of recovery, if severe, can lead to changes in the spinal cord that predispose to
      amplifying pain sensations, thus intensifying the need for pain killer medicines, a process
      referred to as "windup" or neuroplasticity. Similarly, the use of opioid pain killers may
      activate pain amplification systems potentially contributing to persistence of pain and
      favoring development of chronic pain. For these reasons, there is a belief that early
      aggressive efforts to treat postoperative pain, and minimize the use of opioid pain killers,
      can have significant benefits to patients both by improving their comfort level after
      surgery; facilitating rehabilitation efforts and return to normal activity.

      Anesthesiologists at the University of Washington may use pain medicines alone and/or perform
      a nerve block to help patients undergoing ACL repair with their pain control. Patients are
      given a choice as to their desired methods of pain control. These options are normally
      discussed by the regional block team with the patient prior to surgery and the merits of each
      discussed. Approximately 60-70% of patients typically request the use of nerve blocks in the
      recovery unit to help control their pain. For those patients who choose a nerve block, the
      anesthesiologist will choose to perform the nerve block at the level of the groin or the mid
      thigh. This decision varies by provider and is typically random in nature. Both locations for
      the nerve block appear to work most of the time and each may have small differences: the
      speed of onset is typically faster when performed at groin level, while quadriceps muscle
      function may be less affected when performed at mid thigh. Neither method is known to be
      superior for this type of surgery. Because patients are non-weight bearing for at least the
      first 24 hours after surgery and must use crutches for mobilization, the weakening of the
      quadriceps muscles may be relatively unimportant during that time.

      The investigators hypothesize that pain treatment after ACL reconstruction which includes a
      nerve block in combination with other pain medications will be associated with better pain
      control immediately after surgery and will minimize the need for patients to use opioid pain
      killers and experience common opioid- related side effects. A secondary hypothesis is that
      the effectiveness of pain control, whether by pain medicines, and/or in combination with
      nerve blocks will determine the patient's ability to perform routine activities of daily
      living in the acute phase (0-7 days), and subsequently may affect their ability to perform
      physical therapy maneuvers that are prescribed for their routine care.

      STUDY PURPOSE

      Aim 1: Determine whether pain reported by patients after surgery is related to the type of
      pain control utilized - (1) either intravenous and oral pain medication alone, (2) combined
      with nerve block at the groin, or (3) combined with nerve block at the mid thigh.

      Aim 2: Examine whether pain severity affects the ability of patients to perform activities of
      daily living in the acute phase (recovery index measured at 7 days), and physical therapy
      maneuvers in the ensuing 6 months after surgery possibly retarding restoration of muscle
      function in the affected leg.

      Aim 3: Determine whether preoperative psychologic tests designed to assess patients' coping
      skills (Pain Catastrophizing score) and anxiety (Stait anxiety index) predict postoperative
      pain reported by patients, acute phase recovery scores (recovery index), and rehabilitation
      endpoints
    
  