
    
      Since December 2019, novel coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) in Wuhan has been fierce and
      spread rapidly. As of 24:00 on March 4, 2020, China has reported a total of 80567 confirmed
      cases, 5952 existing critically ill cases, and 3016 dead cases. The COVID-19 pneumonia has
      grown to be a global public health emergency since patients were first detected in Wuhan,
      China, in December 2019, which spread quickly to 26 countries worldwide and presented a
      serious threat to public health. It is mainly characterized by fever, dry cough, shortness of
      breath and breathing difficulties. Some patients may develop into rapid and deadly
      respiratory system injury with overwhelming inflammation in the lung. Currently, no specific
      drugs or vaccines are available to cure the patients with COVID-19 infection. Hence, there is
      a large unmet need for a safe and effective treatment for COVID-19 infected patients,
      especially the critically ill cases.

      Recently, some clinical researches about the COVID-19 published in The Lancet and The New
      England Journal of Medicine suggested that massive inflammatory cell infiltration and
      inflammatory cytokines secretion were found in patients' lungs, alveolar epithelial cells and
      capillary endothelial cells were damaged, causing acute lung injury. Several reports
      demonstrated that the first step of the HCoV-19 pathogenesis is that the virus specifically
      recognizes the angiotensin I converting enzyme 2 receptor (ACE2) by its spike Protein. This
      receptor is abundant in lung and small intestinal tissues, but is also highly expressed in
      vascular endothelial cells and smooth muscle cells in almost all organs, including the
      nervous system and skeletal muscle. The main organ injured by the HCoV-19 is the lung. In
      fact, HCoV-19 can also involve the nervous system, digestive system, urinary system, blood
      system and other systems. Therefore, when the initial symptom is discomfort of other systems
      in the early stage, it is often easy to be misdiagnosed and delay treatment. Moreover, the
      HCoV-19 is a noncellular form consisting of RNA and protein, which cannot be copied
      independently. It needs to bind to cell surface receptors to enter the cell to complete the
      replication, and then be released again. Therefore, once the HCoV-19 enters the blood
      circulation, it can easily spread to all systems throughout the body, which may be the
      pathological mechanism that the HCoV-19 directly or indirectly causes neurological symptoms.

      It seems that the key to cure the COVID-19 pneumonia is to inhibit the inflammatory response,
      resulting to reduce the damage of alveolar epithelial cells and endothelial cells and repair
      the function of the lung. MSCs, owing to their powerful immunomodulatory ability, may have
      beneficial effects on preventing or attenuating the cytokine storm.

      Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are widely used in basic research and clinical application.
      They are proved to migrate to damaged tissues, exert antiinflammatory and immunoregulatory
      functions, promote the regeneration of damaged tissues and inhibit tissue fibrosis. MSCs play
      a positive role mainly in two ways, namely immunomodulatory effects and differentiation
      abilities. MSCs can secrete many types of cytokines by paracrine secretion or make direct
      interactions with immune cells, leading to immunomodulation. Studies have shown that MSCs can
      significantly reduce acute lung injury in mice caused by H9N2 and H5N1 viruses by reducing
      the levels of proinflammatory cytokines and the recruitment of inflammatory cells into the
      lungs. Compared with MSCs from other sources, human umbilical cord-derived MSCs (UC-MSCs)
      have been widely applied to various diseases due to their convenient collection, no ethical
      controversy, low immunogenicity, and rapid proliferation rate.

      Here we conducted an MSC transplantation pilot study to explore their therapeutic potential
      for COVID-19 pneumonia patients. To explore the effective treatment of COVID-19 pneumonia for
      the current prevention and control of novel coronavirus pneumonia to find a key and effective
      clinical treatment means, to fight against the epidemic.
    
  