
    
      Overweight and obesity are increasing global health problems and the most important
      contributors to morbidity and mortality. Obesity (abdominal obesity), together with
      hyperglycemia, dyslipidemia and hypertension forms a cluster of risk factors that is called
      the metabolic syndrome (MetS). The first-line therapy for MetS is lifestyle intervention -
      education on a healthy lifestyle leading to a focus on physical activity and diet, which will
      improve risk factors closely linked to MetS. The maintenance of long-term weight loss is
      difficult, and individuals often regain weight after an intervention program stops. It is of
      interest to find ways to prevent and alleviate MetS, beyond the known effects of lifestyle
      modification and weight loss. Fish has been proposed as a food that may have favorable
      effects on metabolic health. Previous intervention studies with fish protein in humans and
      rodents have shown improved insulin sensitivity and glucose tolerance, reduced cholesterol
      levels in plasma and reduced blood pressure. Intervention studies investigating the effect of
      cod have mainly focused on the health effect of consuming the whole fillet. Studies on the
      remaining part of the fish, the residual material, primarily used for production of animal
      feed, are scarce. There is evidence that cod, and other marine fish, may contain bioactive
      peptides that have potentially important health effects in humans. Therefore, it is of
      interest to investigate the possible effect of a daily supplement of marine protein
      hydrolysate (MPH), taken over a longer period, in a group of patients with abnormal glucose
      control. The aim of this study is to investigate the effect of adding a MPH supplement to the
      diet over an 8-week period in a group of adults with established MetS. The investigators
      expect that supplementation with MPH will lead to beneficial changes in the components of
      MetS and an overall healthier metabolic profile.
    
  