
    
      Open label Design with Lithium plus Extended release carbamazepine combination for 6 months.
      Extended release carbamazepine at doses of 1600 mg/day will be utilized. Lithium dosage will
      be adjusted to maintain therapeutic blood levels.

      Patient Population: N = 20.

      Primary and Secondary Efficacy Endpoints:

      The primary efficacy measure will be the time to relapse. Relapse will determined by the
      investigator based on the following

        -  Need for additional pharmacotherapy for affective symptoms

        -  Hospitalization for an affective episode

        -  Increase of more than 50% in HAM-D and YMRS scores from baseline

      The differences in the frequency of affective episodes in the 6-month prior to the treatment
      with ERC-CBZ and 6 months after treatment initiation will also be measured. Secondary
      efficacy measures will include; changes in the 17- Item Hamilton Depression Scale (HAM-D),
      Young Mania Rating Scale (YMRS), Clinical Global Severity Scale (CGI -S), Clinical Global
      Improvement Scale (CGI-I) scores at baseline and scores during treatment with ERC-CBZ.

      Inclusion Criteria:

        1. Subjects, 19 years and older with DSM-IV defined Bipolar Disorder with a history of the
           rapid cycling within the past 12 months.

        2. Subjects may be either in a manic, mixed or depressive phase at time of study entry.

        3. Subjects must be on lithium therapy for 6 months or longer. Stable lithium therapy will
           be defined as: No changes in lithium dosage for at least 2 weeks prior to study entry
           and a therapeutic lithium level (0.6 to 1.2 mEq) prior to study entry.

      Exclusion Criteria:

        1. Subjects with a lifetime history of Schizophrenia or Schizoaffective Disorder

        2. If patients are on thyroid replacement therapy they have to on stable doses for the past
           3 months at study enrollment.

        3. Presence of active suicide ideations or score of > 3 on the suicide subscale of the 17 -
           item HAM-D.

        4. Current substance dependence (excluding nicotine) defined as no dependence criteria for
           30 days prior to study enrollment

        5. Subjects with a history of non-response to carbamazepine or lithium

        6. Subjects who are pregnant or planning to become pregnant

        7. Subjects with a history of allergic/idiosyncratic reaction or intolerability to
           carbamazepine or lithium.

      Study Procedures:

      Preliminary Phase: The Structured Clinical Interview Diagnostic Schedule (SCID), medical &
      psychiatric history and baseline laboratory testing, EKG; pregnancy test will be obtained to
      ensure study eligibility. Eligible subjects will receive ERC-CBZ at starting doses ranging
      from 100 to 200 mg b.i.d. depending on clinical presentation and further titration up to a
      maximum dose of 1600 mg/day will be done at the discretion of the investigator. This
      titration phase will not extend beyond 2 weeks during which changes in concomitant
      medications will be allowed. Next, all psychotropics excluding lithium, ERC-CBZ and
      benzodiazepines will be tapered over a 2-week period. During the preliminary phase subjects
      will be seen weekly and assessments will be made using the HAM-D, YMRS, CGI -S, CGI-I, AE,
      and Concomitant medications

      Open Label Phase: Subjects on lithium and ERC-CBZ therapy will enter this phase for 6 months.
      Changes to both lithium and ERC-CBZ will be permitted during this phase with serum levels to
      guide titration. Use of lorazepam, as a rescue medication will be permitted. Study visits
      will be every biweekly for 6 months. The HAM-D, YMRS and CGI-S, CGI-I, AE, concomitant
      medications will be assessed at each visit. Compliance will be assessed by pill counts at
      each study visit.
    
  