
    
      Major lower extremity amputations (above knee amputation or below knee amputation) are common
      procedures performed for patients with end stage ischemia, infection, and/or disfiguration.
      Patients undergoing major lower extremity amputations have significant morbidity and
      mortality. Up to 95% of amputees report chronic pain, and inadequate pre- and postoperative
      pain control may increase the risk of chronic amputation pain. Additionally, there is a
      growing epidemic of narcotic overdoses in the United States. From 2000 to 2014, the
      age-adjusted drug overdose death rate has more than doubled from 6.2 per 100,000 persons to
      14.7 per 100,000. The main drugs associated with overdose deaths are prescription pain
      medications.

      Regional nerve block is part of usual care and may serve as adjuncts for pain control after
      major lower extremity amputations. This pain control may be achieved by injecting bupivacaine
      into the sciatic and femoral nerves. Bupivacaine is an amide-type local anesthetic approved
      by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for local or regional anesthesia or analgesia for
      surgery. The dosage approved by the FDA for peripheral nerve blocks are 0.25% and 0.5%. The
      potential risks are central nervous system and cardiovascular system reactions. The central
      nervous system reactions are characterized by restlessness, anxiety, dizziness, or tremors.
      The cardiovascular system reactions are characterized by decreased cardiac output, heart
      block, hypotension, bradycardia, or arrhythmia. These risks are small and can be minimized
      further by slow administration and aspiration prior to administration to avoid intravascular
      injection. Other rare but potential risks of regional nerve block are nerve injury and
      hematoma formation.

      Although bupivacaine is widely used for pain control, there are very few studies looking at
      regional nerve blocks as adjuncts for pain control after major lower extremity amputations.
      The number of randomized controlled trials is even fewer and none have been conducted in the
      United States. Baddoo looked at ten patients undergoing major lower extremity amputations
      (nine above knee amputations and one below knee amputation) with regional nerve blocks (a
      sciatic nerve block combined with either a 3-in-1 block or a psoas compartment lumbar plexus
      block). All ten patients were hemodynamically stable throughout surgery. Seven patients had
      good block, and three patients had fair block. Bech et al. presented a case report of four
      patients with severe cardiac insufficiency where they successfully utilized peripheral nerve
      blocks for trans-femoral amputation. The first patient was an 88-year-old man with American
      Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) class 4. His echocardiogram showed an ejection fraction of
      10%, mitral valve insufficiency and aortic valve sclerosis. The second patient was a
      90-year-old woman with ASA class 4. Her echocardiogram showed an ejection fraction of 25% and
      severe mitral valve insufficiency. The third patient was a 64-year-old man with ASA class 4.
      His echocardiogram showed an ejection fraction of 25%, mitral valve insufficiency and
      tricuspid valve insufficiency. The fourth patient was a 74-year-old man with ASA class 4. His
      echocardiogram showed an ejection fraction of 15%, right-sided heart failure and both mitral
      and aortic valve insufficiency. All patients had successful outcomes in the postoperative
      course. Palkhiwala et al. looked at combined femoral and sciatic nerve blocks for lower limb
      procedures. With a randomized study involving 50 patients, they concluded that combined
      femoral and sciatic nerve blocks are effective for pain control with very low incidence of
      side effects. Forty-six out of fifty patients had complete block, and none of the patients
      had any cardiovascular or neurologic adverse events. Our study design is one of the first
      randomized controlled trials that looks at the effect of regional nerve blocks on
      postoperative pain and length of hospital stay.

      This study will be a double-blinded randomized controlled trial analyzing patients undergoing
      major lower extremity amputation by the vascular surgery service at UCSF Fresno between July
      2017 and June 2018 at Community Regional Medical Center, Clovis Community Medical Center, and
      Fresno Heart and Surgical Hospital. All patients who have been evaluated by the vascular
      surgery service and have had lower extremity amputation deemed necessary based on ischemic
      disease, infectious disease, and/or disfiguration will be included. Patients will be excluded
      if they are less than 18 years of age, pregnant, undergoing emergency amputations, staged
      amputations, or amputations by non-vascular surgeons, have known allergies to bupivacaine,
      are unable to communicate symptoms of pain, or refuse to participate in the study. Eligible
      patients may be identified by the vascular surgery service in their private office or
      following a consultation by the vascular surgery service in the hospital. Upon
      identification, eligible patients or their surrogate decision maker will be approached for
      consent by a member of the study team.

      To randomize patients, consent forms will be pre-labeled with a random subject identification
      number. This number will serve as the participants' study ID for all data collection in order
      to maintain privacy and confidentiality. Additionally, this number will be linked to a sealed
      envelope containing the random treatment group. The study coordinator will create the labels
      and assemble the envelopes to ensure all investigators remain blind to the treatment groups.
      This sealed envelope will be given to the anesthesia providers for the amputation. The
      anesthesia team will then administer the assigned treatment prior to induction of general
      anesthesia. Half of the patients will be randomized into the treatment group, and half of the
      patients will be randomized into the control group.

      Patients randomized to the treatment group will receive regional nerve blocks (sciatic and
      femoral) with bupivacaine at the dose of 1 mg/kg. The anesthesiologists are experts in pain
      management, and they are trained to perform regional nerve blocks. Femoral and sciatic nerve
      blocks are within their scope of practice, and they have been performing them quite
      frequently especially in orthopedic operations. Patients randomized to the control group will
      receive two needle sticks (in the sciatic and femoral distributions) with normal saline to
      maintain the double-blinded investigation. The anesthesiologists are not blinded in this
      study, and they will be able to provide the appropriate billing for the saline and the
      bupivacaine injections.

      The remainder of the operation and post-operative course will proceed per the standard of
      care. Post-operative pain will be evaluated daily until discharge by the vascular surgery
      service using the McGill pain questionnaire. Additional data collected will include age,
      gender, race, BMI, ASA class, length of operation, hospital length of stay, oral and
      parenteral narcotic pain requirements. Any adverse events will immediately be reported to the
      Principal Investigator and the IRB. A Medical Monitor with suitable expertise will be
      provided with all the study data on a monthly basis. The medical monitor will use that data
      especially the unforeseen adverse events and complications to ensure the study safety. The
      patients will be monitored and the data will be collected until six months after discharge.
    
  