
    
      Background: Although there is a relatively better prognosis, the 5-year survival rate for
      early stage lung cancer (Stage I, II, IIIA) is still relatively low compared to those other
      types of cancer. These patients might suffer lots from the uncertainty and substantial
      disease and treatment related physical changes. How to provide a feasible OPD personalized
      supportive care program is important.

      Purpose: Main purpose of the study: (1) Develop and construct the contents, related patient
      education materials and computerized systems of the three evidence and service-based lung
      cancer care programs, including (a) Control as usual care (UC), and (b) Computer Assisted OPD
      Personalized Supportive Care Program (COPSCCP) (will be developed and structured the contents
      and computer system in the first 4 months of this research project); and (2) Compare the
      effects of COPSCCP and care as usual on self-report quality of life (QOL), physical symptoms,
      lung function, Depression, Anxiety, fear of recurrence, Unmet Cancer Needs, recurrence rate.
      Each patient will be follow for 2 years. Patients with recurrence, metastasis will be dropped
      out from the study (and refer to medical oncology).

      Method: Eligible patients will be newly diagnosed early stage lung cancer patients (patients
      in stage I, II, & IIIA) who have received surgery. A 2-group randomized control trial (RCT)
      matching with cancer stages will be conducted. For the COPSCCP, patients will be intervened
      for 6 months from the first time during hospitalization of receiving surgery or before
      hospital discharge and then OPD intervention. Each patient will be followed 6 time points for
      2 years (will be drop and refer to medical oncology while having recurrence, metastasis or
      death): baseline (pre-discharge from hospital) and 1, 3, 6, 12, and 24 months after discharge
      from hospital, T1-T6, respectively. The outcomes indicators will include: psychological
      variables, physical/disease variables, symptoms, lung function, and recurrence rate during 2
      years. The estimated subjects would be 150 for each group, totally 300 subjects recruited in
      the beginning of the study. Results would be analyzed mainly by GEE and survival analysis.
      IRB approval will be received before the RCT. The investigator expects to develop and test
      the supportive cancer care interventions and generalize the interventions into the cancer
      care system after the study if prove good outcomes.
    
  