
    
      More than one in every one hundred patients presenting to the emergency department for care
      do so for seizures. More than half of these patients will require medications, often
      intravenously (IV), while in the emergency department. For many years the standard treatment
      has been phenytoin. However, there are many known contraindications to the use of this drug.
      These include known hypersensitivity, cardiac arrhythmias, cardiac disease, impaired liver or
      kidney function, diabetes mellitus, older age, thyroid disease, pregnancy, and alcohol use. A
      recent review of patients with seizure disorder at Emory Crawford Long and Emory University
      hospitals suggested that a significant percentage of those who were taking phenytoin actually
      had one or more of these contraindications. Additionally, the IV form of phenytoin has known,
      severe adverse effects including cardiovascular collapse, life threatening cardiac
      arrhythmias, and severe hypotension. There is another form of Phenytoin, called Fosphenytoin,
      that while safer in some respects still has similar concerns associated with its
      administration.

      Levetiracetam (Keppra) has been available as an oral drug in the United States since 2000 and
      has a well established safety record when used as an add-on drug for patients with partial
      onset seizures. A double-blinded randomized study has shown that levetiracetam is also
      effective for primary generalized seizures as well.

      The IV form of levetiracetam has recently been approved by the FDA for use. The only known
      contraindications other than known hypersensitivity include impaired renal function,
      psychiatric disorder, older age, and pregnancy. IV levetiracetam is not known to cause any of
      the acute, catastrophic events seen occasionally with phenytoin.

      The investigators would therefore like to compare IV phenytoin and fosphenytoin to IV
      levetiracetam in preventing early recurrent seizures. Patients with known seizure disorders
      would be randomly assigned to one of two groups and therefore receive either IV fosphenytoin
      or IV levetiracetam. After an observation period, seizure free patients would be discharged
      and 24 hour phone follow up conducted to assess for the effectiveness of these anti-seizure
      medications as well as for any adverse reactions.
    
  