
    
      The study is a two arm randomised comparison of two systems (T-piece device and the new
      system) for respiratory support after delivery of an infant born less than 28 weeks
      gestational age (GA). This multicentre trial will start at Karolinska University Hospital and
      other sites can join throughout the study period. The trial is academic with the coordinating
      investigator as sponsor. No company funding will be considered.

      The new device has been designed for neonatal resuscitation and CE-marked for this intended
      use. The device is operated/handled in a similar way to existing devices and can provide
      support according to resuscitation guidelines.

      During spontaneous breathing the continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) provided with the
      new system is more pressure stable and has low imposed work of breathing. The benefits of
      decreased imposed work of breathing during resuscitation have not previously been
      investigated. The new system has the option of using prongs as the patient interface. Prongs
      have shown promising results in trials and have theoretical benefits. We hypothesis that the
      combined use of prongs and low imposed work of breathing could reduce the number of infants
      that need mechanical ventilation.

      Screening for eligibility and consent will be performed on mothers with threatening delivery
      of an extremely premature infant (<28 weeks gestational age). There is no lower gestational
      age limit but patients should not be included if there is a decision to intubate prior to
      delivery or treatment limitations.

      After a patient has been enrolled the randomisation will be on hold until delivery is
      imminent. Randomisation will be stratified on centre, gestational age and antenatal steroid
      treatment. The interventions cannot be blinded.

      The management of respiratory support is according to international guidelines and a detailed
      description is provided in the clinical management appendix. The intervention is respiratory
      support for the first 10-30 minutes of life and will begin after birth when the infant is
      transferred to the resuscitation team. The intervention ends 1) when an infant is intubated
      (primary outcome), 2) after a minimum of 10 minutes support, with the randomized system, the
      patient is stable and breathing adequately, 3) at 30 minutes when the respiratory support can
      continue as decided by the clinicians (cross-over not allowed).

      Apart from the system used for respiratory support all patients will receive standard care.
      No assessments or investigations of the trial subjects are planned. Data will be reported by
      the resuscitation team and collected from records.

      The primary outcome is delivery room intubation or death. The secondary outcomes include time
      to intubation, use of surfactant, use of positive pressure ventilation, respiratory support
      at 72 hours and temperature on intensive care admission. Safety variables include
      pneumothorax, intraventricular haemorrhage and problems with ventilation and equipment.

      All analysis will be on intention to treat and p<0.05 considered statistically significant.
      The primary outcome variable (delivery room intubation or death) will represent a 2x2 cross
      table and analysed with Pearson chi-square test. The secondary outcomes include Kaplan Meier
      analysis of time to intubation and comparisons of means for continuous variables. There are
      no predetermined subgroups. Subgroup analysis will be used to describe the population and to
      generate hypotheses.
    
  