
    
      Patients with serious cancers, like advanced lung cancer, often experience physical symptoms,
      such as pain or shortness of breath. In addition, both patients and their loved ones (family
      and friends) often feel worried or sad about the cancer diagnosis.

      Research has shown that early involvement of a team of clinicians that specialize in
      lessening (or "palliating") many of these distressing physical and emotional symptoms and in
      helping patients and their families cope with a serious illness improves patients' and their
      loved ones' experience with their cancer. This team is called "palliative care," and consists
      of physicians and advanced practice nurses (or "nurse practitioners") who work closely and
      collaboratively with the oncology team to care for the participant and the participant's
      loved ones. Research shows that when the palliative care team works closely with the oncology
      team to care for patients with advanced cancer, they have better symptom control, quality of
      life, and mood, and their loved ones feel less distressed. the investigators call this model
      of care, "early integrated palliative care."

      While the investigators know that having palliative care clinicians work closely with the
      oncology team is helpful for patients and their loved ones, many patients do not have access
      to these specialists because hospitals and cancer clinics lack enough staff and because some
      patients and family members live in distant regions that make attending clinic visits
      difficult and expensive. One way to overcome these barriers is to have patients meet with
      palliative care clinicians using secure video-conferencing technology.

      The purpose of this study is to determine if meeting with a palliative care clinician through
      video-conferencing is just as beneficial for patients and their families as meeting with a
      palliative care clinician in person. Specifically, this study will compare these two
      different strategies for meeting with the palliative care clinician. The first strategy is to
      schedule the participant to meet with the palliative care clinician regularly each month in
      person at the clinic. The investigators call this strategy "In-person palliative care."

      The second strategy is to schedule the participant to meet with the palliative care clinician
      regularly each month using secure video-conferencing, such as through a smart phone or tablet
      computer. If the participant do not have this form of technology, the investigators will
      provide it for the participant. The investigators call this strategy "telehealth palliative
      care." The primary goals of this study are to learn if telehealth palliative care is just as
      effective as in-person palliative care for improving quality of life, mood symptoms, and
      satisfaction with care for patients with advanced lung cancer and their families.
    
  