
    
      Background: Promoting an active lifestyle is a priority identified by the communities served
      by KDC Health. Statistics Canada estimates obesity in one in four adults based on 2007-2009
      data, with higher prevalence among Indigenous people compared to non-Aboriginal population
      (between 26% and 36% among adults living off-reserve and on-reserve, respectively).
      Furthermore, Indigenous people also report higher prevalence of obesity associated
      complications, including diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and arthritis. The association
      between physical inactivity and obesity suggests that increasing physical activity is
      important.

      KDC Health offers a variety of free programs to community members, however, the use of these
      services has been low. KDC Health has previously partnered with the CIHR-funded IMPAKT
      project, and has expressed a strong interest in developing an intervention to improve health
      and wellness in the communities.

      Objectives:

        1. To determine whether the PATH program can improve physical activity participation in the
           communities served by KDC Health.

        2. To assess the effect of this program on reducing sedentary time, and increasing the use
           of health promotion and wellness services offered by KDC Health

        3. To assess the correlation of physical activity levels and the secondary outcome measures
           among individuals who are living in the same household.

      Methods: The investigators will conduct a community-based proof-of-concept randomized
      controlled trial (RCT) with 60 eligible participants. Only 1 member per household will be
      enrolled. If more than 1 member is interested, they will select 1 person by consensus or by a
      random draw.

      After obtaining the baseline measures, participants will be randomly assigned to the 'Now
      Group' (target=30) or 'Later Group' (target=30).

      The Now Group will participate in a brief education session held at the KDC Health Centre,
      use a wearable physical activity tracker (Fitbit Flex), and physical activity mentoring by a
      KDC Health Staff (the Activity Mentors). The Activity Mentors have received training for the
      project from the Principal Investigator. In Month 1-2, participants will meet with their
      Activity Mentor once every 2 weeks to review their physical activity status, activity goals,
      and the health programs available at the Centre. In Month 3-4, they will continue to use
      Fitbit Flex but will no longer have regular meetings with the Activity Mentor.

      The Later Group will receive intervention two months later (i.e., Month 3-4).

      The primary outcome measure will be the time spent in moderate/vigorous physical activity. In
      addition, time spent in sedentary behaviours will be recorded. Participants will wear a
      SenseWear Mini accelerometer for 7 days at baseline, 2 months, and 4 months. Secondary
      outcome measures include sedentary time measured with SenseWear Mini, health status that will
      be measured using the SF-36 (a generic measure of health-related quality of life), and body
      weight. Participants' use of KDC Health programs and their motivation to be physically active
      will also be recorded.

      At the end of the program, participants will be interviewed for 30 minutes in person about
      their opinion on the intervention. Interviews will focus on 1) barriers/facilitators to being
      physically active, 2) their experience with the intervention, and 3) the nature of activities
      they engage in.
    
  