
    
      Ultrasonography assessment: Woman underwent an abdominal ultrasonographic examination
      including color-Doppler techniques at the period of 11-14 weeks of gestations to assess the
      following data:

        -  Gestational age was determined from the onset of the last normal menstrual period;
           measurements of fetal crown-rump length (CRL) were done to confirm the fetal gestational
           age.

        -  The fetal viability and careful search for any fetal abnormalities present.

        -  The measurement of the pulsatility index (PI), the resistance index (RI) in the uterine
           arteries both on the left and right side, detection for the presence of notch and
           determine whether it is unilateral or bilateral.

        -  The time of examination was approximately 20 minutes.

        -  The ultrasound equipment used for both abdominal sonography and color Doppler technique
           was GE ultrasound machine (model?? ) equipped with pulsed and color Doppler options was
           used with the probe frequency of 7 MHz.

      Trans-abdominal ultrasound examination was performed with the woman placed in a recumbent or
      semi recumbent position & carried out for measurement of fetal CRL and diagnosis of any major
      fetal defects and measurement of UtA-PI & UtA-RI. A sagittal section of the uterus was
      obtained For the Doppler studies, and the cervical canal and internal cervical os were
      identified. The transducer was gently tilted from side to side and color flow mapping was
      used to identify each UtA along the side of the cervix and uterus at the level of the
      internal os.

      the sampling gate set at 2mm to cover the whole vessel and care was taken to ensure that the
      angle of insonation was less than 60◦. When three similar consecutive waveforms had been
      obtained the UtA-PI and UtA-RI were measured, and the mean UtA-PI and UtA-RI of the left and
      right arteries were calculated.

      Uterine artery Doppler was obtained with the patient in a semirecumbent position following a
      previously described technique [14]. A sagittal view of the uterus and of the cervical canal
      was obtained and color flow mapping was used to identify the uterine arteries coursing along
      the side of the cervix and uterus. The pulsed Doppler sample volume was placed on the
      ascending branch of the uterine artery closest to the internal os. The pulsatility index (PI
      = S _ D/M) was measured on three consecutive waveforms and the mean value between the left
      and right arteries was calculated. The presence of an early diastolic notch in the waveforms
      was recorded. An abnormal value was considered a mean PI greater than 2.36 corresponding to
      the 95th centile of a cross-sectional study on 3045 pregnancies

      3D transabdominal ultrasound of the Placental volume: the transducer with a full bladder and
      the transducer placed perpendicular to the placenta to see the entire placenta. The
      adjustments to 3D placental scan were an angle of 70° and a maximum region of interest that
      allowed the full placental surface. The external limits of the placenta were defined by the
      basal plate and the chorionic plate excluding the myometrium. Another acquisition was done,
      if the quality criteria were not attained.

      After sonography, the placental volume was calculated with 4D View software (GE Healthcare)
      by a single operator. The calculation was done twice using the same image, and the time spent
      was recorded. The VOCAL mode with an angle of rotation of 30° was chosen; the axial plane was
      the reference; and the calipers were placed on either side of the placenta. With 6 planes, it
      was possible to reconstruct the volume measured in cubic centimeters
    
  