
    
      This study was conducted in non-randomized experimental design with pretest and posttest
      including intervention and control groups to determine the effect of the Professional Values
      Educational Program developed in accordance with Professional Values Model to test a
      theoretical model on professional value perception, job satisfaction levels and parental care
      satisfaction of pediatric nurses.

      Pediatric nursing is a field that takes children and families at central point of care and is
      responsible for providing health care from the neonatal period to the end of adolescence.
      Pediatric nurses' awareness of professional values is an important issue that should be
      addressed for development of nursing practices, quality nursing care, professional identity
      acquisition, high job satisfaction and minimization of leave of employment. In the studies,
      it is reported that the development of professional values is an important factor that
      increases the satisfaction of individuals receiving care and the job satisfaction of nurses.

      Ethics committee approval and written permission were obtained from the hospitals before the
      study was conducted. Written consent was obtained from all participating nursesIn the study.
      Personal Information Form, Nursing Professional Values Scale (NPVS-R) and Healthcare
      Environment Survey (HES) were used as data collection tools. These data collection tools were
      used in the pre-test and post-test.

      Nurses working at Akdeniz University Hospital became the intervention group. The nurses who
      accepted to participate in the study were divided into groups of 5-15 people. Pre-test was
      applied to nurses who accepted the research. Nurses were given four group trainings. A
      booklet on the subject prepared by the researchers was given. Three interim interviews were
      conducted in the subsequent 12-week. Six separate posters were posted in the clinics. Weekly
      reminder messages were sent via WhatsApp. At the end of the third month, post-test data were
      collected from the nurses.

      The nurses working in the University of Health Sciences Antalya Training and Research
      Hospital constituted the control group. Pre-test was applied to nurses who accepted the
      research. Post test applied 3 months later. A booklet on the subject prepared by the
      researchers was given after the post test. Group training was conducted to nurses.

      The post test data was collected in May 2019.
    
  