
    
      Objective:

      Autoimmune retinopathy (AIR) is an ophthalmic disorder in which autoantibodies damage the
      retina and its components, causing progressive vision loss. AIR has no established treatment,
      but systemic immunosuppression has shown favorable responses. Rituximab is an
      immunosuppressive agent which binds specifically to B lymphocytes. The objective of this
      study is to investigate the safety of rituximab as an effective treatment for AIR.

      Study Population:

      Five participants with AIR and visual acuity of 20/200 or better in at least one eye will
      receive rituximab. AIR must be confirmed by immunohistochemical demonstration of serum
      anti-retinal antibodies on normal, unfixed, frozen rhesus monkey or human retinas, as well as
      visual field and electroretinography (ERG) changes. Up to seven participants may be enrolled,
      in order to obtain the five participants to be included in the analysis if participants
      withdraw prior to receiving rituximab.

      Design:

      The study duration is 18 months. Rituximab is administered as a cycle consisting of two
      separate rituximab infusions of 1,000 mg each, two weeks apart. Participants will receive
      their first rituximab cycle at baseline and evaluated for a second cycle six months later.
      Treatment success is defined as experiencing a greater than a 25% improvement in ERG response
      amplitudes or greater than a 3 decibel (dB) improvement in mean deviation on Humphrey Field
      Analyzer [HFA (30-2)] or improvement in threshold values greater than 0.5 log in existing
      scotomas or greater than 25% improvement in the area of scotomas on Goldmann Visual Field
      (GVF) assessment as compared with baseline. As a result, participants could receive a maximum
      of two cycles in this study. Participants will return to the clinic 6 weeks and 3 months
      after their first infusion of each cycle for a safety visit. Study visits will continue every
      three months for the study duration.

      Outcome Measures:

      The primary outcome is the number of participants who meet the definition of treatment
      success within six months from baseline. Secondary efficacy outcomes include changes in
      visual acuity, the number of treatment successes at 9 and 12 months, the number of partial
      responders at 6, 9 and 12 months, changes in ERG or visual field as demonstrated by the HFA
      (30-2) or GVF, changes in optical coherence tomography (OCT), changes in fluorescein
      angiography (FA), changes in serum anti-retinal autoantibody or anti-retinal antibody
      staining, changes in color vision, positive visual symptoms or nyctalopia and changes in the
      participants quality-of-life as assessed by the NEI visual function questionnaire. For
      participants with greater than or equal to 2 ERG measurements available prior to enrollment,
      an attempt will be made to compare the rate of decline pre-study period to the rate of
      decline post-enrollment period. Safety outcomes include the number and severity of systemic
      and ocular toxicities, adverse events, and infections and the proportion of participants with
      a loss of greater than or equal to 15 ETDRS letter score.
    
  