
    
      In the rapidly evolving treatment landscape of advanced solid tumors, immunotherapeutic
      approaches have revolutionized cancer care for patients. Despite these advances, there is an
      undiminished need for the development of novel immunotherapeutic treatment modalities that
      are able to orchestrate effective anti-tumor immune responses. The investigators study a new
      class of immunomodulatory nanomedicines: PLGA nanoparticles loaded with a tumor antigen and
      an iNKT cell agonist.

      PLGA is a biodegradable polymer with minimal (systemic) toxicity, approved by the Food and
      Drug Administration (FDA) as well as the European Medicines Agency (EMA) to be used in
      various drug-carrying platforms.Tumor antigens and immunomodulatory molecules can be
      co-encapsulated in PLGA-based nanoparticles. In preclinical studies, these PLGA-based
      nanoparticles can induce anti-tumor immune responses. The investigators aim to explore
      PLGA-based nanoparticles containing the tumor antigen NY-ESO-1 and the iNKT cell activator
      IMM60 for their capacity to induce anti-tumor responses in cancer patients.

      NY-ESO-1 is a cancer-testis antigen normally expressed in testicular germ cells and
      trophoblasts of the placenta. However, NY-ESO-1 is also expressed in a wide range of cancers
      with a high incidence (around 25-30% of several [advanced] cancers, such as melanoma [40%],
      lung [2-32%], bladder [32-35%], and ovarian [30%] cancer). NY-ESO-1 is able to elicit immune
      responses. Patients who have NY-ESO-1-positive tumors have spontaneous or vaccine-induced
      humoral and cellular immune responses against this antigen. Therefore, NY-ESO-1 is considered
      to be a suitable tumor antigen for further clinical evaluation. Clinical trials have already
      shown the safety and tolerability of the NY-ESO-1 protein and peptides in patients with
      advanced cancer.

      In order to generate NY-ESO-1-directed immune responses, the NY-ESO-1 protein is taken up by
      antigen-presenting cells (APCs) and processed in small protein fragments, peptides.
      Particular peptides can bind to patient-specific HLA molecules and, subsequently, this
      HLA-peptide complex is recognized at the cell membrane by the T cell receptor (TCR) of T
      cells. Once the TCR specifically binds to the HLA-peptide complex, the T cell becomes
      stimulated and exerts its function, i.e. tumor cell killing by CD8+ T cells. In 1, an
      overview of the peptides known to bind to certain HLA alleles and recognized by T cells,
      either by CD4+ or by CD8+ T cells, is presented.

      Particulate vaccines are known to elicit better immune responses due to higher uptake by
      APCs. Encapsulating antigens and adjuvants within the same polymeric nanoparticle can enhance
      T cell responses. In earlier studies, the NY-ESO-1 whole protein was encapsulated in adjuvant
      ISCOMATRIX and shown to induce specific T cell responses in a majority of patients. iNKT cell
      agonists are more suitable adjuvants due to their higher activity in low doses and activation
      of DCs by iNKT cells. In this respect, the investigators will employ PLGA nanoparticles
      loaded with the NY-ESO-1 antigen and the iNKT cell agonist IMM60 as a co-delivery system.

      To facilitate NY-ESO-1 antigen encapsulation, long (85-111(peptide #2) and 117-143(peptide
      #3)) and short (157-165(peptide #4)) peptides will be incorporated into nanoparticles. In
      combination, the three selected NY-ESO-1-derived peptides are presented in 80% of the class I
      and class II HLA alleles of the European population. Similar peptides (79-116 and 118-143)
      were previously loaded onto DCs together with α-GalCer and delivered to cancer patients in a
      recent clinical trial. The results of that trial demonstrated iNKT cell expansion, CD4+ T
      cell responses against the 118-143 peptide in 7/8 patients, and CD8+ T cell responses against
      the 79-116 peptide in 3/8 patients (Gasser, Sharples et al. 2018). Here, an additional short
      peptide (157-165) is included, which is presented by the highly prevalent HLA-A2.1 molecule.
      Hence, higher CD8+ T cell responses against this epitope and superior activation of human
      iNKT cells by IMM60 are expected due to co-encapsulation.
    
  