
    
      BACKGROUND: Heart failure (HF)accounts for morbidity and mortality in Canada. In contrast to
      coronary heart disease, the mortality rate attributed to HF has decreased minimally, only
      14%, over the last 35 years. This is despite a plethora of new therapeutic modalities proven
      to decrease mortality in HF. HF is also one of the leading causes of hospitalizations
      accounting for the second highest total number of hospital days and the third highest number
      of patients affected. It has been estimated that approximately 20-50% of patients will be
      readmitted to hospital with one year. Patients seen in the emergency department (ED)and
      discharged home from the ED are also at high risk for readmissions. A local study by our
      group indicated that 44% of patients seen for HF in the ED have this disposition and as such
      have a strikingly 50% higher readmission rate at 30 days compared to those admitted to
      hospital. This difference could be explained by a "care gap" as evidence by a low utilization
      of both angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors and beta-blockers in this group. However, a
      lack of patient education on self-care and follow-up post ED discharge could also attribute
      to these rates. We propose testing a intervention employing a multidisciplinary team to
      facilitate follow-up, provide HF education, including self-care, and improve utilization of
      proven drug-therapy in patients discharged with HF from the ED on the outcomes of
      hospitalizations and mortality.

      PURPOSE: To improve the quality of care for patient with HF

      HYPOTHESIS: Multidisciplinary team management of patients with HF has be shown to decrease
      both morbidity and mortality in HF patients. A multifaceted program including rapid referral,
      early short-term follow-up, medication initiation and titration and HF education in
      collaboration with a dietician, nurse, pharmacist and physician will improve HF patient care
      in terms of clinical outcomes, quality of life and evidence-based medication utilization.

      STUDY DESIGN: The study will utilize an unblinded randomized controlled trial (RCT) design.
      Eligible patients will included patient discharged from the ED with a diagnosis of heart
      failure. All patients referred from the ED will be seen in a rapid referral clinic within 1
      week. Eligible patients will then randomized to an intervention arm or usual care. The usual
      care group will have a consultation letter with recommendations sent their family doctor and
      will receive a booklet on heart failure. The intervention arm will be followed in clinic
      monthly by the multidisciplinary team. Medication will be initiated and titrated to target
      dose. Patients will receive education regarding heart failure, medications, lifestyle, diet
      and self-management. Communication will the patient's primary care provider will also be
      enhanced.

      SIGNIFICANCE: The literature describes a plethora of therapeutic modalities aimed at
      improving the care of patients with HF. However, in terms of multifaceted disease management
      interventions, the majority of HF studies have examined high risk patients that were admitted
      to hospital or stable outpatients. This proposed study would examine a unique population of
      patients being discharged from the emergency department.
    
  