
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Assess the efficacy and toxic effects of carmustine/etoposide/melphalan (ICE)
           chemotherapy followed by peripheral blood progenitor cell transplantation in patients
           with refractory or relapsed intermediate grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

        -  Assess the ability of the ICE chemotherapy regimen, in conjunction with filgrastim, to
           mobilize peripheral blood stem cells.

      OUTLINE: This is a descriptive pilot study.

      Patients receive 3 cycles of induction chemotherapy with ifosfamide, carboplatin, and
      etoposide (ICE). Each cycle is given at least 14 days apart. Patients receive etoposide IV on
      days 1 through 3. Carboplatin and ifosfamide with mercaptoethane sulfonate is given IV over
      24 hours on day 2.

      During cycles 1 and 2, patients receive filgrastim (G-CSF) SC every 6 hours beginning on day
      1 and continuing until the desired absolute neutrophil count (ANC) is attained.

      Patients receive at least 24 hours of rest before PBPC infusion on day 0.

      Following cycle 3, G-CSF is given SC beginning on day 6 and continuing until completion of
      PBPC collection. However, bone marrow will be harvested if an insufficient number of stem
      cells are collected after 5 leukaphereses.

      Patients with residual disease limited to 2 sites receive radiation therapy twice a day
      within 2 weeks prior to high dose BEAM chemotherapy with carmustine, etoposide, cytarabine,
      and melphalan.

      Patients receive carmustine IV on day -7. Etoposide and cytarabine are given IV every 12
      hours on days -6 through -3. Melphalan is given IV on day -2.

      G-CSF is administered every 12 hours beginning on day 1 and continuing until the desired ANC
      is attained. If ANC is attenuated on day 21, patients undergo a repeat bone marrow biopsy and
      receive filgrastim SC.

      Patients are followed for 2 years posttransplant, then for 3 to 5 years at 4 month intervals
      and every 6 months following the fifth posttransplant.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: This study will accrue 30 patients for the duration of 2 years.
    
  