
    
      This pilot study will be conducted in a prospective, non-randomized fashion using a
      convenience sample of 100 subjects undergoing sedation for Emergency Department procedures.

      Recruitment Methods The research associates as well as the health care team (both residents
      and attending physicians) will screen patients who may need procedural sedation in the
      Emergency Department and may qualify for the study. Research associates will use the Medical
      Record

      Procedures Involved in the Research Initial medical assessment will be made in accordance
      with established clinical procedures, including the history, physical examination, and vital
      signs. If by clinical assessment the patient meets eligibility criteria, then they will be
      approached by a research associate for enrollment in the study. After informed consent is
      obtained and prior to starting the sedation, standard vital sign monitoring will be placed on
      the patient (electrocardiogram, non-invasive blood pressure monitoring, pulse oximetry, and
      capnography). Level of consciousness will be determined using the modified Ramsay scale,
      which will be assessed at baseline. The Entitled Carbon Di Oxide (CO2) monitor will be used
      as the primary device to measure Entitled Carbon Di Oxide (CO2), with a nasal cannula capable
      of delivering supplemental oxygen and measuring Entitled CO2.

      The Nitrous Oxide gas mixer system will be used as the primary nitrous oxide delivery device.
      It will mix and deliver nitrous oxide and oxygen in a 1:1 ratio, at a fixed concentration of
      50%/50%. It uses a patient driven demand valve system that is hand held. This device provides
      a consistent, fixed 50%/50% blend of nitrous oxide (N2O) and oxygen (O2), eliminates the need
      to titrate, and provides fixed concentrations for controlled and consistent dosing. The
      device comparator detects dosing imbalance to protect against hypoxic mixtures, it cannot
      deliver nitrous gas without concurrent oxygen, and the device has an anti-asphyxia valve
      override. The on demand valve requires patient inspiration to trigger dosing. This portable
      device scavenges exhaled waste gases for environmental safety, as well as a key mechanism
      that renders the system inoperable without it for security.

      After informed consent, the patient will fill out a pre procedure questionnaire and a 100 mm
      VAS baseline pain scale. The patient will be given the mask for delivery of nitrous oxide,
      and instructed on its use. The research associate will mark the time the patient began using
      the device electronically. Once IV access is established, and the team and patient are ready
      to begin the procedure, the nitrous oxide mask will be removed, and a 100% non rebreather
      mask delivering 15 liters a minute of supplemental oxygen will be placed on the patients
      face. The loading dose of propofol will then be administered immediately. All sedations in
      this trial will use propofol 1.0 mg/Kg initial dose, with 0.5 mg/Kg doses titrated to deep
      sedation. Once the patient is deeply sedated, the procedure will begin.

      The subject's clinical data and sedation information (refer to data management) will be
      entered into a standardized data collection form. The data will be continuously recorded
      throughout the sedation and recovery periods. Study will end when the subjects recovers back
      to baseline mental status.

      Vital signs will be flagged electronically when a physician intervenes for clinical
      respiratory depression. Respiratory depression will be defined as peripheral Oxygen
      saturation below 92%, Entitled CO2 level above 50, a rise or decrease of 10% above or below
      baseline, the loss of the Entitled CO2 waveform for more than 15 seconds. Level of
      consciousness will be determined using the modified Ramsay scale, which will be recorded at
      baseline and at the point of deepest sedation. Once the procedure is complete, and the
      patient is deemed back to their mental status baseline, they will fill out a post procedure
      satisfaction questionnaire, and a 100 mm VAS scale. They will be asked about procedure
      recall. The physician and nurse involved will also fill out a post procedure questionnaire.

      System for screening, and they will be in charge of informed consent, enrollment, placement
      of the capnography monitor, as well as data collection. The health care team will be in
      charge of the procedural sedation and all other management.
    
  