
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Identify whether targeting approximate (approx.) 3- or 5-days of severe neutropenia after
      exposure to a personalized melphalan hydrochloride (melphalan) dose results in best clinical
      outcome.

      II. Measure melphalan-related toxicities in both 3-day and 5-day arms. III. Measure response
      per International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG). IV. Record overall survival (OS) and
      progression free survival (PFS).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To administer a test dose of melphalan and obtain test dose melphalan pharmacokinetics
      (PK) data from the first 33 patients.

      II. Measure drug-induced deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) damage in peripheral blood mononuclear
      cells (PBMCs) treated with melphalan ex vivo post exposure.

      III. Measure drug-induced DNA damage in patient myeloma cells treated with melphalan ex vivo.

      IV. Assess melphalan-induced DNA damage in treated patients. V. Measure allele and genotype
      frequencies of variants, as well as gene expression of XRCC1 rs25487 and XRCC3 rs861529.

      VI. Additional genetic variants relevant to DNA repair, melphalan transport, and clinical
      toxicities may be tested as well.

      VII. Test cytotoxicity (half maximal inhibitory concentration [IC50]) of patient PBMCs prior
      to autologous transplant after exposure to melphalan ex vivo.

      VIII. Measure p53 and phospho(TP53) in patient PBMCs prior to autologous transplant at
      baseline and after exposure to melphalan ex vivo.

      IX. Incorporate both disease progression and drug-related toxicities into separate models
      linked to our calculated melphalan area under the curve (AUC) model.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized into 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive personalized dose of melphalan hydrochloride intravenously (IV) on
      day -2 for predicted 3-day duration of severe neutropenia and undergo standard of care
      autologous stem cell transplant on day 0.

      ARM II: Patients receive personalized dose of melphalan hydrochloride IV on day -2 for
      predicted 5-day duration of severe neutropenia and undergo standard of care autologous stem
      cell transplant on day 0.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days, at 3 months after
      transplant, and then every 6-12 months.
    
  