
    
      The study entitled, Tailored Adaptive Mobile Messaging to Reduce Problem Drinking (PD) is
      designed to develop and test a tailored adaptive text messaging/short message service (SMS)
      intervention for individuals interested in reducing their alcohol consumption.

      According to the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, problem or risky
      drinking is defined as greater than 7 standard drinks per week for women and 14 standard
      drinks per week for men. Other groups have other criteria (e.g., 10 drinks for women and 14
      for men per week). The Institute of Medicine reports that problem drinkers are those with
      mild-to-moderate problem severity who do not have physical dependence.

      Heavy drinking individuals with non-abstinence goals rarely seek treatment for excessive
      alcohol use, and newer methods such as internet screening and mobile apps provide
      opportunities to engage and treat this difficult to reach population. There are now 96 mobile
      phone contracts for every 100 people on earth, making mobile interventions a highly viable
      method for extending care beyond traditional methods. Text messaging or short message service
      (SMS) is the most widely available mode of mobile communication and despite its simplicity,
      has been proven to be a reliable and effective method to induce behavior change across
      behavioral health targets, including problem drinking. However, large scale randomized
      controlled trials are needed to provide the necessary empirical evidence to validate SMS
      interventions and understand the mediators and moderators of outcome for help seeking heavy
      drinkers who are using or unable to attend in-person care.

      The investigators recently completed an R34 study to develop the first automated tailored
      adaptive (TA) text messaging intervention for problem drinking (PD) adults (Muench et al.
      2017). The study compared TA to different automated once a day static messaging including:
      tailored only messaging (TO), loss framed messaging (LF), gain frame messaging (GF), and
      weekly mobile assessment only (MA) over 12 weeks in 171 problem drinkers recruited on the
      internet across the US. All messaging groups outperformed MA on most drinking outcomes, and
      the TA group had the largest effect sizes on every drinking outcome, with an average weekly
      drink reduction of 9 standard drinks at week 12. Over an 8-month period, 1149 individuals
      across the country took the web-based screening survey, highlighting the demand for messaging
      in this population. Furthermore, 94.7% of participants (Ps) enrolled completed the end of
      messaging week 12 survey and 80% wanted to continue messaging following the pilot trial.
      There were no adverse events in this study.

      Primary hypotheses:

        1. The TA group will have significantly reduced weekly sum of standard drinks (SSD) and
           heavy drinking days (HDD) compared to MA at all time periods.

        2. TO will have significantly reduced SSD and HDD compared to MA at all time points.

        3. TA group will have significantly reduced SSD compared to TO at all time periods except
           one month follow-up.

        4. Severity will moderate the relationship between TA, MA and TO and drinking in that high
           severity P's will make significantly greater changes in the TA group.

      Exploratory aims include testing other outcomes such as drinking related consequences by
      group, moderators such as gender and ethnicity, and mediators such as intervention relevance
      and self-efficacy.
    
  