
    
      Idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder of unknown
      etiology, characterized by bradykinesia (slowness of movements) associated with tremor at
      rest and/or muscle rigidity. PD is typically associated with a significant loss of
      dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta(SNpc).The resulting nigro-striatal
      degeneration can be detected and quantified using a dopamine transporter (DAT) single photon
      emission computerized tomography (SPECT) imaging technique. This type of imaging, recently
      approved for clinical use in the United States, uses a labeled ligand (123I-Ioflupane) with
      high affinity to the DAT in the striatum. The amount of transporter, which plays a crucial
      role in the health of the presynaptic dopaminergic neurons, is then visualized by SPECT.
      123I-Ioflupane uptake is reduced 50-70% in patients with early PD.

      In addition to cardinal motor symptoms, PD is characterized by a large number of "non-motor"
      symptoms (NMS), which add to the overall morbidity burden. Importantly, non--motor features
      may precede the diagnosis of PD, sometimes by several years. They include autonomic
      (gastrointestinal dysfunction, cardiovascular dysfunction with orthostatic hypotension (OH),
      urinary and sexual dysfunction, and hyperhidrosis), sleep (impaired sleep initiation and
      maintenance, rapid eye movement behavior disorder (RBD), sleep apnea and excessive daytime
      sleepiness), sensory (pain, hyposmia, and visual dysfunction), and neuropsychiatric
      disturbances (anhedonia, apathy, anxiety, depression, panic attacks, dementia, and
      psychosis).

      Among NMS, cardiac dysautonomia is a common feature of PD, manifesting in 30% of patients as
      orthostatic hypotension, a symptom that is correlated to disease duration and severity.
      Cardiac sympathetic innervation (CSI) is also affected in PD and other synucleinopathies.
      Lewy Body (LB) pathology, widely considered a marker of PD when detected in the SNpc, is also
      found in the sinoatrial nodal ganglion and myocardium of PD patients at autopsy. Despite the
      high prevalence of both conditions, the relationship between CSI impairment and cardiac
      dysautonomia is still poorly understood.

      Iodine-123 meta-iodobenzylguanidine (123I-MIBG) is an inactive physiological analogue that
      mimics the kinetics of norepinephrine (NE) and competes with NE for active cardiac uptake
      into the postganglionic sympathetic nerve terminal, where it is stored into granules by NE
      transport proteins. 123I-MIBG myocardial scintigraphy, an accepted measure of CSI, is
      abnormal in PD patients, with a characteristic reduction of Heart/Mediastinum (H/M) ratio
      (early and late uptake) and an increased Washout Rate (WR). 123I-MIBG uptake impairment is
      specific to PD and other synucleinopathies and can be used to differentiate PD and dementia
      with Lewy bodies (DLB) from other disorders with similar neurological phenomenology such as
      multiple system atrophy (MSA), progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) and corticobasal
      degeneration (CBD).

      123I-MIBG uptake deficit in PD is attributed to cardiac sympathetic denervation, based on
      neuropathological studies using tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunostaining in epicardial
      nerves. There is evidence of alpha-synuclein aggregation in the epicardial nerve fascicles -
      the distal axons of the cardiac sympathetic nerve - in subjects with incidental Lewy Body
      Disease (ILBD) at stage 2 or 3 of Braak staging with preserved TH immunoreactive axons,
      suggesting a preliminary stage in the development of cardiac sympathetic denervation.
      However, while 123I-MIBG myocardial scintigraphy abnormalities have been correlated with
      pre-motor symptoms like RBD, hyposmia and constipation, there is no pathological evidence of
      cardiac sympathetic denervation in subjects with signs of 123I-MIBG myocardial scintigraphy
      abnormality and recognized pre-motor symptoms of PD. Finally, despite the specific
      association with PD diagnosis, the relationship between CSI impairment and nigrostriatal
      degeneration is poorly understood. Two studies found a strong correlation between
      nigrostriatal dopaminergic degeneration, as measured by 123I Ioflupane SPECT, and CSI
      impairment at different stages of disease. 123I-MIBG uptake deficits have been correlated
      with the progression of the disease.

      Interestingly, CSI - and therefore 123I-MIBG cardiac uptake - is impaired in other chronic
      conditions such as Heart Failure (HF), Hypertension, Diabetes Mellitus, Chronic Obstructive
      Pulmonary Disease and Sleep Apnea, with an identical pattern of abnormality as the one
      detected in PD patients. As opposed to cardiac sympathetic denervation, 123I-MIBG cardiac
      uptake impairment in these chronic conditions - and in particular HF - is explained with the
      hyperactivity of the sympathetic nervous system (SNS) acting as compensatory mechanism
      related to specific organ failure (i.e. post-ischemic/idiopathic heart failure). In fact,
      123I-MIBG cardiac uptake is of prognostic value and can be used to stratify HF patients at
      risk for ventricular arrhythmias and sudden death. By reducing SNS hyperactivity, chronic
      treatment with beta-blockers improves 123I-MIBG cardiac uptake and reduces mortality in
      patients with HF.

      Many recognizable triggers for PD appear to be associated with increased sympathetic tone,
      including most notably brain traumatic injuries, but also microbiota perturbations, air
      pollution, heavy metals like iron and manganese, and finally aging itself. In addition, there
      is reason to believe that SNS overactivity might trigger the principal pre-motor symptoms of
      PD, including hyposmia, constipation and RBD. Finally, SNS overactivity typically drives
      reduced low-frequency heart rate variability (HRV), another clinical sign associated with
      pre-motor - particularly RBD - and early PD. Interestingly, low delayed uptake and high
      washout rate, the 123I-MIBG scintigraphy indices of increased adrenergic drive, are typically
      described in PD patients.

      Based on these considerations, the investigators hypothesize that 123I-MIBG cardiac
      impairment in neurodegenerative disease shares the same pathophysiology of other chronic
      conditions like HF, at least in the very early, pre-motor stages of development. Therefore,
      treatment of SNS hyperactivity with adrenergic blockers will improve cardiac sympathetic
      denervation in PD patients, providing evidence that this process is reversible. If this is
      true, the early detection of 123I-MIBG cardiac impairment in PD, particularly in the
      pre-motor phase, might create a considerable window of opportunity for treatment with
      adrenergic blockers - or similar compounds able to reduce SNS hyperactivity - which may
      result in long-term benefit such as delaying the neurodegenerative process and the onset of
      neurological symptoms. This may be documented and monitored using nigrostriatal dopaminergic
      scintigraphy (DAT scan), a strategy that would implement a dual imaging algorithm to provide
      early and viable biomarkers of the neurodegenerative process.

      Among adrenergic blockers, carvedilol is particularly well-suited to block impaired
      sympathetic over-activation in virtue of several effects on the adrenoceptors, including β-1
      and β-2 adrenergic blockade and α-1 adrenergic blockade, in addition to antioxidant activity,
      L-type calcium channel blockade, and inhibition of stress-activated protein kinase.
      Absorption of current oral formulations of carvedilol is typically rapid and complete, with
      an average elimination half -life of about 8 hours. The high lipophilic structure of
      carvedilol makes it one of the beta-blockers most readily crossing the blood brain barrier.
      Carvedilol is associated with greater reduction of sympathetic activity, as measured by
      123I-MIBG myocardial uptake, than metoprolol and other selective beta-blockers. In addition,
      due to its α-1 adrenergic blockade properties, carvedilol may exert beneficial effects on
      olfactory dysfunction and insulin resistance, two abnormalities frequently associated with
      the neurodegenerative process in PD. Adrenergic blockers have been associated with sleep
      disturbances including RBD, although the latter is based on isolated anecdotal reports. The
      negative effect of beta-blockers on sleep quality and duration appears to be related with the
      suppression of night time levels of melatonin. Interestingly however, carvedilol is not
      associated with melatonin suppression.

      The purpose of this pilot study is to investigate the effect of treatment with the adrenergic
      blocker carvedilol on 123I-MIBG myocardial uptake in a population of subjects with defined
      pre-motor PD risks (i.e. hyposmia and RBD) and abnormal baseline 123I-MIBG uptake, with or
      without 123I-Ioflupane uptake abnormality or PD motor symptoms. Scintigraphic changes will be
      correlated to motor and non-motor severity of PD, measured by validated clinical scales and
      cardiac autonomic function tests.
    
  