
    
      Combination antiretroviral therapy including two nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors
      (NRTIs) and a single HIV-1 protease inhibitor (PI) results in significant and sustained
      decreases in plasma HIV-1 RNA with a resultant marked diminution in the selection of
      drug-resistant variants in those able to adhere to and tolerate these regimens. However, two
      lines of evidence suggest that additional and perhaps more aggressive approaches may be
      necessary in some HIV-infected individuals: 1) the failure of some potent three-drug regimens
      to sustain viral replication to levels below the limits of detection; and 2) the ability to
      recover virus from lymphoid tissue obtained from those without evidence of detectable plasma
      HIV-1 RNA using the most sensitive assays. A regimen containing more drugs with potentially
      different mechanisms of action or synergistic activity may result in greater, more rapid, or
      more durable antiviral activity, or reduce the number of latently infected cells in those
      patients with acute or early HIV-1 infection.

      Patients in Group I begin study therapy within 7 to 14 days of screening. Patients are
      randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms. Arm A receives stavudine (d4T) plus didanosine (ddI)
      plus ritonavir plus indinavir. Arm B receives d4T plus ddI plus ritonavir plus indinavir plus
      hydroxyurea. Patients are discontinued from hydroxyurea after Week 24. Group II consists of
      patients who meet eligibility criteria but who elect not to receive antiretroviral treatment.
      Patients in Groups I and II follow the same schedule of evaluations. Enrollment visit (Week
      0) evaluations are completed prior to dispensing drugs, and all patients have clinical,
      virologic, and immunologic evaluations performed every 4 weeks through Week 24, then every 8
      weeks thereafter. Patients in Group I take study drugs for 104 weeks with an optional 52-week
      rollover. Laboratory results from the Week 96 evaluation are used to decide whether or not
      patients continue on study medications. Patients who elect not to participate in the optional
      rollover or meet criteria for treatment failure at any time during the study are offered the
      best available treatment at the discretion of their HIV care provider and continue to be
      followed at 8-week intervals.
    
  