
    
      During the last years, the percutaneous biopsies took a growing importance in the diagnosis
      of musculoskeletal cancers. The most important advantages of percutaneous biopsies are: 1)
      Often performed under local anesthesia in out-patient department, 2) No visible scars, 3)
      Surgical intervention avoided in case of benign tumor with a low level of complications
      (infection, hematoma, pain).

      The technology improvement of percutaneous biopsy leads to a high diagnosis success rate
      (80.8% for bone tumors and 83.2% for soft tissues tumors') with a low complication rate
      (0.7%) and then justifies the use of percutaneous biopsy as first-line diagnostic exam.

      During a percutaneous biopsy, the pain is frequently felt with an increase in the "pain
      numeric scale" evaluated after the procedure.

      The nitrous oxide is a gas mixture which can be used for its anesthetic and antalgic
      properties, making the pain tolerable for the patients during short procedures. However, it
      can cause adverse events such as nausea, vomiting and nervous system affections (excessive
      sedation, anxiety). Moreover, this gas is not always efficient for the pain management.

      Other options have been investigated such as hypnosis and music therapy which improve
      patients' experience of the medical interventional procedures.

      The virtual reality is a digital tool existing for about 10 years. It enables to isolate a
      patient from the real world which can be useful in some medical indications. It is a 3-D
      immersive experience, created using a visual and audio headset. Virtual reality can reduce
      the pain experienced during surgical interventions and has widely shown its interest in
      algogenic cares.

      While the results are promising, a recent review of the literature shows that very few
      randomized clinical trials document the virtual reality benefit in pain and/or anxiety
      management for burn patients or patients suffering from acute or chronic pains.

      The objective of this study is to demonstrate the benefit of the virtual reality in addition
      to a deep local anesthesia vs a deep local anesthesia alone in the pain management linked to
      musculoskeletal tumors biopsy.
    
  