
    
      More than 400,000 coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) procedures are performed every year
      in the United States (U.S.). Patients undergoing CABG surgery are at risk for a number of
      adverse sequelae, many of which impact survival and contribute to overall health-care costs.
      Healthcare-acquired infections (HAIs), including pneumonia and superficial and deep sternal
      wound infections, occur among 16% of CABG patients and elevate a patient's risk of mortality
      and add excess upfront and long-term expenditures to the health care system.

      A number of barriers prevent wide-scale improvements in HAl rates within the setting of CABG
      surgery. While a number of HAl prophylaxis measures have been developed, these measures do
      not fully encompass the set of practices that may impact a patient's risk of HAl. Identifying
      cardiac surgery specific risk factors would serve as the foundation for targeted quality
      improvement strategies. In the absence of definitive data concerning best practices, HAl
      prophylaxis is variable across surgeons and institutions, resulting in unnecessary morbidity
      and cost. Prior work has shown the value of implementing evidence-based protocols in the
      general intensive care unit setting. To what extent the implementation of cardiac surgery
      specific standardized practices results in lower HAl rates is uncertain. An understanding of
      the effectiveness of this approach would certainly assist surgeons and institutions in
      providing safer care to their patient populations.

      Rates of HAIs vary from 0-26% across the 33 institutions performing CABG surgery in Michigan.
      This application seeks to reduce this rate by identifying and subsequently implementing
      standardized practices, and evaluating their impact on HAl rates. This study will be based on
      the prospective data and regional quality improvement activities and infrastructure of the
      Michigan Society of Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgeons Quality Collaborative (MSTCVS-QC).
      The investigators will evaluate the effectiveness of these standardized practices in reducing
      HAIs regionally and relative to national rates during the same time period.

      The investigators will conduct qualitative interviews of hospital personnel regarding HAI
      prevention practices, and use coded data from these interviews to assist in developing
      standardized practices.
    
  