
    
      Background and Rationale:

      The pelvic floor comprises muscles, nerves and a fascial network with dynamic, elastic
      ligaments of support. Pelvic organ prolapse (POP) occurs when the capacity to accommodate
      pressure and stretch is exceeded and increases with childbirth and aging. One in five women
      need surgery for POP. POP suspension performed vaginally is among the most important ideas in
      gynecology in the past few decades, however the investigators do not know which technique is
      best. The principal applicant has developed a novel surgery: bilateral sacrospinous vaginal
      vault fixation with synthetic mesh arms (BSSVF-M), which may be more successful, durable and
      cost-effective than standard sacrospinous ligament suspension with sutures (SSLS) and may
      thus become the preferred vaginal POP surgery both nationally and internationally. A Cochrane
      review on surgical management of POP concluded that "adequately powered RCTs with blinding of
      assessors are urgently needed […] they particularly need to include women's perceptions." The
      OPTIMAL trial, a large RCT comparing 2 POP surgeries, established a stringent definition of
      success using a composite outcome of objectively measured POP, subjective improvement and the
      need for another treatment for POP recurrence.

      Identifying the best way to surgically suspend the vagina for POP can make the difference
      between a woman who can enjoy a desired level of physical activity at work or play, empty her
      bowel and bladder without concerns, engage in a normal sexual life and a woman who can't
      perform these basic activities without discomfort, pain, worry and shame. The vaginal
      approach for pelvic surgery offers less pain, a shorter hospital stay, a faster recovery and
      no external incisions. However, what is the safest, most durable, most cost-effective vaginal
      POP surgery? Prior operations have produced unacceptable complications or a need for
      reoperation for POP recurrence. Further suffering for women and unacceptable healthcare costs
      ensued. Because seniors (over age 65) are the fastest growing age group in Canada, the CIHR
      states research into aging should be prioritized. By 2031, Statistics Canada estimates the
      number of senior women to reach 5.1 million or 24% of the total female population. Women have
      longer life expectancy than men. The burden of POP increases with age; 1 of 2 women over 80
      experience pelvic floor dysfunction. For some aging women, vaginal surgery is the only option
      because of comorbidities precluding more invasive or lengthier open abdominal surgeries.
      Currently, there is true clinical equipoise between BSSVF-M and SSLS. Our novel mesh
      insertion technique, BSSVF-M, offers the advantages of small size, deep, tension-free and
      tailored to individual anatomy. This ensures midline restoration of the vaginal axis and
      maintains flexibility for normal bladder, bowel and sexual function. Tension-free insertion
      of BSSVF-M is a key difference with SSLS, which pulls the vagina tight against ligaments,
      causing pain or the return of POP after SSLS. Surgical innovation is important but adoption
      of new procedures needs reliable evidence acquired through a rigorous Innovation,
      Development, Exploration, Assessment, Long-term study (IDEAL) paradigm.

      The investigators have been studying BSSVF-M over the past 9 years. Initial development
      included a magnetic resonance imaging study establishing restoration of pelvic anatomy
      comparable to normal. An exploratory prospective cohort study followed, showing BSSVF-M to be
      safe, easily taught to other surgeons and successful in 77% of women at one year, with the
      OPTIMAL composite outcome. This is superior to the reported 60% success of the SSLS and
      informed our power calculation for the proposed RCT. An informal survey of 50 Western Society
      for Pelvic Medicine surgeons indicated that an average of 14% increase in composite outcome
      success would be sufficient to adopt a new vaginal suspension technique. The investigators
      are now at the IDEAL assessment stage, where our novel technique warrants an RCT before
      widespread adoption. The results of this trial will directly inform surgeons whether mesh
      should be used for vaginal repair of POP and how to counsel patients. This trial includes
      knowledge translation for women to understand pelvic floor symptoms, related
      condition-specific quality of life, sexual health and body image after two vaginal surgery
      procedures. A rigorous cost effectiveness analysis will inform different stakeholders and
      policy makers regarding cost effectiveness.

      Primary Objective:

      To compare BSSVF-M vs. SSLS via the OPTIMAL composite outcome measure at 2 years.

      Secondary Objectives:

      To determine condition-specific urinary, bowel and POP symptoms, quality of life, new onset
      pelvic pain, gender-specific body image, sexuality, global improvement, adverse events,
      reoperations and health utility up to 2 years post BSSVF-M vs. SSLS. Validated questionnaires
      and adverse event schemes will be used. A Markov model will estimate 10-year health benefits
      and costs of surgery.

      Interventions:

      Patients > age 19, symptomatic POP (stage 1-4) randomized to BSSVF-M or SSLS. Both surgeries
      are performed through the same vaginal incisions. BSSVF-M uses bilateral synthetic
      polypropylene mesh arms for support of the vaginal wall and SSLS uses two synthetic sutures
      attached uni- or bilaterally. As both are performed through the same incision, women will not
      know their treatment. Group assignment will remain blinded through trial end. Surgeons will
      receive group allocation immediately prior to surgery. To diminish bias, research personnel
      conducting pelvic exams to evaluate the primary outcome will be blind to the type of
      procedure. Patients will be seen and examined at 6 weeks, 1 yr and 2 yrs following surgery.
      They will fill out questionnaires. At 6 months postoperatively, they will receive a phone
      call and will fill out a questionnaire for health utility purposes.

      Recruitment/Timeline:

      The investigators anticipate recruiting over 2.5 yrs (fall 2016-spring 2019). Total timeline
      for the trial is 5 yrs, to ensure follow-up of all recruited women for 2 yrs postop. The main
      centre in Vancouver (2 surgeons) is committed to recruiting 1-2 patients per week or 130
      total. Edmonton (1 surgeon), Calgary (1 surgeon) and Montreal (2 surgeons) would recruit 76
      patients each. Based on prior experience with the pilot study of BSSVF-M and OPTIMAL, the
      investigators anticipate approximately 90% of invited women will volunteer and 5% of those
      will change their mind about participation at baseline. Given the NPA performs 4 to 8 vaginal
      surgeries for POP per month, the investigators anticipate no recruitment challenges. Based on
      surgical volumes and commitment to research, the other sites should also reach targets. All
      surgeons are experts at vaginal surgery for POP (including SSLS) and all except one have
      performed BSSVF-M. They do not currently offer BSSVF-M outside research studies. According to
      national credentialing organizations and our surgical survey, surgeons require at least 5 and
      on average 8 procedures to become familiar with a new vaginal POP technique. Assistance with
      8 cases will be provided to the surgeon untrained to perform BSSVF-M. In addition, video
      instruction will be provided to standardize procedure and materials.

      Challenges/Mitigation:

      Compliance problems:

      Compliance with follow-up may be an issue due to the follow up for 2 years. Patients will be
      screened for future compliance at recruitment and the coordinator at each site will follow
      each patient quarterly over the 2 years, asking for updated contact information at each time
      point.

      Loss to follow-up:

      The investigators anticipate similarities in loss to follow-up (15%) to OPTIMAL. To mitigate
      loss to follow-up, the investigators will reimburse patient parking and traveling costs with
      a small stipend.

      Unblinding of participants:

      In the event of complications arising from either surgery, patients or assessors may become
      aware of the group assignment. For example, if a patient develops exposure of the vaginal
      mesh, the pelvic examination will reveal this at various time points and surgery may be
      needed to remove the mesh exposed in the vagina. This may introduce bias in assessments at
      various time points, however it will likely not affect the primary composite outcome measure
      at 2 years. Based on our prior experience with BSSVF-M, the investigators anticipate
      unblinding complications to be less than 5% of the total sample. The primary surgeon who
      deals with complications and need for reoperation is not involved in pelvic examination
      assessments. Most complications will be corrected by 2 years, so the blinded assessor at 2
      years will be unable to identify group assignment.

      Sample size:

      179 women/group (358 total). Our Western Canadian survey of 50 surgeons indicated the
      smallest clinically relevant difference to change surgical practice would be an absolute
      change of 14%. The proportion of success in the control SSLS group was 60.5% in the OPTIMAL
      trial and the success rate with BSSVF-M was 77% in our one-year pilot study. Our pilot study
      was small and designed to inform a power calculation for an RCT; it did not study long-term
      results, cost effectiveness or KT strategies. Studies of mesh vs sutures in surgery for
      urinary incontinence indicate that mesh is more successful, durable and cost-effective than
      sutures, therefore the investigators expect similar results for POP, with sustained
      durability of mesh over time. Our primary analytic strategy, following the example of the
      OPTIMAL trial, will include only patients who come for 2-yr follow-up or who were failures on
      the last follow-up. Patients who do not come to their 2-yr follow-up but who were failures at
      last follow-up will be counted as failures. Sample size was determined based on a two-sample
      test of independent proportions, using two-sided µ=0.05, anticipated successful outcome rates
      60 and 75%, power=80% and yielded 152 patients/group. To account for an estimated 15% loss to
      follow-up (patients who never had a follow-up visit or who were deemed successful on their
      last follow-up), similar to the OPTIMAL trial, our sample size was increased to 179 per
      group.

      Allocation:

      Random allocation is via a web-based allocation system. A statistician will generate a list
      of random allocations, stratified by surgeon and using randomly sized permuted blocks to
      prevent bias in guessing the next treatment allocation. Although all surgeons will be skilled
      in both techniques, differences in experience may impact outcomes. By stratifying for
      surgeon, the investigators ensure similar numbers of allocations to each treatment in each
      hospital.

      Patients will be enrolled by research personnel at each participating centre. The site
      coordinator will randomize the patient prior to surgery using the web-based allocation
      system.

      Patients will be blinded to the type of procedure received until 2 years after surgery.

      Research personnel evaluating outcomes at each in person visit will be blinded to the type of
      procedure received by participants.

      Ethics and dissemination

      This protocol and the informed consent forms will be reviewed and approved by the
      Institutional Review Boards (IRBs) at each participating centre with respect to scientific
      content and human subject regulations. The participant education and recruitment materials
      (and other requested documents as necessary) will also be reviewed and approved by the
      ethical review bodies at each participating centre. Subsequent to initial review and
      approval, the responsible IRBs will review the protocol at least annually. Each collaborator
      will make safety and progress reports to the IRBs at least annually and within 3 months of
      study termination. Any modifications to the protocol will require a formal amendment with
      each IRB.

      Trained research personnel will introduce the trial to patients who will be shown educational
      materials regarding pelvic organ prolapse and the trial interventions. Patients will have an
      informed discussion with the participating personnel who will obtain written consent for
      participation. Patients will receive information sheets and a copy of the consent form.

      All trial-related information will be stored securely at the coordinating centre in
      Vancouver. All participant-related information will be stored in locked file cabinets in
      areas with limited access. All records that contain names or other personal identifiers will
      be stored separately from study records identified by code number. All local databases will
      be secured with password-protected access systems. Participants' study information will not
      be released outside of the study without the written permission of the participant, except as
      necessary for monitoring by government and regulatory authorities. To ensure confidentiality,
      data dispersed to trial team members will be blinded of any identifying participant
      information.
    
  