
    
      Patient recruitment: Patients will be recruited from the university clinic.

      Intake: If the patient is included in the study following the inclusion and exclusion
      criteria, the patient will be evaluated using the evaluation form. All the data will be
      collected and impressions will be made. Using the impressions, a wax up will be made on stone
      models indicating the restorations to be fabricated. With a transparent mould, the situation
      will be duplicated in the mouth with spot etching and composite. By using this protocol
      minimal loss of tooth material is guaranteed.

      Tooth Preparation: After prophylaxis, the teeth will be prepared in a controlled manner using
      special depth cutting laminate preparation burs (Intensive, Switzerland). The margins will
      extend to half the way to the inter-proximal contact area. The shape of the cervical margins
      will be maintained in chamfer form. The incisal edge will be prepared 1.5 mm to create an
      overlap to the palatinal region for the translucency area in the laminate veneers.

      Conditioning the tooth surface: Rubberdam will be placed. The preparation surfaces will be
      etched with 35% phosphoric acid, rinsed thoroughly and dried followed by the application of
      primer and the bonding agent.

      Conditioning the existing restorations: The existing composite restaurations will be
      conditioned using tribochemical silicacoating (CoJet, 30µm SiOx, 3M ESPE) in a Dentoprep
      (Ronvig, Denmark) intraoral sandblaster. Following this the restauration will be conditioned
      by silanisation.

      Conditioning the composite veneers: The inner surfaces of the indirect composite laminates
      will rinsed with alcohol and thereafter conditioned using tribochemical silicacoating (CoJet,
      30µm SiOx, 3M ESPE) using an (Ronvig, Denmark) intra-oral sandblaster. The sandblasting will
      be approx 13 sec until the inner surface of the restoration change colour visually. Following
      this the inner surface will be conditioned by silanisation.

      Conditioning the ceramic veneers: The inner surfaces of the ceramic laminates will be
      conditioned with hydrofluoric acid 5% and rinsed in neutralizing agent, ultrasonically
      cleaned and then silanized.

      After insertion, the excess composite will be removed using handinstruments and finishing
      burs under continuous water-cooling. Finally the margins will be polished using diamond
      polishing-paste with a rotating rubber cup. The interproximal surfaces will be finished with
      Sof-Lex polishing disks and strips.

      Cementing the restorations: The cementation medium will be a dual-cure aesthetic adhesive
      cement Variolink veneer. All adhesive restorations will be cemented using ultrasonic
      insertion techniques. Cementation of the indirect restorations will be performed according to
      a protocol presented in appendix 2: "Clinical procedures".
    
  