
    
      Summary of the ACSIKS Clinical Protocol:

      All patients with an initial clinical diagnosis of infectious keratitis will be referred by
      the attending ophthalmologist-in-charge to an ACSIKS co-investigator or trial coordinator for
      recruitment into the study. Patients will be enrolled in the study after study informed
      consent is obtained and a trained interviewer will administer a standardized ACSIKS Clinical
      Case Report Form to each recruited subject. Information that will be documented would include
      the demographic profile (e.g. age, gender, ethnic group, occupation, etc), risk factors for
      infectious keratitis, presenting symptoms and prior treatment.

      Patients who are contact lens wearers will also complete a separate contact lens
      questionnaire, with specific questions on duration of contact lens wear, type of contact lens
      and solutions used, lens wear schedule and habits, and adherence to lens care practices.

      All patients will undergo a thorough ocular examination by the ophthalmologist-in-charge or
      an ACSIKS co-investigator, and details of the infectious keratitis and associated findings
      documented on the ACSIKS Clinical CRF. With the approval of the ophthalmologist-in-charge,
      corneal scrapings will then be collected as per the ACSIKS Microbiological Protocol. Each
      study subject will consequently still be managed by the ophthalmologist-in-charge according
      to his/her current clinical approach, with appropriate medical or surgical treatment carried
      out in accordance with the practice patterns and standards of his/her institution, and no
      attempt to deviate from current treatment practices.

      Regular chart reviews will be performed by ACSIKS trial coordinators for the six months
      duration of the subjects' involvement to document the initial differential diagnoses and
      medical treatment, the microbiological results, and any changes to the diagnosis and
      treatment. The last consultation with the ophthalmologist-in-charge during that six
      month-period will be taken as the final study review.

      Summary of the ACSIKS Microbiological Protocol:

      At the discretion of the ophthalmologist-in-charge, corneal scrapings will be collected based
      on a list of investigations suggested by the ACSIKS Group.

      All microbiological specimens will be incubated, interpreted and reported according to agreed
      upon common standards, regardless of the number of colonies present. Bacterial organisms will
      also be tested using standardized antibiograms agreed upon by microbiologists from the
      various participating institutions. Results of any and all microbiological testing will be
      collected and recorded into the ACSIKS Microbiological Case Report Form.

      If these samples do yield a positive growth of either fungal or bacterial organisms (or
      both), the causative organisms cultured will be sub-cultured and stored at each site's ACSIKS
      freezer, for subsequent transport to the ACSIKS Central Repository in Singapore for use in
      future microbial studies under Phase 2 of the ACSIKS project.
    
  