
    
      Premature ejaculation (PE) and erectile dysfunction (ED) are forms of sexual dysfunction in
      men. An objective measurement of PE in clinical studies is the intravaginal ejaculatory
      latency time (IELT), which is the time it takes for a man to ejaculate during sexual
      intercourse (as measured by stopwatch). This is a multicenter, double-blind (neither the
      physician or the study participant will know the identity of the treatment assigned),
      randomized (study drug assigned by chance) efficacy and safety study of dapoxetine compared
      with placebo (a sugar pill) in men with premature ejaculation who are currently being treated
      for ED with a phosphodiesterase 5 (PDE-5) inhibitor such as sildenafil, vardenafil, or
      tadalafil. A maximum of 656 men 18 years or older (hereafter referred to as study
      participants) who have received treatment with a PDE-5 inhibitor for at least 3 months prior
      to study entry will be enrolled. The study will last approximately 18 weeks and includes a
      4-week screening period, a 12-week treatment period, and a follow-up telephone contact
      approximately 2 weeks after the end of treatment. Both the study participant and his partner
      will be required to attend the screening visit and to sign an informed consent form
      documenting that they understand and agree to the requirements for the study. After initial
      screening procedures are completed, study participants who qualify for the study will enter a
      4-week screening period. During the 4 weeks, the study participant and his partner will be
      provided with a stopwatch to time and record the IELT during all attempts at sexual
      intercourse. At the next scheduled clinic visit which is Day 1 of the double-blind treatment
      period, study participants who continue to qualify for the study will be assigned by chance
      (like flipping a coin) to receive 1 of 2 study treatments (dapoxetine or placebo) for 12
      weeks in addition to prescribed treatment with a PDE-5 inhibitor. Study participants will be
      instructed to take study drug with or without food with at least 1 full glass of water
      approximately 1 to 3 hours before sexual activity (no more than 1 dose should be taken within
      a 24-hour period). During the 12-week treatment period, the study participant and his partner
      will be asked to time and record the IELT during all attempts at sexual intercourse on
      Treatment Event Logs provided. Study participants will return to the clinic after 4, 8 and 12
      weeks of treatment for routine safety assessments (including review of Treatment Event Logs
      returned) and to be dispensed study drug. Following 12 weeks of treatment (or at the time of
      early withdrawal from the study) end-of-treatment safety and efficacy evaluations will be
      performed at the final clinic visit. Approximately 2 weeks later, a follow up telephone call
      will be made to the study participant to collect information on any adverse events that may
      have occurred or concomitant therapy received since the time of the last clinic visit. The
      primary outcome measure in the study is the average IELT, as measured by stopwatch, during
      sexual intercourse at the end of the treatment period (Week 12). Safety will be monitored
      during the study by evaluating adverse events, physical examination findings, results from
      clinical laboratory tests, and concomitant medication usage. An Independent Data Monitoring
      Committee (IDMC) will be established to monitor the safety and efficacy of study participants
      during the study. In addition, an interim (preliminary) analysis will be performed during the
      study to monitor safety and efficacy after approximately 268 men have completed 12 weeks of
      treatment (also includes any study participants who did not complete treatment and were
      withdrawn early from the study). Study participants will receive either dapoxetine or
      matching placebo tablets at a dose of 30 mg prn (as needed) taken orally (by mouth) with or
      without food with at least 1 full glass of water approximately 1 to 3 hours before sexual
      activity (not to be taken more than once every 24 hours). At Weeks 4 or 8, the dose of
      dapoxetine or matching placebo may be increased to a maximum of 60 mg prn if specific
      predefined criteria are met or be subsequently decreased from 60 to 30 mg at Weeks 4 or 8.
    
  