
    
      Back pain is a leading cause of disability, including impairment in activities of daily
      living. In particular, the persistence of low back pain is more frequent in the elderly,
      associated with functional limitations and difficulties to perform tasks in everyday life. In
      addition to pharmacological treatments, various non-surgical interventional procedures are
      used for the treatment of low back pain. Some recent studies have evaluated the
      interventional oxygen-ozone (O2-O3) therapy in the treatment of back pain. However, these
      results are based on the technique of intradiscal infiltration / intraforaminal of O2-O3,
      while the intramuscular injection technique / paravertebral is the most widely used in
      clinical practice in Italy. In general, minimally invasive treatments such as percutaneous
      infiltration, are well tolerated and have been shown to produce clinical results, although
      the number of controlled studies is still scarce and the studies are often not comparable.
      Taking into account the above considerations, it seems appropriate to try to broaden the
      knowledge on the use of O2-O3 in the treatment of low back pain, using the technique of
      intramuscular injection / paravertebral, with particular reference to the elderly population.

      The primary objective of this trial is therefore to evaluate the effects of O2-O3 therapy in
      the treatment of back pain associated with lumbar disc disease using the technique of
      intramuscular injection/paravertebral. These effects will be evaluated after a 6 weeks
      treatment period and after a 3 months follow-up period.

      The project will include 130 subjects aged 65 or older who will be randomly enrolled in two
      different types of intervention:

        -  Oxygen-ozone therapy

        -  Simulated treatment

      fully described below in the section: Interventions

      In addition to clinical evaluations, the trial will contribute to the study of biological
      bases of the O2-O3 therapy as the levels of trace elements, oxidative status and antioxidant
      capacity in plasma will be evaluated.
    
  