
    
      In this study the investigators are comparing this standard regimen to the newly established
      regimen of melphalan and bortezomib.

      Conditioning Regimens:

      Treatment arm A Melphalan is administered at a dose of 200mg/m2 by rapid intravenous infusion
      via a central or peripheral vein over 30 minutes to one hour.

      Melphalan will be given as a single dose (not split over 2 or more days) and given on day-1.

      Dosing will be based on body surface area calculated using actual body weight

      Stem cell infusion:

      Stem cell infusion will occur on day 0 and will be at least 20 hours after the infusion of
      melphalan. The infusion of peripheral blood stem cells will be done in accordance with the
      Blood and Marrow Transplant program standard operating procedures.

      Filgrastim will be administered at a dose of 5 mcg/kg (rounded to vial size) every other day
      starting on day+3 then daily starting on day 9 until engraftment (at least).

      Treatment arm B

      Bortezomib:

      Bortezomib is administered by rapid I.V. push (over 3-5 seconds) via a central or peripheral
      vein into a flowing saline line. Bortezomib will be administered any time on day -4 and at
      least 20 hrs after the start of the melphalan infusion on day -1.

      Dosing will be based on actual body weight. Dexamethasone is administered at a dose of 20 mg
      IV prior to each bortezomib infusion.

      Melphalan:

      Melphalan is administered at a dose of 200mg/m2 by rapid intravenous infusion via a central
      or peripheral vein over 30 minutes to one hour.

      Melphalan will be given as a single dose (not split over 2 or more days) and given of day-2.

      Dosing will be based body surface area calculated using actual body weight

      Stem cell infusion:

      Stem cell infusion will occur on day 0 and will be at least 18 hours after the infusion of
      the bortezomib. The infusion of peripheral blood stem cells will be done in accordance with
      the Blood and Marrow Transplant program standard operating procedures.

      Filgrastim will be administered at a dose of 5 mcg/kg (rounded to vial size) every other day
      starting on day+3 then daily starting on day 9 until engraftment (at least).

      Post-transplant Supportive Care will be administered in accordance to the Blood and Marrow
      Transplant program standard operating procedures.
    
  