
    
      Diabetes affects approximately 30.3 million people in the U.S. and is the 7th leading cause
      of death (ADA 2019). Uncontrolled diabetes leads to various complications including
      cardiovascular disease, kidney disease, diabetic retinopathy, peripheral neuropathy, and
      lower extremity amputation. Estimated healthcare expenditure for individuals with diabetes is
      approximately $327 billion per year (ADA 2017). In San Bernardino County, the prevalence of
      diabetes was higher (12.4%) than the national rate (9.4%). More specifically, the federally
      qualified health center in which the Loma Linda University (LLU) community pharmacy serves
      has a diabetes prevalence rate of about 16% (HRSA 2017). To decrease risk of diabetes
      complications, HbA1c is recommended to be <7% in most patients; however, about 35% of the
      investigator's patient population have poorly controlled diabetes which is defined as HbA1c
      >9% (ADA 2019). Given high prevalence rates of uncontrolled diabetes in this high-risk
      population, it is pivotal that individuals are provided with appropriate diabetes
      self-management strategies, regular monitoring, and preventative care by their primary care
      provider to adequately control the disease. Numerous studies illustrate that clinical
      pharmacists improve health outcomes for chronic disease managements with medication therapy
      management (MTM) services in underserved patients. Additionally, team-based or coordinated
      care with the community pharmacist and the patient's health care providers has also
      demonstrated to assist with improvements in clinic outcomes of chronic diseases. Recently,
      combination of blister packaging and MTM services have been shown to improve medication
      adherence and clinical endpoints. Given the high prevalence of diabetes in this community,
      there is a critical need to achieve improvement in clinical diabetes outcomes possibly via
      monthly blister packaging and MTM services including point-of-care testing (POCT).
    
  