
    
      -  For Group 1 (lottery reward with fixed target): Study coordinators check participant's
           MEMS extraction for last month's adherence. Study coordinators then tell participants of
           the participants' adherence in the last month. Participants are also informed that
           during the next clinic visit, if they adhere at least 90 percent they have a chance to
           enter into a game where they have a chance of winning mobile airtime, by drawing into a
           bag and picking a card associated with their airtime winnings. If they do not have 90%
           adherence, they will not receive the airtime award game, but there will be another
           chance the next time they come for their scheduled clinic visit during the study period.

        -  For Group 2 (lottery award with own target): Study coordinators check participant's MEMS
           extraction for last month's adherence. They inform participants of their adherence in
           the last month. In order to be eligible for an airtime reward game, during their next
           clinic visit they must reach their own target goal. The target adherence goal must be
           greater than 80%. Participants may, for example, choose 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, or 100%.
           Again, if they meet or exceed this target they have a chance to draw into a bag to win
           mobile airtime. If they do not have meet this self-imposed target adherence, they will
           not be eligible to play the airtime award game, but there will be another chance the
           next time they come for their scheduled clinic visit during the study period.

      During each clinic visit, participants will have their MEMS extracted and study coordinators
      will check for average adherence between that day and the last clinic visit. For those who
      have met the target, coordinators will initiate the lottery, complete the drawing procedure,
      or send them the airtime reward without drawing (depending on which group).

      Every Sunday, study investigators will send treatment participants a motivational message to
      remind them about the reward. Within each of the two intervention groups, study investigators
      will randomly send the message either in a loss-frame or a gain-frame, i.e. an intervention
      participant (in either group) will some weeks receive a message telling them to keep up
      motivation (as a code-word for adherence) to win a prize, and some weeks telling them to make
      sure not to lose their chance to win a prize.
    
  