
    
      The structural and functional integrity of the vestibular system is necessary for maintenance
      of the complex postural system and adaptation to the environment. The absence of vestibular
      function is accompanied by poor prognosis and severe limitations in the activities of daily
      life, such as ambulating in low-light environments or on uneven ground, swimming, driving
      fast, etc.

      The exact mechanisms responsible for the postoperative vestibular changes and/or symptoms,
      but several theories exist. Because of the very anatomic proximity between the auditory and
      vestibular systems, and their embryologic and physiologic alterations, they may be
      simultaneously involved in some bodily dysfunctions. This involvement is more frequent in
      peripheral alterations than in central ones.

      The lateral wall and the fluid space are breached during cochleostomy. Insertion of electrode
      array may cause changes in the normal fluid homeostasis of the inner ear, damage to the
      basilar membrane, osseous spiral lamina and vestibular receptors; utricle, saccule and
      semicircular canals, surgery-induced inflammation resulting in fibrosis or loss of hair
      cells, foreign body reaction (labyrinthitis), produce perilymph leakage and alter the
      pressure in the inner ear. In addition, the electric stimulation of the cochlear implant may
      cause pathologic changes in the inner ear as a subsequent dysfunction of structures,
      resulting in vestibular alterations.

      In previous research, the following vestibular assessments were utilized to determine
      vestibular injuries after CI: Caloric response, videonystagmography (VNG), vestibular-evoked
      myogenic potentials (VEMPs), video head impulse test (VHIT), rotatory chair and scleral
      search coil.

      Knowledge of vestibular system function before and after CI surgery is important for the
      satisfactory management of each case. It also helps in the selection of which ear to implant
      to avoid bilateral vestibular areflexia and can assist in the management of any postoperative
      vestibular symptoms. So, there are two questions that should be raised when we consider the
      vestibular function of a patient who will submitted to CI: Is vestibular function present or
      not? and is the function symmetric?
    
  