
    
      The lack of suitable soft tissues is a common challenge facing the reconstructive surgeon.
      Tissue expansion, first described in 1957 by Neumann, is an ingenious technique that can
      cause body to grow additional skin tissue of similar texture and color to the defect to be
      repaired and reduce donor site morbidity at the same time. Generally, a silicone balloon
      expander is inserted under the skin and then gradually filled with saline or carbon dioxide
      over time, inducing tissue regeneration. Tissue expansion represents one of the major
      advances in reconstructive surgery and has been widely involved in all kinds of plastic and
      reconstructive endeavor. In the process of expansion, mechanical stretch also triggers tissue
      neovascularization and changes in hemodynamic characteristics. These alterations in expanded
      flap make it challenging to assess flap perfusion and predict postoperative blood flow
      disorders.

      Traditionally, surgeons rely on the clinical experience for determining tissue perfusion,
      including flap color, capillary refill and pinprick bleeding. However, clinical judgment is
      highly subjective, difficult to acquire and may be misleading in nonconventional flaps like
      expanded flaps. Various technologies have been evaluated for perfusion monitoring, including
      fluorescein angiography, tissue oxygen saturation measurement and thermography. Nevertheless,
      these are rarely used as routine due to practical limitations, insufficient sensitivity
      and/or specificity. Recently, Indocyanine Green Angiography (ICGA) has been used for
      intraoperative evaluation of tissue perfusion. ICGA can give a real-time assessment of flap
      vascularity and perfusion by intravenously injecting a contrast agent indocyanine green that
      emits fluorescence when excited by a laser of specific wavelength. Several studies have
      validated its role in intraoperative evaluation of conventional free and pedicled flap
      perfusion to aid in surgical decision making and predict postoperative tissue viability.
      There is obvious difference in hemodynamic characteristics between conventional and expanded
      flaps so that the conclusion generated from conventional flap study can't be simply extended
      to expanded flap. In other words, the benefits of ICGA on predicting viability of expanded
      flaps remains to be validated.

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effect of intraoperative ICGA on the prediction
      of flap necrosis in patients underwent tissue expansion. ICGA will be conducted
      intraoperatively, meanwhile, the possible area of necrosis will be marked according to
      clinical experience and the fluorescence value of each observation point will be recorded.
      After 1 week's follow up, the flap viability at each observation point will be assessed by
      clinical examination. Then, the corresponding fluorescence value will be determined by
      superimposing digital photography over ICGA imaging results. By analyzing the observation
      point representing different fate of flap tissue with Logistic regression analysis, ROC curve
      and area under curve (AUC) can be synthesized by SPSS. A cut-off point can be further
      identified to achieve both higher positive and negative predictive value, improving the
      utility and accuracy of ICGA in predicting the postoperative skin viability of expanded
      flaps.
    
  