
    
      Major depressive disorder (MDD) is the world's largest health problem, and current available
      treatments fail at relieving symptoms for many patients. The best medical approach will
      depend on taking an individualized approach to treatment, targeting core symptoms such as
      reduced self-driven motivation. In rodent studies of depression, problems with motivation
      have been linked to the activity of the ventral tegmental area (VTA), a small part of the
      brain that releases dopamine and guides decision making for rewards. However, there have been
      barriers in examining the VTA in humans because current MRI scanners are relatively
      low-resolution. Therefore, the researchers have recently developed an ultra-high field MRI
      procedure that provides improved images of the VTA, compared to current standard MRI
      procedures.

      The study team now intend to further this work by conducting a randomized controlled trial
      that will help train individuals with MDD to modulate their own VTA activity during an
      ultra-high field MRI scanning session. Previous studies have shown that the activity of the
      VTA can be changed in healthy volunteers if they are trained to use certain thought patterns
      while watching their own VTA activity in 'real-time'. This procedure is called real-time
      biofeedback The research question is whether this same type of training is feasible in
      patients with MDD with ultra-high field MRI, and whether it can influence measures of
      motivation.

      Aim 1. To determine the feasibility of VTA self-regulation. The study team will recruit 30
      patients with MDD and 15 will receive VTA real-time biofeedback whereas the other 15 will
      receive a different, control feedback. Participants will be trained to "generate a heightened
      state of motivation" and will simultaneously view a progress bar on the screen that
      represents their VTA activity. They will be trained to try to increase the level of the bar
      by motivating themselves. The investigators expect that the group receiving VTA real-time
      biofeedback will show a greater increase in VTA activity self-regulation compared to the
      group with non-VTA, control feedback.

      Aim 2. To determine the impact of VTA self-regulation on motivation. The research team will
      test levels of motivation using novel, validated computerized tasks before and after the
      real-time biofeedback training session. The researchers will also explore a measure of mood
      using a validated questionnaire, and as well as assess levels of clinical depression severity
      by a trained clinician. The investigators expect that individuals who show a greater increase
      in VTA activity self-regulation will also show an increase in motivation after training.

      If this real-time biofeedback tool is shown to be possible for changing VTA activity in
      patients with MDD, this work will provide a critical next step in individualized treatment
      for depression. By exploring how changes in VTA activity self-regulation relate to changes in
      motivation, the researchers will show how the brain works to regulate important behaviors
      associated with depression. Ultimately, this work is expected to provide new ways to treat
      patients with depression.
    
  