
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To evaluate whether 3 Tesla MRI can accurately determine the primary tumor (T) stage and
           pelvic lymph nodes (N) stage in patients with localized bladder cancer as compared to
           histopathology staging.

      Secondary

        -  To determine whether 3 Tesla MRI can determine if the primary bladder tumor is
           responding to neoadjuvant chemotherapy at the mid-point of the planned treatment (after
           2 courses).

        -  To assess whether an ex-vivo ultra-high-field MRI (4.7-11.7 Tesla) tissue scan can more
           accurately determine clinical stage of a primary bladder tumor and local extent of the
           disease (i.e., involvement of contiguous organs and regional lymph nodes) as compared to
           histopathology staging.

      OUTLINE: Patients may receive neoadjuvant chemotherapy (typically four 21-day courses of
      cisplatin-based therapy) followed by standard radical cystectomy and lymph node dissection.

      Patients undergo a 3 Tesla MRI scan at baseline to stage the primary tumor, regional lymph
      nodes, and to rule out distant sites of disease. The MRI includes diagnostic high-resolution
      anatomical images (e.g., T1-weighted and T2-weighted images along axial or optimal
      directions) and experimental images including functional MRI (e.g., dynamic contrast-enhanced
      MRI, diffusion-weighted MRI, MR spectroscopy, and chemical exchange-dependent
      saturation-transfer imaging). Patients also undergo a 3 Tesla MRI scan after 2 courses of
      neoadjuvant chemotherapy and after completion of neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Patients not
      receiving neoadjuvant chemotherapy undergo a 3 Tesla MRI scan 2-4 weeks before radical
      cystectomy and lymph node dissection.

      Specimens from the radical cystectomy and pelvic lymph node dissection are examined ex-vivo
      by ultra-high-field MRI and the Micro-Imaging Specimen Study Form is completed. The specimens
      are then examined by the pathology department as per standard routine.
    
  