
    
      A prospective,randomized clinical trial will be conducted to determine whether L-PRF,
      compared to freeze dried bone allograft, will result in comparable volumetric shrinkage of
      the alveolar ridge and overlying keratinized tissue, following extraction of teeth and socket
      grafting.

      This trial aims at obtaining information to determine which material would provide a superior
      clinical result, as well as reporting on patient related outcomes. The participants will be
      randomly assigned to two groups. The surgical procedure will be performed by one of five
      calibrated periodontal residents.

      Patients will be followed for 2 weeks post-operatively by the same resident, to monitor the
      healing process and to assess for any complications.

      Randomization will be achieved using a computerized randomization scheme and will be assigned
      to one of two groups and allocated by means of a sealed envelope opened on the day of surgery
      communicated to the surgeon during the surgery by a supervising faculty member. Participants
      will be block-randomized for each of the 5 operators for balance.

      Anesthesia will be achieved and soft tissue measurements will be obtained using a periodontal
      probe. An atraumatic extraction technique will be performed to allow for minimal disturbance
      of the soft and hard tissue architecture.

      The extraction socket walls are then assessed and any defects in socket measured with a
      periodontal probe. Group A: Full thickness mucoperiosteal pouch is created up to ~3mm apical
      of the bony crest of the socket with a periosteal elevator. The socket is incrementally
      filled with mineralized cortical freeze-dried bone allograft and condensed. Group B: Socket
      is pouched as in group A followed by venipuncture of the antecubital vein with 21G needle and
      collection of 4-6 vials (10ml each) of venous blood without any additive or anticoagulant.
      The vials are centrifuged for 12 minutes at 2700 rpm to form L-PRF clots. The socket is
      incrementally filled with the clots and condensed.

      Following socket fill, both groups will have the grafts covered by dense
      polytetrafluoroethylene membrane. The membrane is trimmed and adapted with the borders tucked
      2-3mm underneath the gingival tissues. Tissues, graft and membrane are stabilized with 5/0
      PTFE sutures.

      The patients will also receive a pain VAS questionnaire evaluating the post-operative pain 1
      and 7 days following surgery. A CBCT with the radiographic stent will be taken within 72
      hours of the surgery.

      7 days post-op: Sutures will be removed if deemed suitable. The VAS questionnaire will be
      collected.

      6 weeks post op: d-PTFE membrane will be retrieved and discarded using tissue forceps.
      Alginate impressions will be taken for a surgical guide.

      11 weeks post op: Second CBCT will be taken with radiographic surgical stent. Images obtained
      will be used to analyze and compare the ridge dimensions to those obtained at baseline as
      well as for surgical implant planning.

      12 weeks post op: Soft tissue measurement with periodontal probe and floss spanned over
      edentulous site from buccal to lingual mucogingival junction. Implant placement will be done
      per standard procedure. A 2.5mm diameter trephine drill will be used to harvest a bone core
      for histologic analysis. The bone core will be immediately submerged in a solution of 10%
      neutral buffered formalin. Osteotomies and implant placement will be done following the
      manufacturer's protocol. Depending on the buccal bone and soft tissue thickness, ancillary
      soft tissue augmentation, bone augmentation or combination of these procedures may be
      indicated. The patient will be followed up and referred to the restorative dentist as per
      standard procedure. Photographs will be taken at every visit.
    
  