
    
      Other than the administration of oxygen, crystalloid resuscitation fluids are the most common
      intervention administered to the majority of hospitalized patients. These fluids may be used
      as a life saving measure to re-establish hemodynamic stability, for rehydration, and to
      replace losses and maintain intravascular volume in the surgical setting. In the province of
      Ontario alone, approximately 1 million patients per year will receive one or both of these
      resuscitation fluids during their hospital admission. The two most common usual care
      resuscitation crystalloid fluids are Normal Saline and Ringer's Lactate and until recently
      there was no evidence to suggest that one crystalloid fluid was clinically superior to the
      other. However, the safety of Normal Saline is now being questioned due to its high chloride
      content and its association with the development of hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis.
      Studies in healthy volunteers and observational studies in the critically ill and surgical
      patient populations have associated saline with an increased risk of acute renal injury and
      requirement for dialysis, post-operative infections, death and increased resource and blood
      transfusion use. The evidence base is currently weak given that the majority of studies are
      observational and suffer from methodological weaknesses including confounding by indication,
      selection bias, and inability to disentangle the effects of a specific fluid due to
      interaction of co-interventions administered. As such, several authors and editorials have
      called for adequately powered randomized controlled trials with clinically relevant outcomes
      to determine if Ringer's Lactate is indeed superior to Normal Saline for resuscitation.

      Given their widespread use, small differences in clinical outcomes between crystalloid
      resuscitation fluids are highly relevant. Furthermore, small absolute differences in
      important clinical outcomes translate into significant savings to hospitals and the health
      care system. To illustrate, if death and hospital re-admissions were each reduced by an
      absolute 0.5%, this would translate to approximately 2500 lives saved and savings of 10
      million dollars to the Ontario health care system. Hence, in collaboration with the Canadian
      Critical Care Trials Group, the Crystalloid FLUID Choices for Hospitalized Patients (FLUID)
      trial will examine whether Ringer's Lactate as compared to Normal Saline reduces clinically
      important outcomes such as death, and hospital re-admissions - outcomes that are particularly
      relevant to hospitals and the health care system. This proposal is a large pragmatic cluster
      cross-over comparative effectiveness trial that will be conducted in both academic and
      community centres in Ontario. It will involve waivers of consent and a novel design making
      use of provincially available health administrative data through the Institute of Clinical
      Evaluative Sciences (ICES) to facilitate all data collected in the trial. The trial will
      answer this fundamental fluid resuscitation question with much less cost in comparison to an
      individual patient randomized controlled trial. It will help build expertise and capacity for
      future trials of similar design in the province of Ontario and throughout Canada. However,
      prior to embarking on a large-scale trial, it is imperative to conduct a pilot trial to
      determine feasibility and optimize the trial design.
    
  