
    
      Children with intellectual disabilities (ID) are more likely than typically developing
      children to have higher cardio-metabolic risk factors, lower levels of health-related
      fitness, and be overweight and obese. As such, they represent a health disparities
      population. Low physical activity levels, increased sedentary time, and poor diet quality are
      likely contributors to these inequities. The goal of the Investigators is to develop
      strategies that enable children with ID to attain optimal health by meeting US Physical
      Activity Guidelines and Dietary Guidelines for Americans. To achieve this goal, children with
      ID must develop physical literacy and food literacy - the knowledge, skills, confidence and
      desire to participate in physical activity and make healthy food choices. This project seeks
      to:1) test the feasibility of a physical literacy and food literacy intervention for children
      with ID, and 2) preliminarily assess the efficacy of the intervention for increasing physical
      literacy including movement skills, confidence, and desire to participate in physical
      activity, and food literacy including knowledge around making healthy food choices, basic
      food preparation skills, and engaging in healthy eating behavior. Thirty male (n=15) and
      female (n=15) children with ID ages 12-16 will participate in a 12-week combined sport
      sampling and healthy eating education program. Weekly sessions will include 60 minutes of
      sports activities and 45 minutes of educational and skill activities to promote healthy
      eating. Sport sampling activities will aim to develop locomotor and object control skills via
      3 sports: soccer, basketball, and Run-Jump-Throw. Healthy eating sessions will focus on
      increasing knowledge to identify healthy foods and to make healthy choices, basic skills for
      preparing food, and a taste test thematically related to the lesson. The intervention will
      also include an at-home component called "Bring it Home, Give it Try." Children will be
      provided with a piece(s) of sports equipment (e.g., soccer ball, jump rope) and skill cards
      with instructions and fun ideas for practicing sport skills outside of program sessions, and
      will be provided recipes related to the weekly taste test to promote healthy eating at home.
      The pilot intervention will be delivered in 2 waves of 15 participants each at YMCAs/Boys &
      Girls Clubs in eastern/central MA. Process measures of demand, acceptability, and
      implementation will be obtained to test feasibility, and a pre-test/post-test design will
      allow for preliminary data on efficacy of the intervention. Measures of physical literacy
      include the Canadian Agility and Movement Skill Assessment, Physical Self-Inventory-ID, and
      Children's Self- Perceptions of Adequacy in and Predilection for Physical Activity scale.
      Measures of food literacy include a questionnaire of food knowledge, a test of rudimentary
      food preparation skills, and parent proxy report of dietary patterns based on a modified food
      frequency questionnaire (FFQ), and questions from the Youth Risk Behavioral Surveillance
      Survey. This early phase study is a step toward promoting health and reducing the inequities
      that exist for children with ID.
    
  