
    
      Patients were randomly allocated to experimental group (generic sevoflurane) and active
      comparator group (original sevoflurane). Once in the operating room, patients were monitored
      with electrocardiography, non invasive blood pressure, pulse oximetry (Datex-Ohmeda S/5,
      Planar Systems, Inc., Beaverton, OR, USA) and BIS (Aspect 2000, Aspect Medical Systems, Inc.,
      Newton, MA, USA).

      Anesthesia was induced with fentanyl (2 μg/kg) and propofol (2mg/kg). When patients were
      unconscious, original or generic sevoflurane was administered. Tracheal intubation was
      facilitated by administering rocuronium 0.6 mg/kg. The lungs of the patients were then
      ventilated with oxygen in air (1:2), and the ventilation rate was adjusted to maintain the
      end-tidal carbon dioxide partial pressure between 35 and 45 mmHg. The concentrations of
      carbon dioxide, sevoflurane, and oxygen were measured continuously using an infrared
      anesthetic gas analyzer (Datex-Ohmeda S/5, Planar Systems, Inc., Beaverton, OR, USA), which
      was calibrated before anesthesia for each patient using a standard gas mixture.

      The inspired concentration of sevoflurane was adjusted to maintain BIS values < 60 and stable
      haemodynamics (systolic arterial pressure (SAP) > 80 mmHg and heart rate (HR) > 45
      beats/min). Also, it was titrated to prevent signs of inadequate anesthesia (sweating, facial
      flushing, movement and swallowing, HR > 90 beats/min without evidence of hypovolemia, and a
      15 mmHg increase in SAP, compared with baseline SAP). Fentanyl 1 μg/kg was given if needed to
      resolve of signs of inadequate anesthesia.

      Concentration of compound A, formaldehyde, and methadone were measured at preset interval:
      30, 60, 90, 120, 150, 180 min after administration of sevoflurane. Blood and urine samples
      were taken at preset interval for analyzing concentration of inorganic fluoride: 1 hr after
      administration of sevoflurane and every 2 hr during maintenance of anesthesia.
    
  