
    
      A literature review (available on request) explores what can be measured, the problems of
      measurement and its objectivity. The aim is to investigate whether there is a method of
      measuring muscle quality, function and ability that can be used objectively in the clinical
      environment or the community with equal ease or whether such a method can be developed.

      The literature review identified electrical impedance myography (EIM) as a potentially
      objective technique to measure muscle quality and ability. Two hypotheses are proposed to
      test the objectivity:

      The EIM measurement of passive and active muscle is not significantly different.

      EIM measurements in younger and older adult volunteers is significantly different.

      There is only one study visit for this study, so all study activities will occur on the same
      day at the Posture and Mobility Centre, Treforest or the Artificial Limb and Appliance
      Centre, Rookwood Hospital.

      Eligibility for the study will be checked against the inclusion and exclusion criteria,
      including the requests to not have done heavy exercise for an hour before the measurements
      and also to have emptied their bladder before attending for the visit.

      Any concerns will be also be addressed appropriately

      Following the eligibility check, the CI will ensure the participant has read the PIS and
      fully understand it before obtaining informed consent.

      Participants will be assigned a number in order to anonymise their data and only the main
      investigator will have access to this database of participants.

      The following data will then be collected by the CI and written in a Case Report Form (CRF):

        -  Gender

        -  Date of birth (to ascertain age)

        -  Height (to calculate BMI)

        -  Weight (to calculate BMI)

        -  Waist measurement (to calculate RFM index, considered an alternative indicator of
           health).

        -  Medical history to ensure no existing neuromuscular, active arthritis or cardiac
           conditions or active implanted devices

        -  Perceived level of fitness - using the NHS scale
           https://www.nhs.uk/live-well/healthy-weight/bmi-calculator/ (to gauge muscle ability)

        -  A quantitative measurement method will be used in conjunction with a structured initial
           questionnaire relating to physical characteristics (e.g. height, weight, waist
           measurement, date of birth to indicate age and perceived level of fitness
           https://www.nhs.uk/live-well/healthy-weight/bmi-calculator/).

      The CI will then attach electrodes to the arm of the participant and they will be asked to
      relax for 10 minutes.

      The measurement device is an ImpediMed IMP SFB7 (CE 0129 marked) and is portable. EIM passes
      an imperceptible AC current (less than 1 mA) through the muscle under investigation and the
      impedance of that muscle is then recorded through a range of frequencies or at chosen
      frequencies.

      Measurements of EIM of the relaxed muscles will be recorded in the CRF followed by
      measurements of EIM in the contracted muscle.

      Electrodes will be carefully removed from the participant and they are invited to relax for a
      further 5 minutes and have a drink of water.

      The participant's involvement in the study will end after the measurements have been taken.
    
  