
    
      This protocol is designed for the screening of potential research participants with or
      without a defined diagnosis. This protocol will serve as a point of entry for individuals who
      may be eligible and wish to participate in the National Eye Institute (NEI) clinical research
      studies.

      Patients who are referred or self-referred will be screened and evaluated during the
      screening process to determine whether they are suitable participants for any of the ongoing
      NEI research studies. The screening process may include past and current medical history, a
      physical examination, diagnostic procedures, and required testing used to establish a patient
      s diagnosis and determine his/her potential eligibility for research participation. Once the
      screening process is complete, patients will be informed of their options to participate in
      one or more of the NEI's current clinical research protocols or natural history studies. If
      no appropriate research protocol is

      available for their participation, the patient may receive potential treatment
      recommendations, which will be shared with the patient s primary provider and referring
      physician.

      This protocol's secondary aim is to collect and store human biospecimens and health
      information for basic science laboratory research and to generate and test hypotheses.
      Through such studies, research investigators hope to find possible new ways to detect, treat,
      and even prevent or cure ophthalmological diseases. Genetic and genomic testing, and
      biospecimen samples such as blood, body fluid (e.g., urine), and tissue (e.g., skin) may be
      collected from affected or unaffected adult participants. Biospecimen samples can be obtained
      at the time of screening or any time after screening. These samples, combined with other
      clinical data, may be used for basic science laboratory research or stored and used in future
      research studies. Biospecimen sample collection is voluntary for all participants.
    
  