
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the feasibility of using a microdialysis catheter with a high cut-off membrane
           to perform neuropharmacodynamics (nPD) assessment of targeted therapy with a mammalian
           target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitor, where nPD is defined as changes in intracerebral
           levels of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), interleukin-1ß (IL-1ß), and other
           cytokines.

      Secondary

        -  Assess the relationship between temsirolimus dose and changes in intracerebral levels of
           VEGF, IL-1ß, and other cytokines.

        -  Compare changes in intracerebral cytokine levels to changes in systemic cytokine levels.

        -  Assess the relationship between the degree of microvascular proliferation and the tensin
           homologue deleted on chromosome 10 (PTEN) status in tumor tissue.

        -  Assess the relationship between changes in intracerebral cytokine levels after treatment
           with temsirolimus.

      OUTLINE: Two cohorts of 6 patients will be enrolled in this study. All patients undergo
      debulking craniotomy or stereotactic biopsy and a placement of a intracerebral CMA 71
      microdialysis (ICMD) catheter. Patients then are assigned to 1 of 2 treatment cohorts.

        -  Cohort 1: Patients do not receive temsirolimus. Dialysate samples will be collected at
           regular intervals during the 96 hours following placement of the catheter as well as
           serial blood samples to measure levels of cytokines, chemokines and growth factors that
           occur after neurosurgery.

        -  Cohort 2: Beginning 48 hours after surgery, patients receive a single 200 mg dose of
           temsirolimus IV. Dialysate samples will be collected at regular intervals during the 96
           hours following placement of the catheter as well as serial blood samples to measure
           levels of cytokines, chemokines and growth factors that occur after neurosurgery. Plasma
           levels of temsirolimus and sirolimus will also be measured from the serial blood
           samples.

      After completion of study therapy and removal of ICMD catheter, patients are followed for 30
      days.
    
  