
    
      Polyostotic fibrous dysplasia (PFD) is a sporadic disorder which affects multiple sites in
      the skeleton. The bone at these sites is rapidly resorbed and replaced by abnormal fibrous
      tissue or mechanically abnormal bone. PFD may occur alone or as part of the McCune-Albright
      Syndrome (MAS), a syndrome originally defined by the triad of PFD, cafe-au-lait pigmentation
      of the skin, and precocious puberty. The bony lesions are frequently disfiguring, disabling
      and painful, and depending on the location of the lesion, can cause significant morbidity.
      Lesions in weight-bearing bones can lead to disabling fractures, while lesions in the skull
      can lead to compression of vital structures such as cranial nerves.

      The natural history of this disease is poorly described and there are no clearly defined
      systemic therapies for the bone disease. This is a data collection and specimen acquisition
      protocol. The purpose of the study is to define the natural history of the disease by
      following PFD/MAS subjects over time and by using in vitro experimentation with
      samples/tissue from subjects with the disease.

      Study Objectives

        1. Primary Objective

           Define the natural history of disease by gaining clinical and basic information about
           PFD/MAS by following subjects clinically and using in vitro experimentation with tissue
           from subjects with the disease.

        2. Secondary Objective

      Refer eligible subjects for enrollment into other appropriate research protocols, if any are
      currently active.

      Study Population

      The study population will include:

        1. Subjects with known or suspected Polyostotic Fibrous Dysplasia (PFD) or in combination
           with McCune-Albright Syndrome (MAS)

        2. Subjects who meet eligibility criteria will be accepted regardless of gender, race, or
           ethnicity

      Design

      This study is an observational/natural history study of PFD/MAS.

      Outcome Measures

      Primary

        1. Successfully enroll subjects with PFD or MAS for the collection, evaluation and analysis
           of data obtained from clinical visits.

        2. Obtain onsite and offsite research tissue (waste tissue) from patients with PFD/MAS that
           are enrolled onto this study or from individuals with PFD/MAS that are offsite and
           willing to donate waste tissue to NIH. Research tissue will be used with existing
           primary cell culture technology (ongoing in our laboratories) to:

             -  understand the basic bone biology of the pathologic cell (or cells) involved in the
                lesions of PFD/MAS

             -  determine the presence or absence of mutated cells at "uninvolved sites" to
                formulate better strategies of predicting the initiation of new lesions, the
                natural history of lesion progression and/or response to therapy

             -  understand osteogenic differentiation, in particular, the role of G(s)alpha in
                these lesions, which will be transferable to our understanding of bone biology in
                general

             -  understand the pathophysiology of FD and/or endocrine lesions

             -  develop better methods of identifying and expanding unaffected bone cells from
                patients with PFD in an effort to create better grafting material(s)

        3. Identify and predict clinical and biological behavior of fibrous dysplastic bone lesions
           based on:

             -  stability, rate of growth, rate of change, progression and regression, and
                development of new lesions

             -  differences between cranial, axial and appendicular lesions

        4. Define the natural history of the multiple endocrinopathies associated with MAS and the
           response to standard of care medications

        5. Define clinical and biological aspects of the disease not previously identified

        6. Generate future research studies related to PFD alone or in combination with MAS

      Secondary

      1) Successfully enroll eligible subjects into active research protocols applicable to the
      FD/MAS population.
    
  