
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To evaluate the in vivo expansion of an infused allogeneic natural killer (NK) cell
           product following a preparative regimen comprising cyclophosphamide, fludarabine
           phosphate, and total-body irradiation in treating patients with recurrent and/or
           metastatic ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer.

      Secondary

        -  To characterize the quantitative and qualitative toxicities of this treatment regimen.

        -  To estimate disease response (complete or partial response) or clinical benefit (stable
           disease for > 6 months) as measured by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours
           (RECIST) criteria.

        -  To estimate time to progression and overall survival.

        -  To estimate the association between clinical response and donor/recipient KIR ligand
           matching status.

      Tertiary

        -  To evaluate immune activation of the in vivo expanded haploidentical allogeneic NK cells
           and its effect on the immune system.

      OUTLINE:

        -  Preparative regimen: Patients receive fludarabine phosphate IV on days 6 to 2 preceding
           natural killer (NK) cell infusion and cyclophosphamide IV on days 5 and 4 preceding NK
           cell infusion. Patients also undergo total-body irradiation on day 1 preceding NK cell
           infusion.

        -  Allogeneic natural killer (NK) cell administration and aldesleukin: Patients receive
           aldesleukin-activated haploidentical allogeneic NK cells intravenously (IV) on day 0.
           Beginning 4-6 hours after allogeneic NK cell infusion, patients receive aldesleukin
           subcutaneously (SC) 3 times a week for 6 doses.

      Patients achieving any initial response (complete or partial response) or a clinical benefit
      (stable disease for > 6 months) who progress after 6 months may receive 1 re-treatment course
      as above.

      Blood samples are collected at baseline, on days 0, 7, 14, and 28, and then at 2 and 3 months
      post NK cell infusion for cytokine measurements, immunophenotyping, functional analyses, and
      testing for persistence of donor cells.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for at least 1 year.
    
  