
    
      STUDY PARTICIPATION:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will be interviewed by a member of the study
      staff and then asked to complete a series of questionnaires and verbal (spoken) questions.

      During the interview, you will be asked to describe what fatigue means to you and what it is
      like for you to have fatigue. The interview will take place while you are at M. D. Anderson
      receiving your routine care. You will be interviewed alone, and the information gathered
      during the interview will be kept strictly confidential. The interview will take about 30
      minutes to complete. It will be audiotaped so that participants' responses can be fully
      analyzed.

      You will then be asked to complete 4 questionnaires and answer 2 separate questions.

      The first questionnaire will include questions about your personal identifying information
      (such as your age and marital status).

      You will then be asked 1 question about your quality of life and another question about how
      well you are performing day-to-day activities.

      You will then be asked to complete a second questionnaire in which you will rate your fatigue
      level and how fatigue interferes with your daily activities.

      You will be asked to complete a third questionnaire about your opinion of the fatigue
      questionnaire (the second questionnaire). For example, you will be asked if the fatigue
      questionnaire was easy to understand and to complete. Learning your opinion about this
      questionnaire will help researchers learn what important questions may be missing from the
      questionnaire.

      Finally, you will then be asked to complete a questionnaire that asks you to rate the
      severity of a list of 13 symptoms and how much these symptoms interfere with some of your
      daily activities.

      The questionnaires and additional questions should take a total of 15-20 minutes to complete.

      After you have completed the interview and questionnaires, a research assistant will review
      your electronic medical record to collect information about your disease and treatments.

      LENGTH OF STUDY:

      Your participation in this study will be over after you complete the interview, the
      questionnaires, and the additional questions.

      This is an investigational study. Up to 60 patients will take part in this study. All will be
      enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  