
    
      I. Introduction

      The objective of this study was to evaluate the acute cardiovascular effects of electronic
      cigarette in young patients by non-invasive methods.

      II. State of the question and justification for the research

      State of the question

      Coronary artery disease is the death rate cause, responsible for around 7 million deaths each
      year, or 12.8% of causes of death. Myocardial infarction has an incidence of 66/100 000
      inhabitants per year. It is now undoubtedly recognized that smoking is a major independent
      cardiovascular risk factor and tobacco is responsible for over 5 million deaths per year.

      Inhaled tobacco is harmful because it contains several components: nicotine, tar derivatives,
      derived free radicals nitric oxide and carbon monoxide. The acute effects of smoking on the
      cardiovascular system are complex. The effects on the coronary circulation are characterized
      by decreased blood flow intracoronary, particularly in patients with underlying coronary
      artery disease, exacerbating myocardial ischemia. There is also a detrimental effect on
      systolic and diastolic function of the left ventricle, from the first flashes. Tobacco alters
      peripheral resistance and promotes the secretion of adrenergic catecholamines.

      Smoking cessation is naturally a public health priority but remains difficult because of the
      addictive nature of nicotine. Thus several substitutes for the cessation assistance were
      developed, among them the electronic cigarette is a recent option, more and more fashionable.

      Study Rationale

      The safety of the electronic cigarette is not established yet. There are only rare small
      number of studies comparing mostly acute cardiovascular effects of electronic cigarette to
      those of the conventional cigarette without analyzing all the potential consequences of the
      electronic cigarette.

      The smoke from the electronic cigarette is mainly composed of propylene glycol, also with
      nicotine in varying concentrations. Propylene glycol is used as a filling liquid of
      electronic cigarettes and is usually considered harmless if inhaled, despite having been
      cause asystole, shock and decreased renal and pulmonary arterial flow after intravenous
      injection in calves. It is also used by the food industry as an emulsifier or as a solvent
      for certain liquid aromas. Its cardiovascular effects are clearly not been studied in humans.

      The interest of our study was to evaluate the acute cardiovascular effects of electronic
      cigarette, with simple, non-invasive means.

      III. population concerned

      Defined in th eligibility section.

      IV. Study Methodology

      Recruitment is expected from H1 2015. Patients will be recruited during the Heart Rhythm
      consultation for a cardiovascular evaluation. We plan to include a minimum of 20 subjects.
      After this first phase of recruitment, data analysis will be conducted to determine if there
      instead of increasing the number of subjects to be included.

      A cardiovascular evaluation will be conducted at baseline, including:

        1. A compendium of history, a general physical examination (weight, height) and
           cardiovascular with measurement of oxygen saturation, an assessment of past and current
           smoking (with documentation of the concentration of nicotine in the electronic cigarette
           and the product brand used)

        2. measurement of blood pressure

        3. An electrocardiogram (ECG)

        4. A Holter-ECG 10 minutes

        5. A transthoracic echocardiogram

           The ECG will analyze heart rate, time of conduction and repolarization (QT interval in
           particular).

           The Holter ECG will study the heart rate variability in a short time.

           Echocardiography (15) will assess o cardiac output: measurement of sub aortic Integral
           time speed ITS o diastolic function of the left ventricle: measurement of peak E wave
           'and the wave in tissue Doppler to the mitral annulus; mitral profile measurement with
           the peak of the E wave, the deceleration time, the peak of the A wave and the E / A
           ratio; measuring the peaks of the S wave and D, pulmonary S / D ratio

           o end-systolic and end-diastolic volume of the left ventricle with assessment of
           systolic left ventricular function (LVEF)

             -  systolic function of the right ventricle: the measurement wave S tricuspid annulus
                and tricuspid annular plane systolic excursion (TAPSE) section 4 cavities,
                measuring SPSP

           A recent study showed that a significant level of nicotine in the blood was reached
           after 10 puffs right from the 10th minute after the first puff. This rate is then
           growing for one hour, when the inhalation continues. For practical reasons, we will ask
           the subjects to smoke for 15 minutes at their usual pace.

           Cardiac evaluations described above will be repeated. The duration of this review is
           about two hours.

           To minimize bias, ECG, Holter-ECG and echocardiography will be stored anonymously and
           interpreted retrospectively by a physician blinded to the patient's identity and time of
           completion (before or after inhalation) for each examination.

           V. Data Privacy

           Written information will be given about. Her signed consent will be collected and
           stored.

           For each subject an identifier will be given for exams before inhalation and another
           identifier will be given for the examinations after inhalation. These identifiers will
           be graded on a handwritten sheet without data entry.

           The anonymous data will then be entered on a computer file which will be sent to the
           statistician in charge of the analysis. There will be no exchange of personal data.

           VI. Statistical analysis

           Quantitative variables are expressed by their mean, standard deviations, their minimum
           and maximum values as appropriate. The variables will be expressed in numbers and
           percentages.

           The purpose of statistical analysis will determine if there is a significant difference
           of the variables collected from pre and post-inhalation inhalation of cigarette smoke
           electronic period.

           VII. Vigilance

           at. definitions

      i. adverse Event

      Any untoward medical occurrence that occurs in a person who is ready to biomedical research
      that this event is related or not to research or (x) product (s) on the (s) is (s) door this
      research.

      ii. Serious Adverse Event (SAE)

      A serious event is an event:

        -  The evolution of which is fatal; or

        -  Which endangers the life of the person undergoing research; or

        -  Which causes a disability or a significant or lasting disability; or

        -  Causing hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization; or

        -  Which results in an abnormality or birth defect; or

        -  Any other event does not meet the qualifications listed above, but can be regarded as
           "potentially serious" including some laboratory abnormalities; or

        -  Medically relevant event in the judgment of the investigator; or

        -  Events requiring medical intervention to prevent progression to one of the
           aforementioned states.

      The term "life-threatening" is reserved for immediate life-threatening at the time of the
      adverse event, regardless of the consequences of corrective or palliative therapy.

      Certain circumstances requiring hospitalization are not within the gravity standard
      "inpatient / hospitalization extension" as:

      admission for social or administrative reasons; hospitalization predefined by the protocol;
      hospitalization for medical or surgical treatment scheduled prior research; passing day
      hospital.

      b. detection methods and collection of adverse events

      All adverse events should be investigated, reported and recorded, processed and evaluated the
      first visit (inclusion D0) until the end of the study until their resolution. Adverse events
      are collected:

        -  In clinical, biological and other planned and systematic examination by the
           investigator;

        -  By spontaneous reporting by the participants, who will be instructed to contact the
           investigating doctor in case of adverse events.

      All adverse events will be recorded on forms on adverse events of case report form (see
      Appendix 2). Each observed adverse events will be recorded individually. The intensity of
      adverse events will be determined as follows:

        -  Mild (grade 1): no interference on the daily activity of the patient;

        -  Moderate (grade 2): Moderate interference on the patient's daily activities but still
           acceptable;

        -  Severe (grade 3) significant interference on the patient's daily activity and
           unacceptable;

        -  Threat of life-threatening (grade 4);

        -  Death (Grade 5). All adverse events must be graded. Responsibilities of the
           investigator.

           i. Declaration of SAEs

      The investigator evaluates each adverse event in relation to its severity. The investigator
      must notify by fax (01 44 12 31 40) to the sponsor (CRC GHPSJ) without delay after the day he
      heard, all serious adverse events in the trial, except from those identified in the protocol
      as not requiring immediate reporting. This initial notification is the subject of a written
      report must be followed if necessary by one or the report (s) Additional (s) writing (s) Main
      (s) within 8 days of the first declaration (Declaration Form in Annex 3 of the Protocol).

      The investigator must document the best event (thanks to copies of laboratory results or
      reports of examinations or hospitalization accounts informing the serious event, including
      relevant negative results, not forgetting to make these documents and anonymous to register
      number and the patient's code), medical diagnosis and a causal link between serious adverse
      events and research.

      The statement is sent to the developer with the serious adverse event reporting form signed
      and dated.

      The investigator should follow the patient with an SAE to its resolution, stabilization at a
      level deemed acceptable by the investigator or return to the previous state, even if the
      patient is out of the test and inform the promoter (CRC GHPSJ) by fax on 01 44 31 December 40
      with the form (check: monitoring).

      ii. Assessment of causality

      The investigator should assess causality of adverse events with research. The causal link is
      binary (connected / not connected).

      iii. Reporting period and followed the terms of adverse events

      The investigator should report serious adverse events from the inclusion of the patient until
      the end of the experimental procedure.

      The investigator should monitor adverse events until resolution or stabilization even if the
      patient is out of the study.

      iv. Special cases

      2.4.1 Serious Events not immediately declare To the extent it is expected no serious adverse
      event related to the participation of patients in this study and that only certain serious
      adverse events known to be associated with the patient's usual care may arise, these will
      therefore not require immediate declaration in accordance with the health authorities.

      c. Responsibilities promoter

      The Promoter will declare to ANSM (French Health Authorities) and the CPP (patients
      protection committee) in accordance with the law of 9 August 2004:

      • all unexpected serious adverse reactions without delay and at the latest within seven
      calendar days from the day when the sponsor becomes aware of, and within 7 days for
      monitoring,

        -  developments without delay safety and at the latest within 7 calendar days, and within 7
           days for monitoring,

        -  annual safety reports within 60 calendar days of the anniversary date of the study.

           d. Establishment of an independent oversight committee

      To the extent it is expected no serious adverse event related to the participation of
      patients in this study, we do not want to establish an independent monitoring committee.

      VIII. Funding

      No external funding GHPSJ.

      IX. Conflicts of interest

      No conflict of interest
    
  