
    
      Cognitive impairment in depression has emerged as one of the most robust predictors of
      sustained impairment in everyday functioning. Significant deficits in attention, memory and
      executive function are widespread and remain even after effective treatment of primary mood
      symptoms. Relevant to the investigators aims, severity of cognitive impairments has been
      linked to more severe episodes and higher rates of relapse. Cognitive Remediation (CR) is a
      psychological treatment developed and tested in research settings, where techniques that
      train the brain to process information more efficiently result in improvements in cognition
      and in community functioning. Contemporary CR relies on three pillars of treatment: Drill and
      Practice, Strategic Monitoring, and Bridging of Cognitive Skills to Everyday Life. CR
      treatment produces robust effects in depression, with some evidence for transfer to reduced
      depressive symptoms. However, each of the three pillars is typically done within a group
      therapy context, with two or more meetings per week, presenting a challenge to both modern
      health care models and the symptoms of depression that would be barriers to attendance (low
      motivation, social anxiety, lack of energy). The investigators have recently developed a
      Remote Cognitive Remediation program that overcomes these obstacles with novel components of
      CR to allow for delivery of treatment remotely. These techniques include the use of online
      exercises for an increased dose, and the delivery of recorded visual examples of bridging
      strategies. Efficacy (cognitive improvement) and effectiveness (improved community
      functioning, reduced time to relapse) will be compared to a placebo control group in this
      12-week randomized controlled trial with 6-month follow-up assessments.

      This project has the potential to address a significant gap in the treatment of depression
      and to modify an established treatment to fit into the changing demands of the health care
      system.

      Aim 1: To examine whether cognitive remediation, delivered at home over the Internet, is
      efficacious in improving cognition in symptomatic individuals with recurrent MDD.

      Aim 2: To examine the effectiveness of remote cognitive remediation for improving community
      functioning.

      Aim 3: To examine the baseline and dynamic predictors and mediators of change in functioning
      for patients with MDD who receive cognitive remediation.

      Exploratory Aim: To examine whether cognitive remediation affects rates of response,
      remission, and relapse.

      Hypothesis 1: Remote cognitive remediation will improve neurocognitive functioning at
      post-treatment and these improvements will persist for 24 weeks.

      Hypothesis 2a: Remote cognitive remediation will improve functional capacity at
      post-treatment and these improvements will persist for 24 weeks.

      Hypothesis 2b: Remote cognitive remediation will improve functioning in the community 24
      weeks post-treatment.

      Hypothesis 3: Improvements in cognitive functioning will predict improvements in functional
      capacity and functional behaviours post-treatment and 24 weeks later, controlling for
      depressive symptoms at baseline and change in depressive symptoms. Social cognitive
      functioning and social anxiety will mediate the degree to which cognitive and functional
      capacity relate to real world behavior change.

      Exploratory Hypotheses:

      A.Remote cognitive remediation will increase response and remission rates, and reduce rates
      of relapse over a 24 week period.

      B.12 weeks of CR will demonstrate equivalency in treatment effects to 24 weeks of CR

      Participants will be randomized to one of three groups. Two groups will receive active
      cognitive remediation, with one terminating sessions after 12 weeks (the standard length of
      time in the literature) and one continuing for a total of 24 weeks of treatment. The third
      group will receive a comparison training group where they will login to the same training
      environment but the difficulty level of the working memory load will not progress over time
      but the tasks will be longer (referred to in the consent as 'focusing your attention for
      longer periods of time). In previous work, the investigators have found participants to be
      equally compliant with these groups and for specific changes in memory or attention depending
      on the group to which they are assigned. Participants will be tested at baseline, 12 weeks
      (post-intervention, intermediate intervention, or sham, respectively), and at 6 months
      post-intervention. This design will allow the investigators to test a 2:1 ratio of
      participants in active memory training versus comparison on the baseline to 12 week
      assessments and a 1:1:1 comparison for the short-term treatment, long-term treatment, and
      comparison condition.

      Assessments:

      Standardized testing will be performed at baseline and/or screening, during clinic visits,
      and immediately following 12 weeks of intervention. The investigators will also perform a
      durability assessment at endpoint (end of study participation or at time of dropout) and at 6
      months post-treatment to examine the persistence and transfer of effects.

      Neurocognition will be assessed with the CNS Vitals system (CNSVS).

      Social Cognition will be examined as a potential mediator of changes in cognition and
      functional capacity to functional behaviour.

      The investigators will use the Bell-Lysaker Emotion Recognition Test, which they have
      previously found to be sensitive to impairment and cognitive treatment in depression.

      Functional capacity will be assessed with the Virtual Reality Functional Capacity Assessment,
      which is a computerized performance based assessment of independent living skills such as
      planning and shopping.

      The 4-item Perceived Competence Scale will assess self-ratings of ability on the measures
      prior to and after testing.

      Functional Behaviour will be assessed with the the World Health Organization Quality of Life
      Assessment (WHOQoL-BREF).

      The Sheehan Disability Scale (SDS) will be used to assess subjective quality of life. The Lam
      Employment Absence and Productivity Scale (LEAPS) will be used to measure occupational
      functioning.

      Symptoms of depression will be assessed with Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale MADRS,
      a gold standard interview-based assessment of 10 items common to MDD.

      Other measures that are used include: The Self-Report of Cognitive Lifestyle, The Need for
      Cognition Scale, The Cognitive Approach Scale, and The Cognitive Failures Questionnaire.

      Intervention:

      The study will include the foundational Pillars of CR, but modified for this study in a
      structure that fits contemporary health care systems and with the intention of extending
      cognitive effects to improved community functioning. The novel components of CR in this study
      will be the delivery of treatment remotely, the use of online exercises for an increased
      dose, and the delivery of recorded visual examples of strategic monitoring and bridging
      strategies.

      Pillar I: Cognitive Activation. In the treatment, the use of online exercises allow for a
      steadier dose of treatment compared to week to week in-person meetings, essential for
      motivation and learning. There are 30 unique cognitive exercises in the program (sbtpro.com).
      The investigators will prescribe 24 exercises in the domains most commonly impaired in MDD:
      six targeting executive functions, ten targeting memory, and eight targeting attention and
      working memory. The specific activities are prescribed in a fixed, systematic order, such
      that the participants have a schedule of exercises that address several different cognitive
      domains each week and return to exercises in subsequent weeks. Parameters are automatically
      adjusted based on participant performance across 30 difficulty levels. Participants are
      prescribed two 20-minute sessions per day, five days per week, for the duration of the study.
      Participants who do not complete tasks for three consecutive days will receive reminder calls
      from a therapist to address technical or motivational issues.

      Pillar II: Strategy Monitoring, Development, and Pruning. Therapists communicate with
      participants in asynchronous private and group forums, where specific responses to questions
      prime flexible strategy formation, monitoring of strategies, and bridging to real world
      functioning. Participants use logs to track their own strategies and upload this information
      to the forum for therapist feedback. The purpose of the therapist responses is to reinforce
      the development of multiple strategies and help supplement or reshape those that are
      concrete, based on a predetermined list of strategies developed for each of the computer
      exercises.

      Pillar III: Bridging. The online forum will have illustrations for bridging cognitive
      abilities and problem solving strategies related to each game to experiences in the real
      world. An at home workbook will also be used to facilitate active application of skills in
      various domains (e.g., work, socialization, recreation, household maintenance).

      Comparison Control Group: Comparison cognitive remediation treatment procedures include the
      same stimuli that are presented in the active treatment condition, but the parameter
      adjustments change without increasing cognitive demand.

      Those who consent will be assigned to the CR or Comparison treatment conditions on a 2:1
      basis, based on a computerized random number generator. Allocation to active treatment at 2:1
      has advantages related to within group analysis to predict outcomes, trial costs, expected
      dropouts, and patient acceptability, and does not reduce power. Participants will meet with a
      study therapist for an orientation to the computer tasks and goal setting in a one-hour
      training session. Those who experience difficulty understanding or utilizing the program will
      receive additional training, though this contact will continue to be only computer skill
      training rather than therapeutic. The study coordinator and assistant will remain available
      throughout the study for asynchronous responses to email and live telephone support related
      to usage issues. The goal setting session follows the investigator's standard protocol, which
      is a collaborative discussion to identify real world functional goals, discuss how the
      patient's individual cognitive profile links with those goals, and demonstrate how the
      treatment techniques are related to their profile and everyday functional goals. Ph.D.-level
      psychology students or psychologists from the PI's laboratory will be available on an
      asynchronous nature to respond to online Strategic Monitoring and Bridging forum questions
      and to moderate comments.
    
  