
    
      Background: Breast cancer ranks first among cancer types seen in women in our country and all
      over the world, and second after lung cancer in cancer-related deaths. Despite the recent
      increase in its incidence, mortality has decreased due to early diagnosis and advances in
      neoadjuvant therapy. Classically, lymph node status, tumor size, histological type and grade,
      age, and ethnicity are prognostic factors for this type of cancer. Bone marrow activation
      results from malignancies and inflammation. Tumor-related inflammation has gained importance
      in each stage of tumorigenesis. Host-dependent systemic inflammatory response has been found
      to be effective in carcinogenesis, tumor development and progression. Inadequately controlled
      or uncontrolled inflammatory activity may be responsible for malignant transformation.
      Inflammatory cell stimulation occurs in lymph node metastasis and distant organ metastases
      like primary tumor.As the cornerstone of the adaptive immune system, lymphocytes inhibit
      tumor cell proliferation, migration and destroy metastatic lesions. Monocyte-macrophages
      inhibit angiogenesis, tumor growth and distant spread. On the other hand, tumor-induced
      neutrophils can accelerate tumor metastasis. Many studies have examined the relationship
      between the ratios between different cell types, such as the platelet-lymphocyte ratio (PLR),
      and the neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio (NLR), with malignant tumors.Apart from these, mean
      platelet volume (MPV), which can be automatically studied in routine blood counts and shows
      platelet activation, has been used to show tumor activity in breast, stomach, colon and
      ovarian cancers.

      Recent studies have identified the delta neutrophil index (DNI), which indicates the
      percentage of immature granulocytes (IG) in peripheral blood due to increased bone marrow
      activation in inflammatory conditions.It is based on counting granulocyte precursor cells
      under microscope. With the technological developments,IG count and DNI can be automatically
      evaluated from complete blood count parameters in automated systems.

      In this study, investigators aimed to determine the diagnostic value of preoperative IG
      number and DNI level before clinical detection of axillary lymph node metastasis, which plays
      an important role in the prognosis of breast cancer, and to compare these parameters with
      other routine inflammation markers such as white blood cell count (WBC), MPV, NLR and PLR.

      Material - Methods:Patients who were older than eighteen and operated for breast pathology in
      Kahramanmaras Sutcu Imam University,Department of General Surgery between February 2015 and
      February 2020 were evaluated retrospectively.Patient data were obtained from patient
      epicrisis forms and preoperative laboratory and postoperative pathology results recorded in
      the computer system.Demographic data of the patients,routine blood tests,preoperative imaging
      methods, preoperative tumor size,presence of axillary lymph node metastasis and distant organ
      metastasis,presence of pathological axillary lymph node metastasis in the postoperative
      period were evaluated.

      In the preoperative period, patients without axillary metastases and who did not receive
      neoadjuvant treatment were examined by dividing them into two groups as pathologically
      non-metastatic(Group NM) and metastasized(Group M) in axillary lymph node sampling.

      White blood cell(WBC)count,neutrophil count,lymphocyte count,platelet count,mean platelet
      volume(MPV),IG count and DNI(IG percentage)were measured using an automated hematological
      analyzer from blood samples obtained at the preoperative previous month of surgery.Neutrophil
      to lymhpocyte ratio(NLR) and platelet to lymphocyte ratio(PLR) were manually calculated from
      the complete blood cell results.

      Statistical Evaluation:IBM-Statistical Package for Social Sciences (SPSS) version 20 was used
      for statistical analysis. In the evaluation between independent groups;normal distribution
      was checked for the kolmogorov-simirnov test.While student t test or Mann Whitney U test was
      used in the evaluation of numerical data according to the conformity of the data to normal
      distribution,chi-square test was used in the evaluation of categorical data.Multivariate
      analysis was performed with parameters found to be significant in the evaluation of
      univariate analysis and predictive values of preoperative blood parameters were
      calculated.ROC analysis was performed to evaluate the effectiveness of WBC, NLR, PLR, DNI, IG
      number and MPV values,and sensitivity,specificity values and cut-off values were obtained.
      Numerical values are expressed as median(minimum - maximum values), categorical values as
      percentage (%).
    
  