
    
      Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, and after consultation with the appropriate research oversight,
      this study is temporarily suspended as of 3/15/20.

      This study will compare the effects of a 12-week progressive exercise training program on 1)
      Fibromyalgia (FM) pain and PTSD symptoms, 2) pain threshold and tolerance, and 3) relevant
      biomarkers and neuromodulators including: a) anti-stress, anti-nociceptive, immune modulating
      factors such as neuropeptide Y (NPY) and GABAergic neuroactive steroids such as
      allopregnanolone and pregnanolone (together termed ALLO) b) factors that upregulate the
      expression of NPY and the GABAergic neuroactive steroids, and otherwise modulate
      inflammation, such as cortisol, c) excitatory factors such as substance P that directly
      promote pain transduction and d) pro-inflammatory cytokines such as IL-6 and IL-8 that not
      only increase pain and inflammation, but also contribute to psychological dysfunction (e.g.
      anhedonia and depression) via impact on the CNS reward system. This study will focus on
      Veterans with FM/PTSD. The study design includes a baseline, acute, cardiopulmonary exercise
      assessment (CPX) that will inform the exercise prescription for a 12-week "progressive
      exercise" training program, comprised of three 30-45 minute exercise sessions per week
      (walking or running, depending on the ability/capacity of the participant). Exercise sessions
      will be initially supervised by an exercise physiologist in the Clinical Studies Unit (CSU)
      at the VA Boston Healthcare System and then each participant will transition into the home.
      Weekly telephone calls by the PI will provide additional motivational support and problem
      solving. Implementation of the prescribed exercise regimen will also be supported by the use
      of heart rate and actigraph monitors programmed for the participant to achieve their
      prescribed heart rate range (HRR). Finally, an "endpoint" CPX assessment will occur at week
      13 to track changes in psychological and neurobiological factors and to delineate their
      impact on pain and PTSD symptoms. Both CPX, maximum load, exercise tests will be performed in
      accordance with guidelines published by the American College of Cardiology. Among Veterans
      with FM/PTSD, changes in the biomarkers assessed after acute, CPX exercise testing will be
      associated with improvements in pain and PTSD symptoms.

      Once identified, such biomarkers could be augmented by modification of the exercise regimen
      to help enhance the anti-stress hormone levels for the FM/PTSD population and experience
      clinically significant reductions in their symptoms. To obtain sufficient power, 36
      participants (18/year) will be recruited. Data from this pilot work will be used to
      demonstrate feasibility and inform the further development of individually prescribed
      exercise regimens and a motivationally based exercise behavior change intervention aimed at
      reducing chronic musculoskeletal pain, including FM, and PTSD symptoms in Veterans. In the
      short-term, this SPiRE proposal will allow the PI to develop a more effective, motivationally
      based, exercise behavior change protocol that fosters long-term exercise adherence in
      patients with FM/PTSD. In the long-term, this intervention will be used as an adjunct to
      cognitive interventions for these disorders to be further developed and studied via a larger
      VA, NIH, or DOD-funded grant for which the PI will apply year 2 of the current SPiRE
      proposal.
    
  