
    
      Type II diabetes is associated with a host of adverse and costly complications, including
      heart attacks, strokes, blindness, kidney failure, and severe neuropathy that may result in
      amputations. For those with diabetes, intensive glycemic control is essential to minimize
      complications. Medication adherence, weight loss, increased exercise and improved diet have
      all been shown to significantly improve glycemic control, resulting in improved health
      outcomes and lower medical costs, including a reduction in emergency department visits and
      hospitalizations. Yet, despite the significant health benefits associated with adherence to
      diet and exercise regimes and taking diabetes medications as prescribed, non-adherence to all
      three is a significant problem. One strategy to improve adherence and thus long term health
      outcomes is to provide a clearer short term benefit. For example, those with consistent
      evidence of adherence to an exercise or medication regimen could receive subsidies or
      incentives.

      Therefore, the investigators propose to test three theory-based intervention strategies aimed
      at improving diabetes outcomes amongst a population of uncontrolled patients (Haemoglobin
      A1c, HbA1c, levels of 8.0 or greater at baseline). The proposed 6-month study will randomise
      240 participants, 60 in the control arm and 90 in each incentivized arm from the Geylang
      Polyclinic. The first strategy does not involve incentives but includes a Diabetes
      Educational Program (DEP) to help the patient manage their condition. Included in the program
      are text messages to encourage participants to take their medications as prescribed and
      prompt good dietary and exercise practices. Subsequent strategies incorporate incentives as
      core components. The incentives are tied either to processes aimed at improving blood sugar
      levels (glucose testing, physical activity and medication adherence) or directly to the
      intermediary outcome (blood glucose in the acceptable range). While process incentives are
      likely to provide more motivation for treatment adherence, as these goals may be comparably
      easier to meet, these incentives only reward intermediary outcomes and it might be more
      effective to reward successfully achieving a health outcome directly. The investigators see
      this as an important empirical question that will be answered by our proposed trial. Another
      advantage of outcome incentives is that they are likely to be more cost-effective than
      process incentives as these incentives are only spent on results.

      Aims and hypotheses that will be tested:

        -  Aim 1A: To determine if adding financial incentives for diabetes management to a
           Diabetes Educational Program (DEP), which comprises text messaging and use of study
           devices to encourage patient medical adherence and prompt good dietary as well as
           exercise practices, is more effective at improving diabetes health outcomes compared to
           the DEP alone.

        -  Hypothesis 1A: The average reduction in HbA1c levels at 6 months will be greater for
           participants in the incentive arms compared to participants in the DEP arm.

        -  Aim 1B: To determine whether incentivising health outcome (self-monitored blood sugar
           within acceptable range) is more effective at improving diabetes health outcomes than
           incentivising intermediate processes (blood glucose testing, physical activity and
           medical adherence) aimed at improving the primary outcome.

        -  Hypothesis 1B: The average reduction in HbA1c levels at 6 months will be greater for
           participants in the health outcome incentive arm compared to participants in the
           processes incentive arm.

        -  Aim 2: To determine which intervention (i.e. incentivising processes or outcome) is more
           cost effective (incrementally) at achieving reductions in HbA1c levels at 6 months.

        -  Hypothesis 2: The Incremental Cost-Effectiveness Ratio (ICER) of the intervention
           incentivising health outcome will be greater than that of the intervention incentivising
           processes.

        -  Aim 3A: To determine whether adding financial incentives for diabetes management is more
           effective at improving treatment adherence (assessed based on whether self-monitored
           blood sugar falls within acceptable range) than incentivizing intermediate processes
           aimed at improving the primary outcome.

        -  Hypothesis 3A: The average increase in the proportion of medications and blood tests
           taken as prescribed and average number of daily steps at 6 months will be greater for
           participants in the incentive arms compared to participants in the DEP arm.

        -  Aim 3B: To determine whether incentivising treatment adherence (through assessing if
           self-monitored blood sugar falls within acceptable range) is more effective at improving
           treatment adherence than incentivising intermediate processes aimed at improving the
           primary outcome.

        -  Hypothesis 3B: The average increase in the proportion of medications and blood tests
           taken as prescribed and average number of daily steps at 6 months will be greater for
           participants in the outcome incentive arms compared to participants in the processes
           incentive arms.
    
  