
    
      This is a Phase l/II, open-label, safety, pharmacodynamics and efficacy study of atezolizumab
      in combination with entinostat and bevacizumab in patients with advanced renal cell
      carcinoma. This clinical study will be composed of a Dose Finding Phase (Phase I) and a
      two-stage Dose Expansion Phase (Phase II) portion.

      In Phase 1, patients will be treated with oral entinostat every 7 days, with bevacizumab at
      the fixed dose of 15 mg/kg IV every 3 weeks and with atezolizumab at the fixed dose of 1200
      mg IV every 3 weeks. Each cycle length is 21 days. Three dose levels of entinostat will be
      tested in 3-patient cohorts according to the 3 + 3 standard design (level 1 = 1 mg, level 2 =
      3 mg and level 3 = 5 mg). For the Dose Finding Phase, the starting dose level of entinostat
      will be 1 mg PO every 7 days. The first dose level will have a minimum of 3 patients treated
      (unless the first 2 patients experience DLT(s) before the 3rd patient is enrolled. DLTs
      attributable to entinostat and/or bevacizumab and/or atezolizumab will be evaluated during
      the first 21 days of the combination treatment.

      If DLTs occur in 1 patient treated at the starting dose level, a minimum of 3 additional
      patients will be treated at this dose level. If DLTs occur in more than 1 patient in the
      first 6 patients, the study will be terminated. If a DLT occurs in 1/6 patient, dose level 1
      will be considered the Recommended Phase II Dose (RP2D). If no DLTs occur at the starting
      dose level 1, 3 additional patients will be treated at the next dose level (level 2). If no
      DLTs occur at the dose level 2, 3 additional patients will be treated at the next dose level
      (level 3). If no DLTs occur at dose level 3, this dose level will be recommended for the
      Phase II portion of the study. Patients who experience grade ≥ 3 toxicity and recover to ≤
      grade 1 (or to pretreatment baseline level toxicity) may continue treatment at the next lower
      level. The Phase II dose will be RP2D of entinostat (i.e., the highest tested dose that is
      declared safe and tolerable by the Investigators and Sponsor).

      Once the RP2D is identified, the Phase II portion (Simon's two stage design) will be opened.
      During Phase II, Cohort A will have a Run-In period with entinostat for one cycle followed by
      atezolizumab and bevacizumab for the second cycle, and then the Combination Phase. The reason
      for the Run-In period during Cohort A is to obtain data on the immunomodulatory effects of
      entinostat separately from bevacizumab and atezolizumab. The run-in period will be optional
      for patients who are rapidly progressing or if it is in the patient's best interest
      clinically as determined by the treating physician's discretion. In Stage I, 32 patients with
      prior treatments will be enrolled in two Phase II cohorts: 18 treatment naïve (anti-PD1
      naïve) patients (Cohort A), and 14 anti-PD1 resistant (defined as patients who have been on
      PD1 inhibitors for at least 3 months and have progressed by either clinical or radiographic
      assessment) patients (Cohort B). If ≥ 5 responses are observed in Cohort A, Stage II will be
      conducted with 15 additional patients.

      Cohort B is a pilot arm which aims to test atezolizumab in anti-PD1 resistant patients. If
      there is no response to atezolizumab, then the RP2D dose of entinostat will be added to the
      standard dose of atezolizumab. If there is a response to atezolizumab, patients will continue
      to be treated with atezolizumab alone.

      The RP2D is the dose of entinostat, atezolizumab, and bevacizumab in combination chosen for
      further clinical development. Further experience in Phase II may result in a RP2D dose lower
      than the maximum tolerated dose.

      Objectives:

        1. Primary Phase I: To assess the safety and tolerability of atezolizumab in combination
           with entinostat and bevacizumab in patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma.

        2. Primary Phase II: To assess the objective response rate of atezolizumab in combination
           with entinostat and bevacizumab in anti-PD 1 naïve patients and atezolizumab in
           combination with entinostat in anti-PD 1 resistant patients with advanced renal cell
           carcinoma.

        3. Secondary: To assess the objective response rate (Phase I only), progression-free
           survival and overall survival.

        4. Correlative: To characterize PD-L1/2, immune cell subsets, and miRs in tumor and/or
           blood in correlation with response.
    
  