
    
      Complex abdominal wall reconstructions utilize advanced techniques that include, but are not
      limited to, component separation, modified component separation, and free tissue flap
      reconstruction. Data suggests that recurrence rates are lowered with the insertion of mesh
      supporting materials. More specifically, synthetic mesh utilization during repair of simple
      clean ventral hernias reduces hernia recurrence by over 50% when compared to suture closure
      alone. Unfortunately in the presence of microbial contamination or infection, there is a
      marked increase in hernia recurrence and mesh infection using synthetic prostheses. Biologic
      meshes however are established options for use in abdominal wall reconstruction in the
      presence of both field contamination and infection. These indications, as well as others, for
      biologic materials include, but are not limited to, patients with chronic immunosuppression,
      infected fields, colonized fields (i.e. preceding synthetic mesh), the need to place the
      product within the peritoneal cavity (underlay), and patients with complex losses of domain.
      It should also be noted that there may be significant utility in their use of biologic
      materials in a much broader range of indications, but the economic cost of these products
      have clearly tempored wider indications for overall use.

      To date, there have been no prospective randomized controlled trials that compare various
      biologic mesh materials in the context of abdominal wall reconstruction. As a result, this
      proposal describes a 'head to head' randomized controlled trial (RCT) between 2 of the
      market's most popular biologic meshes. Strattice (noncross-linked porcine dermis, LifeCell
      Inc.) will be compared to Permacol (cross-linked porcine dermis, Covidien Inc.) in a
      randomized manner. Although there are significant differences between these mesh products
      with regard to procurement, tissue processing and cost, clinical controlled trials are needed
      to compare their performance.

      Given the nearly 2-fold difference in cost between the 2 included biologic meshes,
      equivalence with regard to recurrence and postoperative complications would represent a
      massive economic savings to the public health care system.
    
  