
    
      Asthma affects more than 15 million people in the United States. Inhaled corticosteroids
      (ICS), the ranking treatment-of-choice, are safe and highly efficacious in controlled trials,
      but adherence to ICS medications in real-world settings is poor in all patient groups,
      especially low-income and minority patients who experience the most morbidity from asthma.
      Children and adults with asthma take less than half of their prescribed ICS medication. One
      study found that only 44% of ICS prescriptions for children with asthma were filled. Even the
      most effective medications have little value if not taken as prescribed. Decreasing use of
      ICS has been repeatedly linked to poor asthma control and increasing health care utilization.

      We will conduct a randomized, practical clinical trial to test the impact of a communication
      enhancement program for parents of 3-12 year old children with asthma in the largest health
      maintenance organization (HMO) within Colorado. Research in this setting has the significant
      advantage of not only establishing the utility of a behavior-changing strategy, but at the
      same time demonstrating that the strategy can be applied in a large healthcare system and
      sustained over time. The proposed intervention will be referred to here as the
      Telecommunication Enhanced Adherence Management (TEAM) program. This proposal builds upon
      ongoing efforts within Kaiser Permanente of Colorado (KPCO), the participating HMO, to use
      automated telecommunication technology to prevent diabetes, reduce cardiac risk, reduce
      calorie consumption, and increase exercise adherence, with the introduction of an
      intervention to increase adherence with daily ICS therapy. Speech Recognition (SR), the
      telecommunication technology used in this trial, has not previously been employed to promote
      adherence in a population of children treated for asthma within a large HMO. TEAM creates a
      theory-based enhanced communication program using SR with support from asthma care manager
      nurses. The Asthma Care Manager program already exists within KPCO, but with SR the frequency
      and quality of communication with parents is expected to improve significantly, resulting in
      more ICS medication refills, better persistence in ICS use, and improved asthma outcomes.
      Through SR calls, parents will be reminded and motivated about the importance of continued
      daily use of ICS medications, asked about their child's recent asthma symptoms, and given the
      opportunity to receive a call back from an asthma care manager or to place a request for a
      medication refill.
    
  