
    
      Hand, Foot and Mouth Disease（HFMD）is a common infectious disease in infants and young
      children which is caused by enterovirus. HFMD is one of the category c infectious diseases in
      China. However a group of picornavirus of enterovirus can caused HFMD, including
      coxsackievirus A (CVA), coxsackievirus B(CVB), Human Enterovirus 71(EV71), Echovirus(ECHO)
      and so on, EV71 and CVA16 are the most common reason for this disease. This study is carried
      out to discover dynamic changes of the maternal anti-EV71 and anti-CVA16 antibody in infants
      and young children from this study.

      Infections of Hand, Foot and Month Disease in infants and young children may lead to a
      certain proportion of serious cases with various complications or death. The primary aim of
      this study is to find dynamic changes of the maternal anti-EV71 antibody in infants and young
      children and to provide basic data for the future application of EV71 vaccines. The second
      aim of this study is to find dynamic changes of the maternal anti- CVA16 antibody levels in
      infants and young children The third aim of this study is to discover the risk factors of
      Hand, Foot and Month Disease and to estimate the burden of disease.Hand, Foot and Mouth
      Disease（HFMD）is a common infectious disease in infants and young children caused by
      enterovirus. Since 2008, HFMD has become one of the category c infectious diseases in China.
      However a group of picornavirus of enterovirus can caused HFMD, including coxsackievirus A
      (CVA), coxsackievirus B(CVB), Human Enterovirus 71(EV71), Echovirus(ECHO) and so on, EV71 and
      CVA16 are the most common reason for this disease. This study is carried out to discover
      dynamic changes of the maternal anti-EV71 and ant-CVA16 in infants and young children from
      this study.

      Infections of Hand, Foot and Month Disease in infants and young children may lead to a
      certain proportion of serious cases with various complications or death. The primary aim of
      this study is to find dynamic changes of the maternal anti-EV71 in infants and young children
      and to provide basic data for the future application of EV71 vaccines. The second aim of this
      study is to find dynamic changes of the maternal anti-CVA16 levels in infants and young
      children. The third aim of this study is to discover the risk factors of Hand, Foot and Month
      Disease and to estimate the burden of disease.
    
  