
    
      Mechanisms of action Three ERAs have been approved for the treatment of PAH including the
      dual inhibitors Bosentan and Macitentan and the selective Endothelin Receptor type A
      inhibitor (ETA-Inhibitor) Ambrisentan. The dual antagonists inhibit both ETA- and the type B
      (ETB)-receptor, while the selective antagonist only affects the ETA-receptor [2]. The
      physiologic ligand of the receptors is Endothelin-1, which binds to the ETA-receptor and
      causes vasoconstriction and proliferation of the vascular smooth muscle cells. The binding to
      the ETB-receptor leads to an endogenous production of NO and prostacyclin in the endothelial
      cells.

      PDE-5-Inhibitors include the two substances Sildenafil and Tadalafil. They inhibit the
      degradation of cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMPs), which triggers the vasodilative effect
      of endothelial NO.

      Interaction There is evidence for the pharmacokinetic interaction (inhibition / induction of
      critical targets of drug metabolism and drug distribution) of both substance classes: the
      PDE-5-Inhibitors Sildenafil and Tadalafil are mainly eliminated in the liver by the hepatic
      enzyme Cytochrom-P450-Oxygenase type 3A4 (CYP3A4). The dual inhibitor Bosentan is both a
      substrate and an inductor of the Cytochrom-P450-Oxydase type 3A4 and type 2C9 [5,6].

      It has already been shown in an in vivo-study, that simultaneous application of
      PDE-5-Inhibitors and Bosentan leads to a systemic reduction of the PDE-5-Inhibitor
      concentration of 40%, due to the CYP3A4-inducing effect of Bosentan [5]. Sildenafil, in
      contrast, leads to a decreased degradation of Bosentan in the liver with an approximately 50%
      increase in plasma leves. An anticipated result, especially when higher dosages of Sildenafil
      are applied, is the accumulation of Bosentan and reduction of Sildenafil levels.

      A recent in vitro-study has shown that Tadalafil may also serve as CYP3A4-inductor, while
      this effect has not been detected for Sildenafil [7].

      In contrast Macitentan which has been approved in 2013, has no clinically relevant
      CYP3A4-inducing effects. [8]. The in vitro-study has also detected a further interaction
      between ERAs and PDE-5-Inhibitors. Both PDE-5-Inhibitors Sildenafil and Tadalafil affect the
      transport molecules organic anion transporting polypeptides (OATPs), which are responsible
      for the hepatocellular intake of the dual ERA Bosentan. They also had a mild effect on the
      intake of Ambrisentan.

      Sildenafil is a potent inhibitor of OATPs, whereas Tadalafil shows only minor inhibition of
      OATPs [7]. Both Sildenafil and Tadalafil significantly reduce the intracellular concentration
      of Bosentan in the liver, leading to a reduced degradation of Bosentan. For Ambrisentan this
      effect seemed to be less pronounced [7]. Consequently, this mechanisms of action lead to
      higher ERA-levels and to decreased PDE-5-Inhibitor plasma concentrations in patients
      receiving combination treatment. The most distinct interaction is expected for the
      combination of Sildenafil (PDE-5-Inhibitor) and Bosentan (ERA).

      Up to now, the prevalence and role of this pharmacokinetic interaction for the clinical
      status and progression of the disease is not clear. Respective combination treatments have
      only been investigated in healthy male volunteers so far [5,9].
    
  