
    
      Detailed Description:

      This is a monocentric, observational cohort study.

      Main judgment criteria:

      Evolution of the quality of life score of the LYMQOL self-questionnaire between preoperative
      and postoperative (at 3.6 and 12 months) The investigators used a French translation of
      Keeley's LYMQOL (Quality Of Life Measure for Limb Lymphoedema) self-administered
      questionnaire in 2010 (2) to assess the quality of life of patients. This is a lymphedema
      specific questionnaire for which there is one version for the upper limb and one for the
      lower limb. Limb function, lymphedema symptoms, body image and mood are assessed
      independently. It allows to obtain a score between 1 and 4 which corresponds to the
      discomfort felt. The higher the score, the better the quality of life. It also includes, in
      the last question, a numerical scale allowing the patient to note her quality of life between
      0 and 10.

      Since 2016, patients have systematically completed quality of life questionnaires. Perimeter
      measurements are also done systematically at each visit, these data are available in the
      patient's computerized medical records (Dx Care).

      Secondary judgment criterion:

      Difference in the volume of the limb operated between preoperative and postoperative (3, 6
      and 12 months)

      The volume is calculated on the basis of stepped circumferential measurements (every 10 cm
      starting from the patella for the lower limb and every 5 cm starting from the bend of the
      elbow for the upper limb). These measures are taken at each consultation by our
      physiotherapists, specialized nurses or vascular doctors.

      It is therefore a question of retrospectively analyzing the data collected.

      The data will then be anonymised by a two-letter code and a number and will be entered on a
      Excel file available on a secure directory of the CHU for analysis.

      A dedicated support protocol is already implemented in the Cf Appendix service. There are no
      special modalities for patients not included in the study.
    
  