
    
      Osteoarthritis (OA) is a common musculoskeletal disorder and the number of people in need of
      surgical treatment for hip and knee OA is increasing. The waiting time for consultation with
      an orthopedic surgeon (OS) is long and the majority of the patient referred for assessment
      are not appropriate for surgical intervention. To reduce the number of patients seen by an OS
      and thereby shorten the waiting time, Sahlgrenska University Hospital started a
      Physiotherapist-led (PT-led) triage project in 2017. With PT-led triage the patients are
      assessed by a physiotherapist to establish the most appropriate care management; if the
      patient is appropriate for surgery, should be referred for continued rehabilitation, or
      referred back to the referring physician. To our knowledge this model of care with PT-led
      triage in secondary care setting have not been scientifically evaluated in Sweden.

      The aim of this project is to compare PT-led triage in a secondary care setting with standard
      care (i.e. assessment of OS for patients with knee or /and hip OA). Patients referred from
      primary care to Sahlgrenska University hospital with primary hip and/or knee OA will be
      included and randomized to consultation with either PT (triage) or OS (standard practice).
      Data about patient reported health-related quality of life, pain, function, and patients'
      perception of quality of care will be collected using questionnaires at baseline, 3 and 12
      months after the consultation.

      Data about waiting time for consultation, proportion of patients appropriate for surgery,
      further investigations, and data to be able to perform cost analysis will be collected from
      patients´ journals, the patient administration systems, both locally and via the region
      Västra Götaland´s database (VEGA).

      A qualitative approach will be used to further investigate patients experience of a
      pt-ledtrige
    
  