
    
      Patients randomized to the standard of care arm will be required to follow the active
      surveillance protocol created by the Multidisciplinary Testicular Cancer Clinic at Princess
      Margaret Hospital. This involves blood marker and CT tests at predetermined intervals for 5-9
      years depending on the patient's testicular cancer diagnosis (seminoma vs. non-seminoma). If
      randomized to this group, participants will be required to return to the Multidisciplinary
      Testicular Cancer Clinic to receive the results of their surveillance testing face-to-face in
      a medical appointment. In addition to these surveillance testing and follow-up visits,
      participants will also be asked to complete surveys regarding their satisfaction with the
      in-person active surveillance program. These surveys will take approximately 10-15 minutes to
      complete and will be predominantly multiple choice. These surveys will be emailed to
      participants at 6 months, 1 year, 2 years and 5 years after the study begins. As per current
      standard of care practice, participants may choose to have their imaging completed at a
      centre outside of the UHN. In these cases, participants will be required to obtain and send
      CDs with their imaging and reports to their most responsible oncologist at Princess Margaret.
      Blood marker visits can be performed anywhere without sending the results to Princess
      Margaret.

      Patients randomized to the WATChmAN group will also be required to follow the active
      surveillance protocol created by the Multidisciplinary Testicular Cancer Clinic at Princess
      Margaret Hospital. If randomized to this group, a physician from the Multidisciplinary
      Testicular Cancer Clinic will still review the participant's surveillance testing results but
      will interact with the WATChmAN platform instead of receiving their results face-to-face in a
      medical appointment. Specifically, if randomized to this group participants will be required
      to:

        -  Asked, but not required, to have their picture taken to be uploaded into the WATChmAN
           platform. Their photo will only be stored on the password-protected WATChmAN database
           and will serve to cue facial recognition in the physicians reviewing their results and
           therefore enhance recall of their personal history.

        -  Confirm their registration in the WATChmAN program via a welcome email

        -  Respond to WATChmAN generated messages and reminders requesting whether or not their
           upcoming surveillance testing (e.g. blood tests and/or CT imaging scans) has been
           completed

        -  Respond to WATChmAN generated messages to confirm where their upcoming testing (e.g.
           blood tests and/or CT imaging scans) has been completed

        -  Check their results on the WATChmAN platform and express any concerns/issues they might
           have about their treatment and/or health to their most responsible oncologist through
           the WATChmAN platform

        -  Confirm receipt of messages concerning whether they need or do not need to come in for
           an in-person follow up visit

        -  Return to the Multidisciplinary Testicular Cancer Clinic to see a physician face-to-face
           for a final exit follow-up appointment when their active surveillance treatment is
           complete

        -  If getting their CT imaging visits outside the UHN, obtain and send CDs with their
           imaging and reports to the WATChmAN research coordinator for upload into the WATChmAN
           system (please note: this requirement is identical for patients in the standard of care
           group)

        -  Participants do not need to send in their blood test results. Their blood marker visits
           can be performed anywhere without needing to send them to the WATChmAN coordinator.

      Finally, in addition to these surveillance testing and WATChmAN interactions, participants
      will also be asked to complete surveys regarding their satisfaction with their virtual active
      surveillance program. These surveys will take approximately 10-15 minutes to complete and
      will be predominantly multiple choice. These surveys will be emailed to participants at 6
      months, 1 year, 2 years and 5 years after the study begins.

      It is predicted that the WATChmAN virtual platform will take at least one year to construct;
      however, the researchers involved in this study believe there is value in launching this
      virtual clinic without delay. This will also allow further improvements to the design of the
      WATChmAN platform as it is being built. Therefore, this study will be divided into two
      stages:

      Stage I: During this stage, a clinical research coordinator alongside a nurse from the
      Genitourinary Clinic at the Princess Margaret Cancer Centre will manually perform all the
      anticipated functions of the WATChmAN platform. The clinical research coordinator will be
      responsible for all the administrative roles of WATChmAN including sending appointment
      reminders and scheduling follow-up virtual appointments. The nurse will be responsible for
      all the clinical functionalities of the WATChmAN platform. They will manually track patients'
      blood and imaging test results and work closely with the Multidisciplinary Testicular Cancer
      Clinic physicians to ensure that all patient surveillance results are reviewed. Patients
      randomized to the in-person AS group will receive the traditional standard of care which
      includes returning to clinic to meet with physicians face-to-face to receive imaging and
      blood testing results.

      Stage II: During stage 2 of this investigation, the WATChmAN platform will be responsible for
      automatically populating the virtual clinic with blood and imaging results, sending
      appointment reminders and scheduling follow up appointments. The responsibilities of patients
      randomized to the WATChmAN group will be to acknowledge these email/text appointment
      reminders (i.e. yes/no to being aware of upcoming appointments), checking their results
      virtually and scheduling follow-up appointments through the WATChmAN platform. The research
      coordinator and nurse will continue to oversee the WATChmAN function but will not be manually
      collating surveillance results (markers/imaging etc.). Patients randomized to the in-person
      AS group receive the traditional standard of care, returning to the clinic to meet with a
      physician face-to-face to receive their surveillance imaging and blood marker results.
    
  