
    
      Corticosteroids and cytotoxic agents such as cyclophosphamide remain the most commonly used
      regimens for crescentic glomerulonephritis. However, their use is often limited by adverse
      effects, most notably life-threatening opportunistic infections due to generalized
      immunosuppression. Over the past decade, a number of novel experimental therapeutic agents
      have been shown to ameliorate the severity of experimental crescentic glomerulonephritis.
      Unfortunately, none of these measures is currently available for clinical use. Other
      potential agents such as mycophenolate, cyclosporin, and tacrolimus , while clinically
      available, share similar adverse effects with corticosteroid- and cyclophosphamide-based
      regimens. PTX is a methylxanthine phosphodiesterase inhibitor that has been widely used to
      treat peripheral vascular diseases and cerebrovascular disorders. In addition to its
      well-known hemorheologic activity, accumulating evidence suggests that PTX also possesses
      potent anti-inflammatory and/or immunoregulatory activities. For examples, PTX has shown its
      efficacy in different animal models of renal diseases where tumor necrosis factor
      (TNF)-alpha, monocyte chemoattractant protein (MCP)-1, or intercellular adhesion molecule-1
      is involved. Moreover, clinical trials in patients with diabetic nephropathy and membranous
      glomerulonephritis have shown that PTX can lower endogenous TNF-alpha and attenuate
      proteinuria. These data raise the possibility that PTX may have promise as an
      anti-inflammatory agent via its ability to antagonize inflammatory mediators. Consistent with
      this idea, we have demonstrated this potential usefulness of PTX in a rat model of
      accelerated anti-GBM glomerulonephritis. More recently, we have reported that PTX is capable
      of inhibiting proteinuria via renal MCP-1 production in subnephrotic primary glomerular
      diseases. In this study, we aim to investigate the potential benefit of combined PTX and
      conventional immunosuppressive regimens, compared to conventional immunosuppressive therapy,
      in patients with rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis.

      This study is a randomized, open-label, comparative study. Group A is treated by three
      monthly standard intravenous pulse-dose methylprednisolone (15 mg/kg/day or a maximum of 1
      g/day from days 1 to 3) followed by oral prednisolone 0.5-1.0 mg/kg/day (from days 4-30).
      Group B is treated by the same corticosteroid regimen plus intravenous PTX (0.33-0.66 mg/kg/h
      from days 1 to 7) followed by oral PTX 400-800 mg/day (from days 8-90). The dose of
      intravenous PTX will be determined by estimated GFR, patients whose GFRs are 30-59
      ml/min/1.73 m2 will be given 0.66 mg/kg/h, and those below 30 ml/min/1.73 m2 will be given
      0.33 mg/kg/h. The oral dose of PTX will also be determined by estimated GFR. Patients whose
      estimated glomerular filtration rates (GFRs) are between 30-59 ml/min/1.73 m2 will be given
      800 mg/day, and those below 30 ml/min/1.73 m2 will be given 400 mg/day. If the patients
      cannot tolerate oral medications, either PTX or corticosteroids can be administered
      intravenously until patients can resume oral intakes. Serum and single-voided urine specimens
      will be collected at the hospital before initiation of therapy (day 0), and at days 8, 15,
      30, and 90 after the commencement of therapy. Renal function will be calculated by
      Cockcroft-Gault and simplified Modification of Diet in Renal Disease formula. All biochemical
      and immunological analyses will be performed by the Department of Laboratory Medicine,
      National Taiwan University Hospital. Serum and urine samples will be measured for
      inflammatory mediators using commercial ELISA kits.
    
  