
    
      Basal cell carcinoma occurs most often on areas of the skin that are exposed to the sun, such
      as head and neck. The most commonly found clinical feature of Basal Cell Carcinoma (BCC) is
      an elevated tumor with a pearly and translucent margin and telangiectasia. The color may vary
      widely from nearly normal skin color to erythematous to violaceous and may also be pigmented.
      BCC may also resemble noncancerous skin conditions such as eczema or psoriasis. The majority
      of these cancers occur on areas of skin that are regularly exposed to sunlight or other
      ultraviolet radiation.

      The STP705 drug substance (STP705) is composed of two siRNA oligonucleotides, targeting the
      expression of TGF-β1 and Cox-2 mRNA respectively. Along with the HKP-enhanced delivery
      system, the combination is expected to downregulate TGF-β1 and COX-2 expression resulting in
      the inhibition of tumor growth and provide an alternative non-invasive approach for the
      treatment of BCC.

      This phase 2, open label, dose escalation study is designed to evaluate the safety,
      tolerability and efficacy of various doses of STP705 administered as localized injection in
      patients with BCC. This study seeks to establish a safe and effective recommended dose of
      STP705 for the treatment of BCC. The clinician will evaluate the change in tumor size at each
      treatment visit. At the End of Treatment visit, the residual tumor, or former tumor location,
      will be excised for analysis. Expression of biomarkers common to the BCC formation pathway,
      including TGF-β1 and COX-2, will be evaluated.

      Safety and tolerability will be assessed by the number of incidence of adverse events (AEs)
      and serious adverse events (SAEs); the incidence of AEs and SAEs leading to discontinuation
      of trial medication; the incidence and severity of Local Skin Response (LSR);
      hypopigmentation and hyperpigmentation following treatment; and the tolerability of repeated
      localized administration of STP705 as assessed by investigator-evaluation of injection site
      reactions for all patients and within each cohort.

      The study plans to enroll approximately 15 adult patients at up to 3 clinical sites in the
      United States. The 15 patients will be divided equally among 3 cohorts (30, 60 and 90 μg dose
      level) of 5 patients each.
    
  