
    
      Early diagnosis of sepsis may be difficult in patients with severe liver failure in the
      absence of usual warning clinical signs. Furthermore, routine laboratory tests like blood
      leucocyte count and serum c-reactive protein may be misleading in most of these patients. A
      great interest is taken in the identification of sepsis biomarkers or sepsis-induced
      alterations in the inflammation cascade, whose expression is independent of liver function.
      Determination of such a biomarker may be a useful tool for the early diagnosis of sepsis and
      may have a prognostic significance in patients with liver failure.

      Septic complications in patients with liver failure may induce a disruption of liver
      microcirculation, which is regulated by several factors acting on endothelial and liver
      stellate cells. Furthermore, generation of reactive oxygen species results in an oxidative
      stress on lipids, proteins, and DNA. Lipid peroxidation may contribute to further
      hepatocellular injury and activation of systemic inflammation cascade. Both endothelial
      dysfunction and alterations in lipid metabolism may have a role in the prognosis of liver
      disease and its complications.

      The purpose of this prospective observational study is to determine the role of new
      biomarkers in the diagnosis of sepsis in critically-ill patients with liver failure and to
      correlate the prognosis of these patients with parameters of endothelial function and lipid
      metabolism. In addition, the porto-systemic gradient of these parameters will be determined
      in patients planned for a transjugular intra-hepatic porto-systemic shunt (TIPSS).

      An overall number of 120 patients will be enrolled. According to the mode of presentation,
      the planned number of patients in the different study groups will be as follow : 70 patients
      with chronic liver failure and acute on chronic liver failure; 20 patients with acute liver
      failure ; 30 patients post-liver transplantation.
    
  