
    
      This study will be an eight month stepped-wedge, cluster randomised control trial exploring
      the use and impact of 'Joy for All' robot pets with older people living in care homes in
      South West England. Participants will include individuals with and without dementia.

      The study aims to:

        -  See if affordable robot pets lead to improved wellbeing and are robust and engaging over
           4-8 months in care homes and nursing homes.

        -  Identify under what circumstances, for which care home residents, and with what impact
           the robot pets are used.

      The wellbeing outcomes to be explored include; neuropsychiatric symptoms, challenging
      behaviour, communication and loneliness.

      Additional outcomes include monitoring of medication use, 1:1 care applications, and
      maintenance of a usage chart.

      Qualitative data will also be collected through reflective diaries maintained by care staff,
      and interviews following completion of the study.

      The study will include residents of eight care homes, which will be stratified into two
      clusters based on size and dementia service. The two clusters will then be randomised to
      immediate start (and receive robot animals immediately), or delayed start (and receive robot
      animals after four months). This provides a period of control. The sample size is primarily
      informed by feasibility, and the number of residents in each home likely to participate. In
      total there are approximately 190 residents of which the investigators estimate 100 across
      the 8 homes will give consent and interact with the robots. If 70% residents (across both
      arms and over the whole study) benefit from interacting with the robots the 95% confidence
      interval is 61-79%. This is of sufficient precision.

      Measures will be completed at baseline, 4 months and 8 months. Interviews will be conducted
      at 8 months, and analysed alongside reflective diary entries.

      This study should provide understanding of the potential for these more affordable robot pets
      in improving wellbeing for older people, and insight into their use and implementation.
    
  