
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To establish that the combination of epacadostat and pembrolizumab will lead to an
      increase in tumor infiltrating cytotoxic T-cells and circulating cytotoxic T cells and a
      reduction in immunosuppressive Tregs and myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) in
      esophageal/gastroesophageal junction (GEJ) tumors that can arise after treatment with
      neoadjuvant chemoradiation.

      II. To assess safety and tolerability of pembrolizumab and epacadostat (immunotherapy) in
      this patient population.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate pathologic complete response rate (path CR) and correlate with tumor T-cell
      response.

      II. To evaluate complete clinical response rate (clinical CR) and subsequent avoidance of
      esophagectomy and correlate with tumor T-cell response.

      III. To evaluate toxicities with the combination of pembrolizumab and epacadostat in this
      treatment setting.

      IV. To evaluate disease-free survival (DFS) and overall survival (OS) in this treatment
      population.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To measure changes in whole genome serum micro ribonucleic acid (miRNA) signatures before
      and after protocol therapy and correlate with tumor/immune/stromal cell miRNA expression
      profiling determined by deep sequencing.

      II. To assess the role of circulating miR-23a as serum biomarker given its role as an oncomir
      in esophagastric cancer and reporting in the literature of suppressing tumor cytotoxic T
      cells in preclinical models.

      III. To correlate diversity in the gut microbiome with path CR and clinical CR after
      treatment with pembrolizumab and epacadostat.

      IV. To measure serial plasma kynurenine/tryptophan ratio levels as a pharmacodynamic marker
      of increased IDO1 activity and response.

      V. Association of PD-L1 expression, microsatellite stability and/or IDO1 expression and
      pathological complete response (pCR) rate.

      OUTLINE:

      Starting 14 days after completion of standard of care chemoradiotherapy, participants receive
      epacadostat orally (PO) twice daily (BID) during weeks 3-8 and pembrolizumab intravenously
      (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1 of weeks 3 and 6 in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up at one month and then every
      3 months in year 1, every 4 months in year 2, and every 6 months in year 3.
    
  