
    
      Overactive bladder (OAB) is a troubling condition affecting over 17 million people in the
      U.S. with an estimated prevalence of 16.9% among women. The cost of this burden nationally
      was estimated at $66 billion in 2007. The morbidity of the disease impacts quality of life
      scores and increases risks of falls and fractures.

      First-line therapeutic modalities for OAB focus on anticholinergic medications and behavioral
      modification. However, the indirect impact of these medications on the gut and salivary
      glands, have been troubling. Resultant side effect profiles with anticholinergic medications
      have caused a high rate of cessation, with some studies showing as low as 14% of patients
      still taking their medication at a one-year follow up. Given the burden and morbidity
      associated with this highly prevalent condition among women, our aim is to improve our
      therapeutic options, while possibly reducing subsequent side effects. As such, there is
      potential to revolutionize treatment for this condition.

      Omega-3 fatty acids have been evaluated with success in treating many medical conditions.
      Specifically, diseases with an inflammatory component, such as Crohn's disease, ulcerative
      colitis, and rheumatoid arthritis have seen promising improvements with the addition of
      Omega-3 fatty acids. Other studies have shown a beneficial role in the treatment of dry eyes,
      depression, burn injuries, and even cancer. Although not previously explored in the setting
      of irritative bladder conditions, we believe that Omega-3 fatty acids may be helpful in
      interventions for OAB via several purported mechanisms.

      Prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) and inflammation have both been implicated in the biochemistry of
      overactive bladder. Reduction in PGE2 may be paramount in reducing the symptoms of overactive
      bladder. In fact, a proposed mechanism of action of the success of anticholinergic
      medications, commonly first line treatment for OAB, is reduction of PGE2. Animal models have
      demonstrated that non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) can be used to decrease
      micturition frequency, which is thought to be a result of the anti-inflammatory process. In
      humans, anti-inflammatory medications have been shown to decrease nocturia and even cause
      urinary retention in high doses. Omega-3 fatty acids have been shown to have
      anti-inflammatory actions and the ability to reduce PGE2. We therefore, have reason to
      believe it may be an effective adjunct to current therapy to improve overactive bladder
      symptoms.

      Additionally, Omega-3 fatty acids have been implemented in the treatment of dry eyes and
      animal studies have shown their role in increasing intestinal motility.Hence, we propose that
      Omega-3 fatty acids may help alleviate the common side effects of dry eyes and constipation
      associated with common anticholinergic therapies.
    
  