
    
      Coronary heart disease (CHD) is one of the most important causes of mortality in the world
      and accounts for up to 30% of deaths. CHD is also prevalent in Iran and in some studies, the
      prevalence of the disease has been reported to be about 20 to 30 percent. The prevalence of
      premature coronary heart disease (CHD) is increasing every year, which is related to the risk
      factors for cardiovascular disease in humans. The prevalence of premature CHD in Iran is also
      high, which justify better understanding of the factors affecting it.

      Many known risk factors are involved in coronary artery disease, including age, sex, obesity,
      high blood pressure, diabetes, dyslipidemia, smoking and family history. These risk factors
      do not have the same prevalence or attributable risk among different ethnicities and
      religions. Also due to genetic differences, the effect of environmental factors can
      accelerate or diminish the effects of some factors on the occurance of premature CHD. These
      mechanisms are often unknown, but high-risk environments can trigger an earlier onset of CHD
      in people who are genetically susceptible. This relation is called the genetic-environment
      interaction. As showed in previous reports, CHD is a multifactorial disease that can be
      affected by environmental factors and expression of different genes.

      In this case-control study the investigators intend to recruit documented CHD patients who
      underwent coronary angiography from diverse ethnic and religious groups. A total of 5000
      individuals from different ethnic backgrounds such as Persian (fars), Turk, Kurd, Arab, Lor,
      Bakhtiari, Baluch, Turkman, Qashqai, Gilak and in Muslims, Christians, Jews, and Zoroastrians
      will be selected throughout the country. Sampling among different ethnicities and religions
      will be based on their proportion of the total population.

      Variables such as age, sex, ethnicity, religion, socioeconomic characteristics (educational
      level, working status, income), history of smoking, alcohol consumption, addiction, family
      and personal history of CHD, psychosocial habit, physical activity, and dietary habits will
      be collected. The heart rate and systolic and diastolic blood pressure will be taken twice in
      sitting position, and under standard conditions and the average of the two measurements will
      be recorded. The patient's weight (in kilograms), and height (in meters), the circumference
      of the wrist, neck, thigh, waist, and hip (all in centimeters) will be measured in light
      clothes and without shoes and body mass index and waist to hip ratio will be calculated.

      Blood samples will be evaluated for fasting blood sugar and lipid profiles (Triglyceride,
      High-density lipoprotein-C, Low-density lipoprotein-C, and Total Cholesterol).

      Samples of serum, plasma, buffy coat, whole blood, urine, stool, and saliva will be frozen
      and Individuals genetic and epigenetic variations will be examined in later stages.

      All biological Samples will be transferred to the central lab of the Isfahan Cardiovascular
      Research Institute to create a BioBank for future genetic and epigenetic studies. The data
      collection teams will receive the necessary training in several sessions and the supervisory
      committee will regularly monitor the implementation of the plan.
    
  