
    
      Achilles tendinopathy has an incidence rate of 2.35 per 1000 in the general population and is
      most prevalent in middle-aged individuals (35-55 y/o), but occurs in men and women of all
      ages. The primary symptom is pain during daily activities such as walking and exercising such
      as running. Aside from the pain, Achilles tendinopathy has been shown to significantly
      decrease physical activity level, resulting in further negative effects on overall health and
      well-being. The treatment for Achilles tendinopathy with the highest level of evidence is
      eccentric exercise, providing mechanical loading of the muscle-tendon unit. In a recent
      systematic review, all studies reported significant improvements in patient-reported symptoms
      but at 12 weeks the means ranged from 69-80 (100 being fully recovered) indicating that even
      with the most effective treatment individuals continued to have symptoms. At this time, other
      more invasive interventions such as injection therapies (ex. platelet-rich plasma) and
      surgery are recommended for patients who fail exercise treatment despite a lack of
      understanding of what factors are related to continued problems. Just achieving a reduction
      in pain and symptoms with treatment also does not ensure resolution of the tendon's
      structural abnormalities. In fact, studies evaluating the recovery of tendon structure with
      exercise suggest that at least 24 weeks may be needed to observe a significant change. Other
      individual factors such as sex, degree of tendon structural damage and functional deficits
      are also proposed to influence both the time course and success rate of recovery. The
      long-term goal of our research is to advance understanding of tendon injuries and repair,
      enabling tailored treatments to be developed. This study begins to address this long-term
      goal by evaluating the time-course of recovery in terms of tendon structure (ultrasound
      imaging) and viscoelastic properties (elastography) along with symptoms (patient-reported
      outcomes) and muscle-tendon function (functional test-battery) in males and females with
      Achilles tendinopathy treated with an exercise program. Aim 1 is to evaluate if there are
      differences in change over time in symptoms, muscle-tendon function, tendon structure, and
      mechanical properties between males and females with Achilles tendinopathy receiving exercise
      treatment. Aim 2 is to investigate whether the presence and magnitude of tendon structural
      abnormality at baseline will affect the ability and time-course of recovery with exercise
      treatment for Achilles tendinopathy. Aim 3 is to explore if patients who continue to have
      symptoms at the 16-week evaluation will further improve in symptoms, muscle-tendon function,
      tendon structure and mechanical properties over the course of one year.
    
  