
    
      Obesity, osteoarthritis, and metabolic syndrome are interrelated diseases. In addition to
      surgical management, there is the need to identify and provide earlier non-surgical
      management for individuals with metabolic and body composition changes that are contributing
      to osteoarthritis progression.

      It has been well-established that is a challenge for clinicians to identify and deliver
      optimal treatment approaches for patients with osteoarthritis and obesity. The long wait
      times for orthopedic consultation in Alberta present an excellent opportunity to optimize
      patients with medical comorbidities and can simultaneously improve the pain and disability
      from their osteoarthritis. This is also an excellent opportunity to involve patients and
      their families in co-managing their own disease and working towards better health and less
      pain and disability.

      The "OA Optimization Program" has been developed by Dr Berchuk, FRCPC, Diplomat of the
      American Board of Obesity Medicine. It is a lifestyle and dietary modification program. In
      cooperation with Calgary's Alberta Hip and Knee Clinic at Gulf Canada Square, Dr Berchuk will
      offer patients this program while they await orthopedic consultation. This is an optional
      program offered to all patients. There is an initial group information session for patients
      who express interest. For those who choose to enroll, the program begins with a medical
      assessment by Dr Berchuk. The initial consultation consists of a medical assessment which
      includes medical history and physical examination, a previous dietary history, a readiness
      for change assessment, and screening for contraindications to the program. The patients will
      then attend group counselling sessions every 3 months for one year, or until their surgical
      date. The group counselling will be supplemented by the Grohealth digital therapeutic
      nutrition program. Participants return for group counselling sessions at Gulf Canada Square
      clinic every 3 months until orthopedic consultation and if surgery is deemed appropriate,
      until surgery.

      As with any major lifestyle change, peer support is crucial to long term success. Patients
      are encouraged to bring their family members to the initial consultation and to group
      sessions. During the group sessions, Dr Berchuk will use techniques to encourage the building
      of a peer support network, as well as medical cognitive behavior therapy techniques.

      Investigators intend to demonstrate that the use of the OA Optimization program can lead to
      improvement in Quality of Life measures including pain and disability in patients with severe
      osteoarthritis, as well as improvements in markers of health such as BMI, waist
      circumference, blood pressure, medication use in diabetic and hypertensive patients, and
      markers such as serum lipids and markers of inflammation. It is entirely plausible that with
      preoperative weight loss and/or improvement in metabolic disease, patients may see such
      dramatic improvement in their symptoms that they choose to postpone surgery.

      Research Question and Objectives:

      Can the OA Optimization Program lead to improvement in pain and disability related to severe
      osteoarthritis? Investigators aim to demonstrate that the use of a lifestyle and dietary
      counselling program can lead to improvements in pain and disability in patients with severe
      osteoarthritis.

      Can the OA Optimization Program demonstrate significant improvements in obesity,
      hypertension, hyperlipidemia, and glycemic control? Investigators aim to demonstrate
      improvements in markers of health such as decreased BMI, decreased waist circumference,
      decreased medication use in diabetic and hypertensive patients, improvement in biomarkers
      such as serum lipids and serum markers of systemic inflammation.
    
  