
    
      The participant population for this study will be a convenience sample of 40 active duty
      soldiers and cadets at West Point, NY who are recovering from Anterior Cruciate Ligament
      Reconstruction (ACLR) and are cleared to return to run by their medical provider. Two groups
      will be utilized in this repeated measures, single-blind, randomized controlled trial study
      design. The purpose of this study is to determine if patients recovering from ACLR benefit
      from running gait retraining when compared to a traditional walk-to-run program. Patient
      reported outcome measures, running kinetic data and running kinematic data, along with
      biomarkers of cartilage turnover and clinical outcomes will be assessed in two groups of
      post-operative ACLR patients. All participants, regardless of group, will be instructed in a
      4-week home exercise program to ensure runners have adequate strength prior to returning to
      full running activities. They will be provided an instructional handout and compliance log at
      the date of their initial running biomechanical assessment. The home exercise program will
      consist of exercises focused on stretching and strengthening of the hip, knee, calf and foot
      musculature. One group will receive technology assisted clinician guided gait retraining to
      reduce lower extremity loading parameters (intervention) while the control group will return
      to running with a traditional return to run program (control). Regardless of group, all
      runners will have their running form and foot strike pattern analyzed using an instrumented
      treadmill and high-speed motion capture initially, at the pre-intervention,
      post-intervention, and follow-up time point. During the intervention period, regardless of
      group, all runners will complete in-clinic follow-ups with their study assigned medical
      provider. During these visits the control group will only receive standard run program
      feedback. During these visits the intervention group will receive technology-guided
      clinician-assisted gait retraining cues to reduce ground reaction forces during running.
      Kinetic data, kinematic data, and perceived running pain and running function will be
      collected at the pre-intervention, post-intervention and follow-up timepoints to include
      average vertical loading rate (AVLR), AVLR symmetry, impulse, foot strike pattern (FSP),
      contact time, step length, step rate, Visual Analog Scale for Running Pain during running,
      Visual Analog Scale for Running Pain worst pain, Visual Analog Scale for Running Pain during
      after running, Single Assessment Numeric Evaluation, Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome
      Score (KOOS), and University of Wisconsin Running and Recovery Index (UWRI). Biological
      samples will be collected from all runners regardless of group at the pre-intervention time
      point and the post-intervention timepoint. Biological samples will be tested using ELISA for
      several biomarkers of interest and the concentration of these biomarkers will be compared
      within and between groups over time. A pan-omics (e.g. metabolomics, proteomics, and
      transcriptomics) approach will be used to test for novel biomarkers that will also compare
      within and between groups over time. Our military service members are at greater risk of ACL
      injury, greater risk of early onset knee Osteoarthritis (OA), and are required to maintain
      high levels of fitness to remain in the military. It is therefore clinically important to
      identify interventions to improve patient reported outcomes, return to duty rates, and reduce
      lower extremity loading parameters in military service members returning to run after ACLR.
    
  