
    
      Study Design and Subjects:

      This study was design as a randomized, double-blind control trail. A total of 80 HD patients
      were recruited from the HD center of Taipei Medical University-Shuang Ho Hospital in Taiwan.
      The inclusion criteria were including ≧20 years old and non vegetarian. The exclusion
      criteria are including liver dysfunction, cancer and pregnancy.

      Dietary Intervention:

      All subjects followed their usual diets but took one tablet of calcium carbonate as phosphate
      binder per meal for the first week washout diet. After washout diet, subjects were assign to
      control or study group randomly and entered to the study period for one week. The diets of
      the study group were low phosphorus ( LP group), but the dietary phosphorous levels of the
      control group were not modified. During the study period, all subjects including LP group and
      control group still kept their usually accustomed behavior about regular breakfast and also
      took one tablet of calcium carbonate as phosphate binder with every breakfast meal. The LP
      group and control group replaced daily lunch and dinner with low phosphorus and standard
      meals respectively and should not take any phosphate binder during the study period for one
      week.

      For controlling the volumes of proteins, phosphorus and calcium easily, the main courses of
      both of the study and the control meals were made by a central kitchen. All of the meals
      contained 3 exchanges of protein (25 g) and 1 exchange of vegetable. There were 5 main
      courses for the both diets. The proteins of the study meals had been removed by an average 20
      -30% of the phosphorus through boiling the meats before cooking process. But the boiling
      method did not process for the control meals. Every meal including all the study and the
      control meals contained one tablet of calcium carbonate. As a consequence, the additional
      phosphate binders should not be taken while eating the study meals. The subjects had to
      prepare carbohydrate by themselves, and they could choose any source of carbohydrate as their
      wants.

      Data Collection:

      The personal characteristics and the anthropometry data were collected at baseline. All data
      were collected at baseline, one week after the washout period, and the end of the
      7-days-study period. The indicators were including dietary contents, phosphate binder
      administration, dialysis adequacy, nutritional indicators, blood lipid indicators,
      biochemical indicators, CKD-MBDs indicators, and inflammation indicators.
    
  