
    
      This is a single center double blinded randomized controlled study comparing the
      effectiveness of epsilon-aminocaproic acid (EACA) and tranexamic acid (TA) in reducing 24hour
      blood transfusion and chest tube drainage. From October 2008 to September 2011, patients
      greater than 18 years of age, scheduled for cardiac surgery requiring CPB were consented.
      Eligible operations included; coronary artery bypass graft surgery (CABG), a heart valve
      repair/replacement, or a concomitant CABG and valve surgery were enrolled.

      Consented patients were randomized into one of the two groups using a 1:1 randomization
      sequence generated by a computer program. Randomization sequence and the study drugs were
      kept in a locked box and were opened only by unblinded study personnel who were not involved
      in the clinical care of the patient. This person prepared the study drug following the
      instructions of the study protocol, resulting in preparations of EACA and TA that contained
      equi-potent similar volumes of the drug in the syringe, in order to ensure blinding.
      Antifibrinolytic study drug was administered following anesthetic induction. EACA was
      administered as a bolus loading dose of 150 mg/ kg followed by a maintenance infusion of 15
      mg/ kg /hr. TA was administered as a bolus dose of 30 mg /kg followed by a 16 mg/ kg/hour
      maintenance infusion. Maintenance infusion of both drugs was discontinued when the patient
      arrived in the cardiac surgical intensive care unit. In addition to routine blood sampling (
      standard of care in the investigators hospital), patients had thromboelastogram(TEG) and
      D-dimer levels drawn at the following time points: post incision but prior to initial
      antifibrinolytic load, immediately following the antifibrinolytic loading dose, and
      post-protamine reversal of heparin.

      The primary endpoint was the amount of chest tube drainage and the amount of blood products
      used in the first 24 hours following surgery (surrogate measurement for blood loss) was
      measured at 4, 8, 12 and 24 hours after surgery. The incidence of packed red blood cells
      (PRBC), fresh frozen plasma (FFP), cryoprecipitate and platelets administered during the
      first 24 hours after surgery was collected. Additionally, patients were monitored for any
      complications during their stay in the hospital and up to 30 days post-operatively.
      Complications included renal dysfunction (defined as the need for at least 1 hemodialysis or
      doubling of pre-surgical creatinine levels), stroke and seizures (clinically diagnosed),
      myocardial infarction (new Q waves in two electrocardiogram leads), cardiac arrest,
      respiratory failure, re-operation and death. Monitoring of the patients prior to discharge
      involved chart review during their stay in the hospital; if a post-operative complication was
      suspected, the complication was confirmed using Montefiore Medical Center's Carecast
      Database, which contained independent results such as MRI's, CT scans, or labs. Additionally,
      computer records of the patients were searched to determine if there were documented
      complications in the 30-day post-operative time period.
    
  