
    
      TREATMENT PLAN

      Study Phases

      Each patient progresses through five study phases.

      MRX 1024 Cohorts, Dose Levels and Treatment

      Five successive dose levels are planned.

      MRX 1024 Combination Treatment Phase Cohort Combination Treatment Phase MRX 1024 Schedule

      MRX 1024 Dose Level once daily in cohorts 1, 2, and 3 twice daily in cohorts 4 and 5)

      Initial Cohort Size 1 One daily dose given 30 minutes before each dose of RT 50 mg kg 3
      patients 2 One daily dose given 30 minutes before each dose of RT 75 mg kg 3 patients 3 One
      daily dose given 30 minutes before each dose of RT 100 mg kg 3 patients 4a Two daily doses:
      one given 30 minutes before and one given 30 minutes after each dose of RT 75 mg kg 3
      patients 5a Two daily doses: one given 30 minutes before and one given 30 minutes after each
      dose of RT 100 mg kg 3 patients

      Because of the logistics of delivering radiation therapy, the two daily doses of MRX 1024
      given to patients in cohorts 4 and 5 will be approximately 75 to 90 minutes apart.

      To ensure accurate and compliant dosing, MRX-1024 treatment must be administered in the
      clinic.

      Beginning on Day 1 of Week 1 of the Combination Phase, patients will begin receiving MRX 1024
      in conjunction with radiation and cisplatin or carboplatin, chemotherapy.

      MRX 1024 will be given prior to each day's radiation fraction, and again following each day's
      radiation fraction for patients being treated in cohorts 4 and 5. If a scheduled radiation
      treatment is not given, the MRX 1024 dose should not be given on that day.

      Dose escalations will occur in successive cohorts as indicated in Table 5 above, based on the
      rules for dose level escalation as described in Table 6, below. Intra-patient dose escalation
      is not permitted. No dose adjustments of MRX 1024 are permitted. If a patient experiences a
      DLT that precludes further treatment with MRX 1024, MRX 1024 treatment will be discontinued.
      That patient will continue on study, receive radiation therapy and cisplatin or carboplatin,
      according to the protocol, and be followed on study through the Follow Up Phase.

      The next higher dose level will be opened for enrollment after:

        1. the preceding dose level has enrolled three patients,

        2. two of these patients have completed Days 1 through 42

        3. the third patient has completed four weeks of the Combination treatment

        4. none of these patients experiencing a dose limiting toxicity.

      If one patient being treated in an open dose level experiences a DLT during this interval,
      then 3 more patients must be enrolled and all six patients in that dose level must be
      followed for a minimum of the 42 day interval described above before a decision can be made
      regarding further enrollment and escalation to the next higher cohort. If no additional
      patient experiences a DLT in that cohort, then the next higher cohort will be opened for
      enrollment.

      If greater than 2 patients in a cohort experience a DLT, then that cohort is considered to
      have exceeded the maximum tolerable dose level. Three additional patients will then be
      enrolled to the next lower cohort using that treatment schedule The objective of the dose
      escalation scheme is to identify a safe, tolerable and potentially efficacious dose level
      using the once daily dosing schedule and a potentially efficacious dose level using the twice
      daily dosing schedule of MRX-1024 in which less than 1 of 6 patients experiences a DLT.

      Dose Level Escalation Rules

      Number of Patients in a cohort with DLTa at a Given Dose Level Escalation Dose Rule 0 out of
      3. Enter 3 patients at the next higher dose level. If cohort 3 and or cohort 5 are completed
      with 0 out of 3 patients experiencing a DLT, then enroll 3 additional patients to each
      respective cohort. greater than 2 Dose escalation will be stopped. This dose will be declared
      to have exceeded the maximum tolerable dose. Enroll 3 additional patients at the next lower
      cohort using that MRX 1024 dosing schedule. If this occurs in cohort 1, 25 mg kg will be used
      as the next lower dose level.

      1 out of 3 Enter 3 more patients in this cohort at this dose level. If 0 of these 3
      additional patients experience a DLT , then begin enrollment at the next higher cohort. If 1
      or more of these 3 additional patients experience a DLT then dose escalation will be stopped.
      This dose will be declared to have exceeded the maximum tolerable dose. Enroll 3 additional
      patients at the next lower cohort using that MRX 1024 dosing schedule. If this occurs in
      cohort 1, use 25 mg kg as the next lower dose level. Less than 1 out of 6 at the highest
      tolerable dose level

      This is generally the Recommended Dose for subsequent clinical trials. a See Section 4.5 for
      the definition of Dose-Limiting Toxicity

      If a patient does not complete the Combination Treatment Phase for any reason related to
      intolerance of MRX 1024, this will constitute a DLT and the patient will not be replaced in
      the study. If a patient does not complete the Combination Treatment Phase for any reason
      unrelated to MRX 1024 and the patient did not experience a DLT, an additional patient will be
      enrolled in the study. Data from the original patient will remain as part of the study
      database but that patient's adverse event experience will not be used to evaluate the safety
      of MRX 1024 at that dose level.

      After the study has ended, an additional analysis of the safety data will be performed to
      evaluate potential alternate dosing schemes. The doses used in the five dose levels described
      above will be converted on an individual patient basis to approximate fixed doses and also to
      mg body surface area dosing. Based on the additional analyses, a preferred dosing scheme will
      be recommended for subsequent clinical trials.

      Radiation Therapy

      Radiation therapy begins on Day 1 of Week 1 of the Combination Treatment Phase. Radiation
      therapy will be administered using daily fractions of 2 Gy given Monday through Friday, five
      consecutive days each week, followed by two days of no therapy. Radiotherapy will continue
      weekly in this fashion until the total planned radiation dose of 60 to 66 Gy has been
      delivered over a 6-week period. The toxicology studies of MRX-1024 were conducted exposing
      animals for a maximum duration of 27 days. Therefore MRX 1024 can be administered only during
      the first five weeks of radiation therapy . The sixth week of radiation therapy is not
      accompanied by treatment with MRX 1024 .

      Cisplatin or Carboplatin

      Cisplatin will be administered intravenously on Day 1 of Week 1, Day 1 of Week 4 , and on Day
      1 of Week 7 using a dose of 100 mg per square meter of body-surface area for cisplatin and
      AUC5 6 for carboplatin. On these days, the preferred sequence of treatments will be MRX 1024
      Radiotherapy . This sequence should allow the MRX 1024 doses to be absorbed before the
      patient potentially develops vomiting from the chemotherapy. See Section 4.6 for guidelines
      regarding the use of antiemetics in conjunction with cisplatin or carboplatin dosing.

      Cisplatin therapy will include pre- and post treatment hydration requirements according to
      standard practices within the institution. An example of such hydration procedures follows:

      Prior to receiving cisplatin, each patient must receive vigorous hydration and diuresis. A
      suggested regimen is pre-hydration with a 1 liter of D5NS over 2 to 4 hours and mannitol 12.5
      g intravenously bolus immediately prior to cisplatin. Then cisplatin 100 mg m2 in 500 ml NS
      is administered over 1 to 2 hours with an additional 1 to 1.5 liters of fluid given
      post-hydration. The type, volume, and rate of fluid administration may vary based on the
      patient's clinical status and ability to handle the hydration requirement.

      Carboplatin therapy will also include the pre- and post-treatment hydration. For the regimen
      that allows for 21 days recovery the AUC 5-6 dose will be used. The carboplatin dose will be
      administered with 250 mL NS at 5 mg min mL over 30 minutes.

      The dose of cisplatin given on Day 1 of Weeks 4 and 7 is to be adjusted based on the
      parameters shown below. Laboratory tests used to determine the adjusted cisplatin dose are to
      be obtained within 3 days prior to the scheduled cisplatin dose. For carboplatin, dose
      adjustments will be based on laboratory test results obtained within 7 days prior to
      carboplatin dosing.

      Absolute neutrophil count less than 1500 µl: Cisplatin should be held if the ANC less than
      1500 µl. After the ANC recovers above this value, the cisplatin dose should be adjusted based
      on the ANC nadir that was achieved following the preceding cisplatin dose, as shown in Table
      7. If the ANC has not recovered within 14 days of when the third cisplatin dose is scheduled
      , the patient should complete the final Follow-Up Visit without receiving the third dose of
      cisplatin. For carboplatin, the adjustment will be made if the neutrophil count is less than
      1300 mm3.

      Platelet count less than 100,000 µl: Cisplatin and carboplatin should be held if the platelet
      count is less than 100,000µl. After the platelet count recovers above this value, the
      cisplatin dose should be adjusted based on the platelet count nadir that was achieved
      following the preceding cisplatin dose, as shown in Table 7. If the platelet count has not
      recovered within 14 days of when the third cisplatin dose is scheduled , the patient should
      complete the final Follow Up Visit without receiving the third dose of cisplatin.

      Cisplatin Dose Adjustment Based on Absolute Neutrophil Count and Platelet Count Nadirs
      Following the Preceding Cisplatin Dose Nadir percentage of 100 Cisplatin Dose to Give.

      Renal Toxicity: Cisplatin will not be given if the serum creatinine is greater than 1.6 mg
      dL. Reduce the cisplatin dose for transient rises in serum creatinine as shown in Table 8.
      Adjustments in the carboplatin dose or or delay in administration will occur if the serum
      creatinine is greater than 2.0 mg dL.

      Liver toxicity: An adjustment in dose or delay in administration will occur if the t. bili is
      greater than 1.5 mg dL.

      Cisplatin Dose Adjustment Based on Highest Serum Creatinine Value Obtained Following the
      Preceding Cisplatin Dose Serum Creatinine Peak (mg dL)percentage of 100 Cisplatin Dose to
      Give.

      In patients whose serum creatinine does not return to less than 1.6 mg dL by the scheduled
      day of cisplatin treatment , carboplatin will be substituted and continued at 3 week
      intervals in lieu of cisplatin.

      Neurotoxicity: Cisplatin should be discontinued if any of the following signs of
      neurotoxicity occur following the first dose of cisplatin: Grade 3 hearing loss in the speech
      frequency range, Grade 3 myopathy, Grade 3 weakness, Grade 3 neuropathy, seizure or paralysis
      . If in the Investigator's opinion, said adverse events are related solely to cisplatin, they
      would not qualify as DLTs. If in the Investigator's opinion, said adverse events may possibly
      be related to co-administration of MRX 1024, they would qualify as DLTs.
    
  