
    
      Prospective subjects will be recruited through:

        1. Recruitment posters placed in the DAP department at BCWH. A contact number for the
           research nurse will be included on the recruitment poster for interested subjects to
           contact.

        2. The antepartum inpatient unit at BCWH. Prospective subjects will be identified by the
           charge nurse as those patients satisfying the inclusion and exclusion criteria.
           Potential subjects will be asked by the charge nurse if they are interested in meeting a
           study investigator or research nurse for more information.

        3. The same subject can participate twice in the study, once before 28 weeks and once after
           28 weeks, as long as 3 weeks have passed between the study periods. All subjects
           participating before 28 weeks will be asked during the consent process if they are
           interested in participating a second time. Subjects in agreement will be contacted by
           the study nurse by phone to arrange a second appointment.

      Study Procedure

      Subject Involvement Measuring the PWV requires placing 3 electrocardiography (ECG) leads over
      the maternal abdomen in various positions to detect the fetal ECG signal. We have established
      that the fetal ECG signal can be detected as a small deflection in the maternal ECG tracing.
      The fetal ECG signal will allow us to correlate the blood flow wave form in the descending
      aorta to the fetal cardiac cycle. The onset of the blood flow waveform will be assessed at
      two points (A and B) along the descending aorta using standard pulsed Doppler ultrasound
      techniques. Point A will be the aortic isthmus and Point B will be at or beyond the level of
      the renal arteries. Measurements will be obtained in the following sequence: 1) time required
      for waveform to travel from Point A to Point B; 2) distance (mm) between Point A and Point B;
      3) fetal heart rate using M-mode. The time it takes for the waveform to travel the measured
      distance between points A and B, will allow us to calculate the PWV in that portion of the
      fetal aorta. This sequence of measurements will be repeated three times in each fetus.

      Subject Protocol

        1. Subjects will be asked to drink 500 cc of water prior to arrival to appointment to
           ensure adequate hydration (which can affect amniotic fluid volume).

        2. Subjects will be asked to void prior to entering study room.

        3. Subjects will placed in the left lateral decubitus supine position

        4. Subjects will rest for 15 minutes prior to the start of the ultrasound examination. At
           this time, consents will be reviewed again, and the demographic information recorded.

        5. ECG electrodes will applied to the maternal abdomen

        6. Fetal biometry, AFI and umbilical artery Dopplers will be performed (if not done within
           past 48 hours).

        7. PWV will be determined at three times, within 10 minutes.

      The demographic and pregnancy information collected will include:

        1. maternal age

        2. gestational age at the time of the study

        3. obstetrical history (gravida, term, preterm, abortus, living)

        4. maternal smoking history

        5. amniotic fluid volume

        6. estimated fetal weight and/or growth parameter percentiles

      The following information will be collected and recorded during the study ultrasound:

        1. time required to obtain the PWV measurement

        2. the calculated PWV

        3. maternal blood pressure and pulse

        4. fetal presentation

        5. fetal heart rate

        6. presence or absence of fetal activity or breathing during the study

        7. AFI and UA Doppler waveforms.
    
  