
    
      SUBQ-HF is a multicenter clinical trial of selected AHF patients with persistent congestion.
      This study will evaluate a strategy of early discharge (pathway 1) or admission avoidance
      (pathway 2) with daily SQ furosemide compared to usual care in a population who have
      objective evidence of persistent congestion requiring ongoing parenteral diuretics. This will
      be an unblinded, randomized, controlled study of approximately 300 evaluable patients.
      Eligible patients will be randomized (1:1) to either:

      Usual care strategy, during which patients will have continued inpatient treatment and
      discharge follow-up as per usual standard of care plus a Day 7 phone call and Day 30 study
      visit.

      or

      Subcutaneous strategy, in which patients will be discharged home within 24 hours of
      randomization (pathway 1) or sent home from clinic or ED to receive furosemide with the SQ
      pump for 1-7 days (based on clinical response) plus a Day 7 and Day 30 visit.

      Subcutaneous furosemide/early discharge strategy:

      Subjects will receive device training and study materials (SQ pump device and up to a 7 day
      supply of SQ furosemide vials) on the day of randomization (study day 0) and discharged
      within 24 hours. Training will include instruction on daily weights and dyspnea numerical
      rating for symptoms. Scales will be provided to subjects. Subjects will be discharged with
      planned treatment of 80 mg SQ furosemide injection over 5-hours either QD or BID, depending
      on anticipated diuretic requirements. If there are unanticipated delays in discharge after
      randomization, subjects will continue with their assigned therapy and assessments in the
      hospital. Discharged subjects will receive a phone contact from study team on D1, D3, and D5
      in order to assess adequacy of diuresis, persistence of congestion, and planned duration,
      dose of ongoing SQ therapy (see Appendix for guidelines on adjusting therapy) and adverse
      events. Additional clinical contact (additional phone contacts or clinical visits) may be
      performed if felt clinically indicated by the study team or clinical provider. All subjects
      will have assessment of electrolytes and renal function by protocol 2 days post discharge.
      More frequent electrolyte monitoring can be performed at the discretion of the study team or
      clinical provider as clinically indicated. Patients receiving the SQ pump for outpatient use
      should be prescribed a supplementation regimen based on electrolyte supplementation needs in
      the hospital with IV diuretic therapy. The duration of subcutaneous therapy will be planned
      for 1-7 days depending on clinical response. Dose and frequency of oral diuretics once SQ
      therapy is completed will be per the discretion of the treating physician.

      Usual care strategy:

      Subjects randomized to usual care will continue to receive inpatient therapy, eventual
      transition to oral diuretics, and discharge and post discharge care as per the discretion of
      the treating clinician and standard treatment guidelines. In addition, they will have a Day 7
      study phone call and a Day 30 study visit.
    
  