
    
      Introduction: Currently, propofol is the most widely used intravenous anesthetic drug that is
      able to provide a safe general anesthesia. Propofol can be administered by using different
      techniques including target controlled infusion (TCI). The ability to maintain the
      pharmacological conditions after achieving a predetermined clinical effect is one of the
      major advantages of this technique. Although the use of TCI devices has increased in common
      clinical practice, whether or not all patients are suitable for TCI remains unclear.
      Pharmacological models were created based on information from healthy volunteers which may
      not apply for specific clinical conditions resulting either in over- or sub-dosed when using
      certain drugs.

      It is not only individual variability in the pharmacokinetic (PK) parameters of the
      anesthetic that is a clinical problem, but it is also the pharmacodynamic variability. A
      previous study showed up to 6 times the inter-individual difference among young volunteers in
      loss of consciousness (LOC) and return of consciousness (ROC). In addition, greater
      differences may be found in the elderly.

      Inaccurate general models require the anesthetic team to manually tailor medication
      requirements for each individual based on the desired therapeutic effect.

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate if a slow stepwise propofol TCI induction with Marsh
      model (Ke0 0.26), assessed by clinical and electroencephalographic parameters, allows for an
      accurate estimation of the effect concentration required for hypnosis titration and
      maintenance of the general anesthesia, in adult populations older and younger than 65 years
      of age.

      General Objective

      • To establish whether a guided slow stepwise guided propofol induction with TCI represents a
      good correlation between the calculated Effect-Site Concentration (Ce) for the loss of
      consciousness and the required Ce to maintain a bispectral index (BIS) value between 45 and
      65 during anesthesia maintenance in both age populations

      Specific Objectives

        -  To determine the BIS value achieved with every propofol infusion based on the calculated
           Ce for the time of loss of consciousness (TLOC)

        -  To compare the drug infused per time unit required for the loss of consciousness in both
           groups

        -  To compare the time and Ce required to achieve loss of consciousness in both groups

        -  To evaluate the impact of remifentanil during hypnosis by using the BIS index

      Hypothesis

      During a slow stepwise anesthetic induction with TCI using the Marsh Model 4.0, the
      calculated Ce for the TLOC is comparable to the Ce required for the maintenance of the
      hypnosis during the general anesthesia, overcoming the inter-individual variability.

      Methods

      Experimental study, prospective clinical trial, phase 4. Each subject will be assigned to the
      propofol induction modality as described in the "intervention" section.

      Once consciousness has been lost and maintenance target concentration has been established,
      manual ventilation will be initiated. Remifentanil TCI 6 ng/ml and a neuromuscular relaxant
      will be administered afterwards in order to perform endotracheal intubation. An infusion of
      phenylephrine between 0,1 and 0,4 mcg/kg/min will be initiated in order to maintain blood
      pressure values within 20% of the baseline value.

      Continuous monitoring of BIS will be maintained after remifentanil infusion and intubation.
      Three minutes after endotracheal intubation, surgery will be prepared following standard
      procedures. BIS, spectrogram, and hemodynamics will be registered every 15 seconds,
      continuously, and every 3 minutes during 10 minutes respectively.

      Subsequently, propofol Ce at TLOC will be established (if any modifications were necessary
      after TLOC) and it will be observed for another 30 minutes.
    
  