
    
      Purpose of the study:

      The main objective is to evaluate the effectiveness of an optimized combination of analgesic
      therapies for treating uncomplicated sickle cell disease crisis at initial visit to the
      emergency room of the Henri Mondor hospital.

      Secondary objectives:

        -  Total amount of morphine required during the first 4 hours in the hospital emergency.

        -  Overall amount of morphine administered on the duration of patient stay in hospital
           Henri Mondor.

        -  Side effects of analgesic strategies

        -  Adverse medical events

        -  Length of hospital stay.

        -  7-day and 1-month follow-up and collection of following data:

             1. Total number of sickle cell disease crises

             2. Number of subsequent readmission and/or visit to an ED

             3. Quality of life (EuroQol EQ-5D, and SF-36)

             4. Patient satisfaction: pain treatment satisfaction scale. Study design: prospective
                monocentric open-label randomized controlled trial Number of patients: 200 Follow
                up per patient: 1 month, Study enrolment period: 25 months.

      Contraindications to nefopam administration: hypersensitivity to nefopam, benign prostatic
      hypertrophy and glaucoma, or history of seizures.

        -  contraindication to morphine administration hypersensitivity to morphine, decompensate
           respiratory failure, acute head trauma, uncontrolled epilepsy, severe hepatocellular
           failure, intracranial hypertension, use of buprenorphine or nalbuphine Contraindications
           to MEOPA administration, intra-cranial hypertension, non cooperative patient
           (sleepiness; encephalopathy, refusal to participate), pneumothorax, emphysema,
           pneumoperitoneum, digestive occlusion, pneumomediastinum, air embolism, diving accident
           , facial trauma, patients who recent administration of an ophthalmic gas (SF6, C3F8,
           C2F6) < 3 months).

        -  contraindication to the use of oxygen: no-absolute contraindication no health insurance,
           adults under tutelage

      Main criterion:

      Proportion of patients relieved (pain intensity by simple numerical scale <4) to 30 minutes
      of their arrival in the emergency department.

      Secondary criteria:

        -  amount of morphine administrated within the first 4 hours of presentation to the
           emergency department

        -  overall amount of morphine administrated during hospital stay

        -  adverse event related with study treatment

        -  adverse medical events during hospitalization

        -  length of stay.

        -  7-day and 1-month follow-up to collect the following data:

             1. Total number of sickle cell disease crises

             2. Number of subsequent readmission and/or visit to an ED

             3. Quality of life (EuroQol EQ-5D, and SF-36)

             4. Patient satisfaction: pain treatment satisfaction scale.
    
  