
    
      Exclusion Criteria:

        1. Patients with prior exposure to perifosine.

        2. Patients receiving any other chemotherapy, targeted agents, investigational agents or
           devices within four weeks (28 days) or 5 half-lives of the agent(s), whichever is
           longer, prior to Day1 of study treatment.

        3. Patients must have finished radiotherapy 28 days prior to start of treatment.
           Radiotherapy is not permitted in the Treatment Phase. Palliative radiotherapy to single
           sites for symptom control is allowed only during the Continuation Phase. The clinical
           coordinator should be contacted prior to initiating radiotherapy in this setting.

        4. Patients who have had a major surgical procedure, open biopsy, or significant traumatic
           injury ≤4 weeks prior to Day 1 of study treatment.

        5. Patients with a serious non-healing wound, active ulcer, or untreated bone fracture.

        6. Patients with known central nervous system (CNS) metastases. Patients with CNS
           metastases that have been treated and are stable and who do not require corticosteroid
           treatment for the metastases (off steroids > 4 weeks) will be allowed.

        7. Serious active infection requiring parenteral antibiotics or antifungal therapy.

        8. History of allergic reactions attributed to compounds of similar chemical or biologic
           composition to perifosine (miltefosine or edelfosine).

        9. Patients with known dipyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) deficiency or prior severe reaction
           to 5-FU (for patients electing to receive capecitabine therapy in the Continuation
           Phase).

       10. Patients with known HIV or acute or chronic active Hepatitis B or Hepatitis C.

       11. Uncontrolled inter-current illness including, but not limited to, ongoing or active
           infection and psychiatric illness/social situations that would Limit compliance with
           study requirements.

       12. Patients with a history of unstable or newly diagnosed angina pectoris, recent
           myocardial infarction (within 6 months of enrollment), or New York Heart Association
           class II-IV congestive heart failure (Appendix B).

       13. Female patients who are pregnant or lactating. All females of childbearing potential
           must have a negative serum pregnancy test within 72 hours of treatment. Women of
           childbearing potential and men with partners of child-bearing potential, must agree to
           employ adequate contraception to prevent pregnancy while on therapy and for 4 weeks
           after the completion of treatment (see Appendix C).

       14. A history of additional risk factors for Torsades de Pointes (e.g. familial long QT
           syndrome, hypokalemia, heart failure (Appendix B), left ventricular hypertrophy, slow
           heart rate (<45 bpm)).

       15. Required use of concomitant medications known to prolong the QT/QTc interval
    
  