
    
      Patients will be informed during the anaesthetic consultation and recruited at the beginning
      of the labor if they comply with inclusion criteria. Habitual proceedings of the placing and
      induction of epidural analgesia (Local Anaesthetics (AL): Levobupivacaine 0.100% 15mL
      Sufentanil 10µg). Patients who will not obtain at 30min a pain score < 1/10 will be excluded
      (epidural analgesia not functional). The upkeep of analgesia will be provided by an automatic
      pump and randomized in: classic pump and new pump. The mixture used will be the same in the 2
      groups: Levobupivacaine 0.0100% + Sufentanil 0.5µg/mL. The classic pump administers AL with a
      continuous output (8mL/h)even though the new pump administers AL in bolus (8mL every hour;
      beginning 1h after the induction). The classic pump is a pump CADD SMITHS PCEA (Patient
      Controlled Epidural Analgesia) with the programming: continuous output 8mL/h; Additional
      bolus if necessary: 8mL; Maximal dose by hour: 24mL.

      The new pump is a pump CADD SMITHS called PIEB (Programmed Intermittent Epidural Bolus) with
      the programming: intermittent bolus 8mL every hour; Additional bolus if necessary: 8mL; Ban
      period during 10min between patient bolus and automatic bolus; Maximal dose by hour: 24mL.

      In case of the pain reappears and which is not calmed with 2 successive patient bolus, the
      anaesthetist will be called for the evaluation and administration of a doctor bolus if
      necessary (Levobupivacaine 0.125% 5mL associated with 50µg of Clonidine).

      Collected data will be demographic data, data about the obstetrical labor proceedings, data
      about pain, motor block, maternal satisfaction, total quantity of administered analgesia,
      number of patient and doctor bolus wich are asked and administered and neonatal data.

      Endpoints will be collected by a doctor in blind of the type of pump (the 2 pumps are the
      same extern aspect, only the intern programming is different).

      In case of caesarean during the labor, patient will be excluded of the study. When a decision
      of extraction will be taken, patient will receive a bolus of AL according to the anaesthetist
      decision but not accounted for the dose calculation.
    
  