
    
      Currently, cement fixation of the humeral component is recommended as the standard of care
      and review of the literature indicates that this fixation is associated with a low
      complication rate. Uncemented fixation is promising in its potential to provide long-term,
      stable fixation yet comparative results to cemented stems are not available at this time.

      Despite an absence of data to support their use, there has been an exponential increase in
      the use of uncemented humeral component fixation in shoulder arthroplasty. This push may be
      dictated by the desire to reduce operative time in an attempt to cut surgical expenses. This
      goal is particularly highlighted by the efforts of government and third party bodies to
      maximize return on limited funds. There is no conclusive clinical data at this time to
      suggest that uncemented fixation yields results that are better than cemented fixation in the
      shoulder.

      This multi-centre, prospective, randomized double blinded clinical trial will compare
      cemented versus uncemented/tissue-ingrowth fixation of the humeral component in total
      shoulder arthroplasty. Patients are recruited from 10 centres across Canada by surgeons with
      extensive experience in total shoulder arthroplasty. Patients will be randomized to receive
      either a cemented or uncemented humeral stem. All other variables will be controlled for.

      The main evaluation of patient outcome is disease-specific quality of life. Validated tools
      evaluating shoulder function are being used for this purpose, as required by various
      societies. These include the Western Ontario Osteoarthritis of the Shoulder Index (WOOS), the
      most responsive; Constant, preferred by European investigators; American Shoulder and Elbow
      Surgeons (ASES) Standardized Shoulder Assessment and Shoulder Score Index, preferred by the
      ASES. Overall global health status is measured using the SF-36. Several secondary outcomes
      are monitored for during the post-operative course. These are: shoulder function,
      radiographic evaluation of component fixation, operative time and the incidence of revision
      surgery and complications.
    
  