
    
      It is estimated that approximately 20-25% of diabetic patients will have at least one trophic
      disorder during their. The occurrence of a trophic disorder in a diabetic patient is a
      serious complication, indicating a diabetes often complicated. The consequences are severe
      for the patient with an alteration of his quality of life, but also for society with a high
      cost in terms of healthcare costs.

      It should also be pointed out that diabetes is still the leading cause of non-traumatic
      amputation in most developped countries, with amputation often preceded by a trophic
      disorder. Further, 20% of amputees are re-amputed at least once a year. Thus the consequences
      of the wounds of the diabetic foot are important on the human, social and health level and
      are the subject of an increase of the health expenses.

      Many studies have shown that diabetes is a risk factor for dementia whether it is Alzheimer's
      disease, Alzheimer's disease with vascular component or pure vascular dementia.

      However, an understanding of the cognitive mechanisms involved in the management of diabetes
      and in particular in the diabetic foot and its recurrence remains partial and no study has
      integrated the severity of the foot risk (evaluated by the podological risk ) and the
      specific involvement of certain cognitive abilities, in particular in relation to episodic
      memory, and social cognition integrating decision-making abilities. These specific disorders
      could have a major implication in the follow-up of diabetes, in the therapeutic adherence and
      in the risk of developing recurrent trophic disorders.

      Thus, the coexistence of diabetes with a mental pathology makes the management of the subject
      more complex and exposes it to more complications.

      In the management of chronic diabetic disease, adherence to treatment is essential. It is
      therefore important to detect the specific effects of this type of personality on the
      prognosis of diabetes and the occurrence of foot wounds.
    
  