
    
      A. Patients who consent to the study will be randomized 1:1 to either the investigational
      group ("Music Therapy" group) or the control group ("No Music" group). Participants will be
      randomized using a random number generator.

      B. Consent and study enrollment will occur in the preoperative area prior to surgery. After
      enrollment, all patients will complete a State-Trait Anxiety Assessment. Patients in the
      "Music Therapy" group will be asked to choose a genre of calming music that they would like
      to listen to during the operation (instrumental, jazz, classical). All patients enrolled in
      the study will continue to receive routine preoperative care but will also have a baseline
      cortisol level drawn. This blood draw will be compared to a cortisol level at the end of
      surgery to assess the patient's physiologic stress response to surgery.

      a. After proceeding to the operating room, all patients will receive routine preoperative
      care during placement of spinal anesthesia. In addition to monitors routinely placed prior to
      spinal block, a Bi-Spectral Index monitor will be placed on the patient's forehead to monitor
      sedation levels during the procedure. A Bi-Spectral Index monitor is a noninvasive series of
      patches placed on the patient's forehead that, through a propriety equation creates a number
      (1-100) from processed electroencephalography waves that correlates with depth of sedation or
      anesthesia. After the spinal anesthetic block is placed, the patients in the "Music Therapy"
      group will wear headphones that will play their pre-selected music. The "No Music" group will
      receive intraoperative standard of care with no headphones. Headphones will be worn by the
      "Music Therapy" patients until the procedure is finished (skin incision is closed).

      C. During the procedure, routine intraoperative sedation consisting of propofol, fentanyl and
      midazolam will be administered. All patients will be given 1 mg midazolam, 50 mcg fentanyl
      and propofol dosing titrated to maintain a Bi-Spectral Index level <70, which correlates to
      moderate sedation.9

      D. At the end of the surgical procedure (within 30 minutes of incision closure), a serum
      cortisol level will be drawn to assess the physiologic stress response to surgery.

      E. All patients will receive standard postoperative care in the post-anesthesia care.

      F. On postoperative day 1, all patients will again complete a State-Trait Anxiety Assessment.
      Additionally, they will complete a satisfaction survey.
    
  