
    
      Numerous factors influence one's sexual choices, including social support and pressure,
      internal feelings and beliefs, and knowledge about the subject. Data indicate that people who
      are well-informed about the risks associated with certain sexual behaviors are more likely to
      protect themselves than those who are less informed. This study will determine whether an
      intervention comprising information, motivation, and behavioral skills components is more
      effective than an information-only workshop in changing sexual behavior for HIV prevention.

      At study entry, participants will undergo a physical exam, various STD tests, and a rapid HIV
      test, which can provide test results within several hours. While waiting for their test
      results at the study clinic, participants will complete a computerized questionnaire
      assessing their thoughts, feelings, and behaviors regarding sexual activities. Participants
      will also be exposed to one of two brief health promotion interventions: a motivational,
      one-on-one counseling session or a DVD on safer sex. After receiving their test results,
      participants will be asked to complete a brief postassessment questionnaire about their
      attitudes toward their test results and the intervention.

      Two-thirds of the participants will then be invited to attend an intensive, 4-hour safer sex
      workshop. These participants will be randomly assigned to one of two workshops: an
      information-only workshop or a workshop that includes information, motivation, and behavioral
      skills components. Participants who choose not to participate in the workshop will complete
      the study after receiving their STD and HIV test results. Participants who participate in the
      workshop will return to the clinic at 3, 6, and 12 months after the workshop to complete
      another questionnaire about sexual behaviors and give a urine sample for STD testing.
    
  