
    
      [Background] Radiotherapy (RT) following breast conserving surgery (BCS) is commonly used in
      ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) of breast to decrease local recurrence. Previous
      retrospective studies suggested that a substantial proportional of low-risk DCIS patients who
      underwent BCS alone will not develop a subsequent invasive breast cancer over time.

      To further identify a population of patients with low-risk DCIS in whom adjuvant RT could be
      safely omitted, two prospective trials and one randomized trial have been published the
      ipsilateral breast tumor recurrence (IBTR) rate in patients with low-risk breast DCIS,
      including smaller size, larger margin width, and lower grade. The 5-year IBTR rate in Dana
      Farber/Harvard Cancer Institute (low to intermediate grade disease and a margin width of 10
      mm) was 12% for breast DCIS patients who underwent BCS alone. The Eastern Cooperative
      Oncology Group (ECOG) E5194 reported a 12-year IBTR rate of 14.4% (7-year IBTR rate, 10.5%)
      for patients with low-risk DCIS (cohort 1 criteria: mammographically detected low- or
      intermediate-grade DCIS, measuring less than 2.5 cm with margins ≥ 3 mm) who underwent BCS
      alone. The risk for DCIS and invasive cancer increased steadily over time, without any
      plateau.

      Another randomized trial, Radiation Therapy Oncology Group (RTOG) 9804, showed the IBTR rates
      from that at 5 years (3.5%) to that at 7 years (6.7%) in post-BCS patients with low-risk
      breast DCIS (similar criteria of ECOG E5194 trial, cohort 1) who did not receive RT. In
      contrast, the 7-year IBTR rate was low (0.9%) for patients who underwent BCS and received RT
      in RTOG 9804 trial. Our retrospective study showed that the 7-year IBTR rate was 5.6% in
      breast DCIS patients who had criteria of cohort 1 of ECOG E5194 trial and underwent BCS
      alone. Taken together, two prospective clinical trials and our retrospective study disclosed
      that the 7-year IBTR for BCS alone group (no RT) ranged from 5.6% to 10.5%, even if patients
      whose clinicopathologic features met the criteria of ECOG E5194 cohort 1. These results
      suggest that RT following BCS is indicated for these patients who have low-risk breast DCIS.

      Another randomized trial, UK/ANZ [UK, Australia, and New Zealand] DCIS trial], including
      high-risk and low-risk breast DCIS patients, demonstrated a significant benefit of tamoxifen
      (20 mg every day for 5 years) in terms of reducing the ipsilateral (Hazard ratio [HR], 0·77;
      95% confidence interval [CI], 0·59-0·98; P = 0·04) and contralateral breast events (HR, 0·27;
      95% CI, 0·12-0·59; P = 0·001) in the BCS alone group, and this benefit of tamoxifen was not
      observed in the BCS plus RT group for ipsilateral events (HR, 0·93; 95%, 0·50-1·75; P = 0·8).
      These findings suggest that even if patients with low-risk clinicopatholgical features of
      DCIS (relatively low-risk of IBTR), the addition of tamoxifen in patients who had received RT
      may not reduce IBTR than those receiving RT alone. However, the estrogen receptor (ER) status
      among the patients with DCIS enrolled in the aforementioned three prospective randomized
      trials (ECOG E5194 trial, RT9804 trial, and UK/ANZ trial) was initially unknown.

      In a retrospective analysis of the relationship between ER status and response to tamoxifen
      in 732 patients (41%) who comprised the original NSABP B-24 population (76% positive for ER),
      the significant effect of tamoxifen in reducing ipsilateral and contralateral breast events
      was demonstrated in ER-positive DCIS but not in ER-negative tumors. Our retrospective study
      also showed that age < 40 years and negative ER status in tumors were closely associated with
      the higher IBTR rate. Among our patients with cohort 1 criteria of ECOG E519 study, the
      7-year IBTR rate for ER-positive group and ER-negative group was 5.0% and 8.0%, respectively.

      [Rationale] Although the results obtained from ECOG E5194 (cohort 1) and RTOG 9804 trial (the
      same enrolled clinicopathological features to cohort 1 of ECOG E5194 trial) demonstrated that
      the 7-year IBTR ranged from 5.6% to 10.5% for low-risk DCIS patients, the aforementioned two
      studies included a proportional patients who had young age and negative ER status tumor.
      Previous studies and our studies revealed that age < 40 years and ER-negative status in tumor
      were independent prognostic factor for recurrence of breast DCIS irrespective of tumor
      characteristics.

      The UK/ANZ randomized trial, enrolling high-risk and low-risk clinicopathologic features of
      DCIS, demonstrated that a benefit of tamoxifen in terms of reducing the IBTR is observed in
      the BCS alone group but not found in the BCS plus RT group. In a recent published data of a
      randomized trial of comparing low-dose tamoxifen (5 mg QD) for 3 years with placebo in
      prevention of recurrence of women with hormone-positive DCIS or lobular carcinoma in situ,
      low-dose tamoxifen was demonstrated to significantly decrease local recurrence when compared
      with placebo arm. These findings indicate that tamoxifen at the dose of 5 mg/day can decrease
      the incidence of recurrence in women with operated hormone sensitive DCIS with a limited
      toxicity. However, the effect of the administration of low-dose tamoxifen is similar to the
      RT effect in terms of reducing IBTR for patients who had the criteria of ECOG E5194 cohort 1
      and positive ER status remains unclear.

      [Hypotheses] Based on the aforementioned results, we hypothesized that the administration of
      tamoxifen is not inferior than the prescription of RT in terms of reducing the IBTR for DCIS
      patients who had age more than 40 years, the pathological features meeting the ECOG E5194
      cohort 1 criteria, and positive ER status in tumors.

      To approve the hypothesis, we will design a randomized non-inferiority trial to assess
      whether the effect of administration of tamoxfien (5 mg per day) for 10 years following BCS
      is not inferior in terms of reducing IBTR when comparing RT following BCS for patients who
      had low-risk clinicopathologic features and positive-ER status of breast DCIS.

      [Study Design] We will design a randomized non-inferiority trial to assess whether the effect
      of administration of tamoxfien (5 mg) for 10 years following BCS is not inferior in terms of
      reducing IBTR when comparing RT (in terms of 50 Gy in 25 fractions or 40.05 Gy in 15
      fractions) following BCS for patients who had age more than and equal 40 years, low-risk
      clinicopathological features (ECOG E5194 cohort 1 criteria), and positive-ER status of breast
      DCIS.
    
  