
    
      Helping Babies Breathe (HBB) is a training program designed to resuscitate neonates
      regardless of where they were born. HBB was developed by the American Academy of Pediatrics
      (AAP), the NICHD's Global Network for Women's and Children's Health (GN), the Laerdal
      Foundation and their global partners. The HBB program was developed based upon the experience
      and results of an earlier Neonatal Resuscitation Program and the GN's FIRST BREATH randomized
      control trial.

      The goal of the study is to test the impact of training birth attendants at selected health
      facilities in the Helping Babies Breathe (HBB) and Essential Newborn Care (ENC) curricula
      upon perinatal mortality (fresh stillbirths and early neonatal deaths), among births of
      ≥1500g. The training will take place in three GN sites, Kenya, and Nagpur and Belgaum, India.
      The study facilities serve the population in identified study clusters, defined geographic
      areas which participate in the GN's Maternal Newborn Health (MNH) Registry. In addition to
      measuring perinatal mortality rate pre and post training, the study will also assess
      resuscitation skills among the birth attendants as a result of the training. Quality
      Improvement activities are planned to ensure the integrity of the training, maintenance and
      availability of resuscitation equipment and skills maintenance.

      The GN MNH Registry (NCT 01073475) was established in 2008 and includes all pregnancies and
      neonatal outcomes in defined geographic clusters. The primary outcome for the pre-post HBB
      evaluation study will be calculated using all delivery data from the GN MNH Registry for
      participating clusters during the defined study period.

      The pre-post HBB evaluation will include the following key activities:

        1. Selection of Master Trainers, Facilitators, and Learners

        2. Country-level training of Master Trainers in the HBB and ENC curricula

        3. Facility-level training of birth attendants in the HBB and ENC curricula

        4. Periodic re-training of birth attendants in the HBB and ENC curricula

        5. Quality improvement activities:

             -  Regular observation of deliveries in participating study health facilities

             -  Unannounced observation of deliveries (or HBB skills using a neonatal simulator if
                no deliveries are available)

             -  Resuscitation debriefings

             -  Perinatal Death audits

             -  Daily bag and mask ventilation practice

             -  Drills to practice emergency drills

             -  Daily check of cleanliness and availability of resuscitation equipment.

      The HBB Master Trainers (MT), Facilitators, and Learners will be evaluated at several points
      during the implementation of the training program and quality improvement activities.
    
  