
    
      Malignant pleural effusion is a common clinical problem with median survival of approximately
      6 months. Efficient management of Malignant pleural effusion is therefore a major priority
      for patients, for whom failed procedures and the need for repeat hospital admissions limits
      their time at home with family and friends.

      The management of Malignant pleural effusion involves either complete pleural fluid drainage
      followed by some form of pleurodesis or insertion of an indwelling pleural catheter.
      Apposition of the parietal and visceral pleural surfaces is a pre-requisite for successful
      pleurodesis. In patients with a non-expansile, or Trapped Lung, pleurodesis will be
      unsuccessful and an indwelling pleural catheter should be inserted instead. Accurate
      detection of Trapped Lung prior to insertion would avoid futile attempts at talc pleurodesis,
      re-intervention following failed pleurodesis and allow adequate time to plan for an
      indwelling pleural catheter insertion, including training of the patient's District Nurses.
      Clinical judgment is currently used to detect Trapped Lung. This involves review of available
      imaging and direct visualisation of the surface of the lung during local anaesthetic
      thoracoscopy. Unfortunately, recent data suggest this is frequently inaccurate, with 30% and
      13% of cases of Trapped Lung correctly identified in recent local and national audit data
      respectively.

      Pleural manometry allows direct and objective measurement of intra-pleural pressure during
      pleural fluid aspiration. Pleural pressure measurements can also be used to compute Pleural
      Elastance, defined as change in pleural pressure divided by change in pleural volume.
      Previous studies have shown that a rapid and sustained drop in intra-pleural pressure during
      fluid aspiration can predict Trapped Lung but these data have not been prospectively compared
      with current clinical practice.

      The primary aim of this study is to determine whether the addition of digital pleural
      manometry to clinical judgment, prior to and during local anaesthetic thoracoscopy, results
      in a clinically meaningful improvement in Trapped Lung detection. Digital pleural manometry
      will be recorded using a Conformité Européene marked (CE-marked) device used within its
      existing clinical indication (developed in conjunction with our commercial partner Rocket
      Medical plc).

      65 Subjects will have a single study visit, which will coincide with their planned clinical
      admission for local anaesthetic thoracoscopy. Subjects will exit the study after a follow-up
      clinic visit 3 months after the date of local anaesthetic thoracoscopy. A study-specific
      volumetric Magnetic Resonance Imaging scan of the pleural cavity will be performed as per
      pre-defined imaging protocols.

      The study will be performed at a single centre: Queen Elizabeth University Hospital, Glasgow.
    
  