
    
      Laparoscopic and robotic surgery has revolutionized post-operative outcomes across surgical
      specialties. However, the use of pneumoperitoneum comes with known risks given the change in
      physiological parameters that accompany its utilization. The effects of increased
      intra-abdominal pressure on cardiopulmonary function has been well documented. Increased
      pressure on the large vessels may lead to decreased cardiac output and thereby decreased
      blood flow to various organ systems and cause irreversible damage. Some studies have
      advocated lower pressures to further optimize cardiopulmonary parameters. McDougall, et. al,
      for instance, demonstrated a significant reduction in oliguria when pressures of 10mm Hg were
      used. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effect of using lower pressure
      pneumoperitoneum in the abdominal cavity during RARP. The investigators hypothesize that low
      pressure pneumoperitoneum has a multitude of clinical benefits due to improved physiologic
      parameters including a reduction in the occurrence of post-operative ileus, reduced need for
      narcotics post operatively, and a decrease in cardiopulmonary complications.

      The study is a prospective randomized blinded cohort study. Patients who meet eligibility
      criteria will be randomly assigned to undergo RARP at a pneumoperitoneum pressure of 12mm Hg
      or 8mm Hg. This will be done by computer generated randomization protocol. Surgeon and
      patients will be blinded to the pneumoperitoneum pressure used. A cover will be placed over
      the AirSeal™ system so that the surgeon(s) are not able to visualize the pneumoperitoneum
      used during the procedure. The remainder of the procedure will be carried out based on
      current standard of care.

      All patients will be admitted post operatively and the same standardized order-set in EPIC
      EHR will be used for all patients in order to control for other factors, such as opioid use,
      to control for confounders.
    
  