
    
      Bipolar disorder is a chronic and recurring condition which causes functional impairment and
      increases lifetime suicide risk. Major depressive disorder likewise confers a high burden of
      illness on the affected population, and treatment is complicated by the fact 50-70% of
      patients treated with an initial agent do not achieve full remission of symptoms. There are
      numerous clinical practice guidelines which support the use of lithium as a first-line agent
      for bipolar disorder, and as an adjunctive therapy for major depressive disorder. Therapeutic
      ranges for lithium were established in the 1970s using multiple daily dose regimens, and
      therefore should not be directly applied to patients taking lithium once daily. The current
      standard of practice is to measure levels 12 hours post dose irrespective of once or twice
      daily administration. There is some evidence that lithium levels drawn 12 hours post dose are
      10 - 26% higher when dosing lithium once daily compared to twice daily, however, the impact
      of kidney function on this difference has not been studied, and this difference in 12h post
      levels has not been confirmed via prospective data. Guidance on therapeutic drug monitoring
      (TDM) is vague with respect to interpretation of specific lithium blood levels for once daily
      dosing. Physicians may reduce a patient's dose based on a lithium level that is seemingly
      higher that target, even if the patient is clinically stable, putting the patient at risk for
      re-emergence of symptoms. Though it is known that lithium is excreted by the kidney, the
      impact of kidney function on the difference in lithium levels when dosed once daily compared
      to twice daily is not well understood. The results of this pilot study will help identify the
      impact of kidney function on lithium therapeutic drug monitoring in current practice, and
      potentially lead to a larger multi-center study.
    
  