
    
      There are approximately 70,000 new diagnoses of cancer annually in adolescents and young
      adults (AYAs; ages 15-39), and nearly 2 million people in the United States are living with
      or have survived being diagnosed with cancer as an AYA. Despite the high number of AYA
      survivors, survival rates of AYAs have not kept pace with those of their younger or older
      counterparts. AYAs face unique challenges given the physical, cognitive, and psychosocial
      developmental milestones that may be disrupted as a result of their cancer experience. In
      addition to the age-related disparities in survival rates, AYAs are at greater risk of
      significant psychological and financial distress compared to older adults with cancer.
      Accordingly, assessing and better understanding the unique needs and health-related quality
      of life (HRQOL) of this important, underserved group as they manage their cancer experience
      is essential in order to optimize and tailor supportive care approaches.

      A few HRQOL conceptual frameworks exist that describe the types of symptom burden and
      functional impact experienced by AYAs with cancer, but most HRQOL measures fail to capture
      the range of HRQOL domains that are important to AYAs. Further, measures of HRQOL
      specifically developed for AYAs lack common items and standardized scoring approaches across
      the age range of 15-39, limiting the ability to understand the unique needs of this age
      group. The NIH's Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) assesses
      most of the relevant HRQOL domains (pain, fatigue, anxiety, depression, cognitive
      functioning, physical functioning, sexual functioning, and social support) but has not been
      validated in AYAs and PROMIS does not include key domains such as financial distress, body
      image concerns, or fertility/ parenthood concerns that provide a complete perspective of
      HRQOL in AYAs with cancer.

      The main objective of the study is to expand the use of PROMIS to provide reliable and valid
      assessment of important HRQOL concerns for AYAs. To accomplish this goal, the study team
      propose the following specific aims: (1) develop item pools of financial distress, body image
      concerns, and fertility/parenthood concerns for AYAs with cancer using PROMIS measurement
      development methodologies; (2) calibrate item banks and short forms of financial distress,
      body image concerns, and fertility/ parenthood concerns in a large, developmentally diverse
      sample of AYAs with and without cancer; and (3) validate newly developed short forms of
      financial distress, body image concerns, and fertility/ parenthood concerns along with
      existing PROMIS short forms in a developmentally and clinically diverse, prospective sample
      of AYAs with cancer.

      At the end of this research study, the investigators will have a psychometrically robust,
      state-of-the-art measurement system tailored to AYAs' unique HRQOL needs. Through the
      identification, adaptation, and development of reliable, valid, and responsive measures of
      HRQOL for AYAs with cancer, the investigators will give these underserved patients a voice
      and provide the assessment tools clinicians and researchers need to enhance patient-centered
      care.
    
  