
    
      Sinusitis is a common medical problem, which significantly decreases patients' quality of
      life (QOL). Patients may have symptoms such as headaches, sinus pressure, nasal congestion
      and drainage, decreased sense of smell, and malaise. In the United States annually, 30
      million cases of sinusitis are diagnosed with an occurrence of 1 in 8 adults. The direct
      medical costs are estimated at $2.4 billion per year with indirect costs reaching upwards of
      $5 billion. Rhinosinusitis is described as the symptomatic inflammation of the paranasal
      sinuses and nasal cavity. The term rhinosinusitis is preferred because most sinusitis is
      accompanied by inflammation of the contiguous nasal mucosa. Uncomplicated rhinosinusitis is
      defined as rhinosinusitis without clinically evident extension of inflammation outside the
      paranasal sinuses and nasal cavity at the time of diagnosis (e.g. no neurologic,
      ophthalmologic, or soft tissue involvement). Rhinosinusitis may be classified by duration as
      acute rhinosinusitis (ARS) (<4 weeks' duration) or as chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS) (>12
      weeks), with or without acute exacerbations. This condition can resolve spontaneously, but
      often requires antibiotics and/or steroids, which is successful in a majority of patients.
      Sinus surgery is therefore indicated in patients whose symptoms persist despite conservative
      medical management. A guideline providing evidence-based recommendations for the diagnosis
      and management of adult sinusitis was developed and revised by a panel of physicians, nurses,
      and healthcare professionals under the support of the American Academy of Otolaryngology -
      Head and Neck Surgery.

      Surgical therapy for sinusitis attempts to restore the sinus health by directly relieving
      sinus obstruction. Small telescopes, called endoscopes, are placed through the nostrils into
      the nasal cavity to enhance visualization, illumination, and magnification of the sinuses and
      adjacent structures. This "endoscopic sinus surgery" or (ESS) techniques have been developed
      to treat four types of sinuses (maxillary, frontal, sphenoid, and ethmoid). The variability
      of involvement of the sinuses vary from patient to patient. There are a variety of surgical
      instruments available to a surgeon for ESS such as stainless steel tools (shavers,
      microdebriders, or grasping tools) to address sinusitis. Surgical therapy has been shown to
      improve QOL, decrease medication use and days missed at work for subjects.

      The use of lasers has shown to be beneficial in several otolaryngological procedures. The
      LF-40 Gold Laser (Medical Energy, Inc.; Pensacola, FL) has already been approved for clinical
      use in various head and neck surgical procedures including functional endoscopic sinus
      surgery. With the use of the LF-40 Gold Laser, this study is being performed with the
      intentions of comparing post-operative outcomes with sinus surgeries performed using a
      microdebrider.

      The purpose of this study will be to determine if post operative outcomes while utilizing the
      gold laser for performing excision of the concha bullosa, maxillary antrostomy, and
      submucosal cauterization of the turbinates are significantly improved as compared to use of
      microdebrider for sinus surgeries. The investigators aim to determine the treatment outcomes
      2 weeks, 2 months, and 6 months postoperatively as compared to use of a microdebrider.
    
  