
    
      This is phase I, double blind, placebo-controlled safety and infectivity study of
      experimental human Norovirus genogroup GII.4 administered to healthy adults 18-49 years of
      age. The unblinded pharmacist will assign treatments. Subjects will be admitted to an
      inpatient nursing unit, challenged with live GII.4 Norovirus strain by oral administration,
      remain in the unit for at least 4 days following challenge and then followed for
      post-challenge safety and efficacy with multiple clinical assessments and collection of blood
      and stool specimens.

      Subjects susceptible to the human norovirus GII.4 challenge strain, CIN-1 (i.e. presence of a
      functional FUT-2 gene), regardless of ABO blood type, will be housed in the Cincinnati Center
      for Clinical Research (CCCR) inpatient facility and challenged orally with different doses of
      the virus. The challenge study will be conducted in 2-3 cohorts of approximately 20 subjects
      each, with the initial cohort receiving 103 RT-PCR units or placebo (9 "challenge" and 1
      "placebo" per 10 subjects). Based on the illness rate of acute gastroenteritis (AGE) in the
      initial cohort, the second cohort will be enrolled to receive a challenge dose based on the
      results of the previous studies. Additional cohorts may be necessary. Illness is defined as
      infection accompanied by vomiting and/or diarrhea during the inpatient stay.Two to three
      additional subjects per cohort will serve as alternates in the event that any of the study
      subjects are unavailable or become ineligible at the time of the inpatient study.Subjects
      will remain in the inpatient facility for at least four days following challenge and assessed
      daily for clinical and virologic evidence of norovirus infection. Subjects will return to the
      investigational site for evaluation on Day 6 (6-8 days) and about 15 (14-16 days) and 30 days
      (28-35 days), and 45 (40-45 days), and (55-65) post challenge.

      The primary objectives are to evaluate the safety and reactogenicity of the norovirus GII.4
      (CIN-1; 031693) challenge stock and to determine a safe and optimal challenge dose of
      Norovirus GII.4 Challenge Stock norovirus to achieve illness in > /=50% of subjects. Illness
      is defined as: diarrhea (>3 loose or liquid stools or >300 gm of loose or liquid stool /24h),
      and/or vomiting during the inpatient period, in a participant with evidence of infection. The
      secondary objectives are to determine the rate of infection in study participants by; virus
      detection in stool by Norovirus GII.4 Challenge Stock-specific qRT-PCR and anti- Norovirus
      GII.4 Challenge Stock serum IgG by ELISA (> /=4 fold rise from baseline to Day 30), determine
      the quantity and duration of virus shedding in stool by qRT-PCR, conduct Time-to-event
      analysis to estimate the median time to cessation of shedding using Kaplan-Meier methods,
      determine the modified Vesikari score as a measure of gastroenteritis severity, determine
      Norovirus GII.4 Challenge Stock-specific immunoglobulin titers by ELISA before and after the
      challenge; Serum IgA and IgG, Serum Blockade IgG, Salivary IgA, determine the effect of
      preexisting Norovirus GII.4 Challenge Stock-specific Immunoglobulin in serum and saliva on
      the rate of infection, determine total and Norovirus GII.4 Challenge Stock-specific IgA- and
      IgG-Secreting Cells in circulation by ELISpot assay.
    
  