
    
      The most commonly reconstructed ligament in the knee is the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL).
      In 2006 a total of 134,421 ACL reconstructions were performed in the United States,
      representing a 37% increase in procedures since 19941. Today, most ACL reconstructions are
      performed on an outpatient basis. While this has led to improvements in patient satisfaction
      and cost, it has simultaneously resulted in more complicated postoperative pain management.
      Managing this pain via multi-modal strategies, including peripheral nerve blocks, in the
      postoperative phase has been shown to decrease opioid related side effects, decrease hospital
      stay, and increase time to ambulation. Nursing, hospital, and pharmacy utilization in
      managing PCA, continuous regional nerve blocks, and administration of oral opioid dosing are
      associated with higher costs of care and introduce sources for staff error. Furthermore, the
      idea of multi-modal pain management extends beyond the surgical procedure. Decreasing
      prescription opioid use during outpatient rehabilitation decreases NSAID and opioid related
      side effects.

      Myoscience, Inc. (Fremont, CA) has developed a device - iovera° - as a novel,
      minimally-invasive procedure using cold to target sensory nerve tissue and provide temporary
      pain relief through cryoneurolysis. The iovera° device uses well-established principles of
      cryobiology to temporarily deactivate sensory nerves that contribute to pain. Prior studies
      of the iovera° device have provided evidence of effectiveness and safety for treatment of the
      Infrapatellar Branch of the Saphenous Nerve and another study has demonstrated that a
      short-term block of this nerve resulted in reduced pain following an ACL reconstruction.

      In a multicenter, double-blind, sham-controlled, randomized trial sponsored by Myoscience,
      Inc, the iovera° device was shown to temporarily relieve pain in patients with osteoarthritis
      of the knee. Compared to the sham group, patients who received active treatment had a
      statistically significant greater change from baseline in the WOMAC pain subscale score at
      Day 30 (p=0.0004), Day 60 (p=0.0176), and Day 90 (p=0.0061). Patients deemed WOMAC pain
      responders at Day 120 continued to experience a statistically significant treatment effect at
      Day 150. Most expected side effects were mild in severity and resolved within 30 days. The
      incidence of device- or procedure-related adverse events was similar in the two treatment
      groups with no occurrence of serious or unanticipated adverse events.

      The goal of the study described herein is to determine the safety and efficacy of the iovera°
      treatment for reducing the pain associated with anterior cruciate ligament (ACL)
      reconstruction
    
  