
    
      Hispanic women and children who become overweight or obese are at risk for developing
      prediabetes, type 2 diabetes, and cardiovascular disease later in life. To date, there have
      been no interdisciplinary interventions that have targeted Hispanic women and their 3-5 year
      old children to improve nutrition and physical activity behaviors to manage adiposity and
      weight in mothers and prevent excessive adiposity and weight gain trajectory in their
      children. Using a randomized two-group, repeated measures experimental design, the goal of
      the proposed study is to investigate the efficacy of a 12-week nutrition and exercise
      education, physical activity, coping skills training, and home-based physical activity
      intervention in Hispanic women and their 3-5 year old children and 6 months of continued
      monthly contact to help overweight and obese Hispanic mothers improve adiposity, weight,
      health behaviors (nutrition and physical activity), and self-efficacy and their 3-5 year old
      children improve their adiposity and weight gain trajectory and health behaviors (nutrition
      and physical activity). The investigators will partner with two federally qualified health
      departments in Durham and Chatham, North Carolina to enroll Hispanic women and their 3-5 year
      old children and the investigators will partner with community centers to deliver the
      intervention. A total of 294 Hispanic women with a BMI >25 kg/m² and 294 Hispanic 3-5 year
      old children with a BMI percentile > 25 will be enrolled over 4 years and randomized to the
      experimental or equal attention control group. Data will be collected at Time 1 (0 months
      [baseline]) to Time 2 (9 months [completion of the intervention]) and Time 1 to Time 3 (15
      months [after 6 months with no contact from the study staff]). Data collected will include
      adiposity (primary outcomes: waist circumference, triceps and subscapular skinfolds) in
      mothers and children and weight (primary outcomes: body mass index [BMI] in mothers and BMI
      percentile in the children). Secondary outcomes will include health behaviors and
      self-efficacy in the mothers (Adult Health Behavior Questionnaire, Lifestyle Health Promoting
      Profile II, 3 day 24-Hour Food Recall, and 7 day Accelerometer, Eating Self-Efficacy Scale
      and Exercise Self-Efficacy Scale) and in the children (7 day Accelerometer and 3 day 24-Hour
      Food Recall). The investigators will also evaluate the cost of delivering the program for
      public health departments. Data analysis will use general linear mixed models to test the
      hypotheses. Decreasing overweight and obesity in Hispanic women and slowing adiposity and
      weight gain trajectory in young Hispanic children is urgently needed to decrease morbidity,
      mortality, and future health care costs. The knowledge to be gained from this study may
      provide a foundation for extending this intervention to other Hispanic mothers and children
      in other communities to assist mothers in managing their weight and preventing excessive
      adiposity and weight gain in their children. This approach is translatable, real-world, and
      could be replicated in other areas of the United States.
    
  