
    
      The sample population of this study is 102 female patients (50 already included in the
      study), who have undergone abdominal hysterectomy surgery for benign conditions, with or
      without joint oophorectomy / salpingectomy. The patients received spinal anesthesia, at
      hospital "Santa Casa de Alfenas" - Minas Gerais / Brazil ("Casa de Caridade Nossa Senhora do
      Perpétuo Socorro"). All surgeries were performed by the same team of surgeons.

      All patients were evaluated and followed from the preoperative period, up to 24 hours
      postoperatively, passing through the intraoperative period. During all stages, patients were
      assisted by a properly trained multi-professional team, consisting of a doctor, nurse and
      nursing technician.

      For the patient to be included in the study, she must have understood and agreed with the
      informed consent form that was explained in detail to all possible candidates in the
      preoperative period.

      This is a double blind randomized study. The patients were randomly allocated to 02 groups,
      in which Group 1 received medication A (designated in the study as medication 1), whereas
      Group 2 received medication B (designated in the study as medication 2).

      Study participants and researchers were blinded as to the use of drug / placebo to avoid
      measurement bias. To carry out the blinding process, an external researcher was assigned to
      randomize the groups and prepare the pills in opaque and closed envelopes characterized only
      by a control identification (A or B), which is known only to this researcher. Patients in
      both groups received identical sealed envelopes, 02h before the start of the anesthetic
      procedure, only identified as medication A or B, which contained two pills in each envelope.
      A second researcher is responsible for collecting data and monitoring the patient from the
      intraoperative period up to 24 hours after discharge from the post-anesthetic recovery room
      (PARR).

      In the operating room, venoclysis was performed with jelco No. 18 or No. 20, and an infusion
      of 08 ml.kg-1 of crystalloid solution (lactated ringer). The patients were properly monitored
      with pulse oximetry, cardioscope, and non-invasive blood pressure monitor. After monitoring,
      patients were premedicated with intravenous (IV) midazolam at a dosage of 0.03 mg.kg1.

      To perform spinal anesthesia, the patients were seated on the surgical stretcher by the
      nursing team. Asepsis and antisepsis were performed at the puncture site with alcoholic
      chlorhexidine solution. After placement of sterile drapes, local anesthesia was performed
      with 2.0% lidocaine without vasoconstrictor. The first attempt at subarachnoid puncture was
      performed, using the median technique, between the intervertebral levels L3-L4 or L4-L5 or
      L5-S1, with a 25 gauge Quincke needle for subarachnoid anesthesia. If there was a technical
      difficulty in the puncture, the paramedian puncture technique was chosen. The confirmation of
      the correct puncture was based on the aspiration of cerebrospinal fluid. Anesthesia was
      performed with the local anesthetic 0.5% bupivacaine at a dosage of 0.3 mg.kg-1, injected
      from a 5 ml disposable syringe. After anesthesia, the patients were placed in the supine
      position, and the correct level of anesthesia was proven with thermal sensitivity tests using
      cotton soaked with alcoholic solution. After the anesthesia reached the sensory level of the
      T4 thoracic vertebra, the surgical team was allowed to start the procedure. Prior to the
      beginning of the surgical incision, a delayed bladder probe was performed in all patients
      according to the surgeon's indication.

      Hemodynamic changes in blood pressure were controlled with the use of vasoactive medications
      such as ephedrine or metaraminol. For prophylaxis of postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV)
      ondansetron was administered at a dosage of 4 mg intravenously (IV) 30 minutes before the end
      of surgery. Tenoxicam was prescribed for all patients at a dosage of 20 mg IV at regular
      intervals every 12 hours for the purpose of anti-inflammatory and analgesic action. For
      analgesic relief, dipyrone IV was also prescribed at a dosage of 50 mg.kg-1 at regular
      intervals every 6 hours. During the surgery, and also at the end of the surgery, the patients
      were evaluated for the degree of sedation using the Ramsay sedation scale as a basis.

      At the end of the surgery, the patients were referred to the post-anaesthesia care unit,
      where they were monitored again, and went through the pain assessment process using the
      visual analog scale (VAS) in relation to pain at rest and "movement" (the patient was asked
      to perform the forced cough movement), through a direct question with scale demonstration.
      Pains characterized as mild (0 - 2 VAS) received no medication other than those already
      prescribed; pain characterized as moderate (3 - 7 EVA) received IV morphine at a dosage of
      0.025 mg.kg-1; and severe pain (8 - 10 VAS) received IV morphine at a dose of 0.05 mg.kg-1
      every 01 h until analgesic control.

      To consider themselves able to be discharged from the post-anaesthesia care unit for clinical
      follow-up in wards, patients should reach a score ≥ 9 on the modified Aldrete Scale and have
      VAS pain scores ≤ 2.

      In the infirmary, patients were tested at regular intervals for pain intensity, by of a team
      of nurses trained and qualified to do so. The patients had pain classified as moderate (VAS ≥
      2 <8) or severe (VAS ≥ 8), receiving drugs with morphine IV in the dose of 1 mg and 2 mg
      respectively, according to the medical prescription.

      24 h after discharge from the post-anaesthesia care unit, in the ward, all the patient was
      assessed by the same examiner who performed an assessment at the post-anaesthesia care unit,
      who stratified the patient again from the EVA and assessed using the McGill questionnaire.

      During the entire hospitalization period, the use of central nervous system (CNS) depressant
      drugs (example: ketamine, droperidol, promethazine) and / or analgesic drugs that do not
      contain any study protocol was avoided. If some patients were medicated with these drugs,
      they were excluded from the study.

      The data related to surgery (pre, trans and postoperative) were collected for statistical
      analysis, according to Annex II, in which a total duration of surgery in minutes; the total
      intravenous medication infused; the values of mean arterial pressure and heart rate in the
      pre, intra and postoperative period; a presence or not, as well as a quantity, of PONV in the
      post-anaesthesia care unit and after 24h; presence or not of dizziness as a possible side
      effect; among others.

      All data selected through the study will be digitized and analyzed using the Statistic® 7.0
      software. The data will be compared using repeated measures ANOVA, followed by Newman-Keuls
      post-hoc, being considered for p <0.05.
    
  