
    
      This is a double blind, two-arm, 28-day, placebo-controlled study with approximately 120
      infested "index" subjects randomized 1:1 to Natroba™ or Placebo. All members of a household
      (no more than 6 individuals) with a suspected "index" subject must be screened at the first
      visit. In this study, "index" subjects are defined as the youngest infested household member
      (≥4 years). If the members have an active scabies infestation and meet all other criteria,
      they must agree to participate in the study. Household members who do not present with
      scabies at the screening visit must also agree to apply the same blinded investigational
      product (IP) as household members who present with scabies. All infested household members
      must agree to participate in the study or none will be enrolled. Screening procedures include
      informed consent, medication and medical history, urine pregnancy test for females of
      childbearing potential, scabies assessment (visual evidence of burrows,
      inflammatory/non-inflammatory lesions and pruritus), microscopic examination of skin
      scraping, or dermatoscopy, to demonstrate the presence of mites, eggs, and/or scybala
      (dermatoscopy must confirm burrows), vital signs, general skin and eye assessment,
      randomization, and IP dispensing and instruction.

      After screening on Day 1, all randomized subjects will be dispensed IP (Natroba™ or Placebo)
      to apply at home later the same day as a single treatment over the entire body from the neck
      down to the toes (including the soles of the feet) and to the scalp (if balding) or hairline,
      temples and forehead on the same day. Subjects less than 12 years of age should be assisted
      with administration by a parent, guardian or caregiver. Subjects will rub the treatment into
      the skin followed by a 10-minute wait period before getting dressed. Showering or bathing
      must not occur earlier than 6 hours after treatment and no later than at least 1 hour prior
      to Day 2 visit.

      On Day 2 (Visit 2), all household members will return for general skin and eye assessments of
      possible irritation, and to confirm that all IP was left on for a minimum of 6 hours before
      bathing or showering. If a subject reports an adverse event assessed as related by the PI on
      Day 2 (Visit 2) then a follow-up visit with the investigator must be scheduled within 7 days
      of visit. All household members will receive a well-being phone call on Day 14 to continue to
      emphasize instructions to prevent re-infestation, determine if any concomitant medications
      have been used, and check for adverse events. If a subject reports an adverse event assessed
      as related by the PI on the Day 14 well-being phone call, then a follow-up visit with the
      investigator must be scheduled within 7 days of phone call.

      On Day 28 (Visit 3), all household members will return to the clinic for safety and efficacy
      assessments. The primary endpoint of complete cure will be assessed in the "index" subject
      and any infested household members. If the infested subject is completely cured at Day 28, he
      or she will have completed the study and termination procedures will be conducted. If the
      subject is not completely cured at Day 28 (with Natroba™ or Placebo), the subject will
      receive 5% Permethrin and will be directed to their primary care physician for follow-up.

      Safety assessments will be made for all household members and will include monitoring of
      adverse events (AEs) throughout the study, vital signs recording (Days 1 and 28), clinical
      laboratory analyses (Days 1 and 28), and general skin and eye irritation assessments (Days 1,
      2, and 28). The Day 28 procedures will also be completed for early termination (ET) except
      subjects will not receive rescue Permethrin but will be directed to follow-up with their
      primary care physician.
    
  