
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the 1-year progression-free and overall survival rate in patients with
           relapsed Hodgkin's or non-Hodgkin's lymphoma after prior autologous stem cell
           transplantation treated with a nonmyeloablative conditioning regimen comprising
           fludarabine and melphalan followed by allogeneic bone marrow or peripheral blood stem
           cell transplantation and immunosuppression comprising tacrolimus and methotrexate.

        -  Determine treatment-related mortality in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the toxic effects of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine engraftment of donor hematopoietic stem cells, as measured by hematopoietic
           recovery and donor-derived hematopoiesis (determined by T cell and neutrophil specific
           chimerism) at 2, 3, 6, and 12 months, in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the incidence of acute and chronic graft-versus-host disease in patients
           treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to diagnosis
      (Hodgkin's lymphoma vs non-Hodgkin's lymphoma).

      Patients receive fludarabine IV over 1 hour on days -6 to -2 and melphalan IV over 15-20
      minutes on days -3 and -2. Patients undergo allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell or bone
      marrow transplantation on day 0. Patients receive oral tacrolimus twice daily beginning on
      day -3 and continuing until day 100 followed by a taper to day 180. Patients also receive
      methotrexate IV on days 1, 3, and 7. Treatment continues in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study transplantation, patients are followed at 1 and 3 months, 1 year,
      and then annually for up to 4 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 50 patients will be accrued for this study within 2 years.
    
  