
    
      OBJECTIVE:

      Primary objective: Incidence of Paracentesis induced circulatory dysfunction in patients
      undergoing modest volume paracentesis (MVP) (>3 and <5 litres) with midodrine plus 25%
      albumin v/s 25% albumin infusion alone at day 7

      Secondary objective:

        -  Change in systolic, diastolic and mean BP at day 3 and 6

        -  Increase in plasma renin activity at day 6

        -  Incidence of Hyponatremia, HE and AKI at day 3 and 6

        -  Predictors of Paracentesis induced circulatory dysfunction

        -  Predictors of 28 day survival.

      Methodology :

      Patients with Acute on chronic liver failure having grade III ascites will be given either
      albumin or albumin plus midodrine. Midodrine will be started 4 hrs before tap to achieve
      target MAP. Ascitic tapping will be followed by vital monitoring and monitoring of vital
      parameters along with measurement of changes in s. rennin at day 3 and 6.

        -  All patient will be undergo complete physical examination and complete clinical history
           will be recorded.

        -  Baseline cbc,LFT,KFT and INR level will be sent on day 1 along with baseline s. renin
           levels

        -  Those eligible will be randomised in to two groups

        -  GROUP A will be given albumin 8g/l of ascitic tap during tap along with placebo for 7
           days.

        -  GROUP B will be given midodrine 7.5 mg to 12.5 mg tds (keeping the target MAP above 70
           mmhg)for 7 days plus albumin same as in other group.

      Study Population: Patients of acute on chronic liver failure who are admitted to and
      attending the OPD at ILBS.

      Study Design: Randomized controlled trial Study Period:NOV 2019 to march 2019

      Sample Size:

      Considering incidence of PICD in albumin group is 30% and reduction to 10% by adding
      midodrine with alpha =5%, and power of study being 80%. No. of cases in each group- 66
      Total-132 Furthur with 10% dropout we need to enroll 150 cases (75 in each group) randomly
      allocated in two groups by block randomization method with block size of 5.

        -  Intervention: This RCT will be conducted at ILBS New Delhi between Dec 2019 and March
           2021

        -  Monitoring and assessment:

        -  All patient will be undergo complete physical examination and complete clinical history
           will be recorded.

        -  Baseline cbc,LFT,KFT and INR level will be sent on day 1 along with baseline s. renin
           levels

        -  Those eligible will be randomised in to two groups

        -  GROUP A will be given albumin 8g/l of ascitic tap along with placebo for 7 days.
           Standard albumin therapy will continue (40gm/week)

        -  GROUP B will be given midodrine 7.5 mg to 10 mg tds (keeping the target MAP above 70
           mmhg)for 7 days plus albumin same as in other group.

      Expected outcome of the project:

      Primary:

        -  Incidence of PICD at day 3 and day6

      Secondary:

        -  Changes in hemodynamic parameters at 1, 3 and 6 hour, Day 3, Day 6 post paracentesis

        -  Increase in plasma renin activity at Day 3, Day 6

        -  Incidence of Hyponatremia, HE and AKI at day 3 and 6
    
  