
    
      Sub-clinical hypothyroidism (SCH) is a form of thyroid dysfunction in which the
      thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) level is high, while serum total/free thyroxine (T4/fT4) is
      within the normal reference range . SCH is mostly detected accidentally as most of the
      patients manifest few or no signs of thyroid dysfunction.

      The most common causative factor for SCH is chronic autoimmune thyroiditis characterized by
      high titers of thyroid peroxidase antibodies, thyroglobulin antibodies and rarely TSH
      receptor blocking antibodies. However, mutations in several proteins involving in TSH action
      including TSH receptor gene and mutations of dual oxidase 2 (DUOX2), phosphodiesterase 8B and
      thyroid peroxidase have also been demonstrated as causes of TSH elevation .

      SCH might be associated with endothelial dysfunction due to early changes in proatherogenic
      profiles as there is elevation in plasma levels of total cholesterol (TC) and low-density
      lipoprotein-cholesterol (LDL-C) in SCH patients , also there is increased risk of
      hypertension in SCH patients than in euthyroid .

      Many studies found that homocysteine concentration appears to be increased in hypothyroidism
      and decreased in hyperthyroidism, and there is relationship between hyperhomocysteinemia and
      cardiovascular disease, including increased platelet aggregation, increased coagulation or
      reduced thrombolysis and endothelial dysfunction .

      The acute-phase reactant hs-CRP is known to be a sensitive and non-specific marker for
      inflammation, tissue damage and infection . Serum hs-CRP measurements are used to determine
      cardiovascular risk. hs-CRP is regarded as a predictive marker for myocardial infarction,
      stroke, peripheral artery disease and sudden cardiac death .

      The treatment of children with SCH is controversial; and there is not enough evidence that
      treatment can prevent the risk of developing cardiovascular and metabolic disorders in SCH.
    
  