
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the disease-free survival rate in patients with chronic or accelerated phase
           chronic myelogenous leukemia that failed or inadequately responded to prior imatinib
           mesylate treated with nonmyeloablative conditioning comprising fludarabine and low-dose
           total-body irradiation followed by allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell
           transplantation.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the complete cytogenetic and molecular response rates in patients treated with
           this regimen.

        -  Determine overall survival of patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine non-relapse mortality in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the incidence of serious infection, graft-versus-host disease, and
           myelosuppression in patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

        -  Conditioning treatment: Patients receive fludarabine IV on days -4 to -2. Patients
           undergo low-dose total-body irradiation (TBI) on day 0.

        -  Allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplantation: After TBI, patients undergo
           allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplantation on day 0.

        -  Immunosuppression: Patients receive oral cyclosporine twice daily on days -3 to 56
           followed by a taper to day 180 in the absence of graft-versus-host disease (GVHD).
           Patients also receive oral mycophenolate mofetil twice daily on days 0-27.

        -  Post-transplant treatment: Patients experiencing disease persistence or progression AND
           low donor chimerism discontinue immunosuppression. Patients with disease persistence or
           progression after discontinuing immunosuppression receive oral imatinib mesylate once
           daily. Patients who have disease improvement after day 28 of imatinib mesylate treatment
           AND who have no evidence of disease after day 84 of imatinib mesylate treatment continue
           imatinib mesylate in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
           Patients who fail to improve after day 28 of imatinib mesylate treatment OR who have
           residual disease after day 84 of imatinib mesylate treatment receive donor lymphocytes
           IV over 15-30 minutes once every 1-4 months for up to 4 infusions. Patients ineligible
           to receive donor lymphocytes (e.g., patients with evidence of GVHD) receive interferon
           alfa subcutaneously 3 times a week for up to 12 months in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 6, 9, 12, 18, and 24 months,
      and then annually for 5 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 40 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  