
    
      The GAMEPAD study is a two-arm randomized controlled trial aimed at evaluating whether a
      home-based walking program with automated coaching augmented with gamification and behavioral
      economic principles improves functional capacity in patients with PAD. GAMEPAD will be
      conducted using the Way to Health platform, and patients will enroll and consent for
      participation online, with available help from a study coordinator by telephone. The present
      study will leverage the GAMEPAD enrollment process to test whether opt-in or opt-out framing
      of study participation upon initial contact affects the proportion of patients who ultimately
      enroll in the GAMEPAD study and the demographic characteristics of enrolled patients.

      Eligible patients will be contacted via email to determine their interest in participation in
      the GAMEPAD study. Patients will be randomized 3:1 to an email message framing trial
      participation in a standard opt-in manner versus an email message framing trial participation
      in an opt-out manner.

      Patients randomized to opt-in framing will be instructed to visit the Way to Health website
      to enroll in the GAME PAD study, or to call or email the study coordinator with questions or
      for assistance in enrolling. Patients randomized to opt-out framing will be informed that a
      study coordinator will be calling them in the coming days to discuss enrollment in the study.

      Baseline characteristics of patients randomized to each framing method will be abstracted
      from the electronic health record and Penn Data Store, and will include age, sex,
      race/ethnicity, and medical comorbidities. Whether contacted patients created an account on
      the Way to Health website and/or ultimately consented for enrollment in the study will be
      captured.

      For all outcomes, we will compare patients initially presented with study participation via
      opt-in framing versus opt-out framing. The primary outcome will be the proportion of patients
      that enroll in the GAMEPAD study. We will also report the proportion of enrolled patients
      that failed to complete the GAMEPAD study among those patients that ultimately enrolled.
    
  