
    
      Group 1 - Emek group - (EMC): 100 patients will be included in the study, including
      Homozygous SCA patients and Sickle Cell β Thalassemia Patients (β0 and β+ patients will be
      included).

      Group 2 - Dana group - (DMC): 50 patients will be included in the study. Group 3 - Schneider
      group - (ShMC): 50 patients will be included in the study. Group 4 - Detroit group - (WYUMC):
      100 patients will be included in the study, Homozygous SCA patients and Sickle Cell β
      Thalassemia Patients (β0 and β+) will be included).

      Patients with Sickle cell hemoglobin C (SC) and Sickle cell hemoglobin D (SD) disease will
      not be included as part of the study analysis due to the small numbers of patients expected,
      but the investigators are encouraged to report the data of those patients for further
      analysis.

      Age: No age limits, patients can be included since diagnosis till age 40 since teenagers and
      young adults are often treated at pediatric hematology units.

      Gender: Males and Females will be included in the study. Pregnant patients: Pregnancy will
      not be considered as exclusion criteria. Data about pregnancy under Hydroxyurea treatment
      both in females and in males should be included, including malformations in the offspring. It
      needs to be emphasized that the recommendation to the patients in both sexes is to stop
      Hydroxyurea treatment at last three months before conception.

      Data collection: Data will be collected from the medical files. Demographic and family
      history and laboratory findings at diagnosis will be included.

      Genetic mutations of the β globin gene in patients with Sickle Cell β thalassemia will be
      included if previously analyzed and recorded in medical files. Also α globin mutations and
      SCA haplotypes will be included if they were previously analyzed and are part of the data
      already present in the medical files.

      Further genetic analysis including β and α globin mutations, haplotypes and xmn1 polymorphism
      will be included in an extension study but those analysis are not an integral part of this
      initial study unless they were performed before this present study.

      Clinical complaints from the last 10 years will be summarized. Iron chelation and Hydroxyurea
      treatment given in the last 10 years will be summarized.

      Complications that were diagnosed at any age will also be recorded.

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Patients without sufficient data at the medical files due to lack of regular follow up
           will be excluded.

        -  Patients that give explicit refuse in participation.

      Inclusion criteria:

        -  All the patients currently treated and followed up at the centers in Israel will be
           included.

        -  A similar number of patients at same age range and same diagnosis will be included from
           the whole cohort at Detroit MC. Since at Detroit MC a significant larger number of
           patients, the criteria for patient's selection at this center will be a cohort matched
           for gender and age to the Israel patients.
    
  