
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the safety and toxicity of in vivo particle bombardment with DNA
      coated gold beads carrying cDNA for gp100, with or without gold beads carrying cDNA for
      sargramostim (GM-CSF), into uninvolved skin of patients with melanoma. II. Estimate the
      intensity and duration of gp100 transgene expression following these regimens in these
      patients. III. Assess local lymphocyte phenotype and systemic lymphocyte function following
      these regimens in these patients. IV. Compare gp100 transgene expression as well as local
      lymphocyte phenotype and systemic lymphocyte function when the cDNA for GM-CSF is
      administered 3 days before cDNA for gp100 vs on the same day as gp100 administration in these
      patients. V. Determine the effect of these regimens on tumor shrinkage, histological evidence
      of tumor inflammation or necrosis, or in vitro evidence of antitumor immune reactivity in
      these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study. Patients are assigned to one of three treatment
      groups. Group I: Patients receive particle mediated gene transfer (PMGT) of gp100 on day 1 to
      2 or 4 separate sites. One site is biopsied on day 3. A second course is administered on day
      22 and one of the sites is biopsied on day 26. Delayed type hypersensitivity (DTH) is
      assessed on days 40 and 43. Group II: Patients receive PMGT of sargramostim (GM-CSF) on day 1
      to 1-5 separate sites. PMGT of gp100 is administered to 2-4 of these same sites on day 4. One
      of the gp100 sites is biopsied on day 6. A second course is administered beginning on day 22,
      with one of the sites biopsied on day 29. DTH is assessed on days 40 and 43. Group III:
      Patients receive PMGT of GM-CSF in combination with gp100 on day 1 to 2 or 4 separate sites.
      Courses are administered as in group I. Patients who achieve partial or complete response or
      maintain stable disease may receive another course of therapy. Cohorts of 3-6 patients are
      treated at each dose in each group until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The
      MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 6 patients experience dose limiting
      toxicity. Patients are followed at 3, 6, and 12 months, and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 18 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  