
    
      Participants were randomly distributed (using the QuickCalcs application from GraphPad
      Software)a into two groups: an experimental group in which was applied KT, and a control
      group in which was applied a placebo tape. All outcomes in both groups were assessed by an
      assessor blinded to the subject´s allocation. Individuals were also blinded to the allocation
      group. Balance was assessed using the SOT under three conditions: (1) without taping; (2)
      immediately following application; (3) following 7 days of use.

      Computerized dynamic posturography is used to measure the balance. Subjects had to maintain
      their COG stable in 3 consecutive series of 20s duration for each of the 6 conditions in the
      test. In the first 3 conditions, the platform remained fixed. Condition 1 was conducted with
      open eyes, condition 2 with closed eyes and condition 3 with a mobile visual environment
      referenced to postural oscillations. Conditions 4, 5 and 6 repeated the visual conditions of
      the first 3 tests and added platform movement referenced to the anteroposterior oscillation
      of the subject, with the ankle-foot angle remaining constant, thus annulling proprioceptive
      sensory input.

      The system utilizes force-plate technology (two 23 × 46 cm footplates) to determine the
      location of the COG within predefined 75% limits of stability while adjusting for an
      individual subject's height (COG = 0.55 × height). For each test, the software provides
      measures of postural sway and the ability to maintain the COG within a predefined target area
      resulting in partial scores for each condition and an overall balance score (composite SOT
      score, COMP) (%). The theoretical maximum displacement a normal subject may sway without fall
      is assumed to be 12.5 degrees (8.25 degrees anterior, 4.25 degrees posterior). The
      equilibrium score = 12.5 - Ɵ (maximum - minimum)/12.5 × 100%, where Ɵ is the maximum
      anteroposterior COG sway angle recorded in each trial. Values close to 100% indicated minimum
      balancing. Test was scored with a value of 0 when patients needed help or took a step to
      maintain balance.

      SOT condition 2 is the best trial in order to assess the influence of KT on proprioceptive
      system in subjects without vestibular deficits. As primaries outcome measures, the composite
      SOT score (COMP) and the composite SOT strategy (STR), were chosen. The partial score for SOT
      condition 2 (SOT 2) and its strategy (STR 2) were considered as secondary outcomes measures.
      SOT condition 2 is carried out with closed eyes. Therefore, balance under this condition is
      controlled mainly by the proprioceptive system, in which, according several authors, KT could
      have an effect. Under these All subjects were initially familiarized with the CDP before
      undergoing. Multiple baseline measures of the SOT were administrated in order to document
      change due to tape application and to avoid the learning effect.26 It has been suggested a
      short-term adaption that reduces the postural sway by either increasing the stiffness in the
      ankles or through reweighting of sensory information.
    
  