
    
      This Phase I trial compares single-gender Women's Recovery Group (WRG) and an effective
      control condition, mixed-gender Group Drug Counseling (GDC). WRG is a new 12-session
      women-focused, manual-based relapse-prevention group therapy that uses a cognitive-behavioral
      approach. It is a 90-minute structured relapse prevention weekly group therapy with both
      women-focused content as well as an all-women group composition. The control condition, Group
      Drug Counseling (GDC), consists of 12 weekly 90-minute structured sessions and is conducted
      in a mixed-gender group composition and has no women-focused content. The GDC was chosen as
      the comparison group to approximate group drug counseling that is consistent with treatment
      as usual within the community. Both groups stress abstinence. Women are randomly assigned to
      one of the two conditions and the groups are conducted in a rolling group, semi-open format.

      The treatment manual for a Women's Recovery Group (WRG) focused on the themes that are
      relevant to women with SUDs. There was an emphasis on educating patients about treatment and
      relapse prevention in a context that is relevant to women. The manual combined therapist
      information and instructions with patient worksheets, handouts and skills practices. The
      treatment intervention was conducted twice in a pre-pilot study led by study investigators.
      The investigators then conducted a pilot study in which outcomes among subjects receiving the
      treatment intervention were compared with outcomes of subjects who received the standard
      mixed-gender Group Drug Counseling (GDC), chosen to approximate treatment in the community.

      The study hypothesis was that the single-gender group composition and women-focused group
      content would result in better treatment outcomes, including decrease number of days of
      substance use compared with baseline during follow-up, reduced substance use, and lengthened
      time to relapse, compared with the mixed-gender control.
    
  