
    
      Background

      Although the overall incidence of complications associated with prosthetic cardiac valve
      implantation has decreased considerably since its introduction more than 3 decades ago,
      valvular thrombosis and systemic thromboembolism remain a major concern for cardiothoracic
      surgeons, cardiologists, and other practicing clinicians because of the well-known potential
      to cause devastating events including ischemic stroke and death.

      Factors that contribute to the thrombogenicity of prosthetic heart valves include: altered
      blood flow and haemostatic activation caused by vessel-wall disruption during surgery or
      exposure of artificial surfaces to the circulating blood. Short-term parenteral
      anticoagulation with unfractionated heparin or low-molecular-weight heparin is often used
      until therapeutic concentrations of an oral vitamin K antagonist are reached. Vitamin K
      antagonists, alone or in combination with aspirin, are used for long-term management of these
      patients. However, Vitamin K antagonists are cumbersome to use, because of their multiple
      interactions with food and drugs, and they require frequent laboratory monitoring. Therefore,
      they are often not used, and when they are, rates of discontinuation are high. Many patients
      receiving Phenprocoumon still have inadequate anticoagulation. Thus, there is a need for new
      anticoagulant agents.

      Patients who self-monitor therapy with vitamin K antagonists at home rather than in a
      laboratory are more often in the therapeutic range and have a lower incidence of
      complications and hospital admissions than those who do not. Meta-analyses of randomized
      trials have recently found that patient self-monitoring was associated with a 33% reduction
      of risk of death, a 55% reduction of risk of thromboembolism, and a slight decrease in major
      haemorrhage. Self-monitoring was also associated with improved quality of life and
      satisfaction. However, the number of INR values within the target range in self-monitored
      patients is still very poor, which is no more than 70% !, even taking in account a wide range
      of INR 2.5-4.5. Another main obstacle to widespread use of patient self-monitoring is cost.
      In the UK National Health Service, the estimated cost of patient self-monitoring is £122 000
      per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) over 5 years and £63 000 over 10 years. This is not
      cost-effective considering the commonly accepted threshold of £30 000 per QALY. Costs are
      related to the portable INR-monitoring device, test strips, and patient education programs.

      The oral direct thrombin inhibitor - dabigatran etexilate - and two oral direct factor Xa
      inhibitors - rivaroxaban and apixaban - are in advanced stages of clinical development and
      are expected to replace oral vitamin K antagonists for many indications.

      There is a published phase 2, dose-validation study investigating the use of dabigatran in
      patients with mechanical heart valves (the RE-ALIGN trial). This trial was terminated
      prematurely because of an excess of thromboembolic and bleeding events among
      dabigatran-treated patients.

      Does the RE-ALIGN trial preclude the investigation of rivaroxaban and other direct oral
      factor Xa inhibitors in patients with mechanical heart valves? Not necessarily! Coagulation
      develops in at least two subsequent waves of thrombin generation and fibrin deposition, with
      factor Xa playing a pivotal role for its amplification. In fact, since activation of 1
      molecule of factor X results in the generation of 1000 molecules of thrombin, on a molar
      basis factor Xa is more thrombogenic than thrombin and several lines of research show that it
      requires less heparin to inhibit thrombosis prior thrombin formation than afterwards.
      Therefore, there is a sound rationale for hypothesizing that direct factor Xa inhibitors may
      be more efficient than dabigatran in preventing thromboembolic events among patients with
      mechanical heart valves.

      Objective

      Primary Objective: CATHAR is a pilot study to determine if rivaroxaban is feasible and safe
      for prevention of major complications in patients undergoing a mechanical aortic heart valve
      replacement.

      Secondary objectives will be to identify the value of molecular markers suitable for
      monitoring of anticoagulation effectiveness of rivaroxaban and its correlation with
      transcranial Doppler emboli count in patients undergoing a mechanical aortic heart valve
      replacement.

      Methods

      CATHAR is a prospective, open-label, pilot, phase 2 study with independent evaluation of all
      outcomes. The trial is based on a Bayesian design by incorporating historical information for
      the control group for all analyses. All patients will receive an aortic valve replacement
      with a bileaflet mechanical valve. Rivaroxaban (Xarelto, Bayer) will be administered to all
      patients for prevention of complications. The dose of rivaroxaban is 20mg once daily.
      Continuous bood monitoring will be performed during hospitalisation and at follow up. Before
      hospital discharge and at 1, 3 and 6 months follow up all patients will receive an
      echocardiography. Trans-cranial Doppler will be performed in 10 random patients.

      End of the study: Rivaroxaban patients will be switched to Phenprocoumon at 6 months follow
      up.
    
  