
    
      Background:

        -  Improved treatments for a variety of treatment-resistant B-cell malignancies including
           Bcell lymphomas and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), are needed.

        -  A particular need is development of new treatments for chemotherapy-refractory B-cell
           malignancies.

        -  T cells can be genetically modified to express chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) that
           specifically target malignancy-associated antigens.

        -  Autologous T cells genetically modified to express CARs targeting the B-cell antigen
           CD19 have caused complete remissions in a small number of patients with leukemia or
           lymphoma. These results demonstrate that anti-CD19 CAR-expressing T cells have
           antimalignancy activity in humans.

        -  The vast majority of B-cell malignancies express CD19.

        -  CD19 is not expressed by normal cells except for B cells.

        -  We have constructed a novel fully-human anti-CD19 CAR that can specifically recognize
           CD19-expressing target cells in vitro and eradicate CD19-expressing tumors in mice.

        -  This fully-human CAR targeting CD19 has not been tested in humans before.

        -  Possible toxicities include cytokine-associated toxicities such as fever, hypotension,
           and neurological toxicities. Elimination of normal B cells is probable, and unknown
           toxicities are also possible.

      Objectives:

      Primary

      -Determine the safety and feasibility of administering T cells expressing a novel fully-human
      anti-CD19 CAR to patients with advanced B-cell malignancies.

      Secondary

        -  Evaluate the in vivo persistence and peak blood levels of anti-CD19 CAR T cells after
           initial and repeated CAR T-cell infusions. CAR T-cell blood levels will be compared
           retrospectively to results with an anti-CD19 CAR containing an antigen-recognition
           moiety derived from a murine antibody.

        -  Assess for evidence of anti-malignancy activity by anti-CD19 CAR T cells

        -  Assess the impact of repeated CAR T-cell infusions on residual malignancy after an
           initial CAR T-cell infusion.

        -  Assess the immunogenicity of the CAR used in this protocol.

      Eligibility:

        -  Patients must have any B-cell lymphoma, or CLL/SLL. Lower grade lymphomas transformed to
           DLBCL are potentially eligible as is primary mediastinal B-cell lymphoma and all other
           subtypes of DLBCL.

        -  Patients must have malignancy that is measurable on a CT scan or by flow cytometry of
           bone marrow or blood.

        -  Patients must have a creatinine of 1.4 mg/dL or less and a normal cardiac ejection
           fraction.

        -  An ECOG performance status of 0-1 is required.

        -  No active infections are allowed including any history of hepatitis B or hepatitis C.

        -  Absolute neutrophil count greater than or equal to1000/microliter, platelet count
           greater than or equal to 45,000/microliter, hemoglobin greater than or equal to 8g/dL

        -  Serum ALT and AST less or equal to 3 times the upper limit of the institutional normal
           unless liver involvement by malignancy is demonstrated.

        -  At least 14 days must elapse between the time of any prior systemic treatment (including
           corticosteroids) and initiation of protocol enrollment.

        -  The patient s malignancy will need to be assessed for CD19 expression by flow cytometry
           or immunohistochemistry performed at the NIH. If unstained, paraffinembedded bone marrow
           or lymphoma sections are available from prior biopsies, these can be used to determine
           CD19 expression by immunohistochemistry; otherwise, patients will need to come to the
           NIH for a biopsy to determine CD19 expression. The sample for CD19 expression can come
           from a biopsy obtained at any time before enrollment.

        -  Patients who have never had an allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant are
           potentially eligible.

      Design:

        -  This is a phase I dose-escalation trial

        -  Patients will undergo leukapheresis

        -  T-cells obtained by leukapheresis will be genetically modified to express an anti-CD19
           CAR

        -  Patients will receive a lymphocyte-depleting chemotherapy conditioning regimen with the
           intent of enhancing the activity of the infused anti-CD19-CAR-expressing T cells.

        -  The chemotherapy conditioning regimen is cyclophosphamide 300 mg/m(2) daily for 3 days
           and fludarabine 30 mg/m(2) daily for 3 days. Fludarabine will be given on the same days
           as the cyclophosphamide.

        -  Two days after the chemotherapy ends, patients will receive an infusion of
           anti-CD19-CAR-expressing T cells.

        -  The initial dose level of this dose-escalation trial will be 0.66x10(6) CAR+ T cells/kg
           of recipient bodyweight.

        -  The cell dose administered will be escalated until a maximum tolerated dose is
           determined.

        -  Following the T-cell infusion, there is a mandatory 9-day inpatient hospitalization to
           monitor for toxicity.

        -  Outpatient follow-up is planned for 2 weeks, and 1, 2, 3, 6, 9, and 12 months after the
           CAR T-cell infusion. Long-term gene-therapy follow-up consisting of yearly visits to a
           doctor near the patient s home for 4 more years and then yearly telephone contact for 10
           additional years will be required.

        -  Repeat treatments consisting of the conditioning chemotherapy followed by a CAR T-cell
           infusion are planned for eligible patients with any best responses except continuing
           complete remission or progressive malignancy.

        -  Re-enrollment will be allowed for a small number of subjects.
    
  