
    
      Because of the short time frame between iron therapy to procedure in cardiac surgery due to
      the need to perform cardiac revascularization, the investigators aim to investigate how much
      of the iron compound ferric carboxymaltose is being stored within the iron storage cells of
      the human body, and how much remains in the patient's own blood at the time point of surgery.
      The terminal elimination half-life time of ferric carboxymaltose is known to be approximately
      7.1 to 12.1 hours, with peak serum ferritin levels at 48h to 120h after administration. When
      high blood loss in a surgical procedure is expected, such as in cardiosurgical procedures,
      the usage of autologous cell salvage, so called "Cell Saver", is considered standard, good
      practice. The blood that is lost during surgery is collected and after a specified blood
      separation wash, being retransfused in form of concentrated red blood cells.

      This trial aims to examine whether Cell Saver usage might recover high molecular iron
      complexes such as ferric carboxymaltose lost by bleeding intraoperatively or wash out these
      molecules.

      If amount of lost blood during surgery is too low, that Cell Saver usage would not be
      possible otherwise, averagely 300ml of blood from the heart-lung machine are added to the
      cell saver to enable the process of cell saver use.

      For each participant, 7 samples will be taken. The samples include patient's blood samples
      and samples from cell saver compartments (Washing solution, concentrates) as well as from the
      heart-lung-machine, in detail:

        1. arterial patient's blood, preoperative, day of procedure, prior to surgery

        2. blood from the heart-lung machine, intraoperative 30 minutes prior to end of use of the
           heart-lung machine, day of procedure

        3. Cell Saver: washed-out compounds, intraoperative, after end of use of heart-lung
           machine, day of procedure

        4. Cell Saver: produced red blood cell concentrate, intra- or postoperative, after end of
           use of heart-lung machine, day of procedure

        5. arterial patient's blood, postoperative, day of procedure

        6. venous patient's blood, 3. day postoperative

        7. venous patient's blood, 7. day postoperative

      By liquid chromatography inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (LC-ICP-MS) levels of
      ferric carboxymaltose are examined

        1. in the patient's blood prior to surgery to determine the amount of ferric carboxymaltose
           within the patients blood prior to surgery, and after a certain time after the
           intravenous Infusion of ferric carboxymaltose (12-96 hours).

        2. pre- and postoperatively and in cell saver compartments. If ferric carboxymaltose is
           detected in the washing solution of the Cell Saver System and not within the stored red
           blood cell concentrate, ferric carboxymaltose is washed out by the cell saver.
    
  