
    
      Objectives

      Deficits in decision-making are commonly found in individuals after traumatic brain injury
      (TBI) and can have a severe negative impact on quality of life. Converging evidence from both
      animal model and human studies suggest that decision-making deficits are linked with abnormal
      mesocorticolimbic network structure and function, and could potentially be mitigated through
      interventions that improve function within these neuronal circuits. The objectives of this
      protocol are to: (1) quantify differences in performance on a decision-making task between
      TBI patients and healthy volunteers; (2) determine whether baseline features of
      mesocorticolimbic network structure and function predict subsequent decision-making
      performance in both TBI patients and healthy volunteers; and (3) determine if facilitatory
      transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) applied over the dorsolateral prefrontal
      cortex (dlPFC), a mesocorticolimbic network region crucially involved in decision-making,
      improves decision-making after TBI.

      Study Population

      Up to 40 healthy adult volunteers and 40 TBI patients will be recruited under the protocol to
      participate in up to two experiments.

      Design

      We plan to accomplish the two objectives listed above within two experiments. Experiment 1
      examines performance differences between TBI patients and healthy volunteers on a
      decision-making task, and explores whether baseline features of mesocorticolimbic network
      structure and function predict subsequent decision-making performance in TBI patients and
      healthy volunteers. Experiment 2, a proof-of-principle study, uses a sham-controlled,
      double-blind experimental design to examine whether facilitatory tDCS, a non-invasive
      intervention used recently to augment a range of cognitive functions, enhances
      decision-making performance in the same cohort of TBI patients and healthy volunteers.

      Outcome Measures

      The primary outcome measure for both Experiment 1 and 2 is performance in a computerized
      decision-making task. Secondary outcome measures will include quantitative estimates of
      structural and functional mesocorticolimbic network features, including MRI-based structural
      and functional connectivity, MEG-based functional dynamics, baseline dlPFC GABA concentration
      measured with magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) imaging, dopamine D2 receptor binding
      potential within mesocorticolimbic subcortical nuclei measured with [11C]raclopride PET
      (Experiment 1). Multimodal data fusion modeling will be used to explore the predictive
      relationship between baseline mesocorticolimbic network states and decision-making task
      performance within a unified state-space framework (Experiment 1), as well as the ability of
      these network states to predict inter-individual differences in the effects of tDCS on
      decision-making task performance (Experiment 2).
    
  