
    
      A majority of the research in patients with chronic ischemic heart disease and left
      ventricular dysfunction deals with increasing patient survival rates and years. Very little
      research has focused on patients' perceptions of living with this chronic debilitating
      disease. The purpose of this naturalistic, prospective study is to assess the Health Related
      Quality of Life (HRQOL), anginal symptoms and symptom distress experienced by patients with
      chronic ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction. The relationship between
      underlying cardiac condition, anginal symptoms, symptom distress and HRQOL will be examined.
      The trend in HRQOL across time versus treatment group will be evaluated. The question, does
      HRQOL, anginal frequency and symptom distress at baseline predict mortality and cardiac
      related hospitalization during the year following assessment will also be addressed.

      Patients who are enrolled in protocols in the Cardiology Branch of the National Heart Lung
      and Blood Institute (NHLBI) and diagnosed with chronic ischemic heart disease and left
      ventricular dysfunction will be asked to participate in this HRQOL study. Patients will
      complete measures of HRQOL (Medical Outcomes Short Form 36 Survey; Minnesota Living with
      Heart Failure Questionnaire) and symptom measures (anginal frequency subscale of the Seattle
      Angina Questionnaire; cardiopulmonary subscale of the Heart Transplant Symptom Checklist).
      Underlying cardiac condition will be assessed using exercise thallium imaging parameters
      (METS and perfusion defects) and positron emission tomography (PET) imaging parameter
      (viability). A sample size of 90 subjects is desired for this study. Data will be analyzed
      using multivariate statistics. It is expected that this study will provide new information
      regarding how patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular function feel their
      chronic illness and its corresponding treatment(s) affects their HRQOL.
    
  