
    
      Background: Heart failure (HF) is a chronic and progressive illness resulting from a variety
      of cardiac causes, including ischemic and valvular heart disease, dilatative cardiomyopathy
      or hypertension. HF may also develop suddenly, particularly as a complication of acute
      myocardial infarction or as an acute exacerbation in patients with previously compensated
      chronic HF. Acute HF requires immediate treatment that centers on reducing myocardial oxygen
      demand and augmenting forward blood flow by removal of excess fluid with diuretics and
      reduction of preload and afterload with vasodilatators. The aging of our population and the
      higher number of patients surviving acute myocardial infarctions have lead to a dramatic
      increase in the incidence and prevalence of HF, and obviously also on total cost burden of
      the disease. For multiple reasons including need for restrictive use of the limited number of
      ICU hospital beds the vast majority of elderly patients with acute HF are treated in a
      non-ICU setting. Unfortunately, the optimal treatment of acute HF in the non-ICU setting is
      not well defined. Pathophysiological considerations and preliminary data from the ICU setting
      suggest that aggressive venous and arterial vasodilation may improve short and long-term
      outcome.

      Aim: To test the hypotheses that:

      • An early goal-directed decrement of preload and afterload with a target systolic blood
      pressure of 90-110 mmHg by aggressive vasodilatation in patients with acute HF in the non-ICU
      setting is safe, and leads to a better clinical and economical outcome

      Methods:

      Design: Prospective, randomized, controlled, open label, interventional study Setting:
      University Hospital Basel Patients: Patients with acute HF not requiring ICU admission

      Patients admitted to the emergency department with acute HF will be randomized to:

        -  Early goal-directed preload and afterload decrement using a fixed therapy schedule
           including sublingual and transdermal nitrates, and hydralazine, followed by rapid
           up-titration of ACE-inhibitors or AT-receptor blockers to achieve maximal vasodilatation
           with a target systolic blood pressure of 90-110 mmHg. All other elements of treatment
           will be according to the current guidelines of the European Society of Cardiology (ESC)

        -  Standard treatment of acute HF according to the current guidelines of the ESC.

      Clinical Significance: Despite the clinical and economical importance of acute HF, the
      optimal treatment of acute HF is ill-defined. We strongly believe that our novel therapeutic
      strategy will significantly reduce morbidity, length of hospitalisation, and possibly
      mortality of affected patients. This would represent a first major step for an evidence-based
      management of this common condition. Documenting medical and economic benefit of a simple,
      safe, and inexpensive medical therapy in a randomised controlled clinical trial would provide
      evidence-based care for the majority of patients presenting with acute HF worldwide. All
      drugs applied in our strategy are off-patent and therefore relatively low-cost. Successful
      implication of our treatment algorithm has the potential to significantly reduce treatment
      costs.
    
  