
    
      In 2016, 3,615 renal transplantations (RT) were performed in France. RT is indicated for
      end-stage renal failure, especially in dialysis patients. The average cost of a year of
      dialysis is 60,000 €, and that of a kidney transplantation according to the GHS tariff of
      20,000 € (excluding preparation of the patient for the transplantation, drugs and
      post-transplantation follow-up).

      In 2016, 1,322 liver transplantations (LT) were performed in France. Indications for LT are
      mainly acute or chronic hepatic insufficiency and liver tumors. LT is the only therapeutic
      solution for these patients because there is no such alternative as dialysis in nephrology.
      According to the DRG (Diagnosis Related Group) tariff, the average cost of a LT is about
      35,000€ (excluding preparation for transplantation, drugs and post-transplantation
      follow-up).

      If kidney and liver transplantations allow the patient to return to a life close to normal,
      with graft survival at one year of 84% for the liver and 91% for the kidney, these is
      constrained by taking immunosuppressive treatments (IS). In the last few years, progress has
      been made both in surgery and in immediate post-transplantation management. Therefore, now,
      the challenges of transplantation lie in the long-term transplant patients management, that
      is to say in prevention of transplant organ rejection and of anti-rejection drugs side
      effects (cardiovascular diseases, cancers, infections). This prevention requires optimal
      adherence of the patients both to the drug treatment and to the hygieno-dietetic rules. The
      scarcity of grafts in France makes it necessary to maximize graft survival so as to limit the
      need for a new transplantation.

      In the literature, drug adherence of IS is between 45% and 85%. Among the non-adherence
      factors identified, there is a lack of a therapeutic education program and the delay with
      respect to the transplantation (with the spacing of the consultations at the hospital).

      The investigators hypothesize that the combination of pharmaceutical follow-up during
      hospitalization, coupled with a strengthened hospital-community link, is central to patient
      adherence, and therefore to patient and graft survival.

      The French Society of Clinical Pharmacy (SFPC) established in 2017 a new model of clinical
      pharmacy. The latter is based (apart from the regulatory activity of prescriptions analysis),
      on the implementation of a Personalized Pharmaceutical Plan (PPP) corresponding to a
      management adapted to the patient's path by proposing best possible medication history,
      pharmaceutical interviews, dedicated pharmaceutical outpatient consultations and therapeutic
      education. These actions must be carried out both at the hospital and at the local pharmacy.

      Most often, the post-transplantation follow-up is done by the transplant center or for some
      cases (especially for the liver) by expert centers closer to the patient's home but often
      quite far from the transplant team. Primary care teams have little or no integration into the
      care of these patients. This is why the community pharmacist, in collaboration with the
      transplant team, could be a relay close to the patient ensuring continuity, repetition of
      messages and follow-up as soon as the post-transplantation consultations spread out.
    
  