
    
      We will assess the safety and feasibility of delivering SBS and TENS for upper limb
      spasticity in the community. The trial is considered single blind as the assessor will be
      blinded as to the intervention. The investigator delivering the intervention cannot be
      blinded but will not be involved in the assessment of outcomes.

      Twenty men and women will be randomised to receive either SBS or TENS. Participants will be
      identified from the stroke clinics, Community physiotherapy services, Assessment and
      Rehabilitation Centre and Functional Electrical Stimulation clinic in Sheffield. The treating
      team will identify the potential participants and will give them the information leaflet
      about the study. A member of the study team will then contact the participants between 7 and
      14 days. Those who agree to participate in the study will be invited to attend a face to face
      appointment with a member of the study team at Royal Hallamshire Hospital.

      Visit-1: During this visit the participant will be given opportunity to discuss the study and
      any concerns regarding the trial with the principal investigator. After this principal
      investigator will obtain the informed consent.

      The participant will be asked to perform Action Research Arm test ( ARAT) which include a set
      of activities like grasping, holding and lifting objects with both affected and unaffected
      arms while we record the activity of 16 arm muscles using electromyography and motion
      sensors. This involves sticking small sensors on various muscles. The participant will then
      receive two different paradigms of SBS for 10 minutes each with a gap of 10 minutes in
      between and the effect on EMG will be recorded. The participant or carer will be trained to
      record the severity of spasticity in a diary between 6pm and 9pm on a scale ranging from 0 to
      10; 0- no spasticity, 10 worst spasticity you can imagine.

      Visit-2: The participant will be randomly allocated to either group-1 or group-2 using an
      online randomisation system. A researcher is blind to the allocation will do the assessments.
      Another researcher will deliver the intervention. Participants in group-1 will receive TENS
      and those in group-2 will revive SBS over extensor aspect of upper arm for one hour. The
      strength for stimulation will be just below the motor threshold or the maximum tolerable
      stimulation which ever is lower. The stimulation can cause a tingling sensation. Some people
      may find these stimulations slightly unpleasant. The researcher will again assess and will
      also look for any adverse event after the intervention. Participant or carer will be trained
      to apply the electrodes and deliver the intervention for 1 hour a day for next 4 weeks.

      Visit 3: The researcher will again assess the participants and will also look for any adverse
      event after the intervention. Participant\carer will be asked to continue to record the
      severity of spasticity in a diary for next one week.

      Visit-4: After assessment the participants in group-1 will receive TENS and in group-2 will
      receive SBS for one hour. As during the visit 2, the blinded researcher will check for any
      adverse events and assess the outcome measures after the stimulation. The participant or
      carer will be trained to apply the electrodes and deliver the intervention for 1 hour a day
      for next 4 weeks.

      Visit 5: The blinded researcher will again assess the outcome measures and will also look for
      any adverse event after the intervention.

      Interventions: This will occur in three phases.

      Phase 1: Subjects will randomly be allocated to Group-1 to receive TENS, or Group-2 to
      receive SBS, for 60 minutes each day for four weeks. We will use a remote randomisation
      through telephone.

      Researcher-1 who is blind to patients' allocation group will perform the baseline
      assessments. The researcher -2 will determine the maximum tolerable level of stimulation. The
      researcher-2 will demonstrate to the participant and \or the carer how to apply the
      stimulation and will instruct the participant. The participant will revive the first
      intervention in the Royal Hallamshire Hospital under supervision of researcher-2. The
      researcher-2 will then issue the participants in Group-2 ( SBS) with Shefstim and six
      multichannel electrodes. He \she will instruct each participant to change the electrode once
      every 3 days. On the 15th day the researcher-2 will visit them at home and issue further 6
      multichannel electrodes and collect back the previous set. At the end of week 4, the patient
      will come to Royal Hallamshire Hospital.

      The researcher-2 will collect all the electrodes and the equipment back. The researcher-1
      will do all the outcome assessments.

      Phase 2: No intervention period of two weeks.

      Phase 3: Group-1 to receive SBS, or Group-2 to receive TENS, for 60 minutes each day for four
      weeks.

      The first session of SBS and TENS will take place in Royal Hallamshire Hospital.

      SBS group: We will use the stimulation techniques tested out in our previous study. Electrode
      arrays will be worn over the affected arm with stimulation applied over the extensor aspect
      of the upper arm. At the start of first session, stimulation will be increased over the
      arrays until movement is first observed. The stimulation level will then be set at 90% of
      this value, or the maximum tolerable if pain is reported and the value recorded. Stimulation
      will continue at this level moving around the array electrodes with a pseudo-random pattern
      for 60 minutes daily for 4 weeks. TENS group: We will use the stimulation techniques tested
      out in the previous studies, including our trial. Two surface electrodes will be placed over
      the radial nerve in radial grove. The intensity of stimulation will be set to 90% of the
      motor threshold. TENS will be applied for 60 minutes daily for 4 weeks.
    
  