
    
      Polycystic Kidney Disease (PKD) is the most common genetic disease leading to End Stage
      Kidney Disease (ESKD), affecting between 1 in 500-1000 individuals from every ethnic group.
      The autosomal dominant (ADPKD) form arises from a two-hit downregulation of proteins encoded
      by either PKD1 or PKD2. Although many potential therapies have been studied to slow
      progression of ADPKD, none to date have been proven to be both safe and effective in slowing
      disease progression. Cholesterol-lowering agents called statins have shown promise in the
      treatment of younger ADPKD patients, reducing inflammation and progression as assessed by
      kidney growth, but their utility appears to be limited in older populations and those with
      more advanced chronic kidney disease (CKD). Recent evidence suggests that acidosis, as often
      seen in patients with worsening CKD and which may enhance CKD progression, limits the
      effectiveness of statins and enhances their potential toxicity. The investigators thus
      hypothesize that correction of acidosis along with statin treatment will be a safe and
      effective therapeutic regimen to slow CKD progression in the adult ADPKD population and
      improve overall quality of life in these patients. To test this hypothesis, the investigators
      will conduct a pilot open-label randomized clinical trial in ADPKD patients with estimated
      GFR >45 min (Stage 1-3a CKD) comparing three treatment groups: control, pravastatin (40 mg po
      qd), and pravastatin plus sodium citrate solution (30 mL po total daily dose) over one year.
      During the study period, through study visits along with serial blood draws and urinary
      measurements, the investigators will evaluate safety and tolerability of these treatment
      regimens, follow renal function and investigate the role of these treatments on acidosis,
      inflammatory and metabolic biomarkers in patients enrolled at an outpatient facility. This
      study will establish the framework for larger clinical trials in ADPKD. Moreover, if the
      results of this study suggest safety/tolerability or potential benefits of statins and alkali
      therapy in this ADPKD population, the investigators will seek extramural funding for a larger
      clinical trial to test this therapeutic strategy in ADPKD.
    
  