
    
      Children with spastic hemiplegia may experience a variety of concomitant health conditions
      including, movement difficulty, postural and balance instability, muscle spasticity,
      difficulty with motor planning and control, and cognitive impairments.

      Postural and balance disturbances occur due to the difficulty in maintaining the body
      segments aligned on narrow base of support and there is limitation in balance recovery in
      hemiplegic children contributing to delayed responses of ankle muscles, inappropriate
      sequencing, and increased coactivation of agonists/ antagonists muscles.

      Treatment will vary depending on the severity of impairments, level of activity,
      participation, and on the priorities highlighted by the patient. Walking is often identified
      as a main goal, and there is evidence that children with hemiplegia can take steps before
      regaining standing balance, which would support early walking. Many advanced treatment
      approaches are used to help improve motor function and gait in patients with hemiplegic CP.

      Rehabilitation techniques are predominantly focused on alleviating the compromised motor
      execution facet of action performance, and have not specifically targeted the motor
      preparation or planning processes. Motor imagery is proposed to be a backdoor mechanism to
      access the motor system. It being a theoretically feasible method to activate the immature
      networks involved in motor control. Therefore, for individuals with motor planning problems
      this cognitive MI training may be useful to improve motor skills.

      Although it has been shown to be beneficial in adult patients with stroke, and it still
      awaits empirical testing in young children with CP.

      Despite the potential benefits of motor imagery training, clinical use of motor imagery
      training for improving walking and balance abilities is not yet common compared with other
      conventional modalities in rehabilitation of children with hemiplegia. Consequently, more
      research and further confirmation are needed regarding the impact of motor imagery training
      on the gait performance, balance and trunk endurance in children with hemiplegia. Therefore,
      the purpose of this study to investigate the effect of motor imagery training on balance and
      kinematic parameters of gait in children with hemiplegia.
    
  