
    
      Traditional flotation therapy (Float-REST; Flotation Restricted Environmental Stimulation
      Therapy) uses sensory deprivation tanks that consist of a very large warm water enclosure
      with a high concentration of Epsom salt to create a completely buoyant environment. This,
      along with a combination of temperature that is kept equal to skin temperature (94 degrees),
      allows the participant to eliminate the gravitational effects on the body, and along with
      lack of sound and low to no light (depending on comfort) allows the brain and body to
      completely relax for augmented physical and mental recovery. Provided the growing
      understanding that sleep quality and quantity are at the forefront of ensuring optimal human
      performance states, compounded by the deleterious effects of high stress and anxiety on
      sleep, utilizing flotation therapy as a mechanism for enhancing sleep requires further
      investigation. In addition to the traditional Float- REST, there have been developments in
      newer technologies that enhance the convenience of receiving these proposed benefits;
      Zerobody Dry Float technology (www.Zerobody.com) rids the need for multiple showers by its
      user, frequent water treatments, and extensive maintenance experienced with traditional
      flotation environments. However, research is still needed to assess how this recovery
      modality compares to traditional Float-REST.

      To assess whether traditional (Float-REST) or simulated (Dry Float) flotation therapy
      positively influences sleep and perceptual recovery, participants will undergo a crossover
      study. Over the course of 9 weeks, participants will alternate Float-REST and Dry Float in 3
      week segments with a 1 week break in-between to gather baseline data (known as the testing
      battery). In addition, testing battery data will be collected at weeks 1 and 9. The order in
      which participants begin their crossover study, either Float-REST or Dry Float, will be
      randomly assigned. All participants may wear a fitness tracker and a sleep monitoring ring
      worn on the finger for the duration of the study. In addition, daily, per session, and
      pre/post-study questionnaires will be submitted via a smartphone application.
    
  