
    
      VIVA study aims to evaluate cataract surgery results on Alzheimer patients regarding
      behavior, autonomy and mood. Patients studied are elderly people suffering from both
      Alzheimer's disease and low vision due to a bilateral impeding cataract. Designed patients
      come from Ile-de-France-area geriatrics departments.

      Methods: the trial consists in a series of neuropsychological tests involving both subject of
      the study and a close parent one-month before and three months after surgery of the most
      affected eye. Each patient is under investigation during 4+/1 months. The tests used are the
      MMS (Mini Mental Status), ADAS-cog Alzheimer Disease Assessment Scale for cognitive
      functions, NPI (Neuropsychiatric Inventory) for behavior troubles, IADL (Instrumental
      Activities of Daily) for autonomy evaluation, GDS (Geriatric Depression Scale) or Cornell
      Scale (Cornell Scale for Depression in Dementia) for mood troubles. All data are registered
      along as well as medical treatments and severe side effects.

      Practical method:An ophthalmologic surgery department head operates on the patients at
      National Ophthalmologic Hospital "QUINZE VINGT" in Paris.The surgery involves the eye with
      the worst vision. Study analysis does not take into account the results of the second eye
      intervention. The surgery consists in a phacoemulsification and setting of an acrylic implant
      in the posterior chamber. Patients care consists in the usual procedures. The intervention is
      performed under regional anesthesia exceptionally general anesthesia. A three-day
      hospitalization is regular considering patients' fragility.The aim of the study is to analyze
      3 months after cataract surgery, the different neuropsychological tests, with the help of
      appropriate statistics. The main endpoint criterion will be the NPI-test improvement between
      the one-month test before surgery and the three-month test after. A correlation between
      visual acuity improvement and NPI-test improvement will be verified. The second endpoint
      criterion will be the study of other scores (MMS, IADL, ADAS-cog, GDS or Cornell test), in a
      matched-way. If improvement is noted, a regression logistic study will permit to study
      improvement predictive factors. Each participant will take part in the study during 4+/-1
      months.Study rationale and literature data abstract.Cataract treatment, restoring a better
      visual function, is greatly beneficial upon life quality of elderly people, as largely
      demonstrated (1, 2). Several studies, based on cognitive functions, daily life activities,
      and mood, showed a significant amelioration of elderly people operated on for cataract, in
      comparison with those who refused the intervention (3). Benefice is less in case of ocular co
      morbidity or in some very old patients (4).Cataract surgery on elderly patients suffering
      from cognitive decline has given rise to very few studies. Nevertheless, correlation between
      low vision and cognitive alteration is well established. In France, a Health High Authority
      (HHA) report devoted to cataract surgical treatment evaluation, based on literature data and
      experts opinion, was published in 2000 (6). The report dealt with the taking in care of
      demented or low mental capacities patients. It regretted that very few trials were undertaken
      for this problem.. In case of beginning dementia, the experts thought that cataract surgery
      visual benefice is limited. It seldom improves lecture but allows patients to watch
      television more and makes contacts with neighbors easier. In case of advanced dementia, the
      authors thought that surgery would worsen rapidly patients. The report evoked as well the
      paternalistic decisions taken without any dialogue with the involved patient and raised
      ethical issues. Still to-day, in case of dementia, the cataract management remains an actual
      problem. This is a challenge for closes, guardians, geriatrics', ophthalmologists and
      sometimes the decision is opposed to patients' feelings (8).One of the studies cited in the
      HHA report, based on few low-vision patients, showed after cataract surgery, a light
      improvement of mental status, everyday life but poor results on depression. After surgery,
      patients felt that they were not as fragile as they had thought, that they endured the
      operation and felt better after (9). In 2003, a Japanese study dealt with cognitive functions
      of 40 demented patients suffering from cataract. Results and showed that among the 20
      patients who chose to be operated on, 60% were improved, 35% were unchanged, and 5% worsened
      (10). By extensive neuropsychological investigations on Alzheimer' patients, the VIVA study
      would show the impact of visual function improvement on cognitive functions, psychological
      and behavioural troubles, autonomy, and mood perturbations. Pointing out the objectives upon
      improvement of neuropsychiatric survey, namely the NPI test, the study would permit to
      precise the low-vision cataract role on patients' comportment troubles which are a cause of
      burn-out for caring people. It is clearly demonstrated that delirious manifestations, notably
      visual hallucinations are frequent in demented persons and in patients with low vision as
      well (9). In low-vision patients, it seems that only the cataract is significantly linked to
      visual hallucinations (10). The VIVA study aims to show also the benefice of a better visual
      function on behavioural non-disturbing troubles such as apathy and inhibition. Therefore, we
      would like to stress the cataract management benefits on Alzheimer's disease patients.
      Particularly, we intend to precise the extent of expected patients' improvement and to
      measure the correlation with visual acuity improvement
    
  