
    
      The TRIAD project aims to address the persistent and acute problem of depression in a
      population largely made up of low-income disadvantaged youth. There are numerous treatment
      studies available for depression, but few exist studying the treatment of depression via the
      reduction of family conflict. Through this clinical trial, we aim to investigate the efficacy
      of a treatment for depression for adolescents largely recruited through primary care. The
      primary aim of this study is to test whether Attachment-Based Family Therapy reduces
      depression more effectively than enhanced usual care for depression. Attachment-Based Family
      Therapy (ABFT) is a manualized therapy designed exclusively for anxious and depressed
      adolescents. Secondly, we intend to examine how reduction in family conflict mediates the
      effect of ABFT on depression. We will, furthermore, examine whether reduction in depression
      or reduction in family conflict, regardless of treatment type reduces the likelihood of
      smoking initiation at one year.

      These aims will be accomplished through a randomized clinical trial of 240 adolescents who
      meet criteria for a DSM-IV depressive disorder (Major Depressive Disorder, Dysthymia, or
      Depression NOS). Participants will be randomized into one of two treatment conditions. The
      two treatment conditions are as follows: Attachment-based Family Therapy for depression or
      Enhanced Usual Care for Depression. Treatment for Attachment-Based Family Therapy includes
      anywhere from 6-12 sessions. Some of the 6-12 sessions will include the patient and or the
      parent meeting alone with the therapists, others will include the family meeting together for
      family therapy sessions. The Enhanced Usual Care condition will include referrals to outside
      counseling or therapy, and the number of sessions will vary by patient and practitioner
      desire. In addition to their treatment sessions, patients and their parents will be required
      to complete intake, 6-week, 12-week, 26-week, and 52-week assessments. These assessments will
      include a large battery of self-report measures covering numerous topics around family
      conflict, risk-taking behavior (including smoking) and depression. The intake, 12, 26 and 52
      week assessments will include a diagnostic interview. Additionally, bi-weekly for 12 weeks,
      adolescent's will be asked to complete a brief set of questionnaires that will help monitor
      their progress and safety.
    
  