
    
      The purpose of this research is to obtain information on the safety and effectiveness of
      duloxetine (Cymbalta) in the treatment of dysthymia. Duloxetine has been approved by the
      federal Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of depression. The use of duloxetine
      for treatment of dysthymia is considered experimental.

      Dysthymia is defined as chronic, low-grade depression, characterized by feeling low or
      depressed, that lasts for two or more years. Additional symptoms may include: poor appetite
      or overeating; insomnia or sleeping too much; low energy or fatigue; low self-esteem; poor
      concentration or difficulty making decisions; and feelings of hopelessness.

      Dysthymia affects 3-6% of the general population, but is an underdiagnosed and undertreated
      disorder. In double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trials of antidepressant medications,
      dysthymia response rates are around 60%, compared to an average placebo response rate of
      about 30%. Duloxetine has not been studied in the treatment of dysthymia, but has shown
      results in the treatment of major depression. In a 9-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled
      study of 257 patients with major depression, 65% responded to duloxetine 60mg/day, compared
      to 43% to placebo. Based on these results, it is highly likely that duloxetine will be an
      effective treatment for dysthymia.

      This research study is being conducted at Stanford University Medical Center with a total of
      24 patients, age 18 and above, with dysthymia.

      In the study, subjects will receive duloxetine for 12 weeks. This is an open-label study,
      which means that every subject receives the study medication.

      In total, subjects are seen for 10 visits across 13 weeks. At each visit subjects' heart
      rate, blood pressure and weight measurements will be obtained. At each visit study personnel
      will interview subjects about their symptoms, monitor side effects and ask them to complete
      study questionnaires.

      Beginning at the second visit, subjects receive duloxetine 60 mg/day. If they experience side
      effects, the dose can be decreased to 30 mg/day for several days, but will be increased back
      to 60 mg/day by the end of the first week. If subjects are unable to tolerate a dose of 60
      mg/day due to side effects, they will be withdrawn from the study. At the end of 6 weeks, if
      they have not responded to the study medication (as determined by doctor ratings based on
      subjects' reports), the dose of duloxetine will be increased to 120 mg/day, unless subjects
      are experiencing troubling side effects. Subjects continue on the minimum dose that brings
      about remission or the maximum tolerated dose for the remaining 6 weeks. Medication dosing
      will be flexible and determined by tolerance (side effects) and therapeutic effect.
    
  