
    
      Ventilator associated pneumonia (VAP) is a type of hospital-acquired pneumonia that occurs
      more than 48h after endotracheal intubation. This can be further classified into early onset
      (within the first 96 hours of mechanical ventilation (MV) and late onset (more than 96 hours
      after the initiation of MV), which is more commonly attributable to multidrug-resistant
      pathogens Ventilator associated pneumonia is common in critical care patients and is
      responsible for around half of all antibiotics given to patients in intensive care units.
      International Nosocomial Infection Control Consortium suggest that the overall rate of VAP is
      13.6 per 1000 ventilator days. However, the individual rate varies according to patient
      group, risk factors and hospital setting. The average time taken to develop VAP from the
      initiation of MV is around 5 to 7 days, with a mortality rate quoted as between 24% and 76%.

      The key to the development of VAP is the presence of an endotracheal tube (EET) or
      tracheostomy, both of which interfere with the normal anatomy and physiology of respiratory
      tract, specifically the functional mechanisms involved in clearing secretion (cough and
      mucociliary action).

      Intubated patients have a reduced level of consciousness that impairs voluntary clearance of
      secretions, which may then pool in the oropharynx. This leads to the macro aspiration and
      micro aspiration of contaminated oropharyngeal secretions that are rich in harmful pathogens.
      Normal oral flora starts to proliferate and are able to pass along the tracheal tube, forming
      an antibiotic-resistant biofilm which eventually reaches the lower airways.

      Critically unwell patients exhibit an impaired ability to mount an immune response to these
      pathogens, leading to the development of a pneumonia.

      Early-onset VAP, occurring within the first four days of MV, is usually caused by
      antibiotic-sensitive community-acquired bacteria such as Hemophilus and Streptococcus. VAP
      developing more than 5 days after initiation of MV is usually caused by multidrug-resistant
      bacteria such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa.

      The clinical pulmonary infection score (CPIS) based on variables (fever, leukocytosis,
      tracheal aspirates, oxygenation radiographic infiltrates). CPIS is helpful to diagnosis VAP
      in patient but it is not sufficient for definite diagnosis.

      The accurate diagnosis of VAP in children and adults is still an unsolved problem, delayed
      diagnosis of VAP and subsequent delay in initiating appropriate therapy may cause worse
      outcomes in patients with VAP. On the other hand, an incorrect diagnosis may lead to
      unnecessary treatment and subsequent complications that are related to therapy.
      Over-treatment with antibiotics increases clinical risks such as Clostridium
      difficile-associated colitis and antibiotic resistance.

      Several criteria have been proposed for diagnosing VAP in clinical settings, including
      clinical manifestations, imaging techniques, methods to obtain and interpret bronchoalveolar
      specimens, and biomarkers of host response. However, there is no acceptable gold standard
      modality yet and the accuracy of these methods in diagnosing VAP is controversial.

      Microbiological analysis and identification of organisms may take 48-72 h, false-negative
      results may occur as a result of concomitant or previous antibiotic treatment, whereas false
      positives may represent colonization or sampling errors. Biomarkers have been seen as a
      potential avenue for improving speed and accuracy of clinical diagnosis, or to allow
      withdrawal of therapy because of the clinical resolution of VAP.

      Pentraxins are phylogenetically conserved proteins characterized by a multimeric structure
      and divided into short (C -reactive protein (CRP) and serum amyloid P component) and long
      pentraxins.

      PTX3 is the first identified member of the long pentraxin subfamily. It can be rapidly
      produced and released by mononuclear phagocytes, neutrophils, epithelial and endothelial
      cells in response to primary inflammatory signals (IL-1, and TNF-α).

      Pentraxin3 (PTX3) is an acute-phase inflammatory mediator whose levels increase rapidly in
      inflammatory and infectious conditions. Increased PTX3 levels are correlated with the
      severity of lung injury and infection.
    
  