
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose of ibrutinib in combination with pembrolizumab in
      patients with advanced melanoma. (Phase I) II. To estimate the overall response rate treated
      at the maximum tolerated dose of ibrutinib in combination with pembrolizumab in patients with
      advanced melanoma. (Dose expansion cohort)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the safety and adverse-event profiles of combination of ibrutinib with
      pembrolizumab in patients with advanced melanoma.

      II. To evaluate the overall response rate (ORR) in patients advanced melanoma receiving
      ibrutinib and pembrolizumab.

      III. To evaluate the duration of response, progression-free survival (PFS), and overall
      survival (OS) in patients with advanced melanoma receiving ibrutinib and pembrolizumab.

      IV. To assess the effect of treatment with ibrutinib and pembrolizumab on Th1/Th2 immune
      polarity.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the CD8 T cell response to multiple melanoma-associated antigens, and to
      correlate CD8 T cell responses with changes in Th1/Th2 immune polarity.

      II. To assess changes in plasma cytokines induced by treatment with ibrutinib and
      pembrolizumab.

      III. To assess the change in potential biomarkers, such as tumor-bound and soluble PD-L1
      levels and tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes, that may correlate with treatment responses.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of ibrutinib.

      Patients receive ibrutinib orally (PO) daily on days 1-28 of cycle 1 and days 1-21 of cycle 2
      and subsequent cycles. Patients also receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes
      on day 8 of cycle 1 and day 1 of cycle 2 and subsequent cycles. Cycle 1 continues for 28 days
      and subsequent cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for 5 years.
    
  