
    
      Parkinson's disease (PD), one of the most common age-related neurodegenerative disorders,
      affects facial, vocal and trunk muscles. As this progressive decline occurs, an expressive
      mask descends, limiting the person's ability to communicate emotions and intentions to
      others, which may give the impression that the person is cold, asocial or apathetic. Thus, as
      people with PD are living longer and residing in their homes longer, the burden of
      care-giving is unmitigated by the social and emotional rewards provided by an expressive
      individual. While this disability has been discussed in the literature, relatively little is
      known about how adults living with a chronic physical disease such as PD manage their social
      lives and how an inability to be emotionally expressive can affect social connections.
      Because social networks have been shown to be crucial to the overall well-being of people
      living with chronic diseases, research on how expressive capacity affects life trajectories
      and overall health is critically needed. The overall objective of this project is to
      understand the emergence and evolution of social self-management trajectories of people
      living with PD, and this work has the potential to significantly advance PD research and
      evidence-based neurological nursing and rehabilitation. The investigators will test the
      central hypothesis that PD expressive capacity predicts systematic change in the pattern of
      social self-management of PD and quality of life outcomes.

      The Specific Aims of this three-year longitudinal study of 120 patients with PD and a maximum
      of 120 care partners are: 1) Characterize social self-management trajectories of individuals
      with PD over a three-year period; 2) Estimate the degree to which expressive nonverbal
      capacity predicts the social self-management trajectory; and 3) Determine the moderating
      effect of gender on the association between expressive capacity and change in social
      self-management.

      Over the three-year project period, investigators will assess patients with PD and a care
      partner 14 times each to examine such factors as social participation and management of
      social activities; social network; and social comfort, general health and well-being.
      Descriptive analyses will be performed on the total sample and on meaningful demographic and
      clinical subgroups. This study is designed to have sufficient power to detect changes over
      time and to detect differences in gender. The investigators' contribution is significant
      because it will provide evidence to guide the development of interventions aimed at
      supporting social integration of people living with PD, thus leading to improved overall
      health. The proposed work is innovative because, to the best of the investigators' knowledge,
      it is the first to focus on the novel construct of social self-management and does so in a
      manner that reflects the daily lived experience of PD. Further, the investigators go beyond
      descriptive evidence to rigorously test hypotheses regarding factors known to contribute to
      social stigmatization, expressive capacity and gender.
    
  