
    
      Background:

      Approximately one-third of older adults (≥65 years) fall at least once a year and 40-60% of
      falls lead to injuries. Of these injuries, 30-40% are minor, such as brushes, while 10% are
      serious, such as head injuries or fractures. Indeed, falls are the most common cause of
      injuries among older adults, and injuries are the fifth leading cause of premature death
      among older adults.

      In an attempt to reduce the fall rate, several fall prevention interventions have been
      examined. Here, physical exercise has proven as an effective and cost-effective approach.
      However, the majority of exercise interventions only addressed physical risk factors while
      only a few focused on cognitive risk factors. For instance, a reduced executive function has
      been associated with increased fall risk. Thus, interventions addressing both physical and
      cognitive functions could enhance the efficacy of fall prevention.

      Cognitive-motor training is a training modality that simultaneously incorporates physical and
      cognitive elements. A cognitive-motor training approach is RhYthm-based Multitask trAining
      (RYMA). During RYMA, participants perform rhythm-based balance-challenging multitask
      exercises following the rhythm of improvised piano music. A preliminary study by Trombetti et
      al. 2011 showed promising results as the fall rate decreased by 54% following six months of
      RYMA using a Dalcroze Eurhythmics approach compared to controls. The observed reduced fall
      rate may be due to RYMAs ability to decrease gait variability under dual-task conditions,
      improve postural balance, and executive function. However, the Trombetti study had some
      limitations. For instance, the primary outcome was gait-variability and not fall rates. Thus,
      the study was not adequately designed to quantify differences in fall rates (e.g. no
      follow-up period with a no-attention control group). Moreover, the effects of RYMA on
      social-psychological factors, such as health-related quality of life (HRQoL), fear of
      falling, and loneliness is yet be investigated.

      Methods:

      This assessor-blinded, randomized, controlled trial primarily aims to quantify the effects of
      a six-month RYMA intervention on fall rates collected over 12 months compared to continuation
      of regular activity schedule, among community-dwelling older adults (≥70 years). Secondly, we
      want to evaluate the effects of RYMA on fall risk, fall-related fractures, fall-related
      hospital admissions, as well as physical, cognitive, and social-psychological factors to
      explain potential mechanisms concerning fall rate.

      Community-dwelling older adults, the municipality of Aalborg will be recruited through
      appetizers of RYMA, flyers, and advertisements in local newspapers, radio, and television.
      After baseline assessments, participants will be randomly allocated to either the RYMA or
      control group. The participants in the RYMA group will be assigned to a single weekly
      one-hour session for six months, while the control group will be encouraged to continue their
      regular activity schedule., which may include self-administrated training exercises. The
      primary outcome, fall rate (falls per person-year), will be assessed continuously from the
      day of the baseline assessments and for 12 months after the RYMA intervention begins using
      monthly fall calendars in line with the recommendation. In the present study, a fall will be
      defined as "an unexpected event in which the participant comes to rest on the ground, floor,
      or lower-level". When a fall is reported in the fall calendar, a telephone interview will be
      conducted to assess circumstances and consequences (e.g. fall-related fractures, fall-related
      hospital admissions) of the falls. The secondary surrogate outcomes will be assessed at
      baseline, six, and 12 months. All data will be analyzed using an intention-to-treat approach.

      A pilot study will be performed before the commencement of the study to evaluate the
      feasibility of employing RYMA at the senior activity centres and the acceptance of RYMA and
      the testing battery among participants. Thus, changes the protocol may be conducted based on
      the pilot study findings.
    
  