
    
      Purpose:

      Building upon extensive prior research by the investigators' expert team, the proposed study
      will examine the effects of Imaginal Rescripting (IR) as a stand-alone single session
      intervention for social anxiety disorder (SAD). IR is a short but effective cognitive
      behavioural intervention, which guides patients to change their memories of past socially
      painful events. The purpose of the study is to examine the effects of IR in relation to two
      comparison conditions and by doing so also provide much-needed experimental evidence in
      clinical participants to distinguish between competing theories of treatment mechanisms. Does
      IR work by altering the content of the memory or simply by changing its meaning or impact, or
      both? If modifying memory content is important, does IR improve access to more positive
      memory details that compete with the original negative ones for activation in subsequent
      contexts or eradicate elements of the original traumatic memory, perhaps via the disruption
      of memory reconsolidation? The study will take advantage of the recent development and
      validation of the Waterloo Images and Memories Interview, which enables researchers to
      measure the accessibility, subjective appraisals, and narrative content of autobiographical
      memories (and associated mental images) that participants report experiencing. One
      particularly important outcome generated by the WIMI for the present study involves having
      trained coders count the number of "episodic" vs. "non-episodic" negative and positive
      autobiographical memory details present in participants' reported narratives over time.

      Research Questions:

      The effects of IR will be investigated in comparison to Imaginal Exposure (IE) and Supportive
      Counselling (SC). IR targets imagery-based mental representations embedded within patients
      autobiographical memories. In IR, patients progress through 3 distinct phases: (1)
      Participants "relive" a past negative event in their imagination, (2) are guided to actively
      change the original memory in their imagination to create more satisfying outcomes, and (3)
      relive the memory again while incorporating the new information. IE involves repeatedly
      "reliving" the memory from a first-person perspective and actively considering alternative
      meanings of the memory, but differs from IR in that the original memory itself is never
      explicitly modified in any way. SC provides patients with empathic support and controls for
      non-specific clinical factors such as therapeutic attention and alliance. The research will
      examine whether IR outperforms these conditions and leads to sustained changes in SAD
      symptoms, quality of life, and social behaviour. The use of IE as a control condition will
      help to determine whether the therapeutic effects of IR depend on altering the content of the
      targeted autobiographical memory rather than just its meaning.

      Justification:

      Only 3 preliminary studies, including one from the investigators' lab, have examined the
      effects of IR as a stand-alone intervention for SAD. These studies found that a single 90-min
      session of IR produced large improvements in SAD symptoms at post-treatment, but both relied
      exclusively on self-report measures. Moreover, neither study incorporated an active
      imagery-based control condition against which the specific mechanisms of IR could be
      experimentally isolated and understood. Understanding the mechanisms of IR will help to
      facilitate the development of effective treatment and relapse prevention strategies for SAD
      as well as the future dissemination of efficient but potent CBT interventions to patients
      diagnosed with SAD.

      Objectives:

      Capitalizing on innovative methodological advancements in the investigators' lab that enable
      the precise measurement of patients' memory narratives and appraisals over time, the
      objective is to elucidate how fear memories are represented in the socially anxious mind, how
      they change during IR, and how impactful and enduring these effects may be.
    
  