
    
      There is an unmet clinical need for effective therapy of breast cancer that has metastasized
      to the brain. In this scenario, median survival is around 12 months using currently available
      therapeutic interventions. The majority of chemotherapy-based clinical trials have considered
      the presence of central nervous system metastasis an exclusion criterion due to the risk of
      toxicities, the inability of chemotherapeutic agents to cross the blood brain barrier, and
      the limited overall survival within this patient population.

      The preclinical data regarding the safety and activity of bevacizumab in vascular endothelial
      growth factor(VEGF)-expressing tumors provide a good rationale for its study in patients with
      breast cancer with metastasis to the brain. Yano, et al. illustrated that tumor cell
      expression of VEGF messenger ribonucleic acid and protein directly correlated with
      angiogenesis and growth of brain metastasis in a nude mouse model. Transfecting the
      experimental cell lines known to produce visceral metastasis with an anti-sense VEGF-gene
      significantly reduced the incidence of brain metastasis. Kim, et al. illustrated that a
      murine model specific for brain metastases originating from breast cancer showed elevated
      expression of the angiogenic and permeability-inducing factor VEGF-A. The growth of the brain
      metastases in this model was attenuated by the addition of a VEGF-tyrosine kinase inhibitor
      via induction of apoptosis and decreased angiogenesis. VEGF has also been implicated in the
      development of brain edema, a significant source of the morbidity and mortality associated
      with brain metastasis. Enhanced levels of VEGF and its receptors have been reported in a
      murine model after induction of cortical ischemia. Finally, antagonism of VEGF was
      demonstrated to reduce both immediate and delayed volume of infarct.

      The optimal dose of bevacizumab has been extensively studied in phase I trials alone and in
      combination with chemotherapy. The safe and effective dose has been established as 10 mg/kg q
      14 days or 15 mg/kg Q 21 days. In addition to irinotecan and paclitaxel, it has been
      previously used in phase II/III settings in combination with capecitabine, vinorelbine,
      gemcitabine, and docetaxel. Phase III studies showed an overall survival advantage when
      bevacizumab was added to an irinotecan/Fluorouracil (5FU)-based regimen for metastatic
      colorectal cancer, and when added to weekly paclitaxel for metastatic breast cancer.
    
  