
    
      Breast cancer is the leading cause of cancer mortality among females. Sentinel lymph node
      biopsy helps avoid axillary lymph node dissection and the associated morbidity. However, its
      utility is unclear in patients with biopsy proven axillary disease that has been treated with
      neoadjuvant chemotherapy. The objective of our study is to evaluate a) the feasibility of a
      novel technique of preoperatively tattooing suspicious lymph nodes with India ink, their
      intraoperative identification and retrieval in patients undergoing upfront breast and
      axillary surgery(Phase I); and b) the application of this technique in patients who undergo
      surgery after receiving neo-adjuvant chemotherapy i.e. lag time between tattooing and lymph
      node retrieval (Phase II) with the ultimate objective to see if the status of the excised
      sentinel and tattooed lymph node will be predictive of the status of the axilla.

      A quasi-experimental pilot study will be conducted to evaluate the feasibility of tattooing
      suspicious lymph nodes with sterile black India ink. The study will be conducted in two
      phases, with the second phase conditional upon the successful results of the first. In Phase
      I, only 10 patients who are committed to undergo upfront surgery (without neoadjuvant
      chemotherapy) will be included. These patients will have the suspicious lymph node tattooed
      by injecting India ink at the time of ultrasound guided core needle biopsy. Intraoperatively,
      the axilla will be inspected to determine whether India ink tattooed in the lymph nodes can
      be visualized by the surgeon. Microscopic inspection for the presence of the dye in nodes
      retrieved by sentinel biopsy and/or axillary dissection will also be done. In Phase II, this
      process will be repeated for patients who undergo surgery after neoadjuvant chemotherapy and
      concordance between the sentinel, tattooed and non-sentinel nodes will be determined.

      Ethical approval was obtained from the Aga Khan University Ethical Review Board (ERC#
      2018-0345-1105). The process of sentinel node biopsy is a safe and routinely performed
      procedure at our institution. Intradermal injection of methylene blue can lead to skin
      necrosis; intra-parenchymal injection can cause induration and erythema with associated pain.
      These side effects can be minimized by diluting methylene blue which will be done. The
      complications that can result from all additional steps of study procedures will be discussed
      with the patient and their full responsibility will be borne by the institution. Although
      sterile black India Ink is safe to administer but possible side effects can include mucosal
      inflammation due to spillage of the ink, abscess formation and others such as an allergic
      reaction. If any of these situations are encountered full responsibility to treat the side
      effects will be borne by the study team using departmental funds.
    
  