
    
      Exacerbations of chronic cardiopulmonary diseases are a major cause of morbidity and
      mortality worldwide. There are an estimated 23 million patients with heart failure worldwide,
      and the prevalence of heart failure in the United Sates is projected to rise over the next
      four decades with an estimated 772,000 new heart failure cases projected in the year 2040.
      Exacerbations of chronic respiratory disease can accelerate lung function decline and reduce
      survival. They may also lead to significant rise to the cost of healthcare. Chronic
      Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) exacerbations are an important cause of readmissions
      with a 30-day readmission rate of approximately 20% and subsequent expenditure of US $15
      Billion in annual health care spending. Cystic fibrosis (CF), a genetic disorder that affects
      airways clearance and secretions, has a 30-day readmission rate of approximately 11%.

      Due to the high cost of hospital stays and emergency department visits, and especially in the
      setting of the COVID-19 pandemic, more cost-effective "out-of-hospital" management models
      have become increasingly appealing. Such models not only provide cost benefits to patients,
      payers, and hospitals, but also increase the ability to provide care to people at home.

      Respiratory variables have shown to be one of the most sensitive indicators for COPD
      exacerbation, and a significant correlation between respiratory rate and COPD symptoms has
      been observed. When combined with pulse rate and oxygen saturation, these variables provide a
      useful method of identifying exacerbations. Current analytical models are designed to trigger
      alarms, which are generally based on traditional threshold-type driven analytics. Such
      methods are not able to identify and recognize trends due to limited access to advanced
      analytics (e.g., machine learning methods). The device proposed for use in this study will
      measure respiratory rate, Inspiratory: Expiratory (I:E) ratio, respiratory depth, heart rate,
      SpO2, SpO2 variability, patient movement, and the investigators will use machine learning and
      data modeling to analyze their trends over time.

      The wearable biometric platform (termed 'Respiratory Sensor') developed by Singapore
      Bioimaging Consortium is to be worn on the chest area via a medical grade adhesive patch. The
      Respiratory Sensor includes a non-invasive sensor combining an accelerometer and light-based
      methods to sense chest wall expansion or breathing.

      The Respiratory Sensor allows the possibility of collecting additional respiratory
      information (respiratory rate, relative tidal depth and duty cycle) as predictors for
      exacerbation of chronic cardiopulmonary diseases and perhaps improving advanced analytical
      models that can provide better sensitivity and specificity compared to traditional models
      (e.g. clinical diaries). Ultimately, this may allow early prediction of outpatient
      exacerbations to allow early intervention and reduced re-admissions (via remote
      interventions).

      In this project, Singapore Bioimaging Consortium would like to collaborate with Massachusetts
      General Hospital to aggregate patient data and to further develop its software algorithm
      using machine learning (e.g. random forest models and long-short term memory models etc.) and
      statistical models (e.g. regression models and survival analysis with univariate and
      multivariate analysis) based on respiratory features and hemodynamics for predicting
      exacerbations and deterioration on 60 patients with cardiopulmonary diseases. The end-points
      of this collaboration includes the following:

        1. To validate hypothesis of using respiratory-based biomarkers in models (disease agnostic
           and disease specific) to predict exacerbations - benchmarking to be done versus
           follow-up questionnaires and phone calls

        2. To validate level of compliance, drop-out rate and if additional measures are required
           to get patients to follow-on
    
  