
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD), toxicity, and safety profile of navitoclax
      when given in combination with dabrafenib and trametinib in patients with BRAF-mutant solid
      tumors. (Phase I) II. To estimate the complete response (CR) rate in patients with
      BRAF-mutant melanoma treated with dabrafenib, trametinib, and navitoclax as compared to the
      historical control dabrafenib and trametinib combination (DT). (Phase II) III. To compare the
      maximal tumor regression in patients with BRAF-mutant melanoma treated with dabrafenib,
      trametinib versus dabrafenib, trametinib, and navitoclax. (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To describe pharmacodynamics effects of treatment with dabrafenib, trametinib, and
      navitoclax on both serial tumor biopsies and serial blood draws in a small subset of patients
      treated with BRAF-mutant melanoma. (Phase I) II. To describe the pharmacokinetics of
      treatment with dabrafenib, trametinib, and navitoclax. (Phase I) III. To compare the
      progression-free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS), and overall response rate (ORR) in
      patients with BRAF-mutant melanoma treated with dabrafenib, trametinib, versus dabrafenib,
      trametinib, and navitoclax. (Phase II) IV. To compare the degree of apoptosis induced in
      on-treatment biopsies of patients with BRAF-mutant melanoma treated with dabrafenib,
      trametinib versus dabrafenib, trametinib, and navitoclax. (Phase II) V. To explore other
      pharmacodynamic effects in on-treatment biopsies of patients with BRAF-mutant melanoma
      treated with either dabrafenib, trametinib versus dabrafenib, trametinib, and navitoclax
      including cell proliferation (Ki-67), proteomics (reverse-phase protein microarrays [RPPA]),
      and B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)/lymphoma 2 (BCL-2) family gene expression
      analysis. (Phase II)

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of dabrafenib, trametinib, and navitoclax
      followed by a randomized phase II study.

      PHASE I: Patients receive navitoclax orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days -7 to -1 of cycle 1
      only. Patients also receive dabrafenib PO twice daily (BID), trametinib PO QD, and navitoclax
      PO QD days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      PHASE II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive dabrafenib PO BID and trametinib PO QD on days 1-28. Cycles repeat
      every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive navitoclax PO QD days -7 to -1 of cycle 1 only. Patients also
      receive dabrafenib PO BID, trametinib PO QD, and navitoclax PO QD on days 1-28. Cycles repeat
      every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After the completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 28 days, and then every
      12 months for 3 years.
    
  