
    
      The study is a randomized controlled clinical trial and will be conducted at the
      Traumasurgery Innsbruck. Two different surgical methods are tested: ACL Tightrope
      reconstruction VS Biocomposite interference screws.

      Following eligibility criteria have to be met:

        1. Age 18 -40 years

        2. ACL insufficiency diagnosed by clinical examination (positive Lachman test and/or pivot
           shift test) and MRI (complete tear)

        3. Not more than 12 month after trauma to the knee

        4. Tegner Score 5 to 10

      Not eligible if:

        1. Earlier major knee injury to the index knee

        2. Previous knee surgery (except diagnostic arthroscopy) to index knee

        3. Associated knee fractures

        4. Associated PCL injury, complete MCL or LCL tear

        5. Concomitant severe injury to contra-lateral knee at time of assessment

        6. Injury to the lateral/posterolateral ligament complex with increased laxity (positive
           dial test and external rotation thigh foot angle test),

        7. Pregnancy and scope to become within next time

        8. A history of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) or a disorder of the coagulative system

        9. Claustrophobia

       10. General systemic disease affecting physical function, any other condition or treatment
           interfering with the completion of the trial, including patients with metal devices,
           pacemaker or motion disorders

       11. Chronic systemic use of steroids

      Following inclusion and exclusion criteria have to be met:

      Inclusion:

        1. The ACL injury can be either "isolated" or combined with one or several of the following
           injuries visualized on MRI and/or arthroscopy:

             -  A meniscus tear that is either left untreated or treated with a partial resection

             -  A small, stable meniscus tear treated with fixation, but fixation not interfering
                with the rehabilitation protocol

             -  Cartilage changes verified on MRI with arthroscopically determine intact surface

        2. A radiographic examination with normal joint status or combined with either one of the
           following finding:

             -  A small avulsed fragment located laterally, usually described as a Second fracture

             -  JSN grade 1 or osteophytes grade 1 as determined by the OARSI atlas (Altman et al.
                1995)

        3. Agreement to participate in the study and signed informed consent prior to inclusion.

      Exclusion:

      1.Presence of one of the following associated injuries to the index knee as visualized on MRI
      and/or arthroscopy:

        -  An unstable longitudinal meniscus tear that requires repair and where the following
           postoperative treatment (i.e. bracing and limited ROM) interferes with the
           rehabilitation protocol

        -  Bi-compartmental extensive meniscus resection

        -  A cartilage injury representing a full thickness loss down to bone

        -  A total rupture of MCL/LCL as visualized on MRI

      A power analysis was performed, estimating that a minimum of 34 patients (17 in each group)
      would be required to obtain a power more than 80%.
    
  