
    
      Crohn's Disease (CD) is a form of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) that affects the
      gastrointestinal tract. CD is a chronic, remitting, and relapsing disease that is rarely
      diagnosed at or near its biological onset. In routine clinical practice, CD diagnosed at the
      pre-clinical stage is largely by chance during routine screening procedures. Current evidence
      suggests these earlier diagnoses lead to better treatment outcomes and may even offer clues
      to better understand the disease's etiology and pathogenesis. Consequently, diagnosing CD at
      an early stage may offer several advantages including better response to medical treatment;
      possible avoidance of long term complications and surgery; and long term cost savings.

      In the last several years it has become apparent that Crohn's Disease tends to evolve over
      time from an inflammatory disease to a fibrosing one due to the repeated healing and repair
      cycles. The fibrosing found in CD is similar to that of other diseases that affect organs
      like the liver and pancreas. Extensive fibrosis (build-up of excessive scar tissue) does not
      respond to drug therapy and must be treated with surgery; therefore, surgical intervention
      (e.g., intestinal resection) is a treatment modality common to CD patients largely due to
      this indication. Ideally, Crohn's Disease should be diagnosed before this irreversible damage
      takes place and while the disease is still responsive to medical therapy; however, the
      disease only comes to medical attention in the presence of symptoms most often associated
      with severe bowel damage such as obstructions and strictures. Even still, the presence of
      these symptoms does not always lead to prompt diagnosis. Additionally, this evidence
      indicates that CD has already run a long course before it becomes symptomatic and further
      supports the need for earlier diagnosis.

      An efficient screening strategy for Crohn's Disease has yet to be identified. To date,
      colonoscopy is considered the gold-standard as there are no noninvasive tests that can
      conclusively screen for disease. Screening the general population has been shown to be
      inefficient due to the overall risk of developing the disease so it is crucial to determine
      the populations at the greatest risk. Crohn's Disease has proven to have a strong genetic
      component. Referral center studies published in the last several years have shown that 5-15%
      of patients with CD have a family history of the disease; therefore, family members of CD
      patients may constitute an ideal population for screening. Familial studies have focused
      mostly on first-degree relatives [FDR] and have found that this group is at a higher risk for
      developing the disease than the general population. In addition, a landmark study published
      in 2003 showed that >40% of asymptomatic first-degree relatives of CD patients [CD-FDR] had
      elevated fecal calprotectin-an intestinal inflammation marker that closely reflects disease
      activity in CD patients-with values between those of healthy controls and FDR's with
      diagnosed disease. Additional abnormalities such as, Anti-Saccharomyces Cerevisae Antibodies
      [ASCA] positivity and elevated inflammatory markers-have also been reported in asymptomatic
      first-degree relatives at a greater proportion than the known risk of developing the disease.

      Recently, at another institution, the investigators conducted an ileocolonoscopy-based
      screening study in 38 first-degree relatives of patients with Crohn's Disease. Identified
      first-degree relatives were carefully excluded in the presence of digestive symptoms or a
      medical history that contained possible causes of intestinal inflammation. The healthy
      control group consisted of 10 age and sex-matched individuals who were scheduled for a
      colonoscopy due to unrelated reasons (e.g., colon cancer screening or rectal bleeding) and
      whose results were found to be normal. In both groups, tissue, blood, and stool samples were
      collected. Median values for fecal calprotectin (FC) and histology were significantly greater
      in first-degree relatives when compared to the healthy controls. Additionally, colonoscopy
      identified three different phenotypes within the first-degree relative population: 1) normal,
      or superimposable to controls; 2) minor lesions (aphthae or small superficial erosions), and
      3) typical features of Crohn's Disease. These findings were confirmed with histological
      scoring that resulted in three highly separated clusters.

      That preliminary research supports the idea that screening within this high-risk population
      allows for earlier diagnosis. Validating these results on a larger scale and with less
      invasive methods may lead to the development of a screening strategy that can be implemented
      as part of routine clinical practice. Additionally, more research is needed to further
      characterize the novel phenotype identified as it may hold crucial clues to the pathogenesis
      of the disease.

      This study seeks to detect asymptomatic, first-degree relatives of patients with established
      Crohn's Disease in hopes of catching the disease at or near its biologic onset (pre-clinical
      stage). Screening will be done using the PillCam™ COLON 2 capsule endoscopy system. Capsule
      findings will be reviewed by Dr. Sorrentino and Dr. Nguyen at the central site. These
      findings will then be verified using proven ileocolonoscopy methods. Blood, stool, and tissue
      specimens will be collected for research-related testing and to be stored for further
      research. Healthy-controls will be enrolled for comparison purposes. The goal of this study
      is to validate the preliminary data from our pilot study using a multi-center approach.
    
  