
    
      This is a randomized (individuals assigned to study treatment by chance), double-blind
      (individuals and study personnel will not know the identity of study treatments), placebo (an
      inactive substance that is compared with a drug to test whether the drug has a real effect in
      a clinical trial)-controlled study to compare the efficacy and safety of ibrutinib in
      combination with R-CHOP versus R-CHOP alone in adult patients newly diagnosed non-GCB DLBCL
      selected by IHC or newly diagnosed patients with ABC subtype of DLBCL identified by GEP or
      both populations. The study will include screening, active treatment, and posttreatment
      follow-up phases. The study will end when 50% of participants have died or 5 years after the
      last participant is randomized or the sponsor terminates the study, whichever occurs first.
      Approximately 800 participants will be randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to receive either
      placebo+R-CHOP (treatment arm A) or ibrutinib+R-CHOP (treatment arm B). All participants will
      receive R-CHOP as background therapy for 6 or 8 cycles (21 days per cycle) prespecified
      according to local practice. After 4 treatment cycles, an interim response assessment will be
      performed to evaluate disease progression for each participant. Participants with progressive
      disease or relapsed disease after complete response will be discontinued from treatment.
      Participants who discontinue R-CHOP without disease progression will continue study drug
      (placebo or ibrutinib) until 6 or 8 cycles are completed, disease progression, or
      unacceptable toxicity, whichever occurs first. After completion of study drug, participants
      will undergo assessment of tumor response based on the Revised Response Criteria for
      Malignant Lymphoma. Participants with documented residual disease upon completion of at least
      6 cycles of R-CHOP therapy are considered eligible to initiate subsequent antilymphoma
      therapy. Serial pharmacokinetic samples will be collected before and after dosing, and safety
      will be monitored throughout the study.
    
  