
    
      Patients with FA are treated with blood products (transfusions), injections to stimulate
      white blood cell production, and/or androgen therapy once they reach advanced stages of bone
      marrow failure. Although these therapies lead to temporary improvement in the blood counts,
      they are associated with potential serious side effects. Currently, the only known potential
      cure for bone marrow failure in Fanconi Anemia is a stem cell transplant, which is usually
      done at the late stages of bone marrow failure and is again associated with significant
      toxicity.

      Studies show that patients with FA are very sensitive to and produce unusually high levels of
      a protein called tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) that causes bone marrow cells to die. We
      will study whether a drug called Etanercept that reduces levels of TNF-α will delay or
      prevent the progressive bone marrow failure associated with FA. Etanercept has been
      successfully used in children with arthritis.

      Primary Objectives:

        1. To assess toxicity of Etanercept (Enbrel) in children with Fanconi Anemia (FA) and early
           marrow failure.

        2. To assess efficacy of Etanercept (Enbrel) in improving hematopoiesis (i.e. peripheral
           counts) in patients with FA.

      Secondary Objectives:

      1) Correlation of biological studies to measure the impact of Etanercept (Enbrel) on Tumor
      Necrosis Factor - α (TNF-α) production.

      Fanconi anemia (FA) is an autosomal recessive disease characterized by progressive bone
      marrow failure, variable congenital abnormalities and a predisposition to malignancy,
      particularly acute myeloid leukemia (AML) 1. Cells from FA patients exhibit hypersensitivity
      to alkylating agents such as mitomycin C and diepoxybutane (DEB). Currently, FA is diagnosed
      by testing for chromosome breakage after lymphocyte stimulation and exposure to mitomycin C
      (MMC) or diepoxybutane (DEB) 2. Chromosome fragility, defined by an increased percentage of
      chromosome breaks, is diagnostic for FA3. Although it is the most common form of
      constitutional aplastic anemia it is very uncommon and the true incidence of FA is not known.
      A total of 754 patients from North America with the DEB confirmed diagnoses of FA were
      registered into the International Fanconi Anemia registry (IFAR) by 2001. The major cause of
      morbidity and mortality for children with FA is bone marrow failure that occurs in the
      majority of children in the first and second decades of life. Attempts to culture bone marrow
      progenitors in vitro from FA patients demonstrate decreased numbers of myeloid and erythroid
      colonies, which is consistent with clinical bone marrow failure.

      Current treatment for FA relies upon hematological support in the form of transfusions once
      advanced marrow failure occurs. Patients with FA do not respond to anti-thymocyte globulin or
      cyclosporine (typical treatments for acquired aplastic anemia), but 50% improve with androgen
      preparations, with a median prolongation of life of 2 years in responders (from 16 years to
      18 years of age at death) although relapses are inevitable. Androgen therapy causes
      significant liver toxicity, virilization and risk of hepatic adenoma or carcinoma. Patients
      who do not respond to these modalities are treated with stem cell transplantation, with its
      associated toxicities from the transplant conditioning regimens, graft-versus-host disease
      and increased risk of post transplant malignancy compared to patients without FA. Five-year
      survival after a matched sibling transplant is approximately 65%. After an unrelated donor
      transplant, five-year survival is about 30%. The natural history of this disease is one of
      eventual death by age 10 to 20 years from progressive marrow failure or from conversion to
      AML (in approximately 10% of patients). Thus there is clearly a need for an effective and
      early therapy with better toxicity profile.

      Studies in both animals and human subjects indicate that high levels of systemic TNF-α and
      increased sensitivity of hematopoietic progenitors to TNF-α plays a key role in pathogenesis
      of bone marrow failure in patients with FA. This suggests a possible benefit in supporting
      hematopoiesis with anti-TNF-α receptor Fc fusion protein (Etanercept; Enbrel) in children
      with FA. This study proposes to treat patients with FA and early marrow failure with
      Etanercept (Enbrel), a medication used to treat rheumatoid arthritis. The results of the
      proposed project will use important preclinical data (see below) to support the development
      of a novel therapeutic approach for treatment of marrow failure in FA. Etanercept (Enbrel)
      will prevent the progressive marrow failure and associated complications without the need for
      transplant and if found to be effective, this treatment can be included in standard clinical
      care of FA patients, potentially for many years.
    
  