
    
      The most significant challenge in kidney transplantation at present is that of reducing the
      risk of long-term complications. This includes hyperparathyroidism, a common post kidney
      transplant complication that contributes to loss of bone density and fracture risk and
      necessitates surgical intervention in approximately 5% of kidney transplant patients.

      In order to take part in the study you will already have been accepted for kidney
      transplantation from a living donor or from a deceased donor at Mayo Clinic in Rochester,
      Minnesota. After you have agreed to take part in the study you will be put in one of two
      groups by chance (as in the flip of a coin):

      Group 1 (Standard Treatment or "Control"): Patients in this group will receive a combination
      of four anti-rejection medications that have been used at Mayo Clinic Rochester for many
      kidney transplant patients and does not include any research study medicines. These
      medications will include:

        1. Alemtuzumab (Campath®) - this medicine will be given intravenously (IV) on the day of
           the transplant during surgery.

        2. Methylprednisolone (Solumedrol®) - this medicine, which is part of a family of medicines
           often referred to as corticosteroids, will be given intravenously on the day of the
           transplant during surgery. This will be the only planned dose of corticosteroid medicine
           you will receive although this medicine and a tablet form called Prednisone may be given
           at a later time if you have an episode of transplant rejection.

        3. Mycophenolate Mofetil (Cellcept®) - this medicine will be given by mouth twice daily
           beginning the evening before the transplant (for living donor transplants) or the day of
           the transplant (for deceased donor transplants). It will be continued for as long as you
           have your transplant unless there is a medical reason to stop it.

        4. Tacrolimus (Prograf®) - this medicine will be given by mouth once daily beginning on the
           fourth day after the transplant. It will continue for as long as you have your
           transplant unless there is a medical reason to stop it. The dose will be adjusted based
           on a blood test that will be done between twice a week and once a month for as long as
           you take the medicine.

      Group 2 (Zemplar® + Standard Treatment): Patients in this group will receive the same
      combination of anti-rejection medications as the patients in Group 1 (a-d above) plus
      Zemplar®, which is the medicine being studied, will also be started on the day of the
      transplant. Zemplar® will be given as a capsule containing 1 microgram of Zemplar® once daily
      beginning the day after the transplant. It will be continued at the same dose for the first
      two weeks then, depending on the results of blood and urine testing, will be increased to 2
      micrograms daily. The dose will remain at 2 micrograms daily until the end of the study
      unless there is a medical reason to reduce or stop it or unless the study is stopped early.

      Both groups of patients will be treated by the same team of doctors, nurses and nurse
      coordinators that care for all kidney transplant patients at Mayo Clinic. The procedures and
      treatments for your transplant will be the same as those recommended at Mayo Clinic for all
      patients receiving a kidney transplant. These include the surgical operation to carry out the
      transplant; the need to take anti-rejection medicines by mouth for the rest of your life; the
      need to have blood and urine testing at regular intervals for the rest of your life to
      monitor the progress of your transplant; and the recommendation to have a biopsy of your
      transplant carried out on three occasion during the first two years after the transplant
      surgery. These procedures and their potential complications will be described to you in
      detail by your transplant physician, transplant surgeon, and transplant coordinator. The
      study will not require extra hospital or outpatient visits compared to the usual care for all
      kidney transplant patients at Mayo Clinic Rochester.
    
  