
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To compare the change in the percent (%) Ki-67 expression in a biopsy core positive for
      cancer from baseline to end-of-study (EOS) biopsy between men on active surveillance (AS) for
      prostate cancer (PCa), treated with green tea catechins (GTCs) or placebo for 6 months.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess apoptosis by caspase in tumor tissue from EOS biopsy by treatment. II. To assess
      % Ki-67: Apoptosis ratio from EOS biopsy by treatment. III. To evaluate the number of biopsy
      cores positive for cancer from EOS biopsy by treatment.

      IV. To evaluate the percentage of any biopsy tissue core positive for cancer from EOS biopsy
      by treatment.

      V. To evaluate % Ki-67 in EOS biopsy from the same quadrant matching the quadrant with the
      highest % Ki-67 at baseline treatment.

      VI. To evaluate the Gleason sum from EOS biopsy by treatment. VII. To evaluate the change in
      serum prostate-specific antigen (PSA) from baseline to 3 months and to EOS by treatment.

      VIII. To evaluate the safety of 6 month administration of GTC assessed by Common Toxicity
      Criteria (CTC) version 5.0, complete blood count (CBC), comprehensive metabolic panel (CMP)
      and liver function toxicities (LFTs) by treatment.

      IX. To evaluate the change in geometric mean of % Ki-67 measures in all the cores positive
      for cancer from baseline to EOS biopsy by treatment.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the change in catechin (epigallocatechin gallate [EGCG]) as indicated by
      change from EGCG measured in plasma from baseline and EOS by treatment.

      II. To evaluate the adherence and acceptability to GTC based on the percentage compliance
      using agent logs (%) and pill counts monthly until EOS by treatment groups.

      III. To evaluate the bioavailability of GTC as indicated by change from EGCG measured in
      plasma from baseline and EOS by treatment groups.

      PATIENT REPORTED OUTCOMES OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the change in lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) from baseline to 3 months
      and to EOS using the LUTS scale by treatment groups.

      II. To evaluate the change in quality of life (QOL) scores from baseline to 3 months and to
      EOS using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy (FACT)-Prostate by treatment groups.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive green tea catechins orally (PO) twice daily (BID) for up to 6 months
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B: Patients receive placebo PO BID for up to 6 months.

      After completion of study, patients are followed up at approximately 7 days, at 6 months, and
      then up to 12 months.
    
  