
    
      Decompression sickness (DCS) is a risk associated with diving. Common symptoms are joint and
      limb pain, skin rash, ataxia, hemiplegia, visual disturbances, paresthesias, limb numbness,
      nystagmus and vertigo. Treatment consists of recompression in a hyperbaric chamber, commonly
      referred to as hyperbaric oxygen treatment (HBOT).

      It has been thought since the last quarter of the 19th century that DCS is caused by bubble
      formation in the tissues when dissolved inert gas comes out of solution. It was long thought
      that decompression schedules that did not give rise to any gas bubbles in the body also
      averted DCS. However, with the advent of ultrasound Doppler technology in the 1970s it was
      found that intravascular gas bubbles could exist even after uneventful dives. Dives well
      within limits established by military and sports authorities have been shown to generate
      intravascular bubbles. Hence, additional pathophysiological factors have been sought.

      There is evidence of endothelial dysfunction, coagulopathy and inflammatory activation after
      diving. Though, their role in the pathophysiology of DCS remains to be determined.

      Studies have shown that fluid markers of CNS injury can be found in blood samples obtained
      from athletes practising ice-hockey, boxing and american football. There is reason to believe
      that fluid markers of CNS injury will be present in blood samples obtained from divers with
      DCS as well.

      Study subjects will be recruited by the attending physician at the Hyperbaric chamber at
      SU/Omrade 2 after the patient has been given a diagnosis of decompression sickness. Prior to
      treatment in the hyperbaric chamber, 4 ml of blood will be drawn via a plastic intravenous
      catheter that is placed in an arm vein as part of normal, established care of injured divers
      in the Emergency Department (to provide intravenous fluid and medications). A second 4 ml
      sample will be obtained from the same catheter after the patient has completed treatment (the
      typical hyperbaric treatment for decompression sickness lasts ~5.5 hours). The study object
      will also provide information regarding his/her general health and the completed dive. All
      study data, including blood samples, will anonymized and provided with a study code.

      When feasible, blood samples will be obtained 1 week and 3-6 months after HBOT. These samples
      will be handled the same as the two obtained on the day of injury.
    
  