
    
      Low back pain is considered one of the most widely experienced health problems in the United
      States and the world. This condition is the second most frequent condition, after the common
      cold, for which people see a physician or lose days from work. Estimated costs to those who
      are severely disabled from low back pain range from $30-70 billion annually. Rates of spinal
      surgery in the U.S. have increased sharply over time, and researchers have documented 15-fold
      geographic variation in rates of these surgeries. In many cases, where one lives and who one
      sees for the problem appear to determine the rates of surgery. Despite these trends, there is
      little evidence proving the effectiveness of these therapies over non-surgical management.

      Overall, the SPORT study is a multicenter, randomized, controlled trial for the three most
      common diagnostic groups for which spine surgery is performed: lumbar intervertebral disc
      herniation (IDH), spinal stenosis (SpS) and spinal stenosis secondary to degenerative
      spondylolisthesis (DS). This arm of the trial will deal with patients from the first
      diagnostic group. The study will compare the most commonly used standard surgical treatments
      to the most commonly used standard non-surgical treatments. We will conduct the study at 12
      sites throughout the United States.

      The primary endpoint of the study will be changes in health-related quality of life as
      measured by the SF-36 health status questionnaire. Secondary endpoints will include patient
      satisfaction with treatment, utility for current health in order to estimate quality-adjusted
      life years (QALYS) as the measure for cost-effectiveness, resource use, and cost.

      We will follow patients at 6 weeks and 3, 6, 12, and 24 months to determine their health
      status, function, satisfaction, and use of health care. In this arm of the trial, we
      anticipate enrolling and randomly allocating a total of 500 participants. We will track an
      additional observational cohort to assess health and resource outcomes (1000 participants).
      Enrollment in the Observational cohort has been completed as of February 2003.

      We will integrate data from the trial and observational cohorts to formally estimate the
      cost-effectiveness of surgical versus non-surgical interventions for IDH, SpS, and DS. On the
      basis of the results of this trial we will, for the first time, have scientific evidence as
      to the relative effectiveness of surgical versus non-surgical treatment for these three most
      commonly diagnosed lumbar spine conditions.
    
  