
    
      Program Description:

      The goal of this proposal is to evaluate the effectiveness of a social needs case management
      program targeting a population of high-utilizers of multiple systems in Contra Costa County,
      primarily its health delivery system. The program to be evaluated through this study is
      funded through 2020 under the CMS/DHCS 1115 Waiver Whole Person Care (WPC) Pilot Program.
      Contra Costa Health System's WPC Pilot Program, titled Community Connect (CMCT), is
      implemented administratively for enrollment. High-risk individuals, 18 years of age or older,
      are identified from Contra Costa County full-scope Medi-Cal enrollees as preliminarily
      eligible for enrollment. A predictive-modeling algorithm is applied to this population to
      identify the members of the population at high risk for future avoidable emergency room (ED)
      visits and inpatient (IP) admissions. These highest risk individuals are then randomized to
      an administrative enrollment or a control groups. The enrolled program participants are then
      contacted by program staff for consent to participate in the program for services. They can
      decline services at that contact and then would remain in the intended to treat population
      that declined services at initiation. The primary hypothesis is that delivery of a social
      needs case management intervention will reduce avoidable ED and IP utilization among the
      target population.

      High-risk individuals are identified for enrollment using a population health predictive-risk
      model. This model integrates variables from a number of Contra Costa Health Services
      databases, including the electronic health record used by all in-network providers and claims
      detailing all out-of-network utilization. This predictive-risk model has been continuously
      updated throughout the study to include more relevant features and change the model form.
      Diagnosis-based algorithms are used to determine the 'avoidability' of a given emergency room
      or in-patient visit.

      Individuals enrolled in this program are cared for within the context of a multi-disciplinary
      care team that frequently consult with each other and seek consultation around specific
      expertise within context of social needs case management. After enrollment, patients are
      assigned to either a face-to-face visit case manager (Tier I) or to a telephonic case manager
      (Tier II) depending on the severity of their risk within the predictive risk model and other
      variables including program capacity. Tier enrollment counts have varied across time;
      currently the program is designed to enroll 5,977 patients simultaneously in Tier I care and
      6,605 patients in Tier II care. Program design began in 2016, the first patients were
      enrolled in April 2017, and the program is projected to reached full staffing capacity in
      August 2018. New patients are added to the program rolls on a monthly basis as staffing
      capacity increases and to replace program dis-enrollments. Starting in September 2017,
      enrolled patients were matched with controls identified from the population with similar risk
      profiles. Controls were initially recruited at a 1:1 ratio with cases; this ratio was
      increased to 2:1 as of January 2018.

      Currently a pool of the top 12,000 high-risk individuals in the population (as defined by the
      risk model) are eligible for Tier I care while the pool of those ranked 12,001 to 25,000 are
      eligible for Tier II care. Each month, open spaces in each Tier are filled with randomly
      chosen patients from the eligible pools, and twice as many matching controls from the same
      pool are identified simultaneously. All non-enrolled pool members, regardless of control
      status, are then returned to the eligible pool for enrollment the next month. The CMCT
      program lasts one year, providing that the patient is amenable to the case management
      relationship. At initial enrollment, every program participant is asked to answer a quality
      of life questionnaire and a social needs questionnaire. The quality of life questionnaire is
      repeated on an annual basis. The social needs questionnaire is used by the case manager to
      identify the client's social and health care goals. During the course of program
      participation, the case manager works with her/his clients using motivational interviewing
      techniques and change readiness assessments to identify and prioritize the client's care
      goals. Every case manager provides a group of core services that include navigation support
      and linkages to resources to help clients reach their goals. At the end of the year, if a
      client risk profile still makes them eligible for program inclusion, they are automatically
      re-enrolled for another year. Otherwise, they return to the client pool, but are eligible for
      a second enrollment if their risk increases.

      Specific Project Aims:

        1. To evaluate the effect of a social needs case management program on the rate of
           avoidable health care utilization within the Medi-Cal enrollees utilizing services
           within CCHS population.

        2. To identify the effect of a social needs case management on the rate of avoidable health
           care utilization among the populations who a) receive high-touch social needs case
           management/Face-to-face visit case, and/or b) lower-touch telephonic social needs case
           management: and/or c) receive any of these services in the context of an
           interdisciplinary team model of service delivery for social needs case management.

        3. As secondary analyses, to evaluate the effect of the case management program in the
           above populations on a number of secondary outcomes, including, but not limited to:
           specialty care utilization, no show rate, primary care physician engagement, health
           insurance maintenance, incarceration rates, social service program enrollment, housing
           status and self-reported quality-of-life survey.

      Analytic Plan:

      All outcomes will be compared using both an 'intention-to-treat' and an 'effect of treatment
      among the treated' approach. For the 'intention-to-treat' analysis, rates of events will be
      calculated using all person-time from enrollment to end of follow-up. Rates for the enrollees
      will be compared to weighted rates for the controls. The control weights (or survival
      weights) will be inverses of the probability that a control remains unenrolled, adjusting for
      the fact that controls are eligible for later follow-up and this enrollment necessitates and
      end to the control period.

      For the 'effect of treatment among the treated' effect, rates will be calculated including
      only person-time subsequent to an enrollee being matched with a case manager and documenting
      a goal to address a social need. This allows the analysis to focus on the time in which the
      program could presumably be expected to impact a patient's health and behaviors. As a portion
      of enrollees decline services, or otherwise never have a documented goal, the comparison
      population will be adjusted to account for this possibility. A statistical model will be
      created to predict the probability of an enrollee ever documenting a goal and the control
      population will be re-weighted by the inverse predictions from this model (IPT weights).
      These IPT weights will be combined with the survival weights to create a comparable control
      population.

      Comparisons between populations will be performed with targeted minimum loss based
      estimation, targeting the mean effect of enrollment on the outcome within the relevant
      population. A more traditional approach will also be performed, estimating the size of the
      difference in outcomes between the enrolled and control populations.
    
  