
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Provide and evaluate revised induction and maintenance therapy comprising etoposide,
           dexamethasone, and cyclosporine, in terms of achieving and maintaining an acceptable
           clinical condition in order to perform a curative allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell
           transplantation (AHSCT), in patients with primary inherited or severe and persistent
           secondary hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH).

        -  Evaluate and improve the outcome of AHSCT with various types of donors.

        -  Determine the prognostic importance of the state of remission at the time of AHSCT.

        -  Evaluate the neurological complications, in terms of early neurological alterations and
           cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) findings, in patients treated with this regimen.

      Secondary

        -  Improve the understanding of the pathophysiology of HLH by conducting biological studies
           of genetics and cytotoxicity in these patients, including genotype-phenotype studies and
           the prognostic value of natural killer (NK) cell activity subtyping.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

        -  Induction therapy (weeks 1-8): Patients receive etoposide IV over 1-3 hours twice weekly
           in weeks 1 and 2 and then once weekly in weeks 3-8. Patients also receive dexamethasone
           IV or orally once daily and cyclosporine IV or orally twice daily in weeks 1-8. Patients
           with clinically evident, progressive neurological symptoms or an abnormal cerebrospinal
           fluid (CSF) (cell count and protein) that has not improved after 2 weeks of induction
           therapy undergo intrathecal therapy comprising methotrexate and hydrocortisone once
           weekly in weeks 3-6.

      Patients are evaluated after 8 weeks of induction therapy. Patients with primary (i.e.,
      familial) hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH) or genetic evidence of HLH proceed to
      maintenance therapy. Patients with severe and persistent secondary (i.e., nonfamilial) HLH
      and no genetic evidence of HLH proceed to maintenance therapy only if their disease is still
      active after induction therapy. Patients with nonfamilial HLH and no genetic evidence of HLH
      who have achieved complete remission (CR) discontinue treatment. If their disease
      reactivates, they may then proceed to allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation
      (AHSCT).

        -  Maintenance therapy (weeks 9-40): Patients receive dexamethasone IV on days 1-3 in weeks
           10, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, 24, 26, 28, 30, 32, 34, 36, 38, and 40; etoposide IV over
           1-3 hours once in weeks 9, 11, 13, 15, 17, 19, 21, 23, 25, 27, 29, 31, 33, 35, 37, and
           39; and cyclosporine IV or orally twice daily in weeks 9-40.

      After completion of maintenance therapy, patients with primary (i.e., familial) HLH, severe
      and persistent secondary (i.e., nonfamilial) HLH, or reactivating disease proceed to AHSCT.
      Patients with nonfamilial HLH who have completed maintenance therapy, but do not go on to
      receive AHSCT, may be recommended for additional maintenance therapy at the discretion of the
      treating physician.

        -  AHSCT:

             -  Preparative regimen: Patients receive a preparative regimen comprising busulfan
                orally or IV four times daily on days -8 to -5, etoposide IV over 6 hours on day
                -4, and cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on days -3 and -2. Patients who are
                undergoing unrelated AHSCT, also receive antithymocyte globulin (ATG) IV over 12
                hours on days -3 to -1.

             -  Transplantation: Patients undergo AHSCT on day 0.

             -  Graft-versus-host disease prophylaxis: Beginning on day -1, patients receive
                cyclosporine IV continuously and then orally, when tolerated, once daily for 6-12
                months. Patients also receive methotrexate* IV on days 1, 3, and 6.

      NOTE: *As a substitute for methotrexate, patients may receive oral mycophenolate mofetil
      twice daily on days 0-40, followed by a taper and discontinuation.

      Patients undergo periodic blood collection and bone marrow biopsies for biological studies.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for up to 5 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 288 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  