
    
      Pseudomonas lung infection is a major cause of morbidity and mortality occurring in multiple
      clinical settings. Patients with cystic fibrosis have lung colonization with Pseudomonas from
      an early age, and overwhelming pseudomonal lung infection is the most common cause of death
      in these patients. In addition, Pseudomonas pneumonia is common in immunocompromised patients
      and in patients intubated for management of respiratory failure. Particularly worrisome is
      the increasing frequency of P. aeruginosa isolates that are resistant to all or most
      currently available antibiotics. The mechanism of virulence of P. aeruginosa includes soluble
      lectins that recognize host oligosaccharides on mucins and the cell glycocalyx. P. aeruginosa
      has two soluble lectins - LecA, also known as PA-IL and LecB, also known as PA-IIL. PA-IL
      binds galactose and PA-IIL binds fucose. Notably, PA-IIL binds the fucose containing Lewis a
      oligosaccharide with very high affinity and the role of PA-IIL in biofilm formation is shown
      by the absence of biofilm formation in Pseudomonas mutants lacking PA-IIL and by the efficacy
      of multivalent fucosyl-peptide dendrimers in preventing and disrupting Pseudomonas biofilm
      formation. D-galactose and L-fucose have been successfully used to treat P. aeruginosa
      infection in a case report, which hints at the potential for glycomimetic therapy in CF.
      These monosaccharides are weak inhibitors of PA-IIL, however, and multivalent glycomimetics
      will be needed for more effective inhibition.

      Aspergillus fumigatusinfection is responsible for the majority of human and animal
      aspergillosis disease, even though air sampling studies show that its conidia usually
      comprise only a small percentage of total airborne fungal challenge. It is both a primary and
      opportunistic pathogen, and it is particularly troublesome for patients with cystic fibrosis.
      It causes multiple lung diseases, includingchronic pulmonary aspergillosis, allergic
      bronchopulmonary aspergillosis, and invasive pulmonary aspergillosis. Aspergillomas also
      occur in patients with cavitary lung diseases. Together, these diseases cause significant
      morbidity and mortality, and available treatments are suboptimal. Most patients with chronic
      pulmonary aspergillosis require antifungal therapy for many months or years, many experience
      significant drug side effects, and some experience drug resistance. Patients with either
      allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis (ABPA) or severe asthma with fungal sensitization can
      improve with itraconazole treatment, but relapses are common, and itraconazole affects
      corticosteroid metabolism and has the potential to worsen steroid side effects. ABPA requires
      long-term treatment because Aspergillus airway colonization is difficult to eradicate and
      quickly recurs when treatment is stopped. Immunocompromised patients are especially
      vulnerable to invasive aspergillosis where the mortality rate is often 50%, even with
      antifungal treatment. Clearly, therefore, new treatment approaches are needed for lung
      diseases caused by A. fumigatus, and we are proposing an approach based on prevention of
      binding to airway mucins. Adherence of A. fumigatus conidia to host tissues has been the
      subject of extensive research, but little attention has been directed to Aspergillus/mucin
      interactions, a surprising deficiency given the role mucins play in airway biology.

      This study is an ex-vivo study in which we will collect samples of sputum from healthy
      volunteers and patients with cystic fibrosis for the purpose of: a) purifying airway mucins
      for plate-based binding studies and; b) ex-vivo assessment of the effects of carbohydrates on
      the rheologic properties of the sputum.
    
  