
    
      Tooth color was measured using spectrophotometer VITA Easyshade V (Vita Zahnfabrik, Germany).
      The spectrophotometer was calibrated before use in each participant and the device tip was
      placed on middle thirds of the labial surface of teeth as suggested by the manufacturer's
      manual.

      The tooth color was measured before initial prophylaxis (baseline), immediately after
      bleaching and after one week. The digital spectrophotometer used in the current study
      measures the shade of teeth based on the CIE (Commission Internationale de l'éclairage)
      L*a*b* color space system. This system expresses color as three values: L* for the lightness
      from black (0) to white (100), a* from green (-) to red (+), and b* from blue (-) to yellow
      (+). The following values were recorded in the units of CIE L*a*b* color space.

      -Data of lightness (L*) and a* and b*axis

      -△e: a teeth color change (△e*) was derived as: △e = [(△L *)2+ (△a *)2 + (△b *)2]1/2 While
      making Shade guide units (SGU) measurements, the bleached index is set according to the VITA
      Bleached guide 3D-MASTER at spectrophotometer for the measured shade. The measured bleached
      index after treatment was subtracted from the baseline value. The difference corresponded to
      the change of the SGU (△ SGU) achieved immediately and 1 week after the bleaching treatment.

      The patients had bleaching treatment on the maxillary anterior area including right and left
      canines. The right and left sides of the patients were randomized by toss of a coin to
      receive polishing with rubber cup prophylaxis or air powder polishing system before
      bleaching.

      All prophylaxis procedures were performed by same clinician (M.O.). The rubber cup
      prophylaxis was applied with low-speed handpieces. A rubber cup was attached to the
      prophy-angle. The handpiece used at a steady slow pace of 2500-3000 rpm. The rubber cup
      contacted each tooth surface for an average of 5 seconds together with polishing paste
      consisting of flour of pumice, glycerin and fluoride.

      The air polishing treatment was performed by AIRFLOW® Master device (EMS, Nyon, Switzerland)
      with a six LED (Light Emitting Diode) power setting (2.2 bars dynamic pressure inside powder
      chamber) and an 11 LED (35 mL/min) water setting for 30 seconds (powder consumption was 1.1
      g). Sodium bicarbonate air-powder polishing powder (AIR-FLOW® Plus, EMS Electro Medical
      Systems, Nyon, Switzerland) was used. The nozzle was held 3-4 mm from the tooth surface and
      the tip was angulated diagonally. The spray was delivered for an average of 5 seconds using a
      constant circular motion for each tooth. The spray was directed towards the middle one-thirds
      of the exposed tooth.

      All bleaching procedures were performed by same clinician (Z.G.B.K.). The bleaching agent
      (Opalescence Xtra Boost/ Ultradent, South Jordan, Utah, USA) was prepared and used following
      the manufacturer's instructions. Opal Dam (Ultradent, South Jordan, Utah, USA) was used for
      protection of the gingiva. The bleaching gel was then applied to form 1-2 mm thickness on the
      buccal surfaces of the teeth of both arches. The gel remained on teeth for 15 minutes and was
      then suctioned from teeth using a surgical suction tip. This application was repeated a
      second time in the same session.
    
  