
    
      Endoscopic insertion of plastic or metal stents in bile duct under endoscopic retrograde
      cholangiopancreatography is a well established treatment of distal malignant biliary
      obstruction.Biliary stents are widely used to relieve symptoms of malignant biliary
      stricture.Now, the mainly used biliary stents include plastic and metal stents. The main
      limitation of long time plastic stents is stents occlusion. Biliary plastic stents are
      changed every 2 to 3 months due to an expected median patency from 77 to 126 days.Metal
      stents present a lower risk of recurring biliary occlusion, yet high cost and stents
      occlusion are eventually inevitable. The mechanism of biliary stents occlusion include
      biliary sluge of the accumulation of bacteria and duodenal biliary reflux .The anti-reflux
      barrier of Oddi's sphincter disappears after the insertion of biliary stents and the presure
      in bile duct lowers the duodenals, which cause the retrograde flow of duodenal material into
      the biliary ducts. Besides, ordinary biliary plastic stent is short which can also shortens
      the length of duodenal biliary reflux . Therefore, trying to prevent the duodenal biliary
      reflux is very important in reducing biliary stents occlusion and it is gradually concerned
      by clinical researchers. Some studies have showed that plastic stents with antireflux valves
      can effectively reduce the biliary stent stricture and prolong the stents patency, which
      means reducing duodenobiliary reflux is surely useful for keeping biliary stent patency
      .So,we assume to explore an innovatively suspended overlength biliary stents (made from
      nasobiliary tube with length of 26cm or 30cm) as substitution for ordinary biliary plastic
      stent to prevent the duodenobiliary reflux by extending the length of duodenal content reflux
      and avoid the stents shift via suspending in intrahepatic duct. In this study,we will design
      a randomized controlled trial to compare the patency of different length of suspended
      overlength biliary stents and ordinary plastic biliary stents in patients with distal
      malignant biliary obstruction to evaluate the effect and safety of suspended overlength
      biliary stents for the prevention of duodenobiliary reflux and the effect of different length
      of the stents.

      The investigators will recruit patients according to admission criteria and exclusion
      criteria. Eligible patients with distal malignant biliary obstruction will be randomly
      divided into 26cm suspended overlength biliary stents group (experimental group) 、30cm
      suspended overlength biliary stents group (experimental group) and ordinary plastic biliary
      stents group (control group).The test groups will be placed the 26cm or 30cm suspended
      overlength biliary stents in introhepatic bile duct in ERCP. The control group will be placed
      ordinary plastic biliary stents in ERCP. The primary endpoint is the duration of stent
      patency and the rate of stent occlusion.The secondary outcomes include the mortality of each
      group, adverse events and the rate of technical success.
    
  