
    
      The study will be conducted as two parts

        1. Derivation group:

           Screening population: Patients with abdominal tuberculosis treated in the
           gastroenterology unit from Jan 2017-Dec 2018 This will involve a retrospective study
           where the patients who have been treated for peritoneal tuberculosis and have full
           records available (as hospital records or Gut-Tuberculosis clinic files) will be
           included and their clinical details and radiological findings (from CT films or images)
           will be entered and compared. The radiological findings between these groups will be
           compared if findings on radiology are discriminative of these three patterns of
           presentation.

        2. Validation Study: This will include prospective study of patients who have underwent
           computed tomography for evaluation of abdominal complaints and are eventually diagnosed
           to have peritoneal tuberculosis. The radiological parameters derived from the derivation
           group will be tested to predict the clinical presentation.

      At the end of the study,the feasibility of a clinico-radiological classification of
      peritoneal tuberculosis.

      The clinical details will be recorded and will include demographic details, diagnostic
      work-up (confirmed/probable), follow-up and classification into one of the three patterns of
      presentation

        1. Distension dominant: Presence of abdominal distention or discomfort, Lack of pain

        2. Pain dominant: Patients having associated significant abdominal pain necessitating
           analgesics or interfering with routine activities

        3. Obstruction dominant; Clear historical and/or radiological evidence of intestinal
           obstruction like abdominal pain associated with distension and obstipation

      Computed tomographic scans/images will be assessed by the two radiologists separately and
      resolved by consensus The radiologists will not have access to any clinical details The
      findings will be recorded on a proforma and will include determination of presence and extent
      of ascites, loculated ascites, peritoneal nodules or masses, omental involvement as nodules
      or masses, mesenteric adenopathy, masses, abdominal lymphadenopathy, presence of clumped
      loops, adhesions, abdominal cocoon etc The three groups will be compared for these
      radiological patterns and a possible correlation between any radiological findings and the
      clinical presentation will be derived.

      The classification derived from the derivation cohort will be tested in validation cohort
      which will be a prospective study. The clinical presentation will be recorded. The CT scans
      will be reviewed by two radiologists blinded to clinical details and the clinical
      presentation will be compared with categorisation based on the radiological findings.
    
  