
    
      Urinary tract infections (UTIs) are the most common bacterial infection and are especially
      common in postmenopausal women, who often experience recurrent UTIs. Women with recurrent
      UTIs are commonly treated with antibiotics, but side effects, collateral damage to commensal
      bacteria, and antimicrobial resistance result from frequent antibiotic use. The Centers for
      Disease Control and Prevention estimate that drug resistance contributes to 23,000 deaths,
      2,049,442 illnesses, and $20 billion dollars in excess direct healthcare costs in the United
      States annually. Thus, it is paramount that researchers develop non-antibiotic treatment
      strategies for UTIs.

      Several non-antibiotic strategies may be successful in preventing recurrent UTIs in
      postmenopausal women. One is low-dose vaginal estrogen, which may decrease the rate of
      recurrent UTIs by decreasing inflammation, promoting bladder repair, and promoting retention
      of lactobacilli. Another is d-mannose, a natural sugar that may decrease bacterial adherence
      to the urothelium. Methenamine hippurate has regained interest recently. First, it causes few
      side effects. Second, it functions by producing formaldehyde in the urine, which kills
      bacteria by denaturing bacterial proteins, RNA, and DNA. Thus far, no methenamine-resistant
      bacteria have been reported to develop in vivo. Lastly, several studies have demonstrated
      that 2 grams daily of methenamine reduces the incidence of UTI and is likely comparable to
      the antibiotic nitrofurantoin for UTI prophylaxis. However, in the investigators' clinical
      experience, women often require multiple therapies in order to prevent recurrence. There are
      currently few guidelines to help clinicians identify optimal treatment regimens for
      prevention of UTI. The clinical challenge is to optimize individual treatment regimens by
      maximizing efficacy and minimizing the number of medications, cost, side effects, and
      nonadherence for each individual.

      The purpose of this pilot study is to 1) examine the feasibility of developing a sequential,
      multiple assignment, randomization trial (SMART) and 2) examine the treatment effect of
      methenamine hippurate in combination with vaginal estrogen and D-mannose on prevention of
      UTI. This adaptive study design allows the investigators to examine the efficacy of
      non-antibiotic prophylaxis and initiation of subsequent preventative therapies based on
      individual responses. It is a pragmatic, longitudinal approach that mimics patients' clinical
      experiences and physicians' decision points during management of UTI prophylaxis. Given the
      efficacy and relative safety of methenamine hippurate, the investigators are particularly
      interested in its efficacy among those who have had suboptimal response to vaginal estrogen
      and D-mannose. The timing of this study is ideal, as the investigators are also currently
      conducting a trial of vaginal estrogen plus D-mannose in postmenopausal women. Through this
      randomized, controlled pilot study, this proposal would allow the investigators to examine
      the feasibility of conducting a larger-scale, adaptive study trial on the use of methenamine
      hippurate in combination with vaginal estrogen plus D-mannose, and estimate the treatment
      effect of a non-antibiotic regimen augmented with methenamine hippurate in women who continue
      to develop recurrence.

      This study is a planned extension of a previously proposed clinical trial on d-mannose and
      vaginal estrogen (IRB#:201711120); however, any postmenopausal women with a history of
      recurrent UTI, who then develop UTI while on a combined prophylaxis regimen of d-mannose and
      vaginal estrogen will be eligible for the randomized controlled trial on methenamine
      augmentation. The investigators plan to examine the efficacy of the addition of methenamine
      hippurate to low dose vaginal estrogen and d-mannose in the UTI prevention through
      randomization to methenamine + vaginal estrogen + D-mannose vs continuing vaginal estrogen +
      D-mannose alone. Patients will be randomized to either the addition of methenamine hippurate
      or continuing with vaginal estrogen + D-mannose alone. The primary outcome will be the
      proportion of patients who have symptomatic, culture-proven UTI during a 3 month treatment
      period. The investigators hypothesize that women on low dose vaginal estrogen, d-mannose, and
      methenamine hippurate will be less likely to have recurrent UTI than those with low dose
      vaginal estrogen and d-mannose alone. As part of the study, baseline information and vaginal,
      urine, and fecal samples may be taken. Additionally, as part of examining feasibility of a
      larger study, recruitment, retention, refusal, non-compliance, and adherence rates will be
      collected. Patients who decline or drop out of the study will be contacted to answer
      questions on reasons for refusal or withdrawal. Subjects who undergo randomization will
      either add methenamine to their ongoing vaginal estrogen + D-mannose, or continue on vaginal
      estrogen + D-mannose alone. They will receive weekly calls or text reminders to record study
      diaries and to take their medications. Patients will follow up at the end of 3 months, at
      their usual follow up appointment, for routine examination, questionnaires, and urine and
      possible vaginal and fecal samples. Follow up may be extended up to 1 month prior or 6 months
      afterward their baseline visit (2-6 months after the baseline visit) for those who do not
      make their 3 months appointment. The investigators also plan to describe the uropathogen
      profile and antibiotic resistance of UTIs that occur during prophylaxis with vaginal estrogen
      + d-mannose, with or without methenamine hippurate. Lastly, the investigators hope to examine
      the impact of a non-antibiotic prophylaxis regimen that includes methenamine hippurate on the
      bladder microenvironment as well as the urinary, vaginal, and intestinal microbiomes.
    
  