
    
      This is a Phase III, multi-center, open-label study to evaluate the long-term safety of
      repeat treatment with PurTox for the treatment of glabellar rhytides. Up to 576 patients will
      be enrolled at 12 sites in the U.S.A. and some of these patients may have participated in
      Mentor Purified Toxin Phase I, II and IIIa studies. Safety and tolerability of the repeat
      treatment with Mentor Purified Toxin will be examined during the study.

      Effectiveness will be determined by the degree of frown line reduction, during maximum forced
      frown and at rest (neutral expression):

        -  as assessed live by the study doctor,

        -  as assessed live by the subject, and;

        -  as assessed by an independent reviewer based on subject photographs

      Frown lines are graded on level of severity based on this scale:

      Severity

        -  Minimal (0)

        -  Mild (1)

        -  Moderate (2)

        -  Severe (3)

      All subjects meeting the study eligibility criteria will be treated with 30 U of Mentor
      Purified Toxin. Following the treatment, follow-up assessments are scheduled as follows:
      telephone safety assessments on post-treatment Days 7 and 14, a clinic visit on
      post-treatment Day 30, and a telephone safety assessment on post-treatment Day 60 and monthly
      thereafter until re-treatment.

      A subject will be re-treated when he/she attains grade 2 (Moderate) or 3 (Severe) in the
      investigator's and subject's ratings of the severity of glabellar rhytides at maximum frown
      on a 4-point categorical scale, but not earlier than 90 days following the prior treatment.
      The subject will call the site when he/she rates the glabellar rhytides as grade 2 or 3 in
      severity to schedule an appointment for re-evaluation and possible re-treatment. The
      appointment must occur within 2 weeks of the subject's call but not earlier than 90 days post
      the previous injection. If at the clinic visit the subject's glabellar rhytides are graded by
      the investigator as grade 2 or 3 in severity and other eligibility criteria are met (e.g.,
      negative urine pregnancy test in female subjects of childbearing potential), the subject will
      be re-treated. If a subject is eligible for re-treatment on or before 90 days post the
      previous injection, he/she will receive treatment of Mentor Purified Toxin on or after 90
      days. If a subject is not eligible for re-treatment at 90 days, he/she can return to the
      clinic monthly until attaining grade 2 (Moderate) or 3 (Severe) in the investigator's and
      subject's ratings of the severity of glabellar rhytides at maximum frown on a 4-point
      categorical scale, at which time he/she will receive another treatment of Mentor Purified
      Toxin.

      If a subject chooses not to be re-treated with Mentor Purified Toxin when he/she becomes
      eligible for re-treatment, the subject will be followed up with the monthly telephone safety
      assessments and annual safety visits to the clinic. It is anticipated that most subjects will
      receive multiple repeat treatments during this study.
    
  