
    
      Post-traumatic osteoarthritis (PTOA) is a common cause of disability following a traumatic
      event involving a joint. It is estimated that PTOA may affect up to 12% of the population
      with symptomatic osteoarthritis, and it is associated with significant cost to the healthcare
      system. Given that the majority of trauma patients are younger, the impact of the condition
      can be particularly devastating for those in the prime of their working careers.

      PTOA can develop following a variety of joint injuries, but it most predictably occurs with
      articular fracture. The initial traumatic injury involves a complex process of articular
      impaction or displacement and soft tissue disruption that leads to articular exposure to
      blood and marrow, a local inflammatory response, abnormal joint loading, and subsequent
      chondrocyte necrosis and apoptosis. However, the mechanism(s) that lead to progression from
      the initial injury to end-stage PTOA are largely unknown.

      Inflammation can have deleterious effects on a joint. Though inflammatory cytokines have been
      shown to stimulate bone repair through osteoclastogenesis and recruitment of osteoblastic
      cells, multiple studies have demonstrated that these cytokines play a role in cartilage
      degradation. Increased IL-1 and TNF-a expression has been found in the cartilage of patients
      with osteoarthritis, and these cytokines are transiently increased after traumatic injury.
      Other matrix molecules including matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-3 and cartilage oligomeric
      matrix protein (COMP) can be persistently elevated in synovial fluid after ACL injury.

      The effect of the initial inflammatory response after intraarticular fracture on the
      development of PTOA remains unknown. Several authors have found elevated levels of cytokines
      in joints affected by trauma. However, these studies evaluated patients following an anterior
      cruciate ligament (ACL) injury. An intraarticular fracture likely subjects the joint to more
      of an inflammatory response and may place the joint at greater risk for developing
      osteoarthritis. There are currently no studies that link elevated levels of the inflammatory
      cytokines and chemokines in the setting of intraarticular trauma with PTOA. Investigating the
      cytokine profile in a joint immediately following intraarticular injury could lead to early
      targeted drug therapy with cytokine inhibitors to modify the progression of PTOA.
    
  