
    
      Myotonic dystrophy type 1 (DM1, Steinert disease) is a multisystem disorder that affects,
      beside muscle, several other organs, including the heart.

      Cardiac involvement represents a major problem in the clinical management of patients, so
      that cardiac complications represent one of the primary causes of premature death in DM1. In
      particular there is a high incidence of sudden death, ranging from 2 to 30% of cases, so far
      principally related to the development of conduction blocks. However, literature reports of
      sudden death in patients implanted with pacemakers, as well as of spontaneous ventricular
      tachycardia would suggest a potential etiologic role also for ventricular arrhythmias. The
      lack of clinical research studies conducted on a large number of patients does not make
      available definite data regarding the etiology and the epidemiology of arrhythmic events in
      DM1. For the same reasons, other considerable topics, such as prognostic stratification of
      the arrhythmic risk and clinical management of life-threatening arrhythmias in DM1 patients,
      are still undefined.

      To clarify these issues, the investigators propose a clinical research study performed on a
      large cohort of DM1 patients enrolled through a multicenter collaboration that also involves
      5 cardiological-neurological Italian centres.

      Aims of this study are:

        -  To estimate the incidence of arrhythmias and to characterize the brady-tachyarrhythmic
           mechanisms underlying the occurrence of cardiac sudden death in DM1;

        -  To verify by statistical analysis the reliability of data obtained from both non
           invasive and invasive diagnostic procedures as indexes useful for estimating the
           arrhythmic risk in DM1;

        -  To identify more adequate therapeutic guidelines in order to prevent the occurrence of
           life-threatening arrhythmias.

      The protocol of study includes:

        1. Clinical-genetic evaluation;

        2. Non invasive and invasive diagnostic cardiac procedures;

        3. The use of devices for diagnostic and therapeutic follow-up.
    
  