
    
      Background and Significance

      Perinatal stroke affects more than1 in 2,300 live births. Perinatal stroke is the most common
      cause of hemiparetic cerebral palsy (CP). Even with prompt behavioral therapy, ongoing
      significant residual motor impairments are common in these children. In this case, innovative
      interventions that take advantage of the early critical window for optimizing outcomes are
      urgently needed-in infancy. Thus, understanding the early brain reorganization before the
      brain has not yet largely reorganized is critical for developing efficacious early
      intervention.

      Current pediatric studies have employed non-invasive brain stimulation, and most commonly use
      the single or paired-pulses of Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS) to evaluate brain
      plasticity by assessing cortical excitability. To date, there is only one infant study using
      TMS to assess cortical excitability with perinatal stroke. As a unique aspect of
      investigation, this study will combine Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI)/ Diffusion Tensor
      Imaging (DTI) and TMS to provide an additional opportunity to assess both the cortical
      excitability and corticospinal tract (CST) integrity in infants with perinatal stroke.

      Identifying the association between laboratory assessment results and developmental outcomes
      is also critical. The General Movements Assessment (GMA) is a quick and non-invasive way to
      evaluate motor performance and to predict CP in high-risk infants before 20 weeks of age
      (corrected age for preterm infants). The BSID-III is a standardized, norm-referenced
      developmental assessment validated for use for children 1-42 months of age to assess motor
      function. Thus, the purpose of this study is to use MRI/DTI and TMS to comprehensively
      examine both the CST integrity and cortical excitability in infants following perinatal
      stroke, and to identify association with motor outcome as evaluated by movement assessment

      Specific Aims/Study Objectives

      Aim 1: Use TMS to index maladaptive cortical reorganization by assessing the relative
      excitability of corticospinal projections from each hemisphere to upper extremity musculature
      in 3 to 24 month old children who have a confirmed diagnosis of perinatal stroke.

      Hypothesis: The ipsilesional hemisphere will have a smaller "map volume" (lower cortical
      excitability) than the contralesional hemisphere (larger map volume).

      Aim 2: Index maladaptive cortical reorganization by evaluating the organizational integrity
      of the CSTs bilaterally via fractional anisotropy (FA), a standardized metric derived from
      DTI, in infants with perinatal stroke.

      Hypothesis 1: Ipsilesional CST will have a lower value of FA than the contralesional CST.

      Hypothesis 2: Smaller cortical excitability volumes will be associated with lower values of
      FA.

      Aim 3: For infants with perinatal stroke, examine the relationship between movement quality
      derived from the movement assessment and cortical excitability and with CST integrity.

      Hypothesis: Atypical movement assessment outcome scores will be associated with a lower FA
      value and lower ipsilesional CST excitability.

      Aim 4: Record any feasibility issues that arise, and monitor for adverse events during TMS
      cortical mapping and MRI scanning of infants with perinatal stroke.

      Hypothesis 1: TMS and MRI assessments of infants with perinatal stroke are feasible.

      Hypothesis 2: No seizure or other serious adverse event related to TMS or MRI/DTI will occur
      in this study.

      Additional Aims as of October 2019:

      Aim 5: Evaluate relationship between legion, heterogeneity, and cortical motor excitability
      and circuitry

      Hypothesis: The larger the lesion the higher the motor threshold and the greater the
      probability of atypical ipselateral CST circuitry

      Aim 6: Using MRI and computational modeling to estimate individualized electric fields from
      each infants neuroanatomy

      Hypothesis 1: The larger the lesion and motor threshold the lower the model peak electric
      field Hypothesis 2: There is an association between the electric field and individual
      neuroanatomy

      Research Design and Methods

      Study design and sample size: This study will be a cross-sectional, two-visit pilot study
      with MRI scanning on Visit 1, and TMS and movement assessment testing on the Visit 2. Thirty
      term or preterm infants between 3 and 24 months of age corrected for prematurity with the
      diagnosis of perinatal stroke will be enrolled.

      Subjects Recruitment Plan:

      Stage 1: For families who contact the investigators with interest in this study after seeing
      the recruitment letter or flyer, initial screening process will be completed. This includes
      review of medical records obtained by signatures on an authorization form to list the clinics
      to be contacted for medical records.

      Stage 2: Once the investigators have determined eligibility for study criteria for the
      infant, they will mail the family the consent and HIPAA for review, follow-up with a phone
      call to discuss any questions and then schedule a consent meeting to discuss and obtain
      signatures. If the family deems appropriate, this can occur on the same day as Visit 1.

      Procedures

      Visit 1 (MRI/DTI)

      Preparatory Activity:

      One week prior to Visit 1, the study team will educate caregivers as to how to prepare the
      infant for the optimal MRI experience. Caregivers will receive a digital file with a
      recording of the MRI operation sound. The caregivers will be asked to play these sounds while
      the infant sleeps so they become familiarized with these noises.

      Day of Visit:

      Infants will be fed, by their caregiver in a separate calming room, and then allowed to fall
      asleep for MRI scanning. A memory foam mattress for infants will be used to support them
      firmly and comfortably on the scanner table. Both silicone infant ear plugs and ear protector
      will both be used to diminish the noises during scanning. One researcher will stay with the
      infants throughout the scanning session to ensure and monitor infants' responses and safety.
      Subjects will be scanned on a Siemens 3Tesla (magnet strength) system at the Center for
      Magnetic Resonance Research (CMRR).

      The scan protocol will include both an anatomical T1-weighted structural MPRAGE scan with
      spatial resolution 1x1x1mm3 that will be used to guide the TMS testing in Aim 2 and DTI which
      will allow investigation of the variation in connectivity of the CST in these infants with
      perinatal stroke. High angular resolution diffusion imaging (HARDI) with whole-brain coverage
      using the 'Human Connectome Project' (HCP) DTI sequence and spatial resolution
      1.8x1.8x1.8mm3, b-value=1500 s/mm2, 128 gradient directions and 15 additional non-diffusion
      weighted images will be obtained. HCP tractographic methods will be applied to the HARDI data
      to define the two CST's and compute the integrity metrics of track volume and mean fractional
      anisotropy (FA). The complete MRI dataset will be obtained in less than 38 minutes.

      Visit 2 (Movement Assessment and TMS):

      Visit 2 will be scheduled within 7 days after Visit 1 to avoid nonsynchronous results of
      MRI/DTI and TMS due to natural developmental changes of central nervous system.

      Movement Assessment:

      For GMA scoring, infants will be placed in supine position wearing only a diaper to allow for
      clear observation of trunk and limbs spontaneous movements. Infants will be observed and
      videotaped for 5-10 minutes in an awake but calm state without interacting with people around
      them or while playing with a toy. The classifications of "typical" and "atypical" of
      different movement categories of GMA will be determined to define the ranks of motor outcomes
      in each infant.

      The BSID-III motor scales will be administered and scored by a pediatric physical therapist.
      This assessment will take approximately 30-45 minutes to complete and involves assessing a
      child's natural movements and interactions with toys and objects. The BSID-III is a
      norm-referenced assessment that allows comparison of scores to typically developing age
      matched peers.

      TMS:

      Single-pulse TMS (Bistim2, Magstim, UK) with a 50mm figure-of-eight coil (P/N4186-00,Magstim,
      UK) will be used to assess cortical excitability from the M1 region of both the ipsilesional
      and contralesional hemispheres under the guidance of a frameless stereotactic neuronavigation
      system (Brainsight, Rogue Research, Montreal, Quebec, Canada). Each infant's MRI will be
      projected onto the neuronavigation system to assist with localization of the motor cortex (T1
      MPRage).

      Mapping (10 minutes): A 5-by-5 cortical grid of target (25 targets in total) with the
      interval 1 cm (4X4 cm2) will be generated over the motor cortex area in the Neuronavigation
      System. A response map based on the peak-to-peak amplitude of MEP will be created in real
      time by a customized program (LabVIEW, v2012, National Instruments, Austin, TX) program.

      Hotspot determination and motor threshold determination (15 minutes): The target with the
      greatest motor evoke potential (MEP) peak-to-peak amplitude will be defined as the hotspot
      which is the most responsive location on the motor cortex. After determining the hotspot, the
      motor threshold (MT) will be assessed over the hotspot. We define the resting MT as the
      minimal TMS output necessary to produce MEPs with a peak-to-peak amplitude >50 microvolts in
      at least 3 out of 5 consecutive trials. EMG signal will be recorded using surface
      electromyography (EMG) electrodes attached over bilateral biceps based. All data will be
      collected by a custom EMG amplifier and data acquisition system and stored by LabVIEW program
      (National Instruments, Austin, TX) for offline analysis.

      Anticipated Risks/Risk Mitigation:

      MRI-Dislodging of indwelling metals and disruption of medical devices: Exclude if
      metal/medical devices are incompatible.

      MRI-Metal projectiles inadvertently presented during MRI: Conduct on-site screen and removal
      of potential projectiles (coins, keys, etc).

      MRI-Temporary mild hearing loss due to noise level of equipment: Subjects will wear earplugs
      (~20 decibel reduction) and headphones (~35 dB reduction) during MRI to protect against
      excessive noise MRI-Discomfort due to positioning: Investigator to be present in MRI room
      throughout the scan with visual and tactile monitoring MRI-Wake up and move during the MRI
      scanning: One investigator will stay with the infants throughout the scanning process to
      monitor infants' arousal state and secure the infants if the infants are fully awake
      TMS-Stimulation over a tumor which may alter metabolic activity: Screen appropriately for
      exclusion criteria of neoplasm.

      TMS-Threshold altering pharmacologic agent: Physician review of each medical record for
      determination of appropriateness for study inclusion.

      TMS-Pain: Age-appropriate Vital signs (HR, RR and BP), skin integrity, distress responses
      will be continuously monitored for determination of pausing or stopping.

      TMS-Fatigue, Sleepiness: Infant arousal state will be monitored and recorded each minute
      during the TMS test TMS-Temporary mild hearing loss due to noise level of equipment: Silicon
      infant-appropriate ear plugs will be inserted before TMS and continuously checked for
      placement.

      TMS-Safe practices will be further ensured by establishing the location for testing within
      the University of Minnesota's Clinical and Translational Science Institute (CTSI), where the
      equipment and personnel to manage a seizure or other complications are present if an adverse
      event occurs, the protocol will be following and the infant will be assessed and the study
      reviewed for safety.

      TMS-No serious adverse events have been reported from the few published studies investigating
      TMS in infants. As the innovation of this study is to investigate comprehensively both the
      safety and feasibility of TMS and neuroimaging in infant, we have devised complete individual
      and entire study stopping rules.

      GMA-Concern for facial recognition and loss of anonymity: The recording will be destroyed
      after it is coded, up to 5 years after the completion of the study. This recording will not
      be used for any purposes outside of the research study.

      (The longitudinal component described in this paragraph has been removed as of October 2019)
      Follow up assessments will be repeated at 12 and 24 months of age corrected for prematurity.
      The investigators will incorporate a follow-up phone call 1-month after participation to
      continue the assessment of safety. Questions pertaining to change in medical status,
      including any onset of seizures will be asked.
    
  