
    
      Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is highly comorbid with personality disorders (PD),
      mainly borderline (BPD) and cluster C personality disorders (CPD). It is not clear yet what
      treatment is most effective for those who suffer both PTSD and PD. There is growing
      preference in clinicians for evidence-based PTSD treatments, such as Eye Movement
      Desensitization and Reprocessing (EMDR) or Imagination and Rescripting (ImRs), because these
      treatments are relative short, and there is some evidence that comorbid PD symptoms might
      resolve as well. However, at least 30-44% PTSD patients do not sufficiently respond to PTSD
      treatments or are excluded because of suicidality or self-harm. PD treatments are more
      intensive than PTSD treatments, e.g. Dialectical Behavior Therapy (DBT) and Schema-Focused
      Therapy (SFT) . There is some evidence that integrated PTSD-PD treatment is twice as
      effective than PD treatment alone, but integrated PTSD-PD treatment is not yet directly
      compared to PTSD treatment alone. This study will address this knowledge gap, including
      secondary outcome measures on functioning, quality of life and cost-effectiveness.

      For patients with comorbid PTSD and BPD, EMDR-only will be compared to integrated EMDR-DGT
      (PROSPER-B).

      Psychological (cognitive, affective, and relational) and neurobiological candidate predictors
      and mediators of treatment outcome will be investigated through a machine-learning paradigm,
      in order to develop a clinically useful and individual prediction instrument of treatment
      outcome. Example predictors and mediators are educational level , working memory, hyper- and
      hypo-arousal , therapeutic alliance and social support, resting state fMRI, an emotional face
      task fMRI , cortisol levels from hair samples and (epi)genetic markers. For the
      neurobiological prediction, a subgroup of patients will undergo MRI scans, as will healthy
      controls as control subjects.
    
  