
    
      This protocol seeks to improve proprioceptive-motor function. Proprioception refers to the
      perception of limb position or motion and the orientation of one's body in space. Numerous
      medical conditions with motor symptoms are also associated with proprioceptive loss, such as
      osteoarthritis, Parkinson's disease, peripheral sensory neuropathy, stroke, and developmental
      coordination disorder.

      However, therapies to improve proprioceptive function in these populations are either
      non-existent or very limited in scope although it is established that proprioceptive
      impairments severely degrade motor function. The proposed protocol focuses on proprioception
      for fine motor function of the hand/wrist joint complex, because hand/wrist motor control is
      highly important for activities of daily living.

      The specific aims are to determine if a 2-day wrist proprioceptive training:

        1. improves limb position sense acuity,

        2. improves the spatial precision of wrist/hand motor tasks,

        3. increases the efficiency of performing such motor tasks,

        4. is associated with neural changes in cortical processing as measured by short-latency
           somatosensory evoke potentials (SEP) and motor evoked potentials (MEP) using
           transcranial magnetic stimulation.

      The study follows a crossover design with two arms and two groups. Time frame for the
      completion of the study is up to 7 days depending on the start day of the week (Monday
      through Friday). No testing will occur on the weekend.

      Group 1 will have the following time frame: Day 1: pre-test (approx. 3 hrs.) and training
      intervention (approx. 30 min.). Day 2: training intervention (approx. 30 min.) and post-test
      1 (approx. 3 hrs.). Days 3-6: Usual care (min. of 2 days required). Days 5-7: Post-test 2
      (depending on the start day of the week, it is either Day 5,6, or 7).

      Group 2 will have the following time frame: Day 1: pre-test 1 (approx. 3 hrs.). Days 2-4:
      Usual care (min. of 2 days required). Days 4-6: pre-test 2 (approx. 3 hrs.) and training
      intervention (approx. 30 min.). Days 5-7: Training intervention and post-test 1 (depending on
      the start day of the week, it is either Day 5,6, or 7).
    
  