
    
      Aim 1: To examine the long term cardiac involvements of recovered COVID-19 patients at 3, 6,
      12 months after being discharged from the hospital or symptom resolution with
      electrocardiogram (ECG) and echocardiography. 12 lead ECG will be obtained for all patients.
      Transthoracic echocardiography will be performed using GE Vivid E9 ultrasound system to
      measure left ventricular (LV) dimensions, LV volumes and LV ejection fraction (EF), wall
      thickness, LV mass, and LV remodeling index. LV diastolic function will be characterized by
      maximum velocities of mitral inflow E and A waves, E/A ratio, E/E' ratio (maximum myocardial
      velocities (E') of the lateral mitral annulus), isovolumetric relaxation time, tricuspid
      regurgitation velocity, and left atrial volumes. Right-ventricular function will be assessed
      by tricuspid annular plane systolic excursion (TAPSE), pulmonary acceleration time, and by
      estimation of systolic pulmonary artery pressure. We will evaluate mitral, aortic, tricuspid
      and pulmonic valvular stenosis and regurgitation. In addition, speckle tracking
      echocardiography will be used to detect subclinical impairment of myocardium in patients who
      have grossly normal LVEF. Lastly, inferior vena cava will be measured to assess patients'
      volume status.

      Aim 2: To evaluate long term pulmonary involvements of recovered COVID-19 patients at 3, 6,
      12 months after being discharged from the hospital or symptom resolution with pulse oximetry,
      bedside spirometry and lung ultrasound. Pulse oximetry, bedside spirometry, and lung
      ultrasonography (LUS) will be performed for all patients. The pathological LUS features for
      every zone will be reported as: (1) normal appearance (A lines, < 3 B lines), (2) pathologic
      B lines (≥3 B lines), (3) confluent B lines, (4) thickening of the pleura with pleural line
      irregularities (subpleural consolidation < 1 cm), (5) consolidation (≥ 1 cm), (6) pleural
      effusion. The LUS score, used as a correlate of loss of lung tissue aeration, as well as a
      normalized LUS score corrected for the number of examined zone, will be calculated in every
      patient.

      Aim 3: To diagnose long term vascular involvements of recovered COVID-19 patients at 3, 6, 12
      months after being discharged from the hospital or symptom resolution with vascular
      ultrasound. A trained physician or sonographer will use high resolution gray-scale imaging,
      color Doppler ultrasound and spectral analysis with pulse wave Doppler to examine bilateral
      upper/lower extremity venous and arterial systems and carotid arteries for thrombosis,
      atheroma, and stenosis.
    
  