
    
      This randomized health services study will be performed within national population-based
      screening program (PCSP) in Poland, including its population, infrastructure and database
      system.

      Individuals aged 55-64 years old, included in PCSP willl be randomly assigned (in 1:1:1
      ratio, stratified by gender, age, place of residence) to study arms and invited to screening
      colonoscopy to local PSCP centers.

      Invitation process by post in Control group (1) and partially in Combined group (3) - will be
      performed by coordinating PCSP center (practice as usual).

      Recruitment by telephone conversation in Call Center group (2) and partially in Combined
      group (3) - will be performed by Screening Up call center company. Colonoscopies will be
      performed in 6 selected PCSP centers.

      The sample size of 2,100 participants per group (350 participants from each group in each
      center, assuming 5% drop out and access to telephone numbers of 30% participants in relevant
      arms; calculation is based on a 95% confidence interval +/- 5% error probability) was
      calculated to detect a difference in participation rate of 15% in control group (based on
      PCSP participation rate in 2019) vs. 18.7% in Call Center group vs 25% in Combined Invitation
      group (0.025 significance level with 80% power). The difference was calculated for the
      Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test, assuming that the initial reporting in the control group will
      be as high as it was in 2019.

      Differences in participation rate to screening colonoscopy between the study groups and the
      control group will be performed using Ochran-Mantel-Haenszel test (two-sided analysis),
      taking into account initial differences between rates at the significance level of 0.05.

      The Principal Investigator of the study asked the Bioethical Committee with a request to
      release participants from signing of informed consent form to participation in the study, as
      they take part in a nationwide PSCP, financed by Ministry of Health in Poland - the study
      character is the Randomized Health Services Study.
    
  