
    
      Colorectal cancer is the second most common cause of cancer death in the UK with an average
      5-year survival of 50%. There is a lack of classical chemotherapy response in metastatic
      colorectal cancer with the approved drugs currently on the market, which has prompted the
      investigation of angiogenesis inhibitors as a new chemotherapeutic agent. Pre-clinical use of
      angiogenesis inhibitors with conventional cytotoxic chemotherapy has shown to have more
      effect, but so far these results have not been replicated in human studies. Furthermore, the
      toxicity profiles for these drugs when combined with chemotherapy has so far outweighed any
      benefit they may hold for patients. With this in mind, are we perhaps not dosing correctly?
      Would changing the dosing schedule optimise the balance between efficacy versus toxicity?

      AXMUS-C is a phase II randomised, placebo-controlled study testing the efficacy of the VEGF
      inhibitor, Axitinib, as monotherapy for patients with chemo-refractory colorectal cancer with
      liver metastases.

      A-013736 (Axitinib) is a selective inhibitor of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)
      receptors 1, 2 and 3, and is therefore classed as an angiogenesis inhibitor with VEGF
      receptors effectively being blocked and thus cannot stimulate the signalling pathway
      responsible for cell proliferation resulting in the growth of blood vessels to feed the
      tumour. Several studies in other solid tumours have shown that when taken orally the main
      side effect of Axitinib is fatigue, with 51% of subjects reporting varying grades of
      severity. Axitinib has been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the
      treatment of advanced renal cell carcinoma after failure of one prior systemic therapy. It
      has not been approved for colorectal cancer.

      Additionally, the research will also assess the potential for early CEHPI (Contrast Enhanced
      Hepatic Perfusion Index) reduction to predict response to therapy with Axitinib, with the
      hypothesis being that patients with an early ≥20% reduction in CEHPI will have improved
      overall survival, compared to those who do not. Early relative reductions of over 20% has
      previously been shown to correlate with conventional stable disease and partial response by
      RECIST. [CEHPI] has been developed with the idea that it can identify responders to the
      anti-VEGF therapy much earlier than the conventionally used established RECIST method. It is
      a technique that measures the changes in how the blood vessels pump blood into the different
      liver metastases (tumours) and therefore can be used to assess and predict response to
      treatment, as it is known that arterialisation support the growth of malignant tumours in the
      liver whereas usually the portal vein supplies 70% of the blood to normal liver parenchyma.
      Contrast enhanced ultrasound differ from the standard ultrasound with the intravenous
      injection of 2mL of SonoVue before the Philips iu22 platform and a C5-1 transducer are used
      to record a one-minute cine loop.
    
  