
    
      The aim of this randomized 5-arm clinical trial is to evaluate the effect of combined
      anabolic interventions compared to single or placebo interventions on physical performance in
      community-dwelling (pre)sarcopenic elderly (≥ 65 years) living in Belgium. Physical
      performance will be evaluated using the Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB). Muscle
      mass will be measured using a DXA and/or BIA. Muscle strength will be measured by the Biodex
      (knee-extensor and knee-flexor) and a 1 hand-held dynamometer. The trial will also determine
      the underlying mechanisms of action using blood measures (such as markers of inflammation and
      sarcopenia) and muscle biomarkers. Important secondary outcome measures are compliance to the
      exercise program and to the protein and omega-3 supplementation, as well as functional,
      cognitive and nutritional status and the patients report on benefits and adverse events.

      The study consists of four parts. Part I is the screening phase, which starts from the moment
      the participant has signed the informed consent until the start of the preparations of the
      study. During the screening, participants will be assessed for study eligibility by the study
      coordinator and contributors. If the participant is eligible, he or she will be randomly
      assigned into 1 of 5 intervention groups: Group 1: Exercise intervention; Group 2: Protein
      supplement; Group 3: Exercise intervention + protein supplement; Group 4: Exercise + Protein
      supplement + omega-3 supplement; Group 5: No intervention.

      Part II is the preparation phase, in which the participants starts some of the interventions
      before the start of the study to familiarize patients with e.g. the intake of a protein
      supplement. All the participants will take an oral vitamin D supplement (800 IU
      cholecalciferol) from 4 weeks before the start of the intervention if their vitamin D level
      is above 20 nmol/L. Patients with a vitamin D level < 20 nmol/L will receive repletion
      therapy. A trial diary will be completed by all participants to record PA, falls and intake
      of protein/omega3/placebo and vitamin D products. Participants in the exercise intervention
      (group 1, 3 and 4) will be invited to an information session where the Otago Exercise Program
      (OEP) will be explained and practiced. With respect to the protein supplementation,
      participants will receive an individually adapted protein supplement to achieve the
      recommended total daily intake of 1.5 g protein/kg. This will be realized by adding an
      individualized amount (g) of protein powder during breakfast, lunch, dinner or snack between,
      before or after meals, based on the subjects' food intake assessed by a food diary. The
      protein powder is commercially available and consists of 4.5g protein/ 5g powder. The
      participants in group 2, 3 and 4 will start taking the protein supplement or matched placebo
      5 days before the start of the intervention. Four weeks before the start of the intervention,
      the participants of group 4 will start with the intake of omega-3 (1 capsule providing in
      total 500 mg EPA (eicosapentanoic acid) and 450 mg DHA (docosahexanoic acid)) or matched
      placebo. Placebo will be provided for the participants who are not given a protein and/or
      omega-3 supplement. Participants are blinded to the nutritional interventions.

      The third part of the study, the intervention period, takes 12 weeks. During this period,
      there are 8 contact moments (at baseline, week 1, week 2, week 4, week 6, week 8, week 10 and
      week 12). All the participants continue with the vitamin D supplementation. Participants in
      the exercise intervention (group 1, 3 and 4) will perform the optimized and personally
      adapted OEP and will also follow a walking plan. The strength exercises of the OEP are
      personalised based on the individual's 1 repetition maximum. Balance exercises of the OEP are
      personalised based on improvements on MiniBESTest scores during the intervention period. The
      nutritional intervention groups (protein supplementation: group 2, 3 and 4 and omega-3
      supplementation: group 4) continue with the protein and/or omega-3 supplements until the last
      visit of the intervention period.

      Part IV is the follow-up period, after the intervention. This phase takes 12 weeks and exists
      of 2 telephone contacts and 2 contact moments. All the participants continue the vitamin D
      supplementation until the last visit of the follow-up. The exercise intervention group (group
      1, 3 and 4) may continue the OEP, but no personal encouragement will be given during this
      period. No protein and/ or omega-3 supplements will be given during the follow-up.

      Several outcomes will be measured during the contact moments of the intervention period and
      follow-up period (part III and part IV). This will be done by questionnaires about
      nutritional status, fall history and use of health care (from baseline until end of
      follow-up), and evaluation of functional and cognitive status. Blood, urine and muscle
      samples will be taken. The physical activity will be measured by wearing a movement tracker.
      All participants will wear a movement tracker 5 days before the intervention period and
      during the first two weeks of the intervention period and last two weeks of the intervention
      period, and during the last 2 weeks of the follow-up period. Participants who receive an
      exercise intervention (group 1, 3 and 4) will be encouraged to wear the movement tracker
      during the complete intervention period. The participants will complete a four-day food diary
      throughout the trial at week 1, week 6, week 12 and week 24. The participants will be asked
      for compliance during the preparation period and intervention period and their fall history
      which can be monitored by using diaries during the intervention period and the follow-up
      period.
    
  