
    
      Inflammation is increasingly recognized as playing a central role in atherosclerosis and
      coronary artery disease. And, peripheral blood markers of inflammation have been associated
      with incident and recurrent cardiac events. The relationship of these risk markers-which have
      the potential to be modified-to prognosis after ischemic stroke is less clear.

      The Levels of Inflammatory Markers in the Treatment of Stroke (LIMITS) study will address
      questions about the role of inflammatory markers in secondary stroke prevention in a
      cost-effective manner using the well-established framework of the Secondary Prevention of
      Small Subcortical Strokes (SPS3) trial. The SPS3 trial is an ongoing Phase 3, multicenter
      secondary stroke prevention trial that focuses on preventing stroke recurrence in people with
      small vessel ischemic stroke, or lacunes.

      The overall purpose of the LIMITS study is to determine if serum levels of inflammatory
      markers-such as hsCRP, serum amyloid A (SAA), CD40 ligand (CD40L), and monocyte
      chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1)-predict recurrent stroke and other vascular events among
      people with a history of small artery ischemic stroke. The project will also determine if
      these markers predict which people will respond best to dual antiplatelet therapy with
      clopidogrel and aspirin.

      The specific aims of LIMITS are to determine if hsCRP, SAA, CD40L, and MCP-1 levels are
      independent risk factors for recurrent ischemic stroke, and for recurrent ischemic stroke,
      myocardial infarction, and death in participants in the SPS3 trial after adjusting for
      demographic and traditional stroke risk factors, and other treatments, using a prospective
      cohort of people with small subcortical strokes from the SPS3 trial. LIMITS also aims to
      compare the efficacy of dual versus single antiplatelet therapy among participant groups with
      and without elevated baseline inflammatory marker levels for the outcome of a.) recurrent
      stroke, and b.) recurrent ischemic stroke, myocardial infarction, or death.
    
  