
    
      Group B Streptococcus (GBS) is a bacterium (a bug) that causes serious infections in young
      infants across the world. In 2015 it was estimated that there were at least 319,000 infants
      under 3 months of age with GBS disease worldwide, resulting in 90,000 deaths and at least
      10,000 children with long term disabilities. Around 20% of all pregnant women carry GBS in
      their vagina and bowel and babies are exposed to GBS bacteria around the time of birth. The
      options for prevention are currently limited to offering antibiotics during labour.

      A vaccine that could be given to pregnant women has the greatest potential to benefit mothers
      and babies worldwide. There are vaccines currently being tested in clinical trials, including
      in pregnant women. The iGBS3 study aims to find out what levels of immunity (usually measured
      as antibody) a woman needs to pass to her baby to protect the baby from getting GBS disease.
      This will allow us to predict what antibody level a vaccine has to achieve to be effective
      and then to get those vaccines licensed and implemented as quickly as possible.

      To do this, the study need to take a small sample of cord blood from a very large number of
      women just after delivering their baby. The study will need to follow around 180 000 babies
      in order to find at least 170 babies with GBS disease (of which 100 will have disease with
      the most common type) and compare their levels of antibody in cord blood with 300 healthy
      babies exposed to the same GBS type. To achieve this, SGUL will work with the Nottingham
      Clinical Trials Unit to embed this study in their existing GBS3 Trial, in which 80 hospitals
      across England, Scotland and Wales will be involved for 2 years.

      Study Design iGBS3 is a large, multicentre, prospective, unmatched case control study in the
      UK designed to compare levels of antibody in cord blood in mothers whose infants develop GBS
      disease (iGBS) and colonised mothers whose infants do not develop GBS disease. To achieve
      this, the project aim to recruit at least 170 babies with GBS disease (of which 100 will have
      disease with the most common type) and 300 healthy babies exposed to the same GBS type. An
      exploratory substudy will look into levels of antibody in cord blood in mothers whose infants
      develop severe bacterial or viral infections caused by pathogens other than GBS.

      Duration The overall duration of the project is planned for 36 months. This includes 2 months
      set-up, 12 months recruitment for Phase 1, 4 months for interval analysis, 12 months
      recruitment for Phase 2, 6 months for final retrieval of data, analysis and write-up.

      Two phases

        1. Phase 1 - cord blood collection and blood from an infant at time of GBS disease to
           establish the correlation between antibody at time of disease and cord blood

        2. Phase 2 - if Phase 1 demonstrates that the correlation is strong, then in Phase 2
           collection of blood from disease cases is required only; if Phase 2 shows a weak
           correlation, then in Phase 2 prospective collection of cord blood will continue.
    
  