
    
      Design: This study will be designed as a phase II single-arm 3+3 dose-escalation pilot study.

      Protocol: Sedation will be measured using the Dartmouth Operative Conditions Scale (DOCS), an
      instrument validated for video scoring of children undergoing painful procedures. The DOCS is
      scored from -4 to +4 easily by non-medical personnel and assesses over sedation and under
      sedation. Adequate sedation is a score from -2 to +2. Participants will be consecutively
      assigned to increasing doses of IND from 1-4 mcg/kg. Three participants will receive each
      dose level. If all three are adequately sedated, without requiring additional sedation and
      are compliant with IND sprays, the dose will be escalated for the next three participants. If
      one participant is either not adequately sedated, requires additional sedation, or is
      non-compliant with IND, three additional participants are treated at this dose. If > 2
      participants are either not adequately sedated, require additional sedation, or are
      non-compliant with IND, the prior dose will be defined as the optimal phase II dose and
      recruitment will cease. The optimal phase II dose will be defined as the dose in which (i)
      five of six participants achieve adequate sedation (DOCS -2 to +2) for the measurement period
      (every 30 seconds from the start of preprocedural positioning to tying of the last suture)
      AND (ii) no additional sedation is required AND (iii) participants are compliant with IND.
      Serious adverse events as defined by the Quebec Guidelines on paediatric procedural sedation.
      Data will be reviewed after each dose by a data safety monitoring board, who will confirm it
      is safe to escalate. Permissible co-interventions include topical and subcutaneous
      anesthetic, oral or IV analgesics, non-pharmacologic strategies for pain and distress.

      Screening and Enrollment: Participants will be consecutively screened for eligibility during
      the hours of study recruitment.

      Sample Size: This was calculated using the Bayesian continual reassessment method (20). Based
      on an adverse event rate of 10%, 4 dosing levels, an odds ratio for the effect size of 1.8,
      and a phase II trial accuracy level of 60%, an estimated a sample size of 54 participants was
      calculated.
    
  