
    
      The Inattentive subtype (IN) of Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder was newly defined in
      DSM-IV (1994). Recent epidemiological studies suggest that IN is at least as common and as
      impairing academically and socially as the more commonly recognized Combined type (CB).
      However, little is known about the etiology, course and outcome, or treatment of the IN type.
      Notably, although stimulant drugs are commonly used clinically to treat the disorder, there
      have been no systematic studies of its efficacy in the IN subtype. Differences between the IN
      and CB subtypes in behavioral phenotype, as well as in gender ratio, age of onset, and
      comorbidity suggest there may be critical differences in neurobiology, which may have
      relevance for response to drug treatments. The lack of data concerning stimulant drug
      efficacy in the IN type thus constitutes an important issue from the perspective of public
      health and quality of care. The proposed research is responsive to the current RFA in that it
      will study the efficacy of an established treatment (stimulants) in a new patient population
      (the IN subtype). A second specific aim is to test a hypothesis, emerging from a review of
      the literature, of divergence between dose-response curves for effects on activity and
      attention. We predict that the dose that optimizes performance on ratings of
      hyperactivity-impulsivity will be lower than that which optimizes performance on ratings of
      academic function and on the neuropsychological tests. We will similarly examine whether
      differences in dose-response curves for specific functions extend to differences between
      subtypes in optimal dose. The final aim of the current study is to compare the IN and CB
      subtypes with respect to selected measures of neurocognitive function on placebo and in
      response to drug treatment. We predict that the IN subtype will perform more poorly on
      measures of spatial orienting and stimulus encoding, whereas the CB subtype will show greater
      deficits on measures of cognitive inhibitory control, and that both types of cognitive
      deficit will respond to drug treatment.
    
  