
    
      Total knee arthroplasty (TKA) is a commonly performed and successful surgical procedure that
      has been shown to dramatically decrease pain and improve patient's function and quality of
      life. Certain patients may present with significant pain and limitations due to pain in both
      knees and based on age, health and degree of deformity may be candidates for bilateral
      simultaneous total knee arthroplasty. The safety and efficacy of simultaneous bilateral total
      knee arthroplasty has been well documented in the literature.

      Inadequate postoperative pain control following TKA has been one of the greatest sources of
      patient dissatisfaction following total knee arthroplasty. Traditionally, it has been managed
      with parenteral and oral narcotics. Recently, a number of studies have demonstrated the
      efficacy of multimodal analgesia following a variety of surgical procedures. These multimodal
      regimens vary and consist of any number of medications including non-steroidal
      anti-inflammatories, anti-epileptics, and peripheral nerve blocks among others. These
      multimodal regimens have been associated with a reduction in the use of opioid analgesics,
      leading to fewer opioid-associated adverse events.

      One of the newest modalities introduced on the market is liposomal bupivacaine (Exparel).
      Liposomal bupivacaine is a lipid encapsulated bupivacaine that allows for depo administration
      of the medication into the soft tissue during a surgical procedure. The lipids are engineered
      to slowly release over an approximately 72 hour time period, resulting in the slow release of
      free bupivacaine in to the soft tissue of the surgical site. This has the proposed advantage
      of a longer duration of analgesia compared to standard bupivacaine injections.

      Liposomal bupivacaine is applied in a periarticular injection at the conclusion of TKAs to
      aid in post-operative pain control. Due to the lipid encapsulation of the bupivacaine, only
      3% free bupivacaine is released into the tissue at initial infiltration, with the remainder
      released slowly over approximately a 72 hour time frame. To cover, this gap period, the
      liposomal bupivacaine is mixed with standard bupivacaine to allow for an immediate analgesic
      effect.

      A potential risk, although low, is the concern for bupivacaine toxicity. Toxicity from
      bupivacaine is associated with central nervous system issues (seizures) and cardiac toxicity.
      Toxicity is dose dependent and recommended levels should not exceed 400mg/24 hr period. With
      the use of bupivacaine into each surgical site, there is a theoretical risk, if administered
      intra-vascularly, of bupivacaine toxicity. To date, no study has evaluated the safety of
      liposomal bupivacaine when used in simultaneous bilateral total knee arthroplasty. The use of
      liposomal bupivacaine is FDA approved for infiltration of one vial into one surgical site.
      Other specialties have evaluated the use of one vial of liposomal bupivacaine into two
      surgical sites (breast augmentation) at one surgery without any adverse events.

      To date, approximately 8-10 patients at the investigator's institution have undergone
      simultaneous bilateral total knee arthroplasty with the use of liposomal bupivacaine without
      a known adverse event. A recent study published by Bramlett (2012) used 2 vials (532mg) in
      one knee to evaluate efficacy. There were no changes in patient's vitals signs or cardiac
      events in those patients receiving liposomal bupivacaine at the highest dose. In addition, a
      study by Bergese looked at doses of up to 600mg of liposomal bupivacaine in a Phase 2 safety
      study and found no adverse cardiac events. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the serum
      levels (pharmacokinetics) of bupivacaine in a series of patients undergoing simultaneous
      bilateral total knee arthroplasty with the use of a standardize periarticular injection
      containing free bupivacaine and liposomal bupivacaine.
    
  