
    
      Although a formal hypothesis will not be tested in this observational study, it is
      hypothesized that the clinical risk factors ranked as the most important when conducting FN
      risk assessments by investigators are aligned with international guidelines and published
      data. Also, that the investigator's decision to treat with G-CSF PP is influenced by clinical
      and non-clinical risk factors (such as distance from site, estimated subject compliance, and
      access to fully reimbursed G-CSF).

      Study Design: Prior to identifying eligible subjects, Investigators will be registered and
      will record baseline information. During this Baseline Investigator Assessment investigators
      will be provided with two lists of risk factors. Investigators must rank selected risk
      factors that they consider to be the most important when assessing 1) overall FN risk (only
      scientific factors will be included), and 2) when deciding on whether G-CSF PP treatment will
      be used or not (this list will also contain non clinical factors). They will also record
      their own FN risk intervention threshold, which is the FN risk threshold score at which they
      would use G-CSF PP in their usual clinical practice.

      Investigators will then prospectively and sequentially identify eligible subjects with NHL,
      breast or lung cancer who are due to initiate one of the permitted standard dose chemotherapy
      regimens listed in the protocol. The permitted chemotherapy regimens have an estimated
      intermediate FN risk (10%-20%) documented in published data and/or international guidelines.

      For each enrolled subject, Investigators will complete a Subject Assessment prior to the
      start of their chemotherapy. They will be provided with the same two lists of risk factors as
      in the Baseline Assessment and asked to complete them based on each specific subject.
      Investigators must rank selected risk factors that they consider to be the most important
      when assessing 1) overall FN risk (only scientific factors will be included), and 2) when
      deciding on whether G-CSF PP treatment will be used or not. They will also document their
      final estimated FN risk score as a percentage based on the subject's medical history and
      standard of care (SOC) assessments (their routine practice for assessing this risk), and a
      decision as to whether G-CSF PP will be administered. Investigators will record which type of
      G-CSF they plan to use if one will be used.

      End of Study for a subject will occur once these activities have been completed, and a
      prescription for the first cycle of chemotherapy has been written. The subject data collected
      will only be historical subject information and laboratory data from SOC assessments
      performed prior to beginning chemotherapy treatment. No data will be collected after the
      initiation of chemotherapy.

      The approach to the statistical analysis will be generally descriptive in nature. The primary
      analysis will be conducted at two levels; investigator level and the subject level. It is
      expected that the opinions of investigators at a single site (that is, a department within a
      cancer treatment centre) will be correlated. Also, that the opinions about subjects from a
      single investigator will be more alike than subjects of other investigators; adjustments will
      be made in the analyses to account for this. Confidence intervals for the investigator level
      analysis and the subject level data will obtained from Multi-level Modelling (MLM) to allow
      for the expected intra-site and intra-investigator correlation of investigators within sites
      and subjects within investigator. In general, categorical data will be summarised by the
      number and percentage of subjects in each category. Continuous data will be summarised by
      mean, standard deviation, median, lower and upper quartiles, minimum and maximum values.
      Two-sided exact 95% confidence intervals (obtained using MLM) will be presented, where
      appropriate.
    
  