
    
      Over the past four decades, researchers have become increasingly certain that schizophrenia
      has a complex, multifactorial etiology. Although many twin studies confirm that genes play a
      substantial role in the etiology of this disabling disorder,5 genome-wide linkage analysis of
      schizophrenia have produced conflicting results. While many of these studies have identified
      chromosomal regions showing some evidence for linkage to schizophrenia, no finding has been
      consistently replicated. Given the high heritability of schizophrenia,5 the failure of
      linkage methods to find susceptibility genes suggests that these genes each have very small,
      incremental effects on the expression of the disorder. Risch and Merikangas6 showed that for
      genes of small effect, the power of linkage studies will be low but the power of association
      studies will be high. Although meta-analysis of candidate gene association studies have
      implicated some genes, these findings (even if confirmed by larger studies) would only
      account for a small fraction of schizophrenia's heritability. These considerations suggest
      that a genome-wide association scan would be an effective method for finding schizophrenia
      susceptibility genes. To that end, the investigators have designed a multi-stage analytic
      plan which involves rapid continued ascertainment of probands and family members from an
      established clinical ascertainment network in Taiwan, performing a genome-wide association
      scan (GWAS) on this large sample of affected nuclear families, and pooling the novel GWAS
      results from this project with those from existing case-control GWAS studies of
      schizophrenia. To accomplish these objectives, the investigators propose a series of specific
      aims, as follows:

        1. Supplement our previously collected sample of 1,200 Han Chinese schizophrenia-affected
           nuclear families from Taiwan by rapidly screening and collecting an additional 3,800
           trios from eleven ascertainment sites in Taiwan;

        2. Assess the association of schizophrenia with a genome-wide panel of single-nucleotide
           polymorphisms (SNPs) and their constituent haplotypes;

        3. Perform a genome-wide survey for copy-number variations related to schizophrenia;

        4. Test for gene-gene interactions and epistasis;

        5. Test for gene-environment interactions, such as the well-established effect of season of
           birth;

        6. Analyze quantitative schizophrenia phenotypes, such as age at onset; and

        7. Enhance the NIMH Genetics Initiative collections by sending all clinical data,
           biomaterials, and genotypes to the appropriate repositories, and completing a
           meta-analysis of our family-based GWAS data and those from existing case-control GWASs
           of schizophrenia in the repository;

      The above aims achieve the goals of the RFA in several ways. First, the proposed work would
      markedly enrich the existing resources of the NIMH Human Genetics Initiative, especially the
      current pool of schizophrenia-affected nuclear families. Not only would the data and
      biomaterials from this project enrich the NIMH repositories, the study has been designed to
      be readily combinable with those already in the repositories to boost the power available for
      detecting genes with small effects on risk. Further, the proposed project would apply the
      latest genomic research methods to further our understanding of the molecular etiology of the
      disorder. Lastly, by capitalizing on an existing clinical infrastructure and an efficient
      screening and assessment protocol, the investigators will obtain a well-powered sample in a
      very rapid and cost-effective manner.
    
  