
    
      McArdle disease, glycogen storage disease type V, is a rare metabolic disease caused by
      mutations in the PYGM gene resulting in absence of the enzyme muscle phosphorylase. Affected
      individuals are unable to utilize sugar stored as glycogen in muscle, leading to exercise
      intolerance, exercise-induced muscle pain, contractures and rhabdomyolysis, which may cause
      renal failure. Currently, there are no satisfactory treatment options for McArdle disease.

      A key element of alleviating symptoms in McArdle disease is to provide alternative fuels for
      energy metabolism. Investigators hypothesize that ketones can be an alternative fuel
      substrate for skeletal muscle when muscle glycogenolysis is blocked as in McArdle disease.

      Aim: To investigate the immediate effects of an oral supplementation of exogenous ketone
      bodies (poly-hydroxybuturate) on exercise capacity in patients with metabolic myopathies.

      Supplement description: food supplement containing β-hydroxybuturate esters

      Methods:

      Study design: Placebo-controlled, single-blind, cross-over study. Inclusion: 5-8 patients
      with McArdle disease and 3-5 healthy controls.

      Time table:

      Subjects will meet to 2 test days. Subjects will be randomized using a 1:1 assignment ratio
      to receive either the keto-drink or placebo drink first. The oral supplement received will be
      blinded for the participants and the investigators. On each test day, subjects spend
      approximately 4 hours at the laboratory:

        -  Insertion of peripheral brachial venous catheters for extracting blood samples and
           stable isotope infusion and hydroxybutyrate infusion.

        -  Baseline blood sampling, medical examination, vital sign measurements, weight and
           height.

        -  Stable isotope infusion 2 hours before the cycling exercise test. Three stable isotope
           tracers [2,4-13C2]-D- β-hydroxybutyrate, [1,1,2,3,3-2H5]-glycerol and [6,6-2H2]-glucose
           solutions, are infused via a venous catheter until a steady-state is reached. The tracer
           infusions will continue during the cycling test. The tracers (all from Cambridge Isotope
           Laboratories, Andover, MA, USA) will be dissolved and injected into a solution of 0.9%
           saline (NaCl) through a bacterial filter.

        -  One Ketone or placebo drink administration 30 minutes before the exercise test

        -  Subjects will perform a 40 minutes cycle exercise test at a constant load corresponding
           to 60-70% of their VO2max (found in a screening study). During the test, subjects wear a
           mask for continuous gas-exchange measurements and ECG electrodes to determine VO2 and
           heart rate during constant load cycling (VO2const and HRconst). Blood samples will be
           drawn 4 times before, every 10 minutes during exercise and after exercise. During the
           test participants will be asked to rate perceived exertion (RPE) on a Borg scale.
    
  