
    
      Pre-eclampsia is a disorder of pregnancy characterized by hypertension (defined as systolic
      blood pressure ⩾140 mmHg or diastolic blood pressure ⩾90 mmHg) and proteinuria (300 mg or
      greater in a 24 h urine specimen and/or protein to creatinine ratio of > 0.30) . The disorder
      usually occurs after 20 weeks of pregnancy and worsens over time . Preeclampsia is routinely
      screened during prenatal care .

      In severe disease there may be red blood cell breakdown, a low blood platelet count, impaired
      liver function, kidney dysfunction, swelling, shortness of breath due to fluid in the lungs,
      or visual disturbances. Pre-eclampsia increases the risk of poor outcomes for both the mother
      and the baby . If left untreated, it may result in seizures at which point it is known as
      eclampsia or HELLP syndrome (hemolysis ,elevated liver enzymes , low platelets ) .

      The clinical features of preeclampsia are caused by systemic maternal endothelial dysfunction
      resulting from a combination of preexisting maternal risk factors and abnormal placental
      development. Risk factors for pre-eclampsia include: obesity, prior hypertension, older age,
      and diabetes mellitus . It is also more frequent in a woman's first pregnancy and if she is
      carrying twins. The underlying mechanism involves abnormal formation of blood vessels in the
      placenta amongst other factors .

      These maternal characteristics may contribute to oxidative stress, inflammation and vascular
      dysfunction, all of which have been implicated in the etiology of preeclampsia .

      Healthy women pregnancy can be associated with resistance to the action of insulin on glucose
      uptake and utilization . Insulin Resistance is defined as decreased ability of target tissues
      such as liver, adipose tissue and muscle to respond to normal circulating concentrations of
      insulin. Insulin Resistance can be a result of a number of factors such as defective
      molecular structure of insulin, defective receptor functioning or defective signal
      transduction pathway .

      Many maternal hormones and factors play role in causation of Insulin Resistance during
      pregnancy such as increased levels of serum cortisol, Tumor necrosis factor α , can interrupt
      the insulin signaling pathway and can lead to Insulin Resistance during normal pregnancy .

      Women with increased Insulin Resistance are more prone to develop preeclampsia and
      gestational diabetes. Preeclampsia is associated with increased expression of Tumor necrosis
      factor α and other inflammatory marker which causes Insulin Resistance. Increased Insulin
      Resistance leads to dyslipidemia that can worsen the placental ischemia leading to vicious
      cycle of ischemia-inflammation-Insulin Resistance-dyslipidemia-ischemia .

      Insulin resistance has also been hypothesized to contribute to the pathophysiology of
      preeclampsia. Compared to women who have normotensive pregnancies, women who develop
      preeclampsia are more insulin resistant prior to pregnancy .

      Early reliable markers for preeclampsia development is the involvement of microRNA in the
      pathogenesis and its possible role as an early biomarker for disease development. MicroRNAs
      (miRNAs) are a series of small (18-24 nt) endogenous noncoding single-stranded RNAs, which
      can regulate gene expression post transcriptionally by a nonperfect pairing of 6-8
      nucleotides with target mRNAs . It is currently estimated that up to 30% of human genes may
      contain miRNAs' binding sites, which suggested a potential role of microRNAs as central
      regulators in the control of gene expression .

      MicroRNAs have been implicated in a variety of human diseases, such as cardiovascular
      disease, primary muscular disorders, and cancer. In addition, miRNAs have been reported
      involved in regulating pregnancy process .

      The human placenta exhibits a specific microRNA expression pattern that dynamically changes
      during pregnancy and is reflected in the maternal plasma .

      The recognition that specific microRNAs are induced by hypoxia and are commonly dysregulated
      in preeclampsia raises the intriguing possibility that such microRNAs mediate the adverse
      effects of placental hypoxia in preeclampsia. The connection between microRNAs, adipose
      tissue, and insulin resistance may have a role in gestational diabetes mellitus
      pathophysiology. microRNAs present in maternal blood may have the potential to be used as
      biomarkers, as they are relatively stable and tissue specific .

      MicroRNA 210 is identified as a unique hypoxia induced miRNA that is universally induced in
      various cell types. Using microRNA microarray it was found that microRNA 210 is overexpressed
      in placental tissue derived from patients with pre-eclampsia .

      It was found whether microRNA 210 contributes to the pathogenesis of pre-eclampsia, a complex
      disorder widely believed to be associated with placental hypoxia. The results show that
      microRNA 210 is induced in patients with pre-eclampsia and in hypoxia treated trophoblast
      cells .

      It has been found that microRNA 210 levels are dramatically increased in the placental tissue
      derived from patients with preeclampsia. In this issue, MicroRNA 210 levels in plasma from
      preeclampsia patients were significantly higher than those in gestational healthy controls.
      Furthermore, the expression levels of microRNA 210 seemed to correlate well with disease
      severity, suggesting a potential role of circulating microRNA 210 as novel biomarker for the
      diagnosis of preeclampsia.
    
  