
    
      The investigators have 2 years of experience and therefore propose to carry out a first
      retrospective study, on a cohort of about fifty patients, whose objective will be to compare
      the volume of in vivo ablation one month after thermo-ablative treatment by microwave of a
      hepatic, renal or pulmonary tumour with the reference volume announced by the Covidien abacus
      manufacturer.

      Microwave ablation, which is much less studied, is less used because of the low
      reproducibility of necrosis volumes.

      The Covidien manufacturer offers a system that allows ablation volumes that are supposed to
      be reproducible, which attracted the Nîmes University Hospital during the call for tenders.

      To the investigator's knowledge, there are no studies that have evaluated the actual volume
      of ablation by this system.

      This is a retrospective monocentric study that divides patients into three groups according
      to the organ concerned (liver, kidney, lung). It concerns patients with hepatic, renal or
      pulmonary tumours whose indication for treatment by thermo-ablation has been validated in RCP
      at the University Hospital of Nîmes.

      Each patient was informed of the therapeutic management and was seen in interventional
      radiology consultation before the expected date of thermo-ablation.

      A letter of no objection was sent to each patient prior to treatment. A CT or MRI control
      imaging is performed one month before the operation, systematically at the University
      Hospital of Nîmes after a thermo-ablative procedure.

      The size of the ablation volume obtained is measured (major axis and minor axis) on this
      control imaging. This volume will be compared to the ablation volume planned by the
      manufacturer, depending on the power and duration of the impact chosen according to the size
      of the tumor (evaluated on the imaging prior to the procedure).

      Data stored in Redcap. 50-60 patients included.
    
  