
    
      Aim: The aim of this cross-sectional study is to assess the oral health status, Oral Health
      Related Quality of Life, and the nutritional status of community-dwelling elderly adults
      requiring care for their activities of daily living.

      Methods:

      Community dwelling elders residing in their homes but receiving out-patient care will be
      recruited in this study. Participants will receive a detailed oral examination at their
      residences. Their oral health status and oral function will be evaluated according to the
      following indices: DMF(T), plaque index (Plx), gingival index (GIx), community periodontal
      index for treatment needs (CPITN), xerostomia inventory (XI), brushing habits, denture
      calculus index (DCI), Denture Assessment (Marxkors Criteria), chewing efficiency (CE) and
      maximum bite force (MBF). The quality of oral care will be assessed by the use and condition
      of the prevalent oral hygiene tools according to the Toothbrush wear rate (TBWR).
      Furthermore, the Quality of Life (QoL) and Oral Health Related Quality of Life (OHRQoL) will
      be measured with the Oral health impact profile 14 items (OHIP-14) and EuroQol-5D (EQ-5D).
      Finally, the nutritional status of these care-dependent elders will be recorded with the mini
      nutritional assessment (MNA) as well as the recording their refrigerator content along with a
      24-hour diet chart.

      Discussion:

      The population is ageing worldwide and teeth are being retained to an advanced age. Oral
      health however declines, in elders dependent for care, due to age associated complications
      including, multi morbidity, poly-pharmacy, cognitive and physical impairments. As a
      consequence, edentulous state prevails at a later age. Prevention and oral hygiene
      maintenance become difficult in these elders and even more complex in those who are
      rehabilitated with prosthetic reconstructions. Oral hygiene and care is very important in
      these individuals to prevent and intervene the disease process. Tooth loss combined with
      cognitive decline, frailty and other age-associated complications may lead to malnutrition.
      This study hopes to provide a reliable evaluation of the current oral health and nutritional
      status of elderly people living in the community and are dependent for care in an
      industrialised country. These data are considered cardinal and imperative for both government
      policies in terms of preventive programs, health educations, as well as for the organisation
      providing these care services.
    
  