
    
      Objective: The primary objective of this study is to evaluate concordance of T790M mutation
      plasma testing between the Cobas test and each of other platforms: Super-ARMS, digital PCR or
      NGS. And to assess the efficacy of AZD9291 monotherapy by assessment of PFS in adult patients
      with advanced or metastatic NSCLC, who have received prior EGFR-tyrosine kinase inhibitor
      (TKI) therapy and are T790M mutation positive detected by any one of the four plasma testing
      platforms: Cobas/Super-ARMS/ digital PCR/NGS.

      Study number of patients planned: Approximately 250 patients will be recruited in China.

      Study Design: This is an open-label, multi-center testing and treatment study.

      Target patient population: 250 locally advanced or metastatic EGFR mutation positive NSCLC
      patients with progression on a previous EGFR-TKI will be recruited.

      Investigational product (IP), dosage, and mode of administration: AZD9291 is an oral, potent,
      selective, irreversible inhibitor of both EGFR-TKI sensitizing and resistance mutations in
      NSCLC with a significant selectivity margin over wild-type EGFR. AZD9291 will be administered
      orally as one 80 mg tablet once a day.

      Duration of IP administration: Patients may continue to receive AZD9291 as long as they
      continue to show clinical benefit, as judged by the investigator, and in the absence of
      discontinuation criteria. The study will be closed in a maximum period of 18 months after the
      last patient is enrolled. Contingencies will be made to ensure continued drug supply for
      patients who are still deriving benefit from AZD9291 at that time.

      Study measures: Data collected will include patient demographics, smoking history,
      information needed to determine patient eligibility (including medical history, past and
      current disease characteristics, and tumor EGFR mutations status, T790M and sensitizing
      mutations status results and type of test performed), AZD9291 exposure, investigator-reported
      efficacy (including tumor response and disease progression), overall survival (OS), and
      safety (including serious adverse events [SAEs], adverse events [AEs]).

      Statistical methods: The concordance of T790M resistance mutation testing between the Cobas
      test and each of other platforms will be calculated. The sensitivity, specificity, PPV and
      NPV of each testing platform (Super-ARMS, digital PCR, and NGS) will be calculated with the
      Cobas test as the reference. The Kappa coefficient will be calculated to measure the
      agreement of T790M mutation testing between the Cobas test and each of other platforms.
      Descriptive statistics will be provided for all variables, as appropriate. Continuous
      variables will be summarized by the number of observations, mean, standard deviation, median,
      interquartile range (Q1, Q3), minimum, and maximum. Categorical variables will be summarized
      by frequency counts and percentages for each category. The 95% confidence interval (CI) will
      be calculated as appropriate. PFS and OS, respectively, will be summarized using Kaplan-Meier
      estimates of the median time to event (progression and death) and quartiles together with
      their 95% confidence intervals.The chi-square test will be used to compare the sensitivity,
      specificity, and concordance between any of the two platforms using Cobas as reference
      testing in an exploratory manner.
    
  