
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether the addition of erlotinib (erlotinib hydrochloride) to gemcitabine
      (gemcitabine hydrochloride) adjuvant chemotherapy shows a signal for improved survival as
      compared to gemcitabine alone following R0 or R1 resection of head of pancreas adenocarcinoma
      (including adenocarcinoma of the head, neck, and uncinate process). (Phase II-R) II. To
      determine whether the use of concurrent fluoropyrimidine and radiotherapy following adjuvant
      gemcitabine based chemotherapy or non-gemcitabine based chemotherapy such as modified
      fluorouracil-leucovorin-irinotecan-oxaliplatin regimen (FOLFIRINOX) further enhances survival
      for such patients who are without evidence of progressive disease after 5 months of adjuvant
      chemotherapy. (Phase III)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate disease-free survival of adjuvant chemotherapy followed by radiotherapy and
      concurrent fluoropyrimidine for patients with resected head of pancreas adenocarcinoma who
      are disease free after 5 months of adjuvant chemotherapy.

      II. To evaluate disease-free survival of standard adjuvant gemcitabine chemotherapy with and
      without erlotinib for patients with resected head of pancreas adenocarcinoma.

      III. To evaluate adverse events with and without erlotinib for patients with resected head of
      pancreas adenocarcinoma.

      IV. To evaluate adverse events of adjuvant chemotherapy with or without radiation therapy and
      concurrent fluoropyrimidine for patients with resected head of pancreas adenocarcinoma who
      are disease free after adjuvant chemotherapy.

      V. To evaluate preoperative cross-sectional imaging of the primary head of pancreas
      adenocarcinoma in order to determine the frequency with which objective criteria of
      resectability are present.

      VI. To determine if patients reporting low baseline fatigue, as measured by the Functional
      Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy (FACIT)-Fatigue, predicts survival and to explore
      correlations between baseline fatigue, as measured by Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement
      Information System (PROMIS), and survival.

      OUTLINE: Patients without disease progression after treatment in arm I or II are randomized
      to 1 of 2 additional treatment arms (arm III or IV).

      ARM I: Patients receive either gemcitabine hydrochloride or allowable combination
      chemotherapy per standard of care for 5 months.

      ARM II (closed to accrual 4/2/14): Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride intravenously
      (IV) over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15 and erlotinib hydrochloride orally (PO) once daily
      on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 5 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM III: Patients receive the same treatment as in arm I for 1 month.

      ARM IV: Patients receive the same treatment as in arm I for 1 month. Beginning within 7-21
      days after completion of chemotherapy, patients undergo radiotherapy (3-dimensional conformal
      radiotherapy or intensity-modulated radiotherapy) 5 days per week for 5.5 weeks (28
      fractions). During radiotherapy, patients receive either capecitabine PO twice daily (BID) 5
      days per week or fluorouracil IV continuously for 5.5 weeks or until radiotherapy is
      completed.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically.
    
  