
    
      The primary aim of the study is to obtain proof of principle that omalizumab therapy
      maintains lung function, symptom control and quality of life in a group of non-atopic,
      moderate/severe asthmatics whose regular anti-asthma therapy is uniformised and reduced for
      an 8 week period following omalizumab/placebo therapy while the latter therapy is continued.

      A secondary aim is to see whether omalizumab, as compared with placebo therapy reduces
      bronchial inflammation and local IgE production in the bronchial mucosa of this same group of
      asthmatics.

      Clinical outcome measures

      The omalizumab and placebo treated groups will be compared for changes in the following
      clinical outcomes (for repeated measurements such as daily peak flow and symptoms the mean
      values of the first and last 10 days of the relevant study period will be compared).

        1. prior to reduction of existing anti-asthma therapy (first 12 weeks of study):

             -  Pre-bronchodilator FEV1 (primary outcome measure)

             -  Morning and evening peak expiratory flow

             -  Exhaled nitric oxide

             -  Day and night time symptom scores

             -  Total dosages of rescue beta2-agonist

             -  Total symptom free days

             -  Validated asthma Quality of Life scores

        2. during anti-asthma therapy reduction phase (subsequent 8 weeks of study):

             -  The primary outcome measure will be disease exacerbation, defined as a need for
                rescue oral corticosteroid medication for worsening of symptoms and/or
                deterioration in lung function, as agreed between the patient and the study
                physician

             -  Secondary outcome measures will include all those measurements listed in section
                (a) above, unless they cannot be measured because of disease exacerbation (the
                primary outcome measure)

      Laboratory outcome measures

      These will arise from immunological, immunohistochemical and molecular analysis of peripheral
      blood and bronchial biopsies taken from all patients at the beginning and end of the first 12
      weeks of the study prior to reduction of anti-asthma therapy and will comprise of changes in:

        -  Lay down of collagen types I, III, IV and V and tenascin

        -  Vascular structures and angiogenic stimuli (collagen type IV, CD31 and human VEGF
           (29,30)

        -  Inflammatory cells (eosinophils, T cells, B cells, plasma cells, macrophages,
           neutrophils, mast cells)

        -  Goblet cells will be stained using monoclonal anti-Muc-5AC antibody

        -  Immunoglobulin E and its high- and low-affinity receptors will be stained using specific
           monoclonal antibodies as in our previous studies. B cells (CD20+) and plasma cells
           (CD138+) will be examined for expression of free kappa and lambda IgE light chains using
           double, sequential IHC.

      Staining analysis: Entire areas of stained biopsy sections will be subjected to image
      analysis using a Zeiss Vision KS300 system allowing objective, unbiased digital image
      analysis using a powerful macro language .

      Cytokine and chemokine concentrations in endobronchial tissue homogenates: These will be
      measured in homogenates of 2 biopsies by electrochemiluminescence using the SECTOR Imager
      6000 and assay kits produced by Meso Scale Discovery. The MS6000 Human TH1/TH2 10-Plex Base
      Kit will be used to measure IFN-gamma, IL-1beta, IL-2, IL-4, IL-5, IL-10, IL-12p70, IL-13,
      TNF-alpha. The MS6000 Human Chemokine 9-Plex Base Kit will be used to measure Eotaxin,
      Eotaxin-3, IL-8, IP-10, MCP-1, MCP-4, MDC, MIP-1beta, TARC.

      IgE synthesis: Two biopsies from each patient will be snap frozen in RNA later for subsequent
      analysis of expression of switch circle transcripts and IgE mature and germline mRNA as in
      our previous recent publication and cloning of C-epsilon H-chain genes to look for evidence
      of clonal expansion of B cells caused by B cell superantigens. Two biopsies will be

      \homogenised for extraction of B cells for cloning and analysis of IgE production by antigen
      microarray.

      Serum: Stored serum samples taken at the time of bronchoscopy will be analysed for complete
      antigen-specific IgE repertoire using microarray, and anti-Fc-epsilon-RI activity using an in
      vitro basophil degranulation assay.
    
  