
    
      This is a Phase 4, multi center, open-label, assessor blinded, switch study of infliximab in
      patients with active rheumatoid arthritis who are receiving methotrexate and are having an
      inadequate response to their current treatment with etanercept or adalimumab. The last dose
      of etanercept must have been at least 1 week but not more than 2 weeks prior to the first
      infliximab study infusion. The last dose of adalimumab must have been administered at least 2
      weeks but not more than 4 weeks prior to the first infliximab study infusion. The study will
      be conducted for 30 weeks and will include 200 patients. All eligible patients will receive 3
      mg/kg infliximab infusions (drug given into a vein) at weeks 0, 2, and 6 and every 8 weeks
      thereafter, if they achieve a European League Against Rheumatism (EULAR) response on their
      current dose of infliximab. Patients who do not achieve a EULAR response will increase their
      dose from 3mg/kg to 5 mg/kg at week 14. Patients who do not achieve a EULAR response at week
      22 will increase from either 3 mg/kg to 5 mg/kg or from 5mg/kg to 7 mg/kg. The last study
      infusion will take place at week 22. The last study visit for effectiveness evaluations will
      take place at week 26. A week 30 follow-up visit will be performed for adverse events and
      tuberculosis evaluations, health economics assessments, and review of concomitant
      medications. All patients who end the study early will be required to complete all
      assessments. Patients will receive 3 mg/kg infliximab infusions at weeks 0, 2, and 6. If
      patients achieve European League Against Rheumatism (EULAR) response, they will remain on
      their current dose. Patients who do not demonstrate a EULAR response will increase their
      infliximab dose from 3 mg/kg to 5 mg/kg at week 14. At week 22, patients will also increase
      their infliximab dose from 3 mg/kg to 5mg/kg or from 5 mg/kg to 7mg/kg if they do not
      demonstrate a EULAR response.
    
  