
    
      Acute physical and emotional stressors are well known triggers of cardiovascular events.
      However, it is not clear whether the same association exists with chronic stress. Data on
      this issue have been limited by lack of adequate clinical studies and inconclusive results.
      One of the possible explanations may be the absence of a reliable mode for quantitative
      assessment of chronic stress. To date, studies on the effects of chronic stress on
      cardiovascular events have used psychosocial questionnaires. These are subject to recall
      bias, as having an event may stimulate the patient to strive harder to identify previous
      stressors. Furthermore, most studies on the association of chronic stress and cardiovascular
      events have focused on acute coronary events, and only few have examined the association with
      stroke.

      Both physical and emotional stress activate several neuroendocrine systems, the most
      important being the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis that stimulates the production
      and secretion of glucocorticoids (especially cortisol) from the adrenal cortex. Therefore,
      cortisol is considered to be a "stress hormone" and higher levels of serum cortisol have been
      observed in patients with acute stress such as those presenting with acute myocardial
      infarction and stroke compared to healthy controls. Moreover, it has been shown that serum
      cortisol levels correlates with the severity of the disease and adverse outcome in patients
      presenting with stroke.

      Cortisol levels are routinely determined from blood, salivary or urinary samples. However,
      these methods do not provide information on long term cortisol secretion, accounting for the
      variability of HPA axis activity. There is a growing pool of evidence that shows that Hair
      Cortisol Concentration (HCC) examination provides a reliable retrospective estimation of
      integrated cortisol secretion over a period of several months. Hair grows at a rate of about
      1 cm/month, thus 3 cm of hair would give an indication of the cortisol levels over the
      previous 3 months. HCC has been evaluated in several clinical settings in which activity of
      the HPA axis and cortisol levels over a period of time are of interest. Studies have
      demonstrated increased levels of hair cortisol in chronic stress, as well as conditions
      associated with stress such as pregnancy , unemployment , PTSD, alcohol withdrawal and
      chronic pain and more importantly, in patients admitted to hospital with acute myocardial
      infarction. Nevertheless, the association between hair cortisol levels and the risk for
      stroke has not yet been studied.
    
  