
    
      T regulatory cells (T regs) are a recently identified subset of T cells with inhibitory
      functions on the immune system. In cancer, it has been shown that there is an increased
      proportion of T regs in several different human malignancy states. T regs are found to be
      elevated in peripheral blood mononuclear cells, draining lymph nodes and in the primary tumor
      itself. There has also been correlation between peripheral blood T regs and tumor stage,
      tumor relapse and survival. It has been proposed that the T regs are activated and expanded
      by factors produced by the tumor microenvironment. They are thought to play a role in
      preventing or demising host T-cell responses against cancer, including a suboptimal host
      responses to vaccine strategies. Strategies to reduce T regs in cancer patients are being
      explored as a novel immunologic anti-cancer approach.

      Renal cell cancer (RCC) is a tumor with well-known immune-mediated phenomena such as
      spontaneous regression. There is paucity of data on T regs in RCC. We propose to study the
      frequency of peripheral blood T regs before and after nephrectomy for RCC. We will document
      the baseline frequency of T regs in RCC and if nephrectomy results in a change in levels. We
      hypothesize that nephrectomy will lower peripheral T regs to normal levels in early stage
      RCC, and will reduce peripheral T reg levels in advanced RCC patients. If found to be so, T
      regs could in future be used as an indicator of disease recurrence in early stage RCC. In
      advanced RCC, lowering of T reg levels may help explain the previous hypothesis that
      debulking nephrectomy results in improved anti-tumor immunity, provide rationale for second
      debulking procedures, and be correlated with subsequent clinical course.

      The main laboratory technique is flow cytometry. This will be a pilot study with small
      patient numbers. Only blood samples are required.
    
  