
    
      Cardiometabolic disease - a clustering of medical conditions and risk factors which includes
      obesity, diabetes, impaired liver function, and an increased risk in children for adult-onset
      cardiovascular disease - represents a major population-wide health burden in the United
      States. Management of cardiometabolic disease also imposes a substantial financial burden on
      the economy and ties up significant healthcare resources. It is well-known that many of the
      lifestyle and health behaviors that contribute to cardiometabolic disease are difficult to
      modify once established, and childhood represents an opportune time for promoting healthy
      behaviors. Patient-centered outcomes research (PCOR) has identified certain health behaviors
      as important and actionable in modifying cardiometabolic risk, namely weight management,
      physical activity, screen-time, sleep, and consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages. Mobile
      health technology (mHealth) could be used to monitor and counsel on common health behaviors
      associated with cardiometabolic risk, which may facilitate the inclusion of PCOR evidence on
      cardiometabolic disease into clinical practice. The overall goal of this research is to use
      mHealth technology to accelerate the uptake of PCOR findings on treatment of cardiometabolic
      disease. To achieve our goal, this study will develop a novel set of mHealth tools capable of
      collecting health behavior information and determine to what extent providing clinical
      feedback on these health behaviors improves obesity and health behaviors among children ages
      6-12 year and their families. In this study we will develop, implement, and test the
      comparative clinical effectiveness of a closed-loop feedback system for collecting patient
      data and providing recommendations. The specific aims of this study are: 1) to develop an
      integrated closed-loop feedback system that incorporates longitudinal mHealth data in
      managing cardiometabolic disease among at-risk families, and 2) to determine the extent to
      which an integrated closed-loop system that provides feedback on objective patient-generated
      data improves cardiometabolic risk, as measured by changes in body mass index and health
      behaviors including, physical activity, screen-time, sleep, and sugar-sweetened beverage
      consumption. This research will develop novel mHealth tools and approaches that will allow
      healthcare providers and patients to better understand disease risk and improve disease
      management by collecting patient data 1) repeatedly over time, 2) simultaneously, and 3)
      objectively. This study is innovative because it will use mHealth tools to simultaneously
      collect longitudinal data on multiple health behaviors known to be associated with
      cardiometabolic risk, and it will offer a new approach to implementing and disseminating PCOR
      findings via a novel closed-loop feedback system. The high prevalence of cardiometabolic
      disease makes this innovative closed-loop system very relevant to public health. The mHealth
      tools and methods developed by this study for collecting patient data and providing clinical
      feedback could also easily be adapted and applied to a range of other health conditions.
    
  