
    
      Project Abstract This three-year project will assess the costs and benefits of health
      information technology (HIT) in an established community-wide network of academic, private
      and public healthcare facilities created to share clinical information for the purpose of
      population-based care management of over 16,000 Medicaid beneficiaries in Durham County,
      North Carolina. The area of interest for this project is the impact of information-driven
      interventions on care quality, patient safety and healthcare costs across the diverse
      stakeholders participating in this collaborative partnership. In order to asses HIT value
      rigorously in the context of a production information system that is under continual
      development, we propose to conduct a randomized controlled trial. Specifically, we will
      randomly assign patients by family unit to either a control group or to an intervention group
      in which they will initially receive one of 3 information-driven interventions. The
      interventions include clinical alerts sent to care providers, performance feedback reports
      presented to clinic managers, and care reminders sent directly to patients. The content of
      the interventions will address "concerning" events (e.g., an emergency room encounter for
      asthma) and care deficiencies (e.g., delinquency on biannual mammogram) identified from the
      composite set of clinical data in our information system. To assess the benefits and burdens
      of the interventions, combinations of the 3 interventions will be sequentially introduced
      into the study groups over the course of the project. The analysis will compare groups
      receiving various combinations of interventions as well as those receiving no interventions.
      At baseline and at six-month intervals throughout the course of the study, we will measure
      emergency department encounter rates, hospitalization rates, HEDIS (Healthcare Effectiveness
      Data and Information Set) scores, missed appointment rates, glycated hemoglobin levels in
      diabetics, and patient satisfaction. Our assessment will look at the societal value of HIT as
      well as the value for individual stakeholders including patients, providers, payers,
      purchasers and policy makers. From these measures, we will assess the costs and benefits of
      this community-wide effort to promote interoperability of clinical data exchange in order to
      increase the understanding of HIT value in a community setting. In our preliminary studies,
      we have observed a statistically significant 3-fold reduction in repeat ED (Emergency
      Department) encounter rates using email alerts alone. The approach used in this project is
      able to be generalized across geographic areas and healthcare settings and can, therefore,
      serve to promote the dissemination of HIT to other communities.
    
  