
    
      There has been mixed results in retrospective studies examining the effects of renin
      angiotensin blockade for the treatment of cardiovascular disease and post operative outcomes.
      Studies done in high risk patients have shown increased risk of death if patients are exposed
      to angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors and angiotensin blocking agents.

      The hypothesis is that patients exposed to medications that block the renin angiotensin
      system have altered dose response (a type of adverse drug reaction) to inhaled anaesthetic
      agents in a dose dependant manner as measured by cardiovascular response, specifically
      systemic vascular resistance index.

      This is a pilot study of hypertensive patients undergoing anaesthesia and composite head and
      neck surgery. The patients will be separated into three groups: Angiotensin converting enzyme
      inhibitor exposed, Angiotensin Receptor Blocking Agent exposed, and any other treated
      hypertension. Following separation into groups based upon preoperative medication exposures
      each group will be randomized to determine the order in which two types of inhaled
      anaesthetics are administered. Each subject will be randomized to receive either
      Sevoflurane/air/oxygen first or Sevoflurane/50 per cent nitrous oxide/oxygen second or vice
      versa. The dose of the anaesthetic will be adjusted across the dosing range from 0.8 MAC
      (minimum alveolar concentration) to 1.6 MAC in steps of 0.2 MAC.

      Each subject will have hemodynamic parameters measured at each dose of anaesthetic at each
      MAC. Five measurements of hemodynamic parameters will be recorded to minimize the effects of
      surgery on each measurement. The hemodynamic variables will be measured using a Flotrak and
      Vigeleo monitor and the quantities to be measured are: heart rate, blood pressure, systemic
      vascular resistance, systemic vascular resistance index, cardiac output, cardiac index,
      central venous pressure, stroke volume variation.

      The subjects are offered the opportunity to donate DNA for future study of hypertension.
    
  