
    
      The oxidative stress reflects an imbalance between the systemic manifestation of reactive
      oxygen species and a biological system's ability to readily detoxify the reactive
      intermediates or to repair the resulting damage.

      Cells continuously produce free radicals and reactive oxygen species (ROS) as part of
      metabolic processes. These free radicals are neutralized by an elaborate antioxidant defense
      system consisting of enzymes such as catalase, superoxide dismutase, glutathione peroxidase,
      and numerous non-enzymatic antioxidants, including vitamins A, E and C and glutathione.

      Oxidative stress has been linked to the pathogenesis of a variety of diseases, such as renal
      disease, cardiovascular disease, atherosclerosis, hypertension, cancer, diabetes, arthritis
      neurodegenerative diseases (i.e., Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease), and aging.

      The prevalence and incidence of patient suffering from chronic renal failure is increasing
      worldwide and locally in Sudan(5). Several publication suggest that oxidative processes may
      be increased in patients with renal failure. As oxidative stress plays a role in renal damage
      it offers a potential target for therapeutic intervention.

      There is a lot of factors that can lead to oxidative stress in patients with chronic kidney
      disease (CKD) . Intravenous administration of iron is widely prescribed in patients with
      chronic kidney disease (CKD) and can cause oxidative stress.Hemodialysis is often used for
      removal of excessive toxins, metabolic products, and blood components from patients with
      end-stage renal diseases (ESRD). Clinical studies have confirmed that hemodialysis (HD) is
      associated with the development of oxidative stress and disturbance in the enzyme systems
      that protect against oxygen free radicals.

      The major cause of mortality in patients with end-stage renal failure receiving renal
      replacement therapy is cardiovascular disease . Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the cause of
      death in 34% of hemodialysis (HD) patients. Increased lipid peroxidation and depletion of
      chain- breaking antioxidants may contribute to increased risk of atherosclerosis.

      Antioxidants have been used as therapies to decrease oxidative stress and improve CVD risk in
      hemodialysis (HD) Patients .Many studies investigated the effects of antioxidant therapies on
      biomarkers of oxidative stress or clinical outcomes. The majority were small trials using a
      nonrandomized open-label design with a single HD group (no HD controls). The antioxidant used
      were Alpha-tocopherol , vitamin c decreased oxidative stress and N-acetylcysteine .
      N-acetylcysteine was the most efficacious agent. Others studies have used a combination of
      antioxidants that decreased oxidative stresses. Most of these intervention studies were done
      in HD patients .

      Gum arabic is defined by the FAO/WHO Joint Expert Committee for Food Additives (JECFA) as 'a
      dried exudation obtained from the stems of Acacia Senegal tree or closely related species of
      Acacia (family Leguminosae).

      GA is indigestible for both human and animals; Its fermentation by colonic intestinal
      bacteria leads to formation of various degradation products, such as short-chain fatty acids
      .Gum Arabic ingestion increases serum short chain fatty acid concentration, mainly butyrate
      and propionate. Serum butyrate concentration increased following administration of GA in
      healthy subjects. Oral intake of GA has been shown to provide several health benefits, such
      as prebiotic effects. GA significantly increases Bifidobacteria, Lactobacteria, and
      Bacteriodes in the gut. GA is claimed to have anti-cancer ,anti-malarial immune-modulatory
      and antioxidant effects. GA treatment has been shown to favorably influence clinical and
      laboratory results in rats with adenine-induced chronic renal failure CRF and in humans
      diagnosed with renal failure, reported that GA was able to decrease high levels of several
      pro-inflammatory cytokines in plasma and kidney of rats suffering from adenine-induced CRF.

      The antioxidant effect of Gum Arabic has been observed in Number of published data .

      More recently 2017 reported more evidence that GA has potent anti- oxidative effects in
      humans as demonstrated by its ability to increase TAC and to decrease oxidative stress
      markers in humans, Almost all previous studies were conducted in animal models or in vitro
      studies except the last one(17) . the increased intake of dietary antioxidants from GA may
      help to maintain an adequate antioxidant defense status . GA can be utilized in other
      clinical conditions and diseases caused by increased lipid peroxidation and tissue injury.

      In this study investigators are aiming to see the effect of Gum Arabic on Oxidative Stress
      and inflammatory markers in patients on regular hemodialysis.
    
  