
    
      The CEERIAS community-partnered research project has the following specific aims:

        1. To examine personal, community, and cultural barriers to calling 911 after stroke onset
           and adapt a culturally-tailored intervention for delivery in multi-ethnic communities
           (African American, Hispanic, non-Hispanic White) surrounding a hospital on the south
           side of Chicago;

        2. To implement a culturally-adapted stroke awareness and action program and monitor its
           penetration and adoption using the RE-AIM (Reach, Evaluate, Adoption, Implementation,
           Maintenance) framework in multi-ethnic communities on the south side of Chicago; and

        3. To assess change in early hospital arrival and EMS use at a intervention hospital before
           and after the community intervention.

      For aim 1, the investigators will explore and identify facilitators and barriers to calling
      911 for stroke through focus groups conducted and involving key stakeholders including
      children and adults, stroke survivors, neighborhood alderman/legislators, spiritual and
      community leaders, school teachers, and stroke advocacy group members. The CEERIAS team will
      test and culturally refine our core community-partnered pilot intervention for
      implementation.

      For aim 2, the investigators will identify and train Stroke Promoters from collaborating
      community organizations on the adapted intervention techniques and messages, provide
      materials for public dissemination, and evaluate and monitor adoption and implementation in
      the surrounding communities.

      For aim 3, the investigators will perform an interrupted time-series analysis of EMS use and
      early hospital arrival among stroke patients before and after our intervention in south side
      Chicago communities. The research team will also compare time trends in EMS use and early
      hospital arrival for stroke with concurrent control PSCs on the north side of Chicago and
      PSCs in St. Louis.

      If the intervention is successful, the effect will be an increase in EMS use for stroke which
      will translate into earlier treatment for stroke and reduced death and disability. The
      CEERIAS results will be generalizable to other urban communities in the US and should be
      salient to other health emergencies such as heart attack and cardiac arrest.
    
  