
    
      Critically ill patients are at increased risk to develop deep vein thrombosis due to
      immobilisation and/or the underlying disease. Usually, heparin is used for anticoagulation in
      these patients. However, a serious complication of heparin therapy is heparin-induced
      thrombocytopenia type II (HIT). HIT is an immune-mediated syndrome caused by antibodies
      directed against the heparin-PF4-complex, which bind to platelets via the Fc part, thereby
      activating platelets causing aggregation and hypercoagulability. Thus, with HIT the risk of
      thrombosis and organ damage paradoxically even increases during heparin administration. HIT
      is associated with significant morbidity and mortality if unrecognized. Therefore, patients,
      who develop thrombocytopenia and/or thrombosis during heparin therapy are suspicious for HIT
      and have to receive alternative anticoagulants2.

      The direct thrombin inhibitor lepirudin (Refludan®) is equally effective as heparin in
      prevention of deep vein thrombosis and lung embolism3. The elimination half life of lepirudin
      averages 60 min, but in renal failure it may increase up to 48 hours. Critically ill patients
      often develop acute renal failure requiring continuous renal replacement therapy. Thus, if
      lepirudin is used in these patients, intensive dose adjustment is necessary to avoid
      accumulation and severe bleeding. In contrast, effective anticoagulation is needed to prevent
      clot formation within the extracorporeal circuit, as clotting substantially increases the
      patients´ risks and costs of therapy.

      Argatroban (Argatra®), another direct thrombin inhibitor, has recently been shown to be safe
      and effective in prevention of deep vein thrombosis in patients with HIT. Interestingly,
      argatroban is eliminated by hepatic metabolism. Therefore, no initial dose adjustment is
      necessary in patients with renal failure. Preliminary reports document the feasibility of
      argatroban for anticoagulation during haemodialysis. Observational data in patients
      undergoing continuous haemodialysis suggest that life time of filters during argatroban
      anticoagulation is not limited due to clot formation. Thus, argatroban would be safer and
      more effective than lepirudin in critically ill patients requiring continuous renal
      replacement therapy.

      Therefore, we propose a prospective randomized double-blinded trial to test the hypotheses
      that argatroban significantly increases efficacy and safety of renal replacement therapy
      measured as life time of haemodialysis filters as compared to lepirudin
    
  