
    
      Late-life depression (LLD) is characterized both by affective symptoms and broad cognitive
      deficits. The co-occurrence of cognitive deficits in LLD, particularly executive dysfunction,
      is a clinically relevant phenotype characterized by significant disability and poor
      antidepressant response. Cognitive deficits can persist even with successful antidepressant
      treatment and increase the risk of depression relapse. Despite the clinical importance of
      cognitive deficits in LLD, there are no established treatments that specifically target
      cognition in this population. This is particularly important, as the cognitive deficits
      appear to directly contribute to disability and poor antidepressant treatment outcomes. The
      lack of clear pharmacologic targets and therapies aimed at improving cognitive deficits in
      depression is a substantial deficiency in current therapeutics.

      Modulation of the cholinergic system by nicotinic receptor stimulation may improve both mood
      and cognition in depressed elders. Clinically, transdermal nicotine improves mood in smokers
      and a placebo-controlled pilot trial in nonsmoking adults found that transdermal nicotine
      significantly improved mood. As observed in smokers, nicotine's effect to increase cognitive
      control network activity while reducing default mode network activity will reduce
      depression's characteristic bias to negatively valenced stimuli and decrease rumination.
      Supporting this theory, nicotinic receptor activity stimulates serotonin release and protects
      against worsening mood with tryptophan depletion.

      The Depressed Mind 2 Study examines whether enhancement of CCN function by nicotinic
      acetylcholine receptor agonists will improve mood and cognitive symptoms in LLD. This is
      supported by pilot data demonstrating that open-label administration of transdermal nicotine
      (TDN) patches safely improved depression severity. The investigators also observed trends
      suggesting that TDN may provide benefit for cognitive performance, specifically in domains of
      episodic memory, working memory, and attention. In other pilot data using an emotional Stroop
      task, TDN reduces the differences in functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) activation
      in the cognitive control network (CCN) between Stroop conditions. Importantly, this
      activation change was associated with a corresponding reduction in depression severity. Based
      on these data, investigators hypothesize that nicotinic receptor agonists enhance CCN
      function in LLD and in turn this may improve depressive symptoms.

      Thirty-six participants will be enrolled to test for target engagement, defined as TDN
      exposure dependent effect in CCN activation. Based on pilot data, the study will test for
      enhancement of CCN function by examining the Stroop fMRI response, or the reduction in CCN
      activation between incongruent and congruent conditions of the emotional Stroop task during
      fMRI. Investigators will assess the effects of variability in nicotine exposure on target
      engagement by measuring nicotine blood levels in conjunction with repeat MRI.

      Primary aim: To test CCN engagement over 12 weeks of Open labeled Transdermal Nicotine(TDN).

      Hypothesis1A(Target Engagement): TDN will enhance CCN function, measured as a reduction in
      the M/SFG Stroop BOLD response (the activation difference between incongruent and congruent
      conditions of the emotional Stroop task). 60% or more of subjects will exhibit a M/SFG
      z-score reduction of 0.5 or greater.

      Hypothesis1B (Exposure): Higher nicotine exposure measured by patch dose or nicotine
      metabolite levels will be associated with a greater reduction in the M/SFG Stroop BOLD
      response.
    
  