
    
      Teen pregnancy results from under-use contraception by sexually active teens. Social networks
      are important influences on teen contraceptive knowledge and use. Encouraging social
      communication to increase knowledge and acceptability of LARC among female adolescents can
      increase use of contraception.

      The Share Health Study is a cluster randomized control trial, randomized at the primary
      participant level. Primary participants will be randomized to receive either SpeakOut or a
      control intervention about alcohol use (PartyWise) immediately before intervention delivery.
      A cluster consists of primary participants and the secondary participants recruited to the
      study via a specialized snowball sampling procedure carried out with the assistance of the
      primary participant, described below.

      Primary participant procedures

      Adolescents ages 15-19 years old who are using an IUD or implant will be recruited through
      targeted social media advertisements.

      After providing consent, each primary participant will complete a baseline survey collecting
      demographic information and asking about contraceptive knowledge, attitudes, use, and social
      communication as well as drug and alcohol behaviors.

      Primary participants will be randomized to receive either SpeakOut or the control
      intervention and receive the assigned intervention immediately after randomization by phone.
      Each delivery session lasts about 10 minutes, and both SpeakOut and control sessions will be
      audio-recorded and observed for quality and fidelity measurement by UC Davis staff. Primary
      participants will be instructed to ask up to five social contacts if they would be willing to
      participate in the study and will send them a link to an online screener and survey.

      The SpeakOut intervention is informed by the Theory of Diffusion of Innovation and aims to
      increase social communication about IUDs and implants between adolescent IUD and implant
      users and their peers. The intervention is comprised of four components:

        1. A one-on-one communication coaching session for teen IUD and implant users. Contracted
           staff will deliver an educational script by phone to review effective communication
           strategies and encourage primary participants to share information about their
           contraceptive method of choice with peers, to the extent they feel comfortable.

        2. Method-specific digital materials for recipients to keep and/or share with friends.
           Staff will provide pamphlets designed to a) deliver evidence-based information about
           their method, and b) facilitate communication about their choice with social contacts,
           including about their experience with the method and their reasons for choosing it.

        3. Method-specific websites with information and resources. Staff will refer teens to a
           website, either SpeakOutIUD.org or SpeakOutImplant.org, which contain information about
           their method, including the information contained in the pamphlets, resources related to
           sharing their experience with their peers, and links to online information provided by
           the National Campaign through their online birth control support network, Bedsider.org.
           This includes location and contact information for clinics that provide LARC, videos
           featuring individuals who use these methods, and the opportunity to explore multiple
           methods using Bedsider's method comparison feature.

        4. Method-specific text messages with information about recipients' method and about how to
           share their experience. Recipients will be given the opportunity to sign up for text
           messages that will be sent every week for 8 weeks following receipt of SpeakOut in
           clinic. These texts will provide evidence-based information about use of the method
           (e.g., address concerns about menstrual spotting), in order to promote accurate
           knowledge and facilitate ongoing use of the method, and provide reinforcement of the
           value of sharing their story.

      The counterfactual intervention for SpeakOut - called PartyWise - is an alcohol assessment
      and education intervention using an SBIRT (Screening, Brief Intervention, and Referral to
      Treatment) framework. SBIRT is an evidence-based practice model aimed at preventing
      problematic use and identifying potential abuse and dependency issues. The approach includes
      an early intervention focus so that individuals with non-dependent alcohol use are identified
      and supported in moving towards avoidance or reduction in alcohol use and educated about ways
      to minimize harm. The participant will be asked two screening questions electronically,
      developed by the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism (NIAAA) and the American
      Academy of Pediatrics to screen for adolescents potentially at risk. Using a script based on
      tenets of motivational interviewing to assess alcohol related consequences, the study staff
      will guide teens in identifying personally relevant motivators for healthier behaviors,
      assess readiness to change, and offer educational materials. Participants who receive this
      intervention will have the option to sign up for text messages with additional information
      about alcohol consumption for 8 weeks following enrollment. Motivational Interviewing is
      patient-centered and utilizes the adolescent's own intrinsic motivations for change. It is
      based on the stages of change theoretical model in which readiness to make changes resides on
      a continuum and the client and counselor together explore how to help the client make the
      changes she is ready for or address how to help the client move towards increased readiness
      to make positive changes. With the participant's permission, delivery of this intervention
      will be audio-recorded by contracted staff.

      For both experimental and control interventions, staff will offer participants the
      opportunity to receive text message content via email, if they have an email address and no
      mobile phone that receives text messages.

      3 months after enrollment, contracted staff and/or research staff will contact primary
      participants by phone call, text, and/or e-mail and ask them to complete the first follow-up
      survey over the phone or online. The survey will include questions about contraceptive
      knowledge, attitudes, and use as well as drug and alcohol behaviors.

      9 months after enrollment, contracted staff or research staff will contact primary
      participants by phone, text, and/or e-mail and ask them to complete the second follow-up
      survey over the phone or by-email. The survey will include questions about contraceptive
      knowledge, attitudes, and use as well as drug and alcohol behaviors.

      Secondary participant procedures

      Potential secondary participants will be approached by the primary participant. Primary
      participants will ask for potential secondary participants' to participate in the study by
      sending them a link to a website with study information, a screening tool to assess the
      secondary participants' eligibility, and a baseline survey for eligible participants.

      Eligible participants will link to an electronic consent with more information about the
      study. If they are interested, they will indicate their consent by selecting a check box on
      an electronic consent form in Qualtrics, a secure survey program with electronic consent
      capability, on their device.

      If the secondary participant consents electronically, they will be linked to the baseline
      survey collecting demographic information and asking about contraceptive knowledge,
      attitudes, use, and social communication, as well as drug and alcohol behaviors.

      Three months after enrollment of their primary participant, contracted staff or research
      staff will contact secondary participants by phone, text, and/or e-mail and ask them to
      complete the first follow-up survey electronically or by phone. The survey will include
      questions about contraceptive knowledge, attitudes, use, and social communication as well as
      drug and alcohol behaviors. Contracted staff or research staff will attempt to reach primary
      participants for up to one month following the 3-month post-enrollment date.

      Nine months after enrollment of their primary participant, contracted staff or research staff
      will contact secondary participants by phone call, text, and/or e-mail and ask them to
      complete the second follow-up survey over the phone or by-email. The survey will include
      questions about contraceptive knowledge, attitudes, and use as well as drug and alcohol
      behaviors.
    
  