
    
      Traumatic brain injury (TBI) remains a major cause of death and disability within the United
      States. Approximately 1.4 million individuals sustain a TBI each year, and currently, more
      than 5.3 million Americans or 3% of the general population live with disabilities associated
      with a TBI, resulting in enormous financial, physical and psychosocial burdens to the
      patients, their families and society. The issue of TBI has never been more salient, as it is
      now labeled the "signature wound" of the current conflict in Iraq and Afghanistan.

      Patients with mTBI often experience a variety of symptoms including headache, dizziness,
      fatigue, irritability, depression, anxiety, insomnia, reduced alcohol tolerance, and problems
      with cognitive function. In acute stages, cognitive deficits may affect multiple domains and
      be severe enough to interfere with everyday activities.

      The proposed investigation will explore the impact of 8 weeks of citicoline treatment on
      cognitive function, clinical state and substance use in 40 individuals with mTBI. The
      investigators hypothesize that individuals with mTBI who receive citicoline will demonstrate
      improvements in cognitive performance relative to their own pre-treatment levels as well as
      to those randomized to placebo. Specifically, the investigators expect the greatest
      improvement on frontal/executive measures following treatment with citicoline. In addition,
      the investigators also hypothesize that 8 weeks of treatment with citicoline will result in a
      reduction of comorbid substance use and improvements in clinical state measures relative to
      both pre-treatment levels and those randomized to receive placebo. Given the relationship
      between cognitive function and clinical state, the investigators expect a primary improvement
      in cognitive function will likely precede the expected improvement of mTBI-related symptoms.
    
  