
    
      The persistence of risky drinking among young adults in college calls for continued efforts
      to prevent harms related to alcohol. Many prevention interventions rely on a primary
      mechanism of change: correcting exaggerated drinking norms. We propose to test a novel
      prevention strategy targeting another mechanism of change: creating attitude-behavior
      dissonance. To date, attitude change activities have not been harnessed as a behavior change
      strategy for alcohol abuse prevention, so this study adapts counter-attitudinal advocacy
      (CAA) to the alcohol prevention context. The goals of the proposed research are to
      demonstrate (a) the utility of CAA to change high volume drinking and related consequences,
      (b) that attitude change and attitude-behavior dissonance mediates the CAA manipulation
      effect, and (c) that CAA-induced risk reduction is not inferior to an established
      intervention based on Personalized Normative Feedback (PNF). A pair of studies will be
      implemented across two sites. First surveys to document peer behaviors and normative
      perceptions (N = 500 at each site) will be conducted, in order to deliver accurate,
      campus-specific PNF. The next study consists of a randomized controlled trial (RCT) with 2
      experimental conditions (CAA and PNF) and a 3rd assessment only control condition to
      determine the impact of CAA on alcohol outcomes. For the RCT, a total of 600 heavy drinking
      students who have endorsed alcohol-related negative consequences will be recruited. Alcohol
      outcomes will be assessed at 1-, 3-, and 6-month follow-ups to test hypotheses that, relative
      to assessment only control, the CAA manipulation will decrease alcohol consumption and
      consequences. We will also test the hypothesis that CAA condition will be no less efficacious
      than (i.e., not inferior to) the PNF condition. The RCT also allows tests of hypotheses about
      effect moderators and mediators. This study will demonstrate the generalizability of CAA
      activities to the alcohol prevention context, as well as their generalizability across
      demographically different settings. Implications for the public health include establishing
      the efficacy of a new approach for reducing high volume drinking and related consequences
      among young adults.
    
  