
    
      Therapy expectation is one of the main predictors of therapy outcome. This could be shown
      through many results in the medical sector as well as in studies that are focusing on
      psychotherapeutic interventions across different mental disorders. Although psychotherapy is
      a successful treatment for many disorders it is still hold in low esteem by some parts of the
      population and from some patient groups in particular. This can cause (that) patients who are
      in need of treatment not being recommended to the right therapy. Furthermore patients with
      low therapy expectation are more likely to (prematurely) abandon their therapy or having a
      lower therapy outcome. So therapy expectation should definitely be addressed in the very
      first therapy sessions because of it´s high impact.

      The Violex-model gives an overview on how expectations in general are developed, maintained
      or modified. The model postulates that a process called immunization can lead to maintenance
      of expectation even if they receive information that contradicts their expectation. However
      no trial has yet examined weather the suggestions of the model are adaptable to therapy
      expectation. Therefore the investigators are recruiting participants with critical attitudes
      towards psychotherapy and trying to provoke expectation violation via an online experiment
      containing videos with patients reporting about their mostly positive outcome of
      psychotherapy. A control group is watching a video with patients who are just giving
      information about their symptoms and their first impressions on psychotherapy. The primary
      outcome is the Milwaukee Psychotherapy Expectation Questionnaire (MPEQ) collected before and
      after the video. Furthermore the participants are asked about their attitudes towards
      psychotherapeutic treatment (QAPT, German Version FEP), their own experience with
      psychotherapy and experiences of relevant others, behavioral intensions towards seeking
      psychotherapy, their mental wellbeing and demographic data. Before watching the video
      participants are also asked to formulate one to three individual expectations on
      psychotherapy. After watching the video they are asked how much they still believe in their
      individual expectation.

      The investigators are aiming to modify low therapy expectation by generating expectation
      violation and paying particular attention to the issue of persistence of expectations via
      having a closer look on possible immunization strategies. For doing so they developed
      immunization items (data- and construct-orientated) that are shown at the end of the
      experiment.
    
  