
    
      Physical exercises program is known to improve quality of life, chronical fatigue and appears
      to be a behavioural recommendation against cancer as primary and tertiary prevention.
      Nutritional status is also important in cancer patients: a loss of 5% of weight increases the
      complication risks and decreases survival and the quality of life. Interactions between
      physical activity and haematological malignancies are less described compared to solid
      cancers. This multicentre project is a randomised study versus controlled group that
      evaluates supervised physical exercises program in a homogenous population: patients
      under-65-years-old with multiple myeloma and who will undergo autologous stem cell
      transplantation. The hypothesis of this study is that a supervised physical exercises program
      during and after autograft might have a positive impact on the physical capacities and the
      quality of life.

      In the experimental arm, patients will benefit regularly from a physical exercises program
      during their hospitalization. When going back home, they will be given a practical help kit
      with specific equipment (dumbbell, elastic), an actimeter with heart rate monitoring (in
      order to have an objective collection of the physical practice in addition to a
      self-evaluation) and a physical exercises program on paper and video supports, that patients
      would have learnt during their hospitalization. Furthermore, SMS will be regularly sent to
      remind them to practice. In the controlled arm, patients will be hospitalized in the same
      conditions than the experimental group and can practice if they want. At the end of the
      hospitalization, they will receive a paper document with global informations about physical
      exercises including a few simple exercises. Evaluations will be carried out in both arms at
      day 0, day 30 and day 90 from autograft. The post graft follow up will be done at the same
      time as the medical consultation and before the maintenance treatment.
    
  