
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the safety of peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBLs) retrovirally transduced with
           an anti-MART-1 T-cell receptor (TCR) gene followed by high-dose aldesleukin (IL-2) and
           MART-1:27-35 peptide vaccine in patients with HLA-A*0201-positive metastatic melanoma
           receiving a myeloablative preparative regimen comprising cyclophosphamide, fludarabine
           phosphate, and total-body irradiation.

        -  Determine, preliminarily, whether antitumor antigen TCR-engineered tumor-infiltrating
           lymphocytes or PBLs followed by IL-2 and MART-1:26-35 after a nonmyeloablative but
           lymphoid-depleting preparative regimen will result in clinical tumor regression in these
           patients.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the in vivo survival of TCR gene-engineered cells from these patients.

        -  Evaluate, preliminarily, clinical response in these patients.

      OUTLINE: Patients with resectable tumor undergo tumor biopsy. Tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes
      (TILs) from the tumor sample are cultured in vitro and tested for reactivity to melanoma
      antigens. Patients who are unable to undergo biopsy or whose TILs do not grow in culture are
      assigned to groups I or II. Patients whose tumors yield TILs that do not exhibit melanoma
      reactivity are assigned to group III. Patients with TILs that exhibit melanoma reactivity are
      removed from the study.

        -  Autologous stem cell collection: Patients undergo stem cell collection on treatment
           protocol NCI-03-C-0277 for reinfusion after the myeloablation and cell therapy. Patients
           receive filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SC) twice daily beginning on day 0 and
           continuing for up to 5 days. Patients then undergo stem cell collection by apheresis or
           bone marrow harvest beginning on day 5 and continuing for up to 3 days. Some patients
           may receive a second course of G-CSF and undergo additional stem cell collection by
           apheresis or undergo treatment as outlined in group II.

        -  Group I (peripheral blood lymphocytes [PBLs] with myeloablative preparative regimen):
           Patients receive a myeloablative preparative regimen comprising cyclophosphamide IV over
           1 hour on days -7 and -6, fludarabine phosphate IV over 15-30 minutes on days -7 to -3,
           and total-body irradiation twice daily on days -3 to -1. Patients also receive
           autologous in vitro tumor-reactive, T-cell receptor (TCR) gene-transduced PBLs IV over
           20-30 minutes on day 1 and aldesleukin IV over 15 minutes every 8 hours on days 1-5, and
           G-CSF SC daily beginning on day 1 and continuing until blood counts recover.

        -  Group II (PBLs with nonmyeloablative preparative regimen): Patients who do not meet the
           eligibility criteria for group I receive a nonmyeloablative preparative regimen
           comprising cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on days -7 and -6 and fludarabine phosphate
           IV over 30 minutes on days -5 to -1. Patients then receive aldesleukin, and G-CSF as in
           group I.

        -  Group III (autologous transduced TILs): Patients who have resected tumors that yield
           viable TILs have their TILs transduced with the anti-MART-1 TCR gene retroviral vector.
           Patients receive cyclophosphamide and fludarabine phosphate as in group II. Patients
           then receive autologous transduced TILs IV over 20-30 minutes on day 0. Patients also
           receive G-CSF and high-dose aldesleukin as in group I.

      All patients receive peptide immunizations with MART-1:27-35 peptide vaccine emulsified in
      incomplete Freund's adjuvant SC on days 0-4, 11, 18, and 25.

      In groups II or III, treatment may repeat once 6-8 weeks later for a total of 2 courses in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Treatment may consist of the
      first type cell infusion or patients may crossover to receive the other cell infusion (PBLs
      vs TILs).

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for at least 5 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 136 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  