
    
      The ARAMIS Registry is a multicenter, cohort study of patients presenting with acute ischemic
      stroke (AIS) or intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) while taking chronic anticoagulation therapy.
      The goals of ARAMIS are to (1) examine the prevalence of preadmission novel oral
      anticoagulants use among patients with AIS or ICH; (2) describe and characterize coagulation
      tests being used to assess the level of anticoagulation in these patients; (3) examine the
      utilization and safety profile of thrombolytic therapy in AIS patients taking new classes of
      anticoagulants; and (4) document treatment patterns of anticoagulation-related ICH and
      compare how care and outcomes vary by novel oral anticoagulants and warfarin. The acquisition
      of such findings will be of critical importance to help fill in gaps on guideline
      recommendations and provide insights into the management of AIS and ICH patients on treatment
      with new anticoagulants. This will allow physicians to feel more confident in anticoagulation
      therapy while improving the care and outcomes of patients on these agents who have stroke
      complications.

      The ARAMIS builds upon the backbone of the nation's largest ongoing stroke registry, Get With
      The Guidelines-Stroke (GWTG-Stroke) by the American Heart Association/American Stroke
      Association (AHA/ASA). The GWTG-Stroke registry provides data on patient demographics,
      medical history, laboratory results, brain imaging, in-hospital treatment and outcomes. Using
      this existing resource, ARAMIS will create a new on-line supplemental data collection module
      and specifically collect information on medications prior to admission, diagnostic testing,
      treatment, factors associated with treatment decision making as well as clinical outcomes. A
      total of 10,000 consecutive patients 18 years or older, who experience an AIS (n=5,000) while
      taking a novel oral anticoagulant (dabigatran, rivaroxaban, apixaban, or edoxaban) or have an
      ICH (n=5,000) while taking warfarin or one of the novel oral anticoagulants within 7 days
      prior to the stroke onset will be enrolled in approximately 3-4 years. Beyond the index
      hospitalization, ARAMIS will enroll 2500 consecutive patients (1250 AIS and 1250 ICH) who
      survive and provide informed consent at discharge for the follow-up study. Trained personnel
      from the Duke Clinical Research Institute (DCRI) Call Center will conduct structured
      telephone interviews with these patients at 3 and 6 months following their index
      hospitalization. The follow-up interview will extend the baseline data collection at
      GWTG-Stroke and ARAMIS and include long-term medication, downstream care, and
      patient-reported outcomes, Obtaining such information will not only provide a longitudinal
      perspective on care and outcomes, but will also allow for innovative patient-centered
      outcomes and comparative effective research.
    
  