
    
      The oral route is the most advantageous one for delivering drugs due to patient compliance
      and its convenient administration. Fast disintegrating drug delivery systems are those that
      disintegrate immediately in the buccal cavity liberating the drug which dissolves or
      disperses in the saliva without need of water. The European Pharmacopeia adopted
      oro-dispersible tablets (ODT) for a tablet that disintegrate or disperse in less than 60 sec
      in the buccal cavity before swallowing. So, the drug dissolution and absorption in addition
      to onset of clinical influence and drug bioavailability may be considerably better than those
      detected from conventional tablets and capsules. ODTs were initially industrialized to
      increase the patient compliance (children, geriatric and bedridden patients).

      Nanoparticulate delivery systems have been investigated widely in the pharmaceutical industry
      owing to protection from degradation in GIT, the ability to control release of drugs and
      improvement of bioavailability.

      Meclizine HCL, an antihistamine, has been widely used for prophylactic treatment of nausea,
      vomiting and management of dizziness accompanying motion sickness. MCZ is commonly used due
      to fewer adverse effects than other antihistaminic drugs but its onset of action is about 1 h
      and possesses short half-life. MCZ is a poor water soluble drug and associated with slow rate
      of absorption from oral route, therefore, there is a need to improve its dissolution and so
      ensure the maximum therapeutic utility. However, many different formulations of MCZ have been
      investigated to improve its overall solubility in order to enhance its bioavailability, such
      as; complexation with cyclodextrin, preparation of solid dispersions as oro- dispersible
      tablets and fast dissolving tablet by sublimation method. Moreover, authors will investigate
      the ability of floating microspheres to increase the half-life of MCZ
    
  