
    
      Eligibilty Female adults(>18 years old) were eligible if they had histologically or
      cytologically confirmed stage IIIb or IIIc TNLABC that had not been treated with any systemic
      treatment. Patients also had Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group(ECOG) Performance status of 0
      or 1, absolute neutrophil count (ANC)>1500/mm3,hemoglobin >8.0g/dL, and platelet count
      >100,000/mm3,creatinine<2.5 times the upper limit of normal(ULN)）, transaminases<2.5 times
      ULN or alkaline phosphatase<4 times ULN if transaminases was normal, and total bilirubin <2.5
      times ULN. Exclusion criteria were active infection, pregnancy, other primary malignancy
      (except in situ carcinoma of cervix or adequately treated nonmelanomatous carcinoma of the
      skin), any documented distant metastasis and uncontrolled systemic diseases.

      This study protocol was approved by institutional ethic review boards and conducted according
      to guidelines for good clinical practice and the Helsinki Declaration.All patients provided
      written informed consent.

      Study design and treatment plan This was a prospective, open and unicentric phase II clinical
      study. All chemotherpy was administered intravenously on an outpatient basis. The patients
      received dexamethasone 7.5mg orally twice a day for 3 days before the day of chemotherapy. On
      day 1, docetaxel 75mg/m2 was infused over 60 minutes as well as oxaliplatin 130mg/m2 was
      infused over 120 minutes on day 2. Thirty minutes before chemotherapy, premedication
      consisted of a 5-hydroxytryptamine3(HT3) receptor antagonist. Furthermore, Vitamin C 2g and
      Vitamin B2 200mg were followed immediately after the chemotherapy. Treatment was administered
      every 21 days for a maximum of four cycles or until disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.The prophylactic use of a colony-stimulating factor (CFS) was not permitted in the
      first cycle.

      An initial diagnosis of unilateral primary breast cancer without distant metastases, at least
      7 months of follow-up information for disease recurrence and death and triple receptor
      negative for estrogen receptor (ER), progesterone receptor (PR), Her2 were included as
      pre-treatment evaluation. Moreover tumor size, number of involved axillary lymph nodes (ALN),
      clinical stage and biomarkers such as Cathepsin-D, P53, nm23, PS2 and PCNA, were recorded as
      available information for further analysis. In the procedure of neoadjuvant chemotherapy,
      weekly or biweekly complete blood cell counts, physical examination, electrocardiogram (EKG),
      liver and rental function tests should be repeated. Tumor size was assessed by magnetic
      resonance imaging (MRI) every two cycles or when the clinical signs suggested disease
      progression as well as before the chemotherapy. Tumor response was determined by response
      evaluation criteria in solid tumors (RECIST). Complete and partial response (CR and PR)
      should be confirmed on two assessments performed at least four weeks apart.
    
  