
    
      Metastatic renal cell carcinoma (RCC) is an incurable condition. Current therapy for this
      disease consists of the serial administration of agents such as VEGF, mTOR inhibitors and
      immunotherapy (high-dose (HD) IL-2 or immune-checkpoint inhibitors). Long-term survival can
      be achieved with high-doses IL-2 or immune-checkpoint inhibitors. However, of those patients
      treated with immunotherapy, three quarters will not respond at all and only 5-8% will achieve
      a complete and durable response.

      Our team isolated a tumor-specific cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) line from peripheral blood
      mononuclear cells (PBMCs) obtained after an allogeneic transplant from a patient who showed
      prolonged tumor regression. Using limiting dilution cloning, we identified an allogeneic
      (derived from the stem cell donor) CD8+ T-cell clone that killed ccRCC cells in an HLA A11
      restricted fashion. Using cDNA expression cloning, we identified a HERV-E derived antigen
      expressed in the patient s ccRCC cells to be the target of this T-cell clone. Remarkably, we
      found this HERV-E was expressed in the majority of ccRCC cells with no expression in normal
      tissues. Based on the identification of the antigenicity of the HERV-E transcripts in ccRCC,
      our team in collaboration with Dr. Nishimura s laboratory (Loyola University Cardinal
      Bernardin Cancer Center) has cloned, expressed and characterized the TCR from this CD8+
      T-cell clone that recognizes an HLA A11 restricted HERV-E antigen.

      This research protocol is therefore designed to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of
      infusion of HERV-E TCR transduced CD8+/CD34+ enriched T cells in HLA-A*11:01 positive
      patients with metastatic clear cell RCC. Subjects will receive a novel non-myeloablative
      immunosuppressive conditioning regimen of cyclophosphamide and fludarabine followed by an
      infusion of HERV-E TCR transduced CD8+/CD34+ enriched T cells. To mediate T cell survival and
      sustain function, moderate-doses of IL-2 (aldesleukin) will be administered intravenously
      twice a day for 14 doses.

      The primary endpoint is safety by day 21. Secondary endpoints will include overall response
      rate, progressionfree survival and overall survival. We will also evaluate for the
      persistence of circulating HERV-E TCR transduced CD8+/CD34+ enriched T cells, changes in
      immune cell subsets and activation status of T cells, as well as, other immunologic
      determinants with clinical outcomes at baseline, at different time points during treatment
      and at the time of disease progression.
    
  