
    
      A prospective, multicenter, single-arm, intent-to-treat, literature-controlled clinical
      study. The study will be conducted in up to 15 investigational sites in the U.S. This study
      will enroll up to 150 patients to provide adequate powering for hypothesis testing and an
      evaluable sample size of at least 135 patients.

      The population for this study is participants with signs and/or symptoms considered typical
      of ischemic heart disease attributed to a de novo CTO in a native coronary artery who are
      suitable candidates for a percutaneous revascularization.

      Study devices include the GuideLiner® V3 catheter, TrapLiner® catheter, Turnpike® catheter,
      and a series of five coronary guidewires (SpectreTM guidewire, R350TM guidewire, RaiderTM
      guidewire, WarriorTM guidewire, and BanditTM guidewire). All study devices are currently
      510(k) cleared for non-CTO indications.

        -  GuideLiner catheters are intended to be used in conjunction with guide catheters to
           access discrete regions of the coronary and/or peripheral vasculature, to facilitate
           placement of interventional devices, and to assist in crossing de novo chronic total
           occlusions (CTO).

        -  The TrapLiner catheter is intended for use in conjunction with guide catheters to access
           discrete regions of the coronary and/or peripheral vasculature, to facilitate placement
           of interventional devices, to facilitate the exchange of an interventional device while
           maintaining the position of a guidewire within the vasculature, and to assist in
           crossing de novo chronic total occlusions (CTO).

        -  The Turnpike catheters are intended to be used to access discrete regions of the
           coronary and/or peripheral vasculature. They may be used to facilitate placement and
           exchange of guidewires, to subselectively infuse/deliver diagnostic and therapeutic
           agents, and to assist in crossing de novo coronary chronic total occlusions (CTO). The
           Teleflex guidewires are intended for use in percutaneous procedures to introduce and
           position catheters and other interventional devices within the coronary and peripheral
           vasculature, including use in crossing or assisting in crossing de novo coronary chronic
           total occlusions (CTO).
    
  