
    
      Primary objective:

        -  Determine whether the complete remission rate in adult patients with relapsed or
           refractory acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is sufficiently high after treatment with
           cytarabine and clofarabine to warrant further investigation.

      Secondary objectives:

        -  Estimate the frequency and severity of toxicities associated with this dosing schedule
           of cytarabine and clofarabine.

        -  Investigate, preliminarily, the prognostic effects of cytogenetic features on response
           to treatment in these patients.

      Other objectives (if funding allows):

        -  Investigate, preliminarily, the prognostic effects of laboratory correlates (expression
           of nucleoside transporters, expression of other pertinent genes by tissue microarray)
           and FISH features on response to treatment in these patients

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label, multicenter study.

        -  Induction therapy (1 or 2 courses): Patients receive induction therapy comprising
           clofarabine IV over 1 hour followed 4 hours later by cytarabine IV over 2 hours on days
           1-5 (course 1). Patients who achieve a response (5-25% blasts in the bone marrow with a
           ≥ 50% reduction in blasts from initial bone marrow aspirate) receive 1 more course of
           induction therapy beginning no later than day 45. Patients who achieve complete
           remission (< 5% blasts in the bone marrow) after 1 or 2 courses of induction therapy may
           proceed to consolidation therapy.

        -  Consolidation therapy (1 course): Beginning within 60 days after the first day of the
           last induction therapy, patients may receive consolidation therapy comprising
           clofarabine IV over 1 hour followed 4 hours later by cytarabine IV over 2 hours on days
           1-4.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for up to 5 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 35 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  