
    
      The study population included four to eight years old healthy and cooperative patients who
      presented at the Pediatric Dental Clinic, Faculty of Dentistry, Cairo University with
      mandibular second primary molars indicated for pulpotomy which met specific inclusion and
      exclusion criteria. Written consent was obtained from the parent/guardian after explaining
      the full details of the treatment procedure.

      Procedures:

      Preoperative periapical radiograph using periapical film size two Speed D Film , was taken
      for the molars considered for treatment. Radiographs should be of proper film density and
      contrast for proper radiographic diagnosis.

      The pulpotomy procedure was performed by the same operator. Local anesthesia was induced and
      rubber dam isolation was performed, followed by caries removal and deroofing of the pulp
      chamber using a #330 high-speed carbide bur mounted in a water-cooled high speed turbine. The
      coronal pulp tissue was amputated using a sterile sharp spoon excavator. The pulp chamber was
      irrigated with physiologic saline. Pulp homeostasis was achieved using a sterile wet cotton
      pellet applied for two to three min.

      In Group 1:

      Following the manufacturer's instructions, Nanohydroxyapatite was mixed with distilled water
      to homogeneous consistency then introduced into the pulp chamber and condensed properly
      against the pulp orifices.

      In Group 2:

      The MTA powder was mixed with sterile water in a 3:1 powder/water ratio according to the
      manufacturer's instructions to obtain a thick creamy paste, then placed on the floor of the
      pulp chamber using a messing gun and compacted against the pulp orifices with a condenser
      over a moist cotton pellet.

      Group 3:

      A cotton pellet with formocresol was placed on the pulp stumps then removed and ZO/E dressing
      was condensed against the pulp stumps.

      All Molars were finally restored with stainless steel crowns cemented with GI cement . An
      immediate postoperative radiograph using periapical film size two was taken.

      Clinical and radiographic evaluation:

      All treated patients were followed up at one, three , six & 12 months after the pulpotomy.

      The pulpotomized teeth were judged as clinically successful if they met the following
      criteria: Absence of sensitivity, pain, tenderness to percussion, abscess, fistula or tooth
      mobility. Radiographic success was defined if there were normal periodontal ligament space,
      absence of furcation or periapical radiolucency, absence of internal or external root
      resorption

      Statistical analysis:

      Data were collected, revised for completeness and logical consistency, tabulated, and
      statistically analyzed.
    
  