
    
      Indwelling urinary catheters are routinely used in the care of hospitalized patients for a
      variety of reasons, including monitoring of urine output in critically ill patients, relief
      of urinary obstruction, and prevention of contamination of decubitus ulcers. Bacteriuria
      increases by 3-10% each day a catheter is left in place, meaning that by 30 days, generally
      100% of patients with indwelling catheters will have bacteria in their urine. The majority of
      these people do not have urinary tract infections (UTIs), they are merely colonized and do
      not require treatment.

      To define a standard (and ultimately to compare hospitals against each other), a surveillance
      definition for CAUTI has been developed by the National Healthcare Safety Network (NHSN).
      While useful for surveillance, the definition does not correlate with clinical UTIs, leading
      to over diagnosis and over-reporting of UTIs (in other words, those with merely bladder
      colonization being diagnosed as having a UTI). Despite continuing progress in standard
      methods of reducing infection rates (including decreasing the number of catheters inserted,
      ensuring proper catheter maintenance, and removing catheters when no long necessary) there
      continue to be unacceptably high rates of CAUTIs.

      A single dose of povidone-iodine prior to catheter removal seems a novel and promising
      practice for several reasons. First, we suspect it will be helpful in reducing rates of NHSN
      defined CAUTI, as these are still diagnosed for 2 days after the catheter is removed. Second,
      using multiple doses of povidone-iodine would be inadvisable, since we suspect bacteria over
      time would become resistant even to this antiseptic. Third, we suspect use of an antiseptic
      is preferable to an antibacterial for preventing further antimicrobial resistance
      development. Finally, use of this method, as opposed to the suggested use of systemic
      antibiotics at time of removal, is potentially preferable from the downstream standpoint of
      less antimicrobial resistance and reduced risk of Clostridium difficile infection.
    
  