
    
      Stroke is a common condition that affects one in six people in the world during their
      lifetime. It is the physical condition that accounts for more patient days than any other
      single condition in Swedish health care, and stroke is the leading cause of disability in
      adults. The Swedish guidelines for stroke treatment, issued by the national board for health
      and welfare, recommend early supported discharge for people with mild to moderate stroke. It
      also recommends that the patients should be involved in their own care and rehabilitation,
      and that the effect on close relatives should be taken into account.

      The recommendations by the National Board of Health and Welfare are based on older studies
      with an average hospitalization of 18 days prior to early supported discharge, compared tp 30
      days for control patients. Today, however, the average stay of all stroke patients in Sweden
      is 12 days. Thus, there is a knowledge gap in the sense that the reality on which the
      previous studies are based no longer exists. Today, policy makers strive towards a shortened
      hospital stay, and many patients are anxious to get home. There are variations in the nature
      as well as the extent of the support available to the patient in his/her home.

      This study is a randomized controlled trial in which half of the subjects are randomly
      allocated to very early supported discharge and the other half receives usual treatment. The
      investigators believe that patients discharged very early with support will experience less
      anxiety compared with controls. The investigators believe that early supported discharge is
      safe and that there is no difference between groups in bodily function. In order to test
      differences between the groups, the study requires approximately 110 subjects. All patients
      admitted to the stroke unit will be screened and those with mild to moderate stroke, with
      impaired ability to cope with activities of daily living (ADL) antigen because of motor
      function or thinking ability, can participate.

      Very early supported discharge entails a training period when a team from the stroke unit
      visits the patient and trains any functions that are perceived awkward by the patient. The
      others are planned home with support from primary care practitioners if they are deemed to
      need it. Both groups get home care if necessary. Assessments are made by therapists who are
      not involved in the training upon returning home, at 1 month, 3 to 12 months. The projections
      include anxiety, motor activity, gait and balance, and ADL. The patients answer questions
      whether they think that the different abilities have evolved after stroke onset and rate
      their quality of life. Related questionnaires administered concern anxiety and perceived
      burden of caregivers. Interviews with participants and family members to hear what they think
      of the rehabilitation have also been done. A pilot study, conducted in 2010 with about 20
      participants, showed that patients and families were very satisfied. They also said they felt
      safe when they knew that the guys from the unit would come home to them if needed.

      The study is expected to take four years, of which 1 year has passed this summer. We expect
      enrollment to last 3 years. Each subject will be followed up during 12 months. The policy in
      Western Gotaland is that early supported discharge should be given to those who so desire.
      From the pilot study it has, however, been concluded that it is not yet clear how this can be
      implemented while maintaining a good and safe care.

      When the project is finished, the investigators hope to show that patients with very early
      supported discharge are confident and satisfied with the care they have received and have
      lower levels of anxiety.
    
  