
    
      Klinefelter Syndrome (KS) is a genetic condition in boys and men that results from having two
      X chromosomes and one Y chromosome. The incidence of the 47, XXY karyotype that defines the
      disorder ranges from 1:500 to 1:1000 in newborn males. The sexual development and fertility
      phenotypes of Klinefelter's syndrome include azoospermia (absence of sperm in the ejaculate),
      small firm testes, gynaecomastia (enlargement of breast tissue), low testosterone levels, and
      elevated follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH) levels that can have
      an important impact on the quality of life for these patients. Beginning with puberty,
      testicular biopsies from Klinefelter patients progressively show a degenerated testicular
      environment with Sertoli-cell-only tubules, sclerotic or hyalinized tubules, and interstitial
      Leydig cell hyperplasia. Nevertheless, scattered areas with focal spermatogenesis can be seen
      in Klinefelter men, and assisted reproductive techniques now offer hope for patients who wish
      to father their own biological children. In these cases, a surgical sperm recovery procedure
      called testicular sperm extraction (TESE) is performed to extract sperm for in vitro
      reproductive methods. Success rates for testicular sperm extraction in Klinefelter patients
      are consistently above 50% (50 - 72%) and are similar to the success rates reported for TESE
      in azoospermic patients without Klinefelter syndrome. Pregnancy rates and life births after
      intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) are similar in couples with or without KS, and babies
      fathered by KS patients have a normal karyotype. Previous studies in adult KS patients
      reported that sperm recovery rates were significantly lower after the age of 35. Therefore,
      it was suggested that surgical sperm recovery in younger (possibly pubertal) boys should be
      considered as an option to maximize the opportunity to preserve their fertility before
      becoming sterile. However, there is considerable debate about the benefit of early invasive
      fertility intervention for KS patients.

      The standard, non-invasive and safe way to obtain and analyze sperm production and quality in
      normal post-pubertal males is to obtain a semen sample by masturbation. It is currently
      unknown when spermatogenesis starts in boys with KS, and if sperm could be detected by semen
      analysis in early puberty. In this proposal, the investigators aim to determine if
      non-invasive methods during puberty could be useful to assess the reproductive potential of
      KS patients, and to possibly cryopreserve sperm from these patients for future use with
      well-established assisted reproductive techniques like in vitro fertilization with ICSI
      (intra cytoplasmic sperm injection).

      Although this will be a sensitive topic for adolescent patients with KS and their parents, it
      is essential to begin the conversation regarding fertility preservation. Indeed, most parents
      and patients have questions regarding future fertility. This study has a secondary benefit in
      that it provides an ideal opportunity to educate the affected males and their families about
      the long-term effects of KS on their fertility and the availability of reproductive
      technologies to help with fertility. Similar discussions are becoming increasingly common
      (standard of care) for cancer patients who are at risk for infertility due to their disease
      or oncologic treatment.

      It is currently unknown when spermatogenesis starts in boys with KS. While it seems to be
      commonly accepted that there is a progressive depletion of germ cells in the testes of KS
      patients after the onset of puberty, the data to support this notion are equivocal due to
      small patient populations, lack of controls and absence of longitudinal data.

      In addition, the standard therapy for boys with KS is testosterone replacement therapy to
      trigger entry and progression of puberty characterized by the development of secondary sexual
      characteristics, bone maturation, and continued linear growth. However, testosterone
      supplementation also suppresses spermatogenesis (if present) through negative feedback on the
      hypothalamus-pituitary-gonadal axis. Some argue that any intervention to preserve fertility
      for KS patients should ideally precede hormone replacement therapy. However, in one study it
      was proposed that topical testosterone therapy might not negatively affect spermatogenesis in
      adolescent KS patients. The risks and unknowns of invasive surgical procedures like TESE for
      boys have to be carefully weighed against the possible benefits for this unique patient
      population. For these reasons, the investigators propose that non-invasive methods would be
      appropriate to retrieve sperm and are essential to gain insights about the initiation and
      decline of spermatogenesis in KS patients.

      In this study, the investigators will analyse if sperm can be found in semen of Klinefelter
      patients during puberty and early adulthood. Participants will be followed until they reach
      age 26. During the time of their study participation, participants will provide at least one
      semen sample.
    
  