
    
      Depression is common, with one-year prevalence rates of major depressive disorder (MDD)
      estimated to be between 6.6-10.3% in the general population. Depression imposes a very high
      societal burden in terms of cost, morbidity, suffering, and mortality. Yet only about 20% of
      all patients referred for psychotherapy ever enter treatment, and of those who initiate
      treatment, nearly half drop out before completion. Given the limitations of treatment and the
      significant burden of depression, research into the prevention of depression is needed. There
      is a dearth of research related to the effective prevention of depression.

      Delivering an intervention through telecommunication technologies, such as the telephone and
      Internet, has the potential to overcome many of the barriers to existing depression
      prevention interventions. For example, telephone- and Web-based interventions can reduce
      cost, extend specialized treatment over broad geographic areas, and permit considerable
      flexibility in scheduling of treatment components. Approaches to Improving Mood (AIM) is a
      specific form of a telecommunication behavioral intervention that incorporates Web-based
      Internet, e-mail, and telephone intervention. Further study is needed to determine the
      effectiveness of AIM in preventing depressive symptoms and improving attrition from treatment
      rates in people at risk for MDD. The study will compare the effectiveness of the AIM program
      with a one year surveillance follow up with the effectiveness of the AIM program alone and a
      website offering information on depression prevention in preventing depressive symptoms and
      improving treatment adherence in individuals at risk of MDD.

      Participation in the treatment phase of this study will last 12 weeks. All participants will
      first undergo initial assessments that will include a telephone interview and a series of
      questionnaires about mood. Eligible participants will then be assigned randomly to receive
      AIM + surveillance, AIM alone, or the education website. All participants will undergo 12
      weeks of a Web-based Internet intervention consisting of modules to help them learn skills to
      manage their moods. Participants will be asked to access the Web site every day or two to
      complete the modules and to practice the learned techniques. Participants assigned to AIM +
      surveillance and AIM alone will also receive a weekly telephone-based motivational
      intervention from a coach and will be able to communicate with the coach via email throughout
      the first 12 weeks of treatment. Participants assigned to the education group will be given
      access to a website but no assistance from a coach. All participants will undergo repeat
      initial assessments at Weeks 6, 12 (end of treatment) and at 3 months, 6 months, 9 months and
      12 months following the completion of treatment.
    
  