
    
      With the increasing number of patients diagnosed with colorectal cancer, the proportion of
      patients undergoing surgical resection with general anesthesia increased. However, the
      operation can lead tumor cells releasing into the blood or peritoneal implantation, and the
      impaired immune response can make patients susceptible to the development of tumor metastasis
      and recurrence which is the the main reason of death. It is well known that B lymphocytes and
      T lymphocytes are the main immune cells, and B lymphocytes by secreting antibodies are
      related to humoral immunity and T lymphocytes which play the most important role in antitumor
      are related to cell-mediated immunity. Surgery stress leads to metabolic and neuroendocrine
      changes causing significant depression of immunity. Although general anesthesia could reduce
      surgical stress, studies indicated general anesthetics including intravenous and inhalational
      agents both have variable effects on tumor cells growth by immuno-modulation and some
      cytokines. A number of studies have demonstrated deleterious effects on the function of
      lymphocytes associated with the administration of volatile inhalational anesthetic agents. It
      was suggested that the use of volatile inhalational agent may augment tumor cells growth by
      inhibiting the activity of lymphocytes, NK cells and dendritic cells which are important for
      recognizing, capturing and killing tumor cells, however, the alternative propofol has a
      converse (beneficial) effect by decreasing the plasma level of cytokines secreted by
      activated lymphocytes, macrophages and NK cells. The detailed mechanism of how volatile
      anesthetics affect the activity of antitumor cells remains unknown. Thus the investigators
      will conduct the clinical investigation to study the effect of volatile anesthetics on the
      immune response and metastasis in patients undergoing colorectal cancer resection, exploring
      molecular mechanism involved if inhalational anesthetics show an effect. The findings of this
      study would be valuable for anesthetic regimen guidance of colorectal cancer patients
      undergoing surgical resection in terms of long-term survival.
    
  