
    
      Leishmaniasis is a protozoal disease transmitted by sandflies and is endemic in many parts of
      the world including Central and South America, Europe, Southwest Asia, Africa, and the Middle
      East. Infected humans may develop cutaneous (Old or New World), mucocutaneous (New World), or
      visceral leishmaniasis. The disease is a medical threat for military soldiers assigned in
      endemic areas and currently a major cause of morbidity in soldiers deployed to the Middle
      East and a complication of military exercises in Panama, Honduras, and South America.

      Pentavalent antimonials (Pentostam, GSK, UK, and Glucantime, Rhone-Poulenc, France) have been
      used to treat leishmaniasis for more that 50 years. Neither of these drugs are licensed for
      commercial use in the United States, likely because of limited use. Worldwide, there is a
      great deal of experience and use of these products.

      Pentostam or sodium stibogluconate is a pentavalent antimony drug complexed to carbohydrate
      the exact structure and mechanism of action of which are not known. It is provided as a 100
      mg antimony/ml solution that contains a preservative, m-chlorocresol. Most of the dose is
      excreted by the kidneys within 24 hours.

      Pentostam is presently an investigational new drug (IND) product that has been in use by the
      Department of Defense (DoD) for over 20 years for the treatment of cutaneous, mucosal and
      visceral leishmaniasis. In August, 1997, the FDA approved Ambisome (liposomal amphotericin)
      for the treatment of visceral leishmaniasis. As a result, in the treatment of visceral and
      viscerotropic leishmaniasis, the use of antimonials will now be considered a second-line
      therapy

      In 1984, the World Health Organization recommended that the daily dose of antimony in the
      treatment of visceral leishmaniasis be increased to 20 mg/kg/day. A randomized controlled
      trial of 40 subjects with American, New World, cutaneous leishmaniasis (ACL) found 100% cure
      rates with 20 mg/kg/day Sb for 20 days but only a 76% cure if 10 mg/kg/day for 10 days was
      used. A comparison of three treatment schedules in 36 subjects with CL (single rapid
      infusion, continuous 24 hour infusion, or every eight hour doses) found no advantage over
      using once daily dosing. A review of the controlled trials of SSG concludes that a
      recommended course of therapy is 20 mg/kg/day with no upper limit to dose for 20 days for CL
      and 20 mg/kg/day for 28 days for visceral or mucocutaneous leishmaniasis. The Pentostam®
      package insert suggests that 10-20 mg/kg/day with a maximum dose of 850 mg for a minimum of
      20 days be used; however, based on the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and
      Walter Reed Army Medical Center (WRAMC) experience and their practice guidelines, 20
      mg/kg/day with no upper limit to dosage is used. WRAMC recently published their CL treatment
      experience primarily in New World leishmaniasis comparing SSG 20 mg/kg for 10 or 20 days and
      found 100% of volunteers in the 10-day group were cured. In this study 15% were Leishmania
      major infections. Comparable results are expected for Old World leishmaniasis based on
      clinical experience and current literature.

      Detailed toxicity data for the 20 mg/kg/day dose are provided by several studies. Percentages
      from the WRAMC experience are included here. Subjective musculoskeletal complaints are common
      (58%), as well as elevated hepatocellular (67%) and pancreatic enzyme levels (97%) and
      nonspecific electrocardiogram (EKG) changes (T wave changes). These side effects are usually
      reversible, and no deaths have been associated with SSG at WRAMC. Other SSG toxic effects
      include headache (22%), rash (9%), thrombocytopenia, depression of various hematologic cell
      lines (44%), phlebitis, anaphylaxis, inflammation around lesions, and transient coughing
      after infusion. Other associated symptoms include anorexia, malaise, myalgia, abdominal pain,
      headache, lethargy, sweating, vertigo, facial flushing, initial worsening of skin lesions,
      epistaxis, jaundice and peripheral neuropathy. In our above-mentioned 10 versus 20 days
      study, the adverse events (AE) were significantly decreased in the cohort receiving the 10
      days versus 20 with myalgias in 42% (versus 68%), with less chemical pancreatitis and fewer
      hematologic parameter disorders. Angioedema during SSG infusion has recently been described
      in two subjects at WRAMC. Both subjects responded quickly to benadryl treatment without
      complications. Both subjects were subsequently skin tested with SSG intradermally for
      hypersensitivity and one reacted.

      Alternative heat therapies have been used to successfully treat CL. Laboratory investigation
      showed that Leishmania infection is sensitive to heat. Various forms of heat application in
      human CL has shown variable efficacy. The TTI Thermomed™ device has been cleared as a 510-k
      device by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for use in the treatment of CL. This
      device uses localized current field radio frequency. Other therapies that may be effective
      for treating CL include topical paromomycin and oral fluconazole.
    
  