
    
      Background:

      Approximately 12.000 strokes occur in Denmark annually. The only evidence based
      pharmacological treatment of ischemic stroke is thrombolysis within a time-window of 4.5
      hours from symptom onset(1). In 2012, 12% of patients with ischemic stroke in Denmark
      received thrombolysis treatment. The probability of a favourable 3-month outcome after stroke
      decreases with time from symptom onset to thrombolysis: the onset to needle time(2).
      Therefore, it is of the highest importance to identify potential targets for prehospital time
      reduction, and thereby reduce delay to definitive care.

      Prompt recognition of stroke symptoms by both the EMD and ambulance personnel is a crucial
      step, as it provides access to fast track acute stroke services. In this context, the role of
      the EMS is essential, as contact to the hospital through EMS opposed to private transport is
      correlated to decreased onset-to-door time (3). EMS prenotification of the stroke centre is
      correlated to shorter door-to-evaluation time, door-to-needle time and onset-to-needle
      time(4). In Denmark EMS prenotification in acute stroke is well established.

      According to Danish guidelines for treatment of acute stroke and transient ischaemic attack
      (TIA), prehospital diagnosis of stroke is improved by use of validated tests. No such is yet
      implemented in the Capital Region of Denmark.

      Preliminary data shows that the mean time from the ambulance personnel arrives at the scene
      to they start the transport to the hospital ("on scene time") is 18 minutes in the Capital
      Region of Denmark. American guidelines suggest that on-scene-time should be less than 15
      minutes in all cases (unless extenuating circumstances or extrication difficulties are
      present)(1), however the organisation of stroke care between Scandinavia and USA varies
      largely.

      The aim of this study is:

        1. To establish the rate of recognition of stroke symptoms by healthcare personnel in the
           EMD, ultimately aiming at optimizing performance, and identifying barriers for a fast
           and correct EMS-response.

        2. To assess prehospital time consumption by ambulance personnel on the scene of a stroke,
           create a baseline for future comparison and generate explorative hypotheses for
           forthcoming interventions.

      The study consists of 3 arms:

        1. An epidemiological analysis of prospectively collected data from a 2-year period, in
           order to establish the rate of identification of stroke symptoms by healthcare personnel
           in the EMD.

        2. A quantification and statistical analysis of on-scene-time in stroke patients, based on
           prospectively collected data from a registration form filled out by the ambulance
           personnel after responding to a stroke. The focus of the form is on time spent on
           predefined tasks aiming at assessing time consumption on the scene, and generating
           explorative hypotheses for forthcoming interventions.

        3. Based on EMS data, the investigators will establish a baseline for on-scene-time and
           transportation time in patients admitted by fast track stroke service during a 6 months
           period, for future comparison and analyse data in conjunction with in-hospital delays.

      Method for each arm:

        1. The epidemiological analysis is based on prospectively collected data from the Danish
           Stroke Registry (DSR) and the National Patient Registry (NPR). In the DSR and NPR,
           ICD-10-codes are linked to the Danish personal identification number, a unique number
           for every Danish citizen. The investigators shall compare ICD-10 codes from DSR and NPR
           with dispatch codes from the EMS database, to determine the amount of diagnosed stroke
           patients recognized during the emergency call. The date of the incident report from the
           EMS will be matched with the admission date correlated to the discharge ICD-10 code, in
           case a patient has been admitted more than once.

        2. To quantify and analyse prehospital time consumption, the investigators will develop a
           registration form for the ambulance personnel to fill out after responding to a stroke
           patient.

           This registration form will include registration of time intervals spent on:

             -  Clinical tasks; including prior medical history, clinical examination and
                measurement of vital parameters

             -  Communication in relation to prenotification of the stroke centre

             -  Mobilization of the patient and on-scene conditions

             -  Patient preparation; including IV-accesses and 12-lead ECG

           As well as information regarding:

             -  Patient preparation; including IV-accesses and 12-lead ECG

             -  Language/communication barriers

             -  Specifications of the ambulance (operator, level of education)

             -  Patient/relative related conditions

             -  Visitation to acute stroke fast track

           Statistical analyses:

           Poisson regression analyses will be made with over dispersion taken into account, in
           order to identify specific time intervals and tasks correlated to extended or decreased
           total on-scene-time. This model yields distributions similar to previously collected
           data.

           A power calculation has been made, based on this distribution and the assumption that a
           clinically relevant difference, is defined as any time interval in cases considered as
           having a high on-scene-time, (>15 min.) being twice the amount than in cases considered
           as having a low on-scene-time (≤15 min.). This has shown an estimated demand of 500
           registration forms in order to achieve a power of 0,8 with a 5% two-sided confidence
           interval.

        3. The establishment of on-scene-times and transportation-times will be made by extracting
           specific time points (e.g. ambulance arrival at the scene, departure towards hospital
           and arrival at hospital) from the EMS database during a 6 months period, and analysed in
           conjunction with data on in-hospital delays.

      The stroke centres will provide Danish personal identification numbers for patients referred
      to the stroke centres as well as door-to-needle times and treatment decisions in order to
      determine if there is a correlation be-tween recognition and treatment decisions in stroke
      fast track patients.

      As there is no prior comparable registration of this, it is impossible to estimate a
      clinically relevant difference in order to make a power calculation and determine the amount
      of necessary registrations. Thus it has been decided that a 6-month registration will provide
      a reliable baseline. To avoid bias, the registration of this variable, will start after the
      end of the registration form period.

      The overall aim of this study is, to ensure the best possible prehospital care for all stroke
      patients. The study will determine, if the EMD is at a high and international level in
      regards to stroke recognition, and if there is a potential to decrease on-scene time. This
      will serve as future comparison and have an effect on the structure and future education in
      the prehospital services, and potentially improve the outcome after acute ischemic stroke.

      Distribution of responsibilities:

      Søren Viereck; Medical student, University of Copenhagen; research employee/project manager:
      Literature search data analysis, development and evaluation of registration form for
      ambulance personnel, first draft of paper (planned 1. author) and fundraising.

      Thea Palsgaard Møller; MD; Research fellow, Emergency Medical Services Copenhagen: Data
      extraction and supervision on data analysis, critical review of results.

      Karl Bang Christensen: Associate Professor, Department of Biostatistics, University of
      Copenhagen: Critical review of protocol, supervision on statistical analyses, critical review
      of results.

      Hanne Christensen; Senior Stroke Neurologist & Associate Professor, MD, PhD, DMSci,
      Department of Neurology, Bispebjerg Hospital, University of Copenhagen: Supervision, critical
      review of protocol, provision of data, supervision of data-analysis, critical review of
      results

      Helle Klingenberg Iversen, MD, Senior Stroke Neurologist & associate professor Department of
      Neurology, Glostrup Hospital, University of Copenhagen: Supervision, critical review of
      protocol, provision of data, supervision of data-analysis, critical review of results.

      Freddy Lippert; CEO, Emergency Medical Services in the Capital Region of Denmark; Associate
      professor, University of Copenhagen: Supervision, critical review of protocol, provision of
      data, supervision of data-analysis, critical review of results and overall clinical and
      scientific responsibility,
    
  