
    
      When a baby is delivered by a surgical procedure (a caesarean section) the woman will usually
      have a "spinal" anaesthetic. With a "spinal", local anaesthetic is injected into the spinal
      fluid to make the woman numb from her chest to her feet, allowing her to be comfortable but
      awake during the birth. During this type of anaesthetic it is common to lose heat and become
      cold or "hypothermic" measured as less than 36 degrees Celsius. Becoming this cold can be
      uncomfortable for the woman but also causes other problems. It can make blood clotting less
      effective, alter the way wounds heal afterwards and make the woman more likely to develop
      infections or problems related to her heart and lungs.

      To help keep their temperature stable, the investigators give all women fluid into the veins
      that is already warm and ensure that they are well insulated from any cold surfaces. There
      are two machines that the investigators can also use to actively warm patients but these are
      not yet used in every case. The first method is called "Forced Air Warming" and uses a
      special disposable sheet the woman lies upon with lots of air pockets that have warm air
      blown into them continuously by a fan. The woman is surrounded by these pockets of warm air,
      which help to warm her and also insulate against heat loss. The second method is called a
      "Conduction Warming Mattress" and uses a thin mattress which covers the operating table and
      the woman lies on top. The padded mattress has strips of material that heat up when
      electricity passes through it, similar to a normal electric blanket.

      The investigators have already looked at the records of some women having caesarean sections
      in our hospital and found that both forced air warming and conduction mattress warming seem
      to help them stay warm. However, the investigators would like to study this in more detail
      and prove scientifically whether these methods are effective. Our aim in this study is to see
      if warming machines can help prevent women getting too cold, and prove scientifically whether
      one is more effective.

      The hypothesis for this study is that active warming women during elective caesarean section
      prevents women's temperature from dropping and keeps them more comfortable than if active
      warming were not used.

      The women will have exactly the same anaesthetic as they would have had if they were not in
      the study. If a woman agrees to be in the study she will be chosen randomly to receive
      either, normal care (including warmed fluids but no warming machines), additional warming
      with forced air or additional warming by conduction mattress. Her temperature will be
      measured at regular intervals before, during and after the caesarean section, at the same
      time she will be asked to score herself on a thermal comfort scale. The results will be
      analysed to compare the temperature changes in each group.

      The investigators hope that the active warming machines will keep body temperature stable and
      prevent hypothermia. If the investigators find out that these machines prevent women getting
      cold, they can ensure that the most effective methods of warming during caesarean section
      operations are used and minimise problems due to becoming cold.
    
  