
    
      Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is condition. The frontline treatment is Positive Airway
      Pressure (PAP) therapy. Adherence to PAP is essential to reap the therapeutic benefit of the
      treatment. Psychoeducation is part of the standard of care for the treatment of OSA, but on
      its own has been shown to be ineffective in improving PAP adherence. In persons without brain
      injury, alternatives to standard education, such as Motivational Interviewing (MI) and
      Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT), have been shown to improve PAP adherence. To date, no
      published studies have examined maximizing frontline PAP treatment for persons with brain
      injury. Therefore, the objective of this study is to develop and test the feasibility of a
      manualized intervention, derived from evidence-based MI and CBT, and adapted with cognitive
      accommodations, to maximize PAP success in Veterans with OSA and TBI-related burden.

      This is a 2-year mixed methods study using quantitative and qualitative inquiry to determine
      the feasibility and acceptability of a novel 4-session PAP adherence intervention (Aim 1).
      Feasibility is the ease to which the intervention can be delivered (e.g., eligibility rates,
      recruitment rates), and acceptability is the extent to which persons receiving the
      intervention consider it appropriate (e.g., satisfaction ratings). Feasibility of process and
      the ultimate outcome measures (e.g., completeness, perceived value and burden) will also be
      examined (Aim 2).

      Participants will be recruited from clinics within the James A. Haley Veterans' Hospital
      (JAHVH), a tertiary care facility and teaching hospital. Participants will be recruited from
      three clinical settings: (1) inpatient TBI neurorehabilitation; (2) outpatient TBI clinics;
      and (3) sleep medicine clinic. Inclusion criteria for this study are as follows: (1)
      moderate-to-severe TBI; (2) diagnosed with OSA and prescribed PAP therapy; (3) are
      nonadherent to PAP treatment; and (4) able to consent. The plan is to enroll 19 participants,
      because -- using a conservative 75% retention estimate - it is expected that 14 will complete
      the intervention, exceeding the minimum for data saturation.

      Upon receipt of consent, the pre-intervention study measures will be administered. Veterans
      will be scheduled for four treatment sessions. After the final session, participants will
      complete post-intervention measures. The intervention will be delivered by a doctoral level
      psychologist. Two independent evaluators will listen to 20% of audio-recorded sessions and
      conduct intervention fidelity checks using a Fidelity Rating Checklist created for this study
      by the PI, and adapted from other rating MI and CBT fidelity forms. Of the recordings, 10%
      will be the same session to conduct interrater reliability checks of the ratings.
      Participants will be contacted within 15 business days of their last intervention session for
      the qualitative interview to gather information on acceptability of the intervention. The
      project manager/research assistant will download objective PAP adherence data from the PAP
      software program during study pre-screening and 30 days following the last intervention
      session, to permit evaluation of adherence.

      Analysis will include examination of persons enrolled and retained versus study eligible, and
      reasons for non-enrollment. Attendance will be described. Acceptability will be examined via
      the post-intervention interview. Identification of themes will be generated from the analysis
      using a constant comparative approach. The qualitative team will independently read the data,
      assign labels and codes to data segments, and develop initial themes, then meet to develop
      consensus on initial themes and codes, revising them using an iterative process, confirming
      evidence and consider rival explanations that contrast with findings and conclusions. Study
      measures. Pre- and post-intervention measures which will be examined for completeness.
      Descriptive data will be presented (e.g., central tendency, variability, change scores, and
      effect sizes).
    
  