
    
      Stroke is the leading cause of serious long-term adult disability in the U.S. and third
      leading cause of death, and has a 2-fold greater incidence in Blacks compared to the majority
      Americans. Thrombolytic revascularization treatment administered within a maximum of 3 hours
      from symptom onset reduces morbidity, mortality and cost; however, only 3% of patients arrive
      at the hospital within 3 hours,4 mostly due to the public's lack of knowledge concerning
      stroke symptoms, and the appropriate response when they are recognized, which is to call 911.
      The investigators propose to reduce these delays using a novel behavioral intervention to
      improve symptom recognition and response in a high-risk, minority, economically disadvantaged
      population. Despite the abundance of stroke education materials available, studies continue
      to reveal severe deficiencies in stroke literacy (knowledge of symptoms, urgent action, and
      prevention measures). Expensive mass media stroke education campaigns are not sustainable for
      this purpose, particularly in economically disadvantaged populations. Instead, the
      investigators propose to intervene in school classrooms with children aged 9 to 11 years, to
      teach the five cardinal stroke symptoms, the correct course of action when they occur, and to
      highlight the potential therapeutic benefit of early hospital arrival, with the intent that
      the children will then educate their parents. To help accomplish this, the investigators have
      developed a program called Hip Hop Stroke (HHS), which is comprised of rap songs and two
      animated musical cartoons that incorporate stroke knowledge.

      Targeting children to intervene with their parents has been rarely and sporadically attempted
      in various content areas, but the interventions have used traditional teaching methods that
      do not engage the children, and little success has been reported. In contrast, the HHS
      intervention was designed in collaboration with school-aged children, children's education
      television/media experts, as well as public health experts, school principals, and
      neurologists. As a result, not only is the targeting of children for this purpose an
      important innovation, but so is the careful development of materials designed to appeal to
      them. Moreover, the investigators note that utilizing children as a "transmission vector" for
      carrying out interventions aimed at their parents has the potential to serve as the basis for
      intervention in any number of other areas, for example, medication adherence, healthy eating
      and weight loss, treatment of diabetes, and so on.Thus, the significance of the proposed
      trial addresses the public health problem under study stroke symptom identification and
      response as well as development and refinement of a more general model of intervention.
    
  