
    
      The use of the radial artery as an access site for coronary catheterization procedures, is
      constantly increasing because of lower rate of access site complications, shorter hospital
      stay, improved patient comfort and safe hemostasis. Radial artery occlusion remains a concern
      after transradial procedures, with a varied incidence, ranging from 5 to 38% as reported in
      the literature and probably reflecting different evaluation methods (pulse palpation versus
      ultrasound).

      Although perceived as usually asymptomatic, registry data report that RAO may be symptomatic
      in up to 58.8% of patients, presenting as pain in the forearm, numbness/ paresthesia, paresis
      or acute ischemia. Moreover RAO excludes the affected vessel from future catheterization
      procedures, hemodialysis shunts, invasive hemodynamic monitoring, coronary arterial bypass
      grafting.

      Spontaneous recanalization of the vessel after RAO ranges from 5.4 to 47% at 1-month follow
      up. Today there is no evidence-based therapy, in the frame of a randomized control study, for
      the treatment of RAO. Heparinization has been found to be effective in reducing the
      occurrence of radial artery occlusion and short-term treatment with low-molecular-weight
      heparin (LMWH) in symptomatic patients increases the patency rate of the radial artery after
      coronary catheterization procedures, without increasing bleeding complications, as depicted
      by registry data.

      This is a prospective, randomized, multicenter study that will enroll, after informed written
      consent, all consecutive patients presenting with RAO, after a coronary catheterization
      procedure (both angiography and PCI) through the transradial access and having successfully
      received at least one radial artery sheath of any size at the end of the procedure.

      RAO will be diagnosed by radial artery ultrasound (2D, Doppler, colour) performed in all
      patients after sheath removal and successful local hemostasis and before hospital discharge.
      Clinical evaluation of radial artery patency with pulse palpation, modified Allen's test and
      reverse Barbeau test will be also applied in all patients.

      Patients diagnosed with RAO will be randomized 1:1 into two groups:

        1. Treatment group, that will receive LMWH (tinzaparin) for 1 month (at
           body-weight-adjusted therapeutic dose).

        2. Control group, that will not receive additional LMWH. All asymptomatic patients, with
           patent radial artery at initial work-up, will be provided with the opportunity to return
           to the center for further evaluation, clinically and by ultrasound, if they become
           symptomatic at any time after hospital discharge, in order to diagnose late RAO.

      They will also be provided with the opportunity to be randomized to LMWH or not in case RAO
      is diagnosed and after informed written consent.

      Patients already on anticoagulation for any other reason will neither be excluded nor
      randomized, but will be followed-up as the randomized ones, in order to collect data from
      this patient population.

      All patients with RAO will be re-evaluated by radial artery ultrasound at 1-, 2- 4- weeks to
      determine radial artery patency and record any bleeding complications according to the EASY
      (Early Discharge After Transradial Stenting of Coronary Arteries) Hematoma Classification and
      the BARC (Bleeding Academic Research Consortium) bleeding definition.
    
  