
    
      Endoscopic negative pressure therapy (ENPT):

      OPD: The commercially available Eso-SPONGE® System (B. Braun Melsungen AG, Melsungen,
      Germany) was used for endoluminal vacuum therapy. For positioning the OPD in loop-technique a
      loop (MersileneTM, Polyester, 4 Ph. Eur., Ethicon®, Norderstedt, Germany) is fixed at the
      distal end of the drainage, gripped with an endoscopic grasper and placed under endoscopic
      view. Endoscopic placement took place via oral intubation of the esophagus with finally
      oro-nasal redirection and fixation with plasters.

      OFD: The OFD for endoluminal therapy is handmade, as previously described, by wrapping a thin
      open-pore double-layered drainage film (Suprasorb® CNP, Drainage Film; Lohmann & Rauscher
      International GmbH & Co.KG, Rengsdorf, Germany) on the distal end of a small caliber redon
      drain, a gastric tube or the gastric segment of a naso-jejunal feeding tube (Freka®
      Trelumina, Fresenius Kabi Deutschland GmbH, Bad Homburg Germany). Sutures (MersileneTM,
      Polyester, 4 Ph. Eur., Ethicon®, Norderstedt, Germany) were used for the fixation of the
      drainage film around the tube. Drain insertion took place via nasal positioning and
      endoscopic guiding with grasper. Venting tubes in tri-lumen enteral feeding tubes has to be
      closed for ENPT.

      Controlled Negative Pressure: A continuous vacuum of -125 mmHg is generated by electronic
      vacuum devices (KCI V.A.C. Ulta or V.A.C. Freedom; KCI USA Inc., San Antonio, TX, USA).

      Procedural informations: In patients with suspected EJAL first an index endoscopy under
      general anesthesia with endotracheal intubation was indicated. Standard gastroscopes with
      outer diameter of 9.8mm were used with carbon dioxide insufflation.

      Definition of a anastomotic leak were endoscopic or radiological dehiscences at the
      esophagojejunostomy with extravasation of fluids and gas.

      Decision criteria for placement of OPD or OFD were the defect size, radiological findings and
      clinical situation of the patient. A CT scan in patients with suspected EJAL was done in all
      cases.

      Re-endoscopy was performed after 3-7 days. In the case of persisting leak or in the case of
      uncertainty, the new ENPT system was re-inserted and treatment was continued. In patients
      with OPD change interval was 3-4 days, in patients treated with OFD interval was longer up to
      7 days. Success was defined as complete closure of the perforation.

      In patients with a good clinical situation with endoluminale placed OFD swallow of liquids is
      allowed.

      Database:

      An analysis was performed using SPSS v. 24.0.0.1 (IBM, Armonk, NY, USA). Data were presented
      as means ± SD.

      Results Eight patients (4 females and 4 males with a mean age of 61.39 ± 12.92 years) were
      treated with ENPT for EJL. Patient's characteristics are presented in Table 2.

      Mean time point of diagnosis the EJAL was day 6.25 ± 2.54 after resection. Three patients
      were treated at the ICU at the time of diagnosis of the EJAL. Symptoms that caused suspicion
      of EJAL were respiratory insufficiency, conspicuous secretion via drains, fever, and elevated
      inflammatory markers. All patients were treated and observed on ICU after detection an start
      of ENPT.

      Findings of the index endoscopy varied strongly. Circumscribed insufficiencies, large
      leakages with secretion of putrid fluids or fibrin coated anastomosis with exposed clamps
      were seen. In Figure 1 and 2 examples of endoscopic finding during the index endoscopy are
      presented.

      First treatment mode in all patients with EJAL was endoluminale ENPT. In five patients ENPT
      was performed with OPD and in three patients with OFD. In one obese patient with a complete
      anastomotic avulsion ENPT was changed to SEMS-therapy. Treatment characteristics are
      summarized in Table 3.

      In order to achieve sepsis control additional surgery was indicated in seven of eight
      patients. Number of needed re-operations varied strongly.

      Enteral feeding was established in all patients. Enteral feeding was ensured by nutrition
      tubes combined with ENPT through OFD in five patients and via needle catheter jejunostomy in
      three patients.

      In seven patients treated with ENPT for EJAL therapy combined with surgery for sepsis control
      was successful. In five final endoscopic reports any dehiscences or insufficiencies were
      characterized and in two reports small and clean insufficiencies with good wound granulation
      were described.

      A later endoscopic intervention of a post-treatment stenosis of the anastomosis was not
      detected in the analyzed patients.

      Conclusion ENPT is a promising tool for treating EJAL. Furthermore, comparative studies
      between ENPT and other endoscopic treatment options for EJAL are needed to determine the best
      management options and indications for combined surgical interventions.

      We recommend ENPT in endoluminal position in patients who suffered from EJAL combined with
      additional surgery if required to treat pleural or abdominal septic collections.
    
  