
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of intratumoral administration of an
      Edmonston strain measles virus genetically engineered to express neurofibromatosis type 1
      (NIS) (oncolytic measles virus encoding thyroidal sodium iodide symporter [MV-NIS]) in
      patients with inoperable or recurrent malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor (MPNST).

      II. To determine the safety and toxicity of intratumoral administration of MV-NIS in patients
      with inoperable recurrent MPNST.

      III. To preliminarily assess antitumor efficacy of intratumoral MV-NIS administration by the
      rate of progression-free survival at 3 months, achieved by following radiographic response of
      the treated lesion using World Health Organization (WHO) response criteria guidelines.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the time course of viral gene expression and virus elimination and
      biodistribution of virally infected cells at various time points after infection with MV-NIS
      using single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT)/computed tomography (CT) imaging.

      II. To assess viremia, viral replication, and measles virus shedding/persistence following
      intratumoral administration.

      III. To determine humoral and cellular immune response to the injected virus. IV. To assess
      the quality-of-life of patients treated with MV-NIS, using two inventories (Pain and
      Fatigue).

      V. To assess time to progression and differences in growth rates between treated and
      untreated tumor lesions.

      VI. To assess the overall survival time of patients treated with MV-NIS.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive MV-NIS intratumorally on day 1. Patients also undergo SPECT/CT at baseline
      and at 3 and 8 days after MV-NIS. Patients may also undergo SPECT/CT at 15 and 28 days, and
      at 6 weeks based on whether there is uptake on prior imaging studies.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 3, 6, 12, 18, and 24 months.
    
  