
    
      This study will be a unblinded, pragmatic, pilot, randomised, controlled trial of the
      Counterweight Plus programme versus usual care in individuals with difficult asthma
      associated with obesity. Eligible individuals will be identified through Difficult Asthma
      Clinics or ward admissions. Those wishing to participate will receive an information sheet
      and be invited to provide written informed consent prior to commencing the study.

      Baseline Visit

      Measurements taken at the baseline visit will include:

      Demographics - age, gender, smoking history (current, ex, none, years since stopped, pack
      years), age at asthma diagnosis, duration of asthma, atopy, co-morbidities
      (allergic/perennial rhinitis, nasal polyps, nasal surgery, eczema, gastro-oesophageal reflux
      disease, diabetes, hypertension, cardiac disease, osteopenia/osteoporosis etc), medications
      (inhaled/nebulised short acting beta2-agonists (SABA), inhaled and oral corticosteroids etc),
      healthcare usage (oral corticosteroid (OCS) boosts, unscheduled General Practitioner (GP) or
      Accident + Emergency (A+E) attendances, hospital and Intensive Care Unit (ICU) admissions in
      preceding year), weight, height and BMI.

      Questionnaires - Medical Research Council (MRC) dyspnoea scale, Asthma Control Questionnaire
      (ACQ6), Asthma Quality of Life Questionnaire (AQLQ), and Hospital Anxiety and Depression
      Scale (HAD).

      Venepuncture - full blood count, urea and electrolytes, liver function tests, magnesium, bone
      profile, insulin, glucose, HbA1c, lipids, C-reactive Protein (CRP), Interleukin-6 (IL-6),
      leptin and adiponectin Lung Function/inflammometry - peak expiratory flow (PEF) (best of 3),
      Spirometry (pre- and post-bronchodilator), Fraction of exhaled nitric oxide (FENO) Exercise
      tolerance - 6 minute walk test (practice test and repeat test)[29], Modified Borg Dyspnoea
      Scale, pulse oximetry.

      Physical Activity - actigraphy. Participants will be given the Actigraph device and asked to
      wear it continuously for 7 days on their non-dominant wrist, then hand it back.

      Participants will be provided with a Personalized Asthma Management Plan, and Symptoms Diary
      that includes SABA use and other healthcare usage (oral corticosteroid (OCS) boosts,
      unscheduled GP or A+E attendances, hospital and ICU admissions); inhaler technique will be
      corrected if necessary.

      Participants will be randomized 1:1 to Group A and Group B. Group A will enter the
      Counterweight Plus programme and Group B will enter the usual care arm.

      Participants will return for Visit 2 at 16 weeks and Visit 3 at 52 weeks.

      Measurements taken at Visits 2 and 3 will include:

      Demographics - medications (inhaled/nebulised short acting beta2-agonists (SABA), inhaled and
      oral corticosteroids etc), healthcare usage (oral corticosteroid (OCS) boosts, unscheduled GP
      or A+E attendances, hospital and ICU admissions since last visit), weight, height, and BMI.

      Questionnaires - MRC dyspnoea scale, Asthma Control Questionnaire (ACQ6), Asthma Quality of
      Life Questionnaire (AQLQ), and Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HAD).

      Venepuncture - full blood count, urea and electrolytes, liver function tests, magnesium, bone
      profile, insulin, glucose, HbA1c, lipids, CRP, IL-6, leptin and adiponectin Lung
      Function/inflammometry - PEF (best of 3), Spirometry (pre- and post-bronchodilator), Fraction
      of exhaled nitric oxide (FENO) Exercise tolerance - 6 minute walk test, Modified Borg
      Dyspnoea Scale, pulse oximetry.

      Physical Activity - actigraphy Visits will be postponed by 4 weeks in the event of
      exacerbation or respiratory infection. Throughout the study period changes to asthma
      medications will be allowed as clinically indicated.

      Rescue Package for weight regain or re-emergence of diabetes Some patients find weight
      maintenance difficult, some relapse temporarily and gain weight rapidly. Others may tend to
      let things slip more gradually. Pilot studies showed the value of a sympathetic, but firm
      approach to relapse/regain management. If weight regains occurs in TDR randomised
      participants, or if diabetes is found to have returned (HbA1c risen above 6.5%) at any time
      during the 18 month weight loss maintenance stage, 'rescue plans' for weight gain prevention
      will be offered.

        1. Weight regain of >2kg: offer the use of TDR to replace one main-meal per day for 4
           weeks, and offer orlistat 120 mg tid, with each meal.

        2. Weight gain of >4kg, or to <15kg below starting weight or if diabetes recurs: offer 4
           weeks TDR with fortnightly weekly practice nurse/dietitian review and then a 2-4 week
           food re-introduction (adding 1 meal/week as before). Lowfat dietary advice and physical
           activity will be reinforced for weight maintenance and orlistat treatment will be
           offered.

      This package can be repeated as required in each year of the maintenance phase.
    
  