
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To test the hypothesis that the combination of chemotherapy and atezolizumab will increase
      tumor infiltrating lymphocyte (TIL) percentage compared to chemotherapy alone in patients
      with newly diagnosed triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) being treated with neoadjuvant
      chemotherapy.

      II. To test the hypothesis that the combination of chemotherapy and atezolizumab will
      increase the pathologic complete response (pCR) rate compared to chemotherapy alone in
      patients with newly diagnosed TNBC being treated with neoadjuvant chemotherapy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To evaluate the safety of the treatment combination of atezolizumab + carboplatin +
      paclitaxel.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate potential biomarkers of response to chemotherapy in combination with
      atezolizumab in patients with newly diagnosed TNBC.

      II. To evaluate the impact of chemotherapy in combination with atezolizumab on the immune
      response in patients with newly diagnosed TNBC.

      III. To evaluate the impact of chemotherapy in combination with atezolizumab on
      neoantigen-specific T cell responses in patients with newly diagnosed TNBC.

      IV. To evaluate the impact of chemotherapy in combination with atezolizumab on long-term
      clinical endpoints such as overall survival (OS) and disease-free survival (DFS) in patients
      with newly diagnosed TNBC.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized into 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive carboplatin intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes once every 3 weeks
      (Q3W) and paclitaxel IV over 1 hour once weekly (QW). Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for up
      to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B: Patients receive atezolizumab IV over 30-60 minutes and carboplatin IV over 30 minutes
      Q3W, and paclitaxel IV over 1 hour QW. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for up to 4 cycles in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      In both arms, within 3-6 weeks, patients undergo mastectomy or lumpectomy.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 6 months and 1 year.
    
  