
    
      Background: Kidney stones are one of the most common disorders of the urinary tract and cause
      a great deal of morbidity and economic loss. Because of the high recurrence rate, researchers
      are interested in finding medicinal therapies to prevent kidney stone recurrence. Vinegar is
      consumed worldwide as a food condiment and preservative. The mature vinegar, also called
      black vinegar, is an inky-black vinegar aged for a malty, woody, and smoky flavor. It is
      popular in the north of China as a dipping sauce, particularly for dumplings.

      Some studies promote vinegar for its medicinal properties, as a tonic which may lower blood
      pressure and cholesterol level. Our national epidemiological data in China showed that
      consumed more mature vinegar was associated with decreased risk of kidney stones formations.
      Furthermore, our previous in vivo study found that mature vinegar could inhibit renal calcium
      oxalate crystals formation in rat model (unpublished). These findings inspire us to clarify
      the nephrolithiasis prevention effect of mature vinegar in a clinical trial. In this study,
      investigators would like to examine the efficacy of mature vinegar prophylaxis for preventing
      recurrent calcium oxalate nephrolithiasis.

      Methods: A prospective randomized, controlled, single-center clinical trial will be performed
      at the First Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou Medical University from March 2017 to March
      2022.

      Intervention: 80 subjects are randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to receive mature vinegar or
      placebo. The sequence of randomization is computer generated and are performed by the
      hospital's pharmacy service, whoever administer 5 ml mature vinegar (Brand: Ninghuafu) three
      times a day and placebo as liquid of the same type in identical bottles. The subjects, the
      attending urologist, and the investigators are not aware of study arm assignments until the
      final assessment of outcome.

      From the beginning of invention, participants will be scheduled to receive a brief (< 10 min)
      individual telephone contact once per month and weekly text messages. The telephone contacts
      are conducted by intervention staff and followed a standard script. Text message are provided
      once per week and are used to remind participants in invention group of drinking mature
      vinegar.

      Sample size estimation: According to non-continuous sample size calculation formula, , where
      P1 is 3-year stone recurrence rate in normal group , P2 is 3-year recurrence rate in mature
      vinegar group, P is (P1 + P2)/2. According to our preliminary clinical data, the 3-year stone
      recurrence rate in normal group between 30% and 50%. Assume P1 =40%. The vinegar invention
      would reduce the risk of recurrence by about three fourth. The 3-year stone recurrence rate
      after mature vinegar is 10% (P2). Using 95% confidence interval, an α error of 5%, and a
      power of 80%, the minimum sample size was estimated to be 32 subjects for each of the study
      groups. To account for subjects lost to follow-up and study withdrawals, this number is
      increased to 40.

      Data collection and follow-up: Each subject's medical history is taken, a physical
      examination is performed, and the subject's weight, height, body mass index, blood pressure,
      education, income, employment status, smoking status, and alcohol consumption are measured
      and recorded. Assessment staff are masked to prior data at each assessment to minimize
      potential bias.

      24-h urine and serum specimens are obtained at baseline (with values documented as the
      average of the two sets of measurements performed before randomization), 3 months after
      rafter randomization, half a year after randomization, and at yearly intervals during the 3
      years of the study.

      Outcome Measures: The primary outcome measure is the time to the first recurrence of a
      symptomatic renal stone or the presence of asymptomatic renal stone or the presence of a
      radiographically identified stone. In the event of a recurrence, the treatment is considered
      to have failed, and the patient will be withdrawn from the trial. If there are no
      recurrences, patients will be followed until the third annual visit (month 36). Patients who
      required treatment with thiazides or allopurinol for conditions such as hypertension or gout
      will be withdrawn from the trial.

      Recurrences are considered to be either silent or symptomatic. Silent recurrences are
      diagnosed on the basis of renal ultrasound performed at 3 months, 6 months, 1 year, 2 year, 3
      year after randomization. If renal stones are detected, CT will also be performed. The
      imaging studies will be performed by a central radiologic service, and the radiologist have
      no knowledge of the trial or the group assignment. A recurrence is classified as silent if a
      previously unreported stone was detected in the absence of symptom. A symptomatic recurrence
      is defined as typical renal colic, an episode hematuria, or the expulsion or removal of a
      previously undiscovered stone. If a symptomatic recurrence is documented on the basis of
      renal colic or hematuria, the recurrence will to be confirmed radiographically.

      Secondary outcome measures include change in 24-h urine compositions (calcium excretion,
      oxalate excretion, etc.), serum calcium, phosphate, creatinine, and uric acid.

      Statistical Analysis: The analysis is based on the intention-to-treat principle.
      Investigators use Kaplan-Meier analyses to determine the cumulative incidence of recurrent
      stones, and investigators use Cox proportional-hazards regression to determine the crude and
      adjust relative risks of recurrence.

      For the analysis of the urinary indexes, investigators compare the two groups with respect to
      the absolute change from the base-line value at each time point. These comparisons are
      carried out with use of the Mann-Whitney test. Base-line continuous variables are compared
      with use of the Mann-Whitney test and Student's t-test whenever appropriate; categorical
      variables are compared with use of Fisher's exact test. A P value of less than 0.05 is
      considered to indicate statistical significance. All reported P values are two-side.
    
  