
    
      Over 6 months, Aim 1 will demonstrate that ASIS device consistently delivers an injectable
      product (e.g. Gadolinium) into that subdermal bloodless space. MRI is the most simple and
      logical imaging choice, preferred because with ultrasound, air is injected, which will
      dissipate too quickly out of bloodless space to allow measurements. Since there isn't a way
      to measure the level of Gadolinium within that subdermal bloodless space, at least the
      Prolongation of Gadolinium may be approximated by its greater or longer Persistent % on MRI.
      Also, since we can't assume that bloodless space for patients with a particular disease will
      behave the same way as normal patients or patients with different diseases, this
      approximation only works if the variables are minimized to the same particular skin affected
      by Plaque Psoriasis. Case in point, patients with Plaque Psoriasis tend to have thicker skin,
      so expectantly will have prolonged Gadolinium subcutaneously Persistent %, which may be very
      different from the other diseases and certainly from the skin of normal patients, while the
      Gadolinium subdermally Persistent % should remain the same. Therefore, the Relative
      Prolongation Ability Score or total Persistent % subdermally over total Persistent %
      subcutaneously, will be different and very specific for the particular skin affected by
      Plaque Psoriasis. However, they are valuable indicators that will help us modify the Enbrel
      dosage and duration to inject into that "unknown" subdermal space for Aim 2, from the "known"
      typical Enbrel dosage and duration for Plaque Psoriasis patients. For example, if Aim 1 found
      the Relative Prolongation Ability Score for the Plaque Psoriasis skin to be (2.00), then the
      typical subcutaneously Enbrel 50mg every 3 days, should be 25mg every 6 days subdermally.

      Over 12 months, Aim 2 will again demonstrate the advantages of ASIS device injecting
      subdermally versus subcutaneously, but using Enbrel instead of Gadolinium on the particular
      skin affected by Plaque Psoriasis. Once we have shown ASIS device's consistent performance in
      Aim 1, then we may assume will deliver another product (Enbrel) into that bloodless space
      without the need to measure Enbrel's existent in that bloodless space. Using Enbrel instead
      of Gadolinium, we'll demonstrate the advantages of injecting subdermally over intramuscularly
      for the same affected skin sites in the same 60 adult subjects.
    
  