
    
      Dr. Macedo and others involved in the proposed research recently conducted a study that
      investigated whether simple clinical characteristics could identify patients who benefit more
      from either motor control exercises or graded activity. Motor control exercises (sometimes
      called lumbar stabilization exercises) and graded activity using the principles of cognitive
      behavioral therapy are two popular forms of exercise therapy with evidence of effectiveness
      from high quality systematic reviews, but no evidence for superiority of one approach over
      the other when tested in heterogenous populations. The results of a previously published
      study demonstrated that a simple 15-item questionnaire (Lumbar Spine Instability (LSI)
      Questionnaire) could identify patients who responded best to either motor control exercise or
      graded activity (interaction 2.72 95% CI 1.39 to 4.06, p=0.001). The results demonstrated
      that for people who are LSI negative, graded activity provided a much better outcome than
      motor control exercise one year post-intervention (a statistically and clinically significant
      improvement of 1.96 points on a 0-10 numeric function scale; p< 0.001). In people who were
      LSI positive, motor control exercise provided slightly better outcomes, compared to those
      prescribed motor control exercises. It is important to note that this study was measuring
      differences between treatments groups, and thus change in the scores of function presented
      represent differences between groups.

      However, although this clinical decision rule has the potential to transform exercise
      treatment for LBP, especially given the relatively large interaction effects found,
      validation in an independent sample is essential before recommending use in clinical
      practice.There are three recognized steps in developing clinical decisions rules: derivation,
      validation and impact evaluation. Dr. Macedo's previous study falls within the first step of
      this process and the proposed study aims to address the second step; validation.

      Therefore, the objective of this study is to conduct a randomized controlled trial following
      a similar approach to the original study to validate in a different sample the results of the
      effect modification analysis to identify baseline characteristics that predict/modify
      response to treatment.
    
  