
    
      The treatment of Crohn's disease has proven to be quite efficacious in the majority of
      patients with the timely use of combination therapies for remission induction
      (corticosteroids and/or biologics) and maintenance of disease control (immunosuppressives
      and/or biologics). However, a proportion of patients fail to achieve complete and long term
      disease control and often require multiple intestinal surgeries with a risk of developing
      short bowel syndrome. Lymphoablation followed by hematopoietic stem cell transplantation to
      rescue the immune system has been proposed as an alternative strategy to induce long term
      disease control in this high-risk population. It has been demonstrated that despite the
      potential toxicity and morbidity associated with the procedure, the benefit-risk ratio is
      favorable. Hence, the investigators propose to offer HSCT to selected CD patients and to
      study mechanisms of reducing T cell autoreactivity which will hopefully lead to more focused
      therapeutic approaches in the future.

      This is an open-label, non-randomized, non-blinded, prospective study in therapeutic
      refractory Crohn's patients, failing conventional therapy.

      The primary objective is to evaluate the safety and potential clinical benefit of
      lymphoablation followed by autologous HSCT rescue in therapy refractory CD. Death
      (transplant-related mortality, TRM) and severe toxicity (≥ grade 3 toxicity; NCI Toxicity
      Criteria version 4.0) within the first 6 months after HSCT will be monitored to meet this
      end-point.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES

        1. To evaluate the incidence of HSCT related complications, i.e. viral reactivations (CMV,
           Adenovirus, EBV, BK virus) or fungal infections.

        2. To evaluate the impact of HSCT on quality of life and school productivity.

        3. To elucidate the underlying mechanism involved in the observed benefit of HSCT on CD.

      First, the safety will be evaluated by the amount of related adverse events. All adverse
      events will be recorded in a standardized way and their relationship to the study protocol
      will be assessed at various short and long term time points.

      Second, to determine clinical benefit, the percentage of patients in sustained disease
      remission at 0, 2, 4, 6, 12 and 24 months post HSCT will be determined. Sustained disease
      remission is defined as a Crohn's Disease Activity Index (CDAI) < 150 without the use of
      corticosteroids. In addition, mucosal healing will be assessed during ileocolonoscopy at 6
      and 12 months following HSCT using the CD endoscopic index (SES).

      SECONDARY ENDPOINTS

      - Change in Crohn's disease endoscopic index after 6 and 12 months.
    
  