
    
      The surgical treatment of complex fistulas is difficult and ideally aims to completely heal
      the fistula and prevent recurrence without affecting the anal sphincter function. The
      definitive surgical treatment options include transsphincteric fistulectomy and sphincter
      repair, intersphincteric ligation of the fistula tract (LIFT), transanal advancement flap and
      cutting Seton suture. All the methods caries a relative high recurrence and complication rate
      including the risk of anal incontinence .Transsphincteric fistulectomy and primary
      reconstruction of the anal sphincter has been reported to have a healing rate between 90 -
      95,8 %, recurrence rate of 7,1-9,7 % and 5-30 % experience incontinence in varying degree.
      Video-assisted anal fistula treatment (VAAFT) is a novel sphincter saving procedure for
      treating complex anal fistulas and recently introduced with promising early results with a
      healing rate of 74-87.1 % after 1 year. The procedure can be done as a day-case surgery with
      the ability of precise identification of the fistula tract, including the presence of
      secondary branches. The method includes an endoscopic debridement and closure of the internal
      opening. Only few scientific reports of the method has been published and only with short
      term results, and there is a need of validating the efficacy of this procedure in a
      prospective randomized trial. There are few randomised controlled trials in the literature on
      the treatment of complex anal fistulas treatment and there is no conclusive evidence of which
      method is the best. Furthermore the knowledge of changes in quality of life and functional
      results in terms of standardized continence evaluation and manometric studies are either
      contradictive or simply lacking after the surgery for anal fistulas. The aim of this study is
      to conduct a randomized clinical trial to compare VAAFT (mini invasive and sphincter-saving)
      with the traditional transsphincteric fistulectomy and primary reconstruction in terms of
      recurrence rate, manometric and functional changes as well as changes in quality of life.
    
  