
    
      Replacement or bypass of small diameter (< 4-5 mm) blood vessels is needed for a variety of
      medical problems, including peripheral vascular disease (PVD) associated with diabetes,
      generalized atherosclerosis, or aging), and critical limb ischemia (CLI). Vascular surgery
      has been extremely successful in replacing damaged or atherosclerotic arteries that are large
      in diameter and associated with high flow rates. However, as the diameter of the damaged
      vessel decreases, the ability to achieve long-term patency using replacement vessels
      decreases. The best current solution to this phenomenon of decreased patency with decreasing
      vessel diameter has been the use of the saphenous vein bypass graft. The saphenous vein has
      become the benchmark of all smaller diameter vascular grafts and demonstrates excellent
      patency when used from the femoral artery to the popliteal artery below the knee. However,
      when extended to more distal locations including the tibial arteries, even the saphenous vein
      begins to demonstrate limitations in its ability to maintain long-term patency.

      The TGI ASC-coated expanded polytetrafluoroethylene (ePTFE) Vascular Graft is an
      adipose-derived stromal cell-sodded small-diameter vascular conduit intended for use as a
      peripheral bypass graft. The autologous cells used to create the ASC-coated vascular graft
      are isolated by the TGI Cell Isolation System (CIS). The TGI ASC-coated graft can be used to
      address the pressing medical need for small-diameter vascular grafts with improved long-term
      patency rates. The TGI CIS enables the user to prepare a stem cell-based biological coating
      in about an hour; stromal cells isolated from adipose tissue are sodded onto the internal
      lumen of the vascular graft before it is implanted into the patient during the course of a
      peripheral vascular bypass procedure.

      The TGI Peripheral Vascular Graft (PVG) Kit consists of a vascular conduit, a proprietary
      enzymatic solution (Adipase™ Custom Enzyme Solution), and a disposable fluidics system, all
      to be used in conjunction with the TGI CIS, itself an automated point-of-care tissue
      processing instrument which isolates ASCs from a lipoaspirate specimen. Such cells are
      administered onto the lumen of the prepared conduit, a commercially available, small-diameter
      ePTFE straight vascular graft (IMPRA ePTFE Vascular Graft, item 80s06, Bard Peripheral
      Vascular, Inc.)

      This instrument system will provide a sterile flow-path, through which cells are processed
      and separated. The flow-path is contained within a disposable cartridge that interlocks with
      the durable system hardware and includes both a flow-path cartridge with fluid reservoirs and
      a disposable centrifuge cartridge. The system is a self contained, stand-alone system
      requiring only AC power to operate.

      The clinical trial process will involve a pilot (or feasibility) study to gain initial safety
      and effectiveness data in a limited human population. A subsequent pivotal study will be
      conducted with sufficient patient numbers to demonstrate a statistically significant
      improvement in effectiveness for defined clinical endpoints and to gain important safety
      information in a specific clinical population.
    
  