
    
      This is a pilot clinical trial looking at 2 fraction SBRT radiation therapy as an alternative
      to standard of care. Data does not yet exist for the safety and efficacy of this regimen.

      However, the feasibility of ultra-short radiation therapy treatments has already been
      demonstrated in an analogous treatment using high-dose rate (HDR) brachytherapy. HDR
      brachytherapy has been adopted at high volume cancers centers as a standard treatment for
      prostate cancer. Typical doses have been 26 - 27 Gy over 2 fractions (13 or 13.5 Gy per
      fraction). Overall, toxicity and efficacy of HDR brachytherapy have compared favorably to
      other treatment modalities.

      Dosimetric planning models between SBRT and HDR brachytherapy suggest minor differences. HDR
      brachytherapy was able to achieve higher intraprostatic maximum doses and lower rectal doses,
      but target volume coverage and urethral dose was not significantly different. These data
      suggest that reducing SBRT treatments from 5 fractions to 2 fractions may be feasible,
      efficacious and tolerable.

      Eligible patients include all patients who are otherwise eligible for standard 5 fraction
      SBRT prostate. Study population will be low and intermediate patients with good urinary
      function (as defined by small prostate volume and low IPSS score). SBRT treatment will be
      delivered to the prostate to 12.5 Gy x 2 fractions.

      Hormonal therapy is permitted on this study. Permitted agents include: leuprolide
      (Lupron/Eligard), biclutamide (Casodex), and degarelix (Firmagon).

      Rectal sparing with hydrogel spacer (SpaceOAR) will be encouraged.

      All patients will be enrolled with interim safety analyses after every occurrence of a grade
      3 acute or late toxicity. Interval safety analysis will also be performed for recurrence and
      decrease in EPIC GU domain quality of life. Biospecimen and financial toxicity data will also
      be collected.
    
  