
    
      Chronic heel pain is one of the most common forms of foot pain in adults. The heel bone
      (calcaneus) receives a lot of stress as it is the largest bone in the foot, and the heel is
      the first part of the foot to contact the ground during walking. Normally, as the foot
      absorbs the weight of the body during walking, the arch area joint locking mechanism provides
      about 80% of the stability of the foot. The other 20% of biomechanical stability is provided
      by the plantar fascia and muscles, tendons, and ligaments. Gait abnormalities can cause
      inflammation of the structures attached to the heel bone, resulting in heel pain.

      Plantar fasciitis refers to syndromes of pain that occurs at the site of the attachment of
      the plantar fascia and the calcaneus, with or without accompanying pain along the medial band
      of the plantar fascia. Eighty per cent (80%) of heel pain is caused by plantar fasciitis,
      with 10% of the U.S. population likely to be afflicted over a lifetime. Two million Americans
      are treated for plantar fasciitis each year. It is more common in women than men and in
      people aged 40-60 years.

      Plantar fasciitis results from small tears and inflammation in the wide band of tendons and
      ligaments that stretch from the heel to the ball of the foot. This band forms the arch of the
      foot and serves as a shock absorber for the body. Causes of plantar fasciitis include poor
      footwear, sedentary lifestyles, obesity and sports injuries. Plantar fasciitis is
      characterized by pain at the bottom of the heel on weight bearing, particularly when first
      arising in the morning, and after prolonged periods of rest.

      Progressive conservative treatment options for plantar fasciitis include rest, stretching,
      strengthening, massage, physical therapy, orthotics and shoe inserts, heel cups, night
      splints, plantar strapping, non-steroidal anti-inflammatories (NSAIDs), steroid and
      corticosteroid injections and iontophoresis. When conservative treatments are unsuccessful,
      surgical release or removal of the plantar fascia may occur.

      However, most conservative approaches are of limited effectiveness and there are potential
      significant complications from plantar fascia surgery.

      Low level laser therapy (LLLT) offers a quick, painless, non-invasive, side-effect free
      alternative to relieve the debilitating pain of plantar fasciitis. When applied to injuries
      and lesions, low level laser light has been shown to stimulate healing and reduce pain by
      accelerating the speed, quality and strength of tissue repair and the reduction of
      inflammation. Laser therapy has been found to be particularly effective over other standard
      therapies in relieving pain and other symptoms associated with chronic problems and injuries
      as it impacts the complete system of targeted muscles, tendons, ligaments, connective tissue,
      bone, nerve, and dermal tissues. Additionally, Erchonia low level lasers have been shown
      through controlled clinical trials to be effective for pain reduction, as evidenced through
      several FDA 510(k) approvals for various indications.
    
  