
    
      With the discovery that people experiencing severe treatment reactions following mass drug
      administration (MDA) with ivermectin for onchocerciasis and lymphatic filariasis control were
      co-infected with Loa loa, there has been a need for new filaricidal drugs. Currently, Loa loa
      infection, considered relatively nonpathogenic, is not treated in endemic areas. However,
      because treatment for Loa loa can result in toxicity in people who are being concurrently
      treated for onchocerciasis and lymphatic filariasis, finding a new treatment for Loa loa has
      become a priority. Imatinib has recently been shown to be microfilaricidal in vitro at
      concentrations physiologically achievable after a single oral dose in humans. The current
      standard in loiasis treatment outside of endemic areas is to treat those with low
      microfilarial (MF) levels (less than approximately 8,000MF/mL) with diethylcarbamazine (DEC).
      However, at high MF concentrations (>20,000 MF/mL) serious side effects including
      encephalopathy and death have occurred with administration of DEC or ivermectin, a widely
      distributed microfilaricide throughout Africa. In endemic areas, this risk is avoided by not
      treating loiasis altogether. The adverse reactions are believed to be due release of a large
      antigen load due to rapid killing of large numbers of MF. The rapidity of killing is believed
      to be the main driver of these reactions seen at high MF counts. The purpose of this study is
      to assess how imatinib acts as a slow microfilaricide at levels (<2,500 MF/mL) that have been
      safely treated previously with DEC and ivermectin. We aim to perform a dose escalation study
      to identify the minimum single oral dose that will be effective as a slow microfiaricidal
      drug against Loa loa. If imatinib is found to be effective and have kinetics which favor slow
      microfilarial killing, then this can serve as the basis for a larger study in which patients
      with very high microfilarial loads would be treated, as this is the at risk population in
      current MDA campaigns. This is a double blind, randomized, pilot phase 2 dose-escalation
      trial. Subjects will receive a dose of imatinib at 200, 400 or 600 (n = 5 each). Symptoms and
      blood microfilarial concentration will be assessed at baseline, daily for the first 7 days,
      then weekly for the next 21 days, then at 3, 6, and 12 months. These will be compared against
      an untreated placebo-controlled group of 5 subjects who will have the same data collected at
      these respective days.
    
  