
    
      1. Treatment of cardiac arrest victims Enrolled patients receive basic and advanced cardiac
           life support according to the 2010 American Heart Association (AHA) Guidelines for
           Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) and Emergency Cardiovascular Care (ECC).

           After acquiring sustained return of spontaneous circulation (ROSC), the patients are
           immediately admitted to the ICU and are provided postresuscitation care including mild
           therapeutic hypothermia for 24 hours post-ROSC.

           During therapeutic hypothermia, their core temperatures are maintained from 32 to 34°C.

           Then rewarming is conducted (< 0.25°C/hour) till core temperature 36.5°C. To avoid
           shivering, we use sedatives and neuromuscular blocking agents during the therapeutic
           hypothermia.

        2. Conventional EEG Conventional EEG is conducted for 30 minutes at

           1) During therapeutic hypothermia and rewarming (within 72 hours after cardiac arrest)
           Then, the results are interpreted by a neurologist for the presence of seizure.

        3. SEDline SEDline is monitored during the simultaneous period with the conventional EEG.
           Data retrieved from the SEDline are blindly interpreted by 3 investigators to determine
           the presence of seizure activity.

           The presence of seizure activity in SEDline is determined by the definition

             1. Electrographic seizure: rhythmic discharge or spike and wave pattern with definite
                evolution in frequency, location, or morphology lasting several seconds.

             2. Spike: Transient, clearly distinguishable from background activity, with pointed
                peak at conventional paper speeds and a duration of 20 to less than 70 ms

        4. Anti-epileptic drug The use of anti-epileptic drugs is guided by the results of
           conventional EEG or the presence of clinically seizure-like movement

        5. Gold standard The presence of Seizure identified in conventional EEG.

        6. Primary outcome The diagnostic performance of SEDline to detect seizure will be tested:
           Sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, negative predictive value,
           accuracy, and area under receiver operating characteristics curve (AUC).
    
  