
    
      The goal of this implementation science study is to develop an implementation intervention to
      increase evidence-based patient-provider communication strategies using a Motivational
      Interviewing (MI) framework. Providers who demonstrate communication consistent with MI are
      informative, provide support and respect for the patient, and facilitate collaboration, and
      generally have patients who are more satisfied, more committed to treatment regimens, and
      have better health outcomes. MI is already embedded in the clinical guidelines for HIV care
      and HIV risk reduction. However, the inconsistent implementation of clinical guidelines is a
      constant concern. Fidelity of implementation refers to the degree to which staff members
      actually implement programs as intended by the developer, or how faithful they are to
      specification of the evidence-based practice. Several studies suggest that delivering MI with
      high fidelity can be difficult for many practitioners, but practitioners benefit from
      carefully designed, multicomponent interventions to help them understand and use evidence-
      based practices. These implementation interventions consist of a strategy or set of
      strategies to increase implementation of evidence-based practice. Thus, the primary goal of
      this study is to develop and pilot test a multi-level implementation intervention to increase
      MI fidelity and improve patient-provider communication in adolescent HIV care settings within
      the Adolescent Trials Network for HIV/AIDS (ATN). Leading the way in implementation science
      in health care is the VA's Quality Enhancement Research Initiative (QUERI), created to link
      research activities to clinical services in "real time" to promote the rapid uptake of best
      clinical practices and improvement in patient outcomes. Utilizing the QUERI model of
      implementation intervention development, this study will prepare for a full-scale
      implementation intervention trial with the following aims: 1) To develop a measure of MI
      fidelity to ensure methodological rigor, acceptability and feasibility of administration, and
      clinical usefulness (Phase 1a). This includes comparing ratings of 200 recordings of full
      patient-provider interactions with ratings of thin slices (recording 1 minute every 5
      minutes); 2) To conduct evidence-based tailoring of MI training for adolescent HIV care
      settings (Phase 1b). Phase 1 also includes coding utilizing sequential analysis of the 200
      recordings to identify those specific provider communication behaviors that predict
      subsequent youth motivational statements; 3) To collaboratively develop the implementation
      intervention with HIV clinic teams associated with the ATN (Phase 2). A formative evaluation
      will be conducted to provide local diagnostic data regarding barriers and facilitators to
      adoption and create development panels - local development teams made up of clinicians and
      administrators from the site, and study staff to address barriers and facilitators from
      formative evaluation and draft locally-customized clinical care and multi-level
      implementation strategies with initial sustainability plans; 4) To pilot test the
      implementation intervention and process/outcome evaluation protocols at two ATN sites (Phase
      3) to prepare for a full-scale implementation trial.
    
  