
    
      A database containing pre and post program information will be developed. For the referred
      patients, this database will contain information related to the following:

        -  Past medical history

        -  Obesity-related Medical co-morbidities (HTN, hyperlipidemia, e.g.)

        -  Lab values (fasting lipids, glucose, LFTs, HbA1c)

        -  Anthropometric data (ht, weight, BMI) and select vital signs (BP, HR)

        -  Fitness testing data

        -  Demographic data (age, gender, ethnicity, socioeconomic status, geographical address)

        -  Answers to a lifestyle, attitudes, and health habits survey

        -  Answers to a program survey

        -  Contact information for follow up

      For participating family members (parents, grandparents, siblings, e.g.) this data base will
      contain information related to the following:

        -  Past medical history

        -  Obesity-related Medical co-morbidities (HTN, hyperlipidemia, e.g.)

        -  Anthropometric data (ht, weight, BMI) and select vital signs (BP, HR)

        -  Demographic data (age, gender, ethnicity, socioeconomic status, geographical address)

        -  Answers to a lifestyle, attitudes, and health habits survey

        -  Answers to a program survey

        -  Contact information for follow up

      Once the database is created a retrospective chart review will be done to collect data on
      patients that have completed the program. This information will be obtained from facility
      records and program records. Individuals who previously completed the program will be
      contacted and asked to provide consent to be included in the database. Only data from
      individuals who provide consent will be included in the database.

      Participants in the program will be asked to provide consent when they enroll in the program
      or when they come for a follow up visit. Only data from individuals who provide consent will
      be included in the database.

      Subjects will be followed to collect information on lifestyle maintenance and long term
      health outcomes.

      The database will be queried regularly to provide information about the participants and
      program.

      Descriptive statistics will be calculated to describe the study population pre and post
      program. Outcomes will be analyzed using appropriate statistical tests. Exploratory analysis
      will be conducted to detect trends.

      Data will be stored in a secure location with limited access. All paper documents will be
      stored in a locked office in a locked cabinet. Electronic data will be stored on a limited
      access computer. The database will be password protected and encrypted.

      All participants will be assigned a study ID number. The study ID will be used for
      transmission of data. Data collection forms will use the assigned study ID. All data that
      needs to be transmitted will be de-identified to the extent possible, password protected, and
      encrypted.
    
  