
    
      The proposed work seeks to improve Combination 10 vaccination rates for Tennessee children at
      2 years of age through the development and implementation of a new program, Improving
      Vaccination for Young Children (IVY). Through a collaboration with the Cumberland Pediatrics
      Foundation (CPF), a non-profit company focused on improving health care services for
      Tennessee's children, investigators plan to adapt and disseminate existing CoVER educational
      materials for community pediatric providers and clinical staff, and develop and implement
      targeted quality improvement (QI) initiatives.

      A.3. Specific Objectives:

        1. Design interactive web-based modules individualized for two groups (pediatric providers
           and pediatric clinical staff) to educate on key vaccine topics. Modules will include
           information related to 1) diseases vaccines are targeting, including influenza 2)
           vaccine contraindications, common misconceptions, and vaccine safety, 3) communication
           techniques, 4) vaccine schedules and catch up rules, and 5) exemptions, school
           requirements, and practice dismissal.

        2. Design an in-person QI coaching session incorporating key drivers for improved
           vaccination rates. The session will be developed using the 4Pillars™ Practice
           Transformation Program (4Pillars™) and will include introduction of 1) acute visits for
           vaccine catch up, 2) team-based care practices, 3) standing vaccination record review
           and vaccination orders, and 4) reminder/recall systems.

        3. Implement educational modules and QI coaching session at specific time points within the
           context of a stepped wedge cluster randomized trial (SW-CRT). Combination 10 [(Combo
           10)] vaccine rates will be collected monthly from the Electronic Health Record (EHR) of
           recruited practices for eligible children turning 2 years of age. Vaccine rates will be
           compared between practices monthly within the SW-CRT design. Rates will also be
           evaluated by practice over time.
    
  