
    
      Hypothesis We assume that frequent occasional urinary analyses carried out independently by
      the subject allow us to identify changes in diet.

      Final objective:

      We would like to determine:

        -  a strong correlation between the different markers and the nutritional context

        -  the impact of physical activity on this correlation

        -  the most relevant moment of analysis (optimising correlation) in order to define
           recommendations for use

      Protocol:

      During the inclusion consultation, Professor Gamé will provide the subject's self-test,
      mobile application and user account. The correspondence table between the user account and
      the data identifying the subject will only be accessible and kept by Professor Gamé and his
      team. During this consultation, will be exposed :

        -  the context and objectives of the study

        -  the use of the self-test and its recommendations

      Thus, no samples will be taken and therefore retained. The cartridges are single-use
      cartridges and will therefore be thrown away by the subject. The reader will be returned to
      the partner who developed it (Innopsys) at the end of the protocol.

      The subject will have recommendations on the frequency of use which will not be binding and
      will not have any impact on his participation in the trial. These recommendations will be
      composed of 2 phases:

      Phase 1: frequency of use: 3X/day for 1 month. Phase 2: Frequency of free use. This phase
      will make it possible to observe the level of acceptability of the technology.

      The subject will provide information on his diet by sending a photo of his meals via the
      mobile application provided. This will then be analysed by algorithms (or operators if the
      accuracy of the algorithms is insufficient) to extract the type and quantity of food
      ingested.

      Throughout the protocol, the subject will be able to send summary data of his or her sporting
      activities via the web application linked to the project. These data will be :

        -  The number of steps taken

        -  Average heart rate

        -  The duration of the effort

        -  The theoretical energy expended

      The subject may request a consultation with Professor Gamé during the study in order to have
      a medical opinion on these results.
    
  