
    
      This is a randomized, international, multi-center study in patients with progressive
      unresectable locally advanced or metastatic HER2+ breast cancer who have had prior treatment
      with trastuzumab, pertuzumab and T-DM1. There are two phases to this trial: the Double-blind
      Phase and the Unblinded Phase. In the Double-blind phase, participants were randomized in a
      2:1 ratio to receive tucatinib or placebo in combination with capecitabine and trastuzumab.
      In the Unblinded Phase, patients on placebo may be offered tucatinib.

      Stratification factors include presence or history of treated or untreated brain metastases
      or brain lesions of equivocal significance (yes/no), Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group
      (ECOG) Performance Status (0 vs. 1), and region of world (US vs. Canada vs. Rest of World).

      Safety assessments will be performed at a minimum of once every three weeks throughout study
      treatment and 30 days after the last dose of study drugs. Laboratory assessments will be
      performed locally at sites. Left ventricular ejection fraction will be assessed by MUGA or
      ECHO at screening and once every 12 weeks thereafter.

      For the blinded phase, contrast brain MRI was performed at baseline. Efficacy assessments (CT
      of chest, abdomen and pelvis at a minimum) utilized RECIST 1.1 and included patients with
      evaluable tumors defined as measurable target lesions and non-measurable non-target lesions.
      RECIST assessment was performed at baseline, every 6 weeks for the first 24 weeks, and then
      every 9 weeks thereafter. Repeat MRI of the brain was required on this same schedule only in
      those patients with brain metastases identified at baseline. All treatment decisions were
      made based upon investigator assessment. All patients underwent a repeat MRI of the brain
      within 30 days of the end of treatment unless previously performed at time of disease
      progression.

      For the unblinded phase, RECIST assessments will be performed per standard clinical practice
      as determined by investigator with a maximum interval of 12 weeks.
    
  