
    
      Relapse of underlying hematologic malignancies after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell
      transplantation (HSCT) is frequently treated by a second allogeneic HSCT (HSCT2). Choosing an
      alternative donor is often advocated to maximize chances of a graft versus tumour (GVT)
      effect. We and others published that success of this strategy when using an alternative HLA
      identical donor is limited, at least when acute leukemia is the underlying disease. The
      aggressivity of the rapidly proliferating leukemia seems to prevail over GVT effects. A more
      potent alloimmune response is observed following haploidentical HSCT, especially early after
      haploidentical HSCT. This might be related to a fast and large expansion of NK-cells. Their
      alloreactive effect might translate into higher rates of tumor control. On the other hand,
      non-relapse complications (treatment related mortality, TRM) might be high in advanced
      relapsed tumour patients with heavy pretreatment and due to delayed immune reconstitution
      after haploidentical HSCT. The use of a haploidentical donor for HSCT2 following a first
      allogeneic HSCT from an HLA identical donor has been so far only systematically evaluated in
      small retrospective single center reports. Thus, in this multicenter study we aim to collect
      data on the extent to which participating centers employ haploidentical transplantation in
      the situation of relapse after HSCT2. We will describe and quantify the specific patient,
      donor, treatment, graft and outcomes characteristics associated with the course of treatment.
      To assess and control for the bias that is associated with the retrospective nature of this
      study, we will emphasize to collect clearly stated reasons for the decision to use a
      haploidentical transplant, e.g. as opposed to drug therapy or a second transplant from the
      original or an alternative HLA identical donor. This is a retrospective observational cohort
      study. German centers performing allogeneic HSCT are asked to contribute. Data will be
      validated and missing information will be further retrieved by the four principal
      investigators through phone. Final follow up will be performed in April 2014, 2014. To be
      able to supply durable data on the primary endpoints, only patients receiving a
      haploidentical HSCT2 between 01.07.2003 and 30.06.2013 will be included.
    
  