
    
      The majority of deaths from cardiovascular disease (CVD) in US adults ages 25-54 years are
      associated with suboptimal diet. While diet is an important target of CVD prevention efforts
      in adults, intervention on the childhood diet may be more effective. Animal data suggest that
      early-life diet has the unique potential to modulate biological systems and durably program a
      child's biology for long-term health or disease. The objective of this study is to define the
      molecular effects of a dietary pattern intervention on the gut microbiome and circulating
      metabolome in young children. This objective will be attained through an ancillary study to
      KIDFIT, a clinical trial that tests the effects of a 12-month Dietary Approaches to Stop
      Hypertension (DASH) diet intervention on adiposity and other cardiovascular health (CVH)
      metrics (e.g., blood pressure, lipids) in 3- to 5-year old children (n=140). Using additional
      participant samples, deep phenotyping and advanced bioinformatics, the ancillary study will
      address three specific aims. First, it will test the effect of the DASH diet intervention on
      the gut microbiome, including abundances of microbial taxa, communities, and
      metabolism-related genes and transcripts. Second, it will define the associations of diet and
      the gut microbiome with the circulating metabolome. Using targeted and nontargeted
      metabolomics approaches, blood metabolites, metabolite networks, and metabolic pathways will
      be evaluated. Finally, in an exploratory fashion, it will probe pathways linking the diet
      intervention with subsequent adiposity and CVH metrics, through the gut microbiome and serum
      metabolome. The expected outcome is a preliminary model of how the DASH diet alters the gut
      microbiome and circulating metabolome in young children, and how these alterations relate to
      short-term CVH outcomes.
    
  