
    
      Asthma is a chronic inflammatory disease affecting 300 million people worldwide, especially
      children. In Italy, asthma affects 3 million patients and represents one of the main expenses
      of the Italian National Heath Care Service. According to the definition provided by the GINA
      guidelines, asthma is characterized by a variable and reversible limitation of expiratory
      airflow and by the following symptoms: wheezing, dyspnoea, thoracic constriction and/or
      cough. The type and the severity of airflow limitation can vary over time (1) depending on
      external agents, such as physical exercise, polluting agents, climate changes and viral
      infections. The therapy is mainly based on the use of inhaled corticosteroids and
      bronchodilators. Patients affected by severe asthma (~ 10% of total prevalence of asthma and
      at high risk of exacerbations and/or hospitalization) may not control their symptoms, even if
      exposed to maximal doses of inhalation therapy. More than one third of severe asthma patients
      receive oral corticosteroids prescriptions, with the risk of severe and irreversible adverse
      events. Therapy adherence is generally poor when therapeutic regimes are prescribed for
      chronic diseases, including asthma (4). The behavioural sciences can potentially help to find
      the psychological factors behind scarce adherence and to develop strategies with the aim of
      improving the interactive processes between patients, medical doctors and health care
      professionals (4). Several studies have described intervention models focused on education of
      the patients to symptoms and exacerbations recognition, therapy management, reduction of the
      exposure to trigger agents and improvement of social and physical activities (5-6). The
      intervention is not able to make patients independent in disease managing, but can improve
      the cooperation in asthma management. Another important aspect in asthma management is the
      quality of the therapeutic intervention: the correct delivery of inhalation therapy is the
      key for the disease control (3). Specific educational intervention such as "asthma school"
      can improve symptoms control and reduce; however, up to day, a universal and standardized
      protocol is not available and further studies are needed.
    
  