
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To identify MTD of nivolumab for combination treatment of nivolumab and Y-90 in this
      population.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the proportion of patients with objective response rate (ORR) (according to
      Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors [RECIST] criteria) to the combination treatment
      of nivolumab with Y-90.

      II. To evaluate the proportion of patients alive and progression free at 24 weeks in the
      described population.

      III. To evaluate the toxicities (according to the National Comprehensive Cancer Network
      [NCCN] Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events [CTCAE] version (v)4.03) and
      tolerability of nivolumab and Y-90 in patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma IV. To
      determine the disease control rate (DCR) to the combination of nivolumab and Y-90 at 24
      months from the start of nivolumab treatment.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Programmed cell death 1 ligand 1 (PD-L1) protein on tumor cells and the expression levels
      of other markers of inflammatory/immune signature that may include but not be limited to
      programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1), tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily, member 4
      (OX40), cluster of differentiation (CD) 73, CD39, T cell immunoglobulin and T-cell
      immunoglobulin and mucin-domain containing-3 (TIM3), glucocorticoid-induced tumour necrosis
      factor receptor (GITRL), cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated protein 4 (CTLA-4), CD3, CD4, CD8,
      CD45RO, forkhead box P3 (FOXP3), and granzyme by immunohistochemistry (IHC) and/or flow
      cytometry will be evaluated.

      II. Whole exome sequencing and computational analyses will be performed to assess mutanome
      and immunome (subpopulations of immune cells).

      III. Change in clonal burden landscape of various mutanome and immunome will be analyzed to
      investigate its correlation with treatment response or development of resistance to
      treatment.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of nivolumab followed by a phase Ib study.

      Patients receive yttrium Y 90 glass microspheres intraarterially (IA). Approximately 7-14
      days after Y-90 administration. A delay of 4 weeks will be permitted in case of toxicity.
      After yttrium Y 90 glass microspheres treatment, nivolumab will be administered intravenously
      (IV) over approximately 60 minutes every 2 weeks until disease progression, unacceptable
      toxicity, or withdrawal of consent.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up 30 days after the last dose of
      nivolumab and again at 100 days after discontinuing study drug.
    
  