
    
      Background: Patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting surgery often experience a
      range of problems and symptoms related to the procedure and the underlying heart disease.
      These problems include anxiety and depressive symptoms, immobility issues, complications such
      as wound seeping, neck and shoulder pains, interrupted and insufficient sleep. Over the last
      2 decades, cardiac rehabilitation has become recognized as a significant component in the
      continuum of care for persons with cardiovascular disease. Furthermore, cardiac
      rehabilitation has undergone a significant evolution moving from a focused exercise
      intervention to a comprehensive disease management program. In Guidelines for Coronary Artery
      Bypass Graft Surgery cardiac rehabilitation is described as including early ambulation during
      hospitalisation and outpatient prescriptive exercise training beginning 6-8 weeks following
      surgery. Our hypothesis is that a comprehensive rehabilitation programme including physical
      exercise with moderate intensity and a psycho-educative component can begin in the early
      postoperative phase during hospitalising.

      No studies have tested a combined intervention on phase 1 rehabilitation in coronary artery
      bypass graft surgery patients. However, randomised trials with either a physical or a mental
      part have been conducted with positive result, but evidence is lacking for a combined
      intervention. Before a large randomised trial was set up a pilot trial was conducted to
      evaluate the feasibility of patient recruitment and intervention: to test the safety and
      tolerability of the intervention by patients and to provide outcome data for sample size
      calculations. The SheppHeartCABG pilot showed trial feasibility, safety and sufficient
      inclusion rate and high compliance with most elements. Outcome data from the pilot trial has
      been used to sample size and power calculation in this randomised clinical trial.

      Objective: The objective of this trial is to investigate the benefits and harms of a phase 1
      comprehensive cardiac rehabilitation programme consisting of an exercise-training and a
      psycho-educative component, including plus treatment as usual in patients who undergo
      coronary artery bypass grafting.

      Design: SheppHeartCABG is an investigator-initiated randomised clinical trial with 1:1
      randomisation from two sites to a comprehensive physical and psycho-educative rehabilitation
      programme plus usual care or usual care alone, with blinded outcome assessment.

      Population: Patients 18 years or older with ischaemic heart disease, who have to undergo
      elective coronary artery bypass grafting, who speak and understand Danish and who provide a
      written informed consent will be included. The following patients will be excluded from the
      trial: patients at intermediate or high risk to their cardiovascular status according to
      guidelines, patients with neurological or orthopaedic deficits which prevent training and
      patients who do not wish to participate.

      Number of participants: 326 participants will be included.

      Interventions: All patients - both in the intervention group and in the control group -
      receive usual care. Patients allocated to the experimental group receive a rehabilitation
      programme consisting of physical exercise and psycho-education. The control group will
      receive usual care alone. The physical exercises consist of; breathing exercises with and
      without using incentive spirometry with expiratory positive pressure airway, walking and
      cycling exercises and neck/shoulder exercises during hospitalisation and an exercise
      programme running from discharge until 4 weeks following surgery. The psycho-educative
      rehabilitation programme consists of four psycho-educative consultations with a specially
      trained nurse. The last consultation will take place 4 weeks following surgery.

      Outcomes: Primary outcome is physical capacity measured by 6-minute walk test 4 weeks
      following surgery. Secondary outcomes; perceived mental and physical(SF 12), health-related
      quality of life (HeartQoL), anxiety and depression (HADS), sleep (PSQI), pain (ÖMPSQ) and leg
      endurance and strength (sit and stand test). Explorative outcomes are; fatigue (MFI-20),
      physical activity (IPAQ), cognitive and emotional representation of illness (B-IPQ) and
      self-rated health (EQ-5D).

      Safety: There are no previous reports of risks associated with psycho-educational
      consultations. Physical exercise is tested extensively in patients with heart disease and is
      considered safe and will meet the applicable requirements for safety during training of
      cardiac patients. The interventions are considered safe for patients at low risk according to
      their cardiovascular status.

      Ethical considerations: The trial is performed in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki
      in its latest form. All patients must give informed consent prior to participation and the
      trial is initiated after approval by the Danish Data Protection Agency and the regional
      ethics committee. The trial will be registered at www.clinicalTrials.gov before randomisation
      of the first participant.
    
  