
    
      BACKGROUND

      Context:

      Public home care services are delivered to at least 6% of Canadians age 65-74, 15% age 75-84
      and 32% age 85 or older. These clients are medically complex, access care across settings,
      have very high emergency department utilization rates, and have relatively poor access to
      effective chronic disease management. Their frequent emergency department use is not aligned
      with chronic disease management or geriatric care principles.

      Effective chronic disease management models employ multiple components delivered by a
      coordinated multidisciplinary team. According to the 'chronic disease management model', home
      care plays a complementary function to medical practitioners. Clinical and self-care support
      as well as case management are among the most effective components in chronic disease
      management. Self-care education and support has been shown to improve health outcomes across
      chronic diseases. Sustained follow-up by nurses or other non-medical staff is also effective.

      Canadian home care providers, historically focused on the delivery of personal support
      services, have started to develop supportive chronic disease management capacity (e.g.
      specialist nurse monitoring). However, most trials exclude frail seniors and are not specific
      to home care, which leaves little evidence to inform chronic disease management practices.

      Previous Work:

      Effective chronic disease management in home care has been limited by insufficient targeting
      of clients at most need or most likely to benefit. The investigators developed and validated
      a prognostic case-finding tool for home care known as the Detection of Indicators and
      Vulnerabilities of Emergency Room Trips (DIVERT) Scale that has been recommended for home
      care. It can be derived in real time from the Resident Assessment Instrument-Home Care
      (RAI-HC) standardized home care assessment used in 9 Canadian provinces as well as Estonia,
      Finland, Hong Kong, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Singapore,
      Spain, Switzerland, and some U.S. states. Cardio-respiratory symptoms and conditions are
      prominent predictive elements of the DIVERT Scale.

      Based on evidence-based guidelines developed - in part - by the investigator team, the
      investigators piloted the combined use of the DIVERT Scale with a multi-component
      cardio-respiratory management model. The pilot pragmatic cluster randomized trial included
      over 200 clients across six home care caseloads. The pilot was recognized on the 2015 Ontario
      Minister's Medal Honour Role for Excellence in Health Quality.

      OBJECTIVES The main objective is to evaluate the effectiveness and preliminary
      cost-effectiveness of a targeted, person-centered cardio-respiratory management model.

      Research questions:

        1. Among home care clients experiencing cardio-respiratory symptoms (objectively targeted
           using the DIVERT Scale), can a guideline-based, feasible, multi-component/complex,
           cardio-respiratory management model, compared to regular care, reduce/postpone unplanned
           emergency department (ED) visits, improve patient activation, reduce cardio-respiratory
           symptoms, reduce unplanned hospital use, or improve health-related quality of life for
           clients, over a 6-month follow-up period from baseline?

        2. If effective, is there evidence for cost-effectiveness?

      METHODS

      Intervention:

      From evidence-based guidelines developed - in part - by this team, extensive client
      profiling, and input of clients/families as well as health professionals, the investigators
      developed a person-centred, multi-component cardio-respiratory management model containing
      the following components: scheduled nurse-led self-management support (based on a training
      program, and tool-kit), advanced care and goal planning, clinical pharmacist medication
      reconciliation, team case rounds, SBAR (the Situation, Background, Assessment and
      Recommendation) communication protocol with primary care, and a standardized transition
      package. Each component has a specific objective within the model, however the manner in
      which it is delivered may be adapted. The approach is based on evidence of effective
      implementations in other fields, and includes all elements for 'person-centred care'.

      Design:

      The investigators will conduct a pragmatic, cluster-randomized trial that leverages secondary
      electronic patient records. Sixty-six (66) geographic areas (home care caseloads) will be
      randomized using a 1:2 (intervention: control) ratio.

      Population:

      Approximately 1,080 long-stay home care clients living in a non-institutional setting from 66
      distinct geographic home care caseloads in Canada. Inclusion criteria: clients who are in the
      DIVERT Scale target groups (9,10, 14, 15) will be included (i.e. at least one
      cardio-respiratory symptom (chest pain, dyspnea, dizziness, irregular pulse) and at least one
      cardiac condition (congestive heart failure or coronary artery disease)). The investigators
      will utilize the DIVERT Scale as an objective measure of eligibility. Clients who are
      receiving palliative care (i.e., prognosis of less than six months to live, K8e from Resident
      Assessment Instrument-Home Care (RAI-HC)) or dialysis (P2g from RAI-HC) at baseline
      assessment will be excluded.

      Recruitment:

      Eligible clients will be identified by each case manager during regular home care enrollment
      and reassessment using the RAI-HC assessment (standard practice) for between 6 to 8 months.
      Eligible clients will be automatically included into the intervention or 'regular care'
      control on an intent-to-treat basis. Each home care provider's process for attaining consent
      to intervention will apply. Study informed consent will not be sought given that the
      cardio-respiratory management model is considered best practice care and is offered - whole
      or in part - at the full clinical discretion of the home care provider as per existing
      practice. The cardio-respiratory management is accepted - whole or in part - at the full
      clinical discretion of the clients as per existing practice. Trial investigators have no part
      in the intervention pilot data collection, individual care decision-making, or records
      management during the study period beyond providing guidance and access to resources. All
      trial data will be extracted from secondary data and anonymized prior to transmission by home
      care provider staff.

      Outcomes and Follow-up:

      Primary Outcomes:

        -  Difference in days to first unplanned emergency department visit within 6 months of
           baseline

        -  Presence of cardio-respiratory symptoms over 6-month follow-up

        -  Cost of all home care services within 6 months of baseline

      Secondary Outcomes:

        -  Change in patient activation (based on 13 item patient activation measure) over 6-month
           follow-up

        -  Change in health-related quality of life (based on Minimum Data Set Health Status Index)
           over 6-month follow-up

        -  The difference in the number of unplanned emergency department visits per days at risk
           (alive, not institutionalized) within 6 months of baseline

        -  Number of unplanned inpatient (medical) hospital days per days at risk (alive, not
           institutionalized) within 6 months of baseline

      A 6-month follow-up will be used to reflect the time at greatest risk among home care
      clients.

      Sample calculations/Assumptions:

      Primary outcome: Time to first unplanned emergency department visit within 6 months of
      baseline (alive, not institutionalized). Ability to detect a hazard ratio of 0.75.

      Mean size of a home care caseload: 120 clients Mean prevalence of DIVERT target group in each
      caseload: 30% Expected recruitment over 6 months per caseload: 30 Mean cluster size: 30
      Allocation: 1:2 (intervention: control)

      Simulations using retrospective secondary data sources were undertaken to explore the power
      of a hypothetical DIVERT-CARE trial conducted in the Hamilton-Niagara-Haldimand-Brant (HNHB)
      health region of Ontario from December 2014 to June 2015. The simulations found that 60 HNHB
      home care caseloads randomized at a 1:2 intervention to control ratio could expect to enroll
      1,809 patients across seven months. The simulation linked patients to their actual emergency
      department utilization records, and extended the time to first ED visit figures for patients
      in 20 randomly selected intervention caseloads to achieve a hazard ratio of 0.75, a figure
      chosen to be more conservative than the pilot study but still clinically significant. The
      overall event rate was 35.5% in the intervention group and 44.8% in the control. The median
      time to first visit was 88 days in the intervention group and 75 days in the control. The
      power of the simulated DIVERT trial was 94.12% with a two-sided alpha of 0.05. Simulations
      with a hazard ratio of 0.80 yielded a power of 79.96% The intracluster correlation
      coefficient (ICC) was estimated to be 0.005.

      Main Analyses:

      The primary hypothesis will be assessed through a multilevel discrete-time proportional
      hazards model. The dependent variable will be days until first emergency department visit,
      censored at date of home care discharge for any reason. Caseload and partner site will be
      included as nested random effects. The hazard ratio, 95% confidence interval, and p-value
      will be reported for the treatment group effect and covariates when applicable. A two-sided
      alpha level of 0.05 will be used to judge statistical significance.

      The economic evaluation will examine total care costs, controlling for length of stay,
      between treatment groups to compare incremental costs to incremental effects (i.e. cost per
      ED visit averted).

      The secondary hypotheses will be evaluated by a multilevel general linear model. Six-month
      change in health-related quality of life, number of symptoms, patient activation, and number
      of emergency department visits will be the respective dependent variables. Caseload and home
      care provider site will be included as nested random effects. The unit change in each
      measure, 95% confidence interval, and p-value will be reported for the treatment group effect
      and covariates when applicable. A two-sided alpha level of 0.05 will be used to judge
      statistical significance.

      Main Secondary Datasets:

      RAI-HC: The Resident Assessment Instrument Home Care (RAI-HC) is a standardized comprehensive
      assessment containing approximately 200 items, has been found to document major domains of
      health reliably. The Canadian Institute for Health Information (CIHI) collects and reports
      this data from publically funded home care programs. CIHI conducts its own quality assurance
      procedures to ensure accuracy and completeness. CIHI also provides a document describing the
      interpretation of all included variables for the RAI-HC dataset.

      The Client Health and Related Information System: The Client Health and Related Information
      System (CHRIS) is an online patient management system for Community Care Access Centre (CCAC)
      use. It includes patient assessments, documents, provider and vendor contracts, billing of
      services information, and medical supplies and equipment rental costs. CHRIS continues to
      maintain the quality and integrity of its data independently. Cost data from sites outside of
      Ontario will be estimated as per the services rendered.

      National Ambulatory Care Reporting System: The National Ambulatory Care Reporting System
      (NACRS) contains data from all hospital-based and community-based ambulatory care. It is
      collected and maintained by CIHI, which conducts its own quality assurance procedures to
      ensure accuracy and completeness. CIHI also provides a document describing the interpretation
      of all included variables for this dataset.

      Discharge Abstract Database: The Discharge Abstract Database (DAD) captures administrative,
      clinical and demographic information on hospital discharges (including deaths, sign-outs and
      transfers). It is collected and maintained by CIHI, which conducts its own quality assurance
      procedures to ensure accuracy and completeness. CIHI also provides a document describing the
      interpretation of all included variables for this dataset.
    
  