
    
      Type 2 diabetes is associated with an increased risk of macro- and microvascular
      complications, resulting from a generalized injury to the vascular endothelium. The
      pathophysiological mechanisms leading to cardio vascular disease (CVD) in diabetics are not
      well defined. However, there is accumulating evidence, that damage to vascular smooth muscle
      cells and endothelial cells partly occur through vessel shear stress, changes in nitric
      oxide, and increased cytokine levels (i.e. TNF-α: tumour necrosis factor-α and IL-1:
      interleukin-1). This ultimately results in sclerosis of the basal membrane caused by
      endothelial cell proliferation and increased vascular permeability, allowing protein to leak
      into the extra cellular matrix. Atherosclerotic lesions may also arise as a result of
      accumulation of monocytes and macrophages containing oxidised LDL (foam cells) in the
      arterial wall. This process is initiated by the expression of adhesion molecules (e.g.
      VCAM-1; vascular cell adhesion molecule-1, ICAM; intercellular cell adhesion molecule) on the
      luminal surface of vascular endothelial cells, allowing cellular attachment and migration
      into the vascular wall.

      Osteoprotegerin (OPG), a secreted basic glycoprotein and member of the TNF receptor
      superfamily, is a soluble receptor activator of nuclear factor-κB (RANK) ligand (RANKL), and
      TNF-related apoptosis inducing ligand (TRAIL), though with much lower affinity to TRAIL
      compared to RANKL. OPG works as a decoy-receptor preventing the RANK-RANKL interaction,
      thereby reducing the biological effect. The RANK-RANKL system induces osteoclast
      differentiation and activation whereby bone absorption is promoted. Due to its properties as
      a decoy receptor, OPG antagonizes this effect and inhibits bone loss. In addition to the
      effects on osteoclasts, the RANK-RANKL system has been proposed to have cardiovascular
      effects. Thus, activation of the RANK-RANKL system induces VCAM-1 synthesis, prolongs
      endothelial cell survival, promotes angiogenesis, and reduces TNF-α levels. In contrast,
      elevated levels of OPG are associated with the severity of CVD, although it is presently
      unclear whether this association reflects a cause-effect relationship or is purely
      coincidental.

      Cholesterol-lowering therapy with statins reduces cardiovascular mortality and morbidity risk
      in diabetics and non-diabetic subjects. According to recent studies, statins may have
      additional, pleiotropic effects and may in fact stabilize atherosclerotic plaques.
      Experimental data obtained in animal models indicate dose-dependent angiogenetic effects and
      promotion of vascular structure formation. It is therefore of interest that recent, in vitro
      studies by Ben-Tahl et al. and Rasmussen et al. suggest that statins may suppress OPG and
      adhesion molecule production in humans. Thus, umbilical vein endothelial cells and smooth
      vascular muscle cells incubated with simvastatin and stimulated with TNF-α and IL-1 secreted
      less OPG than control cells. Under normal circumstances, exposure to cytokines (TNF-α and
      IL-1) is a powerful stimulus to OPG production in vascular cells and these results therefore
      seem to support the concept, that simvastatin may ameliorate some of the deleterious effects
      of inflammation.

      This study was conducted to examine the effect of simvastatin treatment on circulating OPG
      and adhesion molecule levels in a group of type 2 diabetic patients at increased risk for
      cardiovascular disease (CVD) due to persistent microalbuminuria. Since both OPG and adhesion
      molecules are associated with CVD and potentially modifiable by statin treatment this could
      help improve our understanding of potentially pleiotropic effects of statins in reducing CVD.
    
  