
    
      This is a longitudinal, prospective, cohort study. The reporting will adhere to the STROBE
      guidelines. Approximately 100 patients 12 months (range 10 - 16 months) after anterior
      cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR) will be recruited from Skåne University Hospital,
      Sweden and Ullevål Hospital, Oslo, Norway. The majority of the patients (approx. 80 %) will
      be recruited in Sweden. As a sample of convenience, 20 age- and sex-matched non-knee injured
      individuals will be recruited among students in Lund, Sweden.

      A research coordinator at each site will determine eligibility for the study, based on
      pre-specified inclusion and exclusion criteria. Patients will be provided with written and
      oral information about the study. Patients who accept to participate will be assessed with
      various measures of muscle function, patient-reported outcomes, MRI, and blood samples for
      biomarker analyses, at baseline (1 year after ACLR) and 2 years later (3 years after ACLR).

      For descriptive purposes, the mean difference (95% CI), or median (quartiles), between
      baseline and follow-up assessments will be used as appropriate. Separate linear regression
      model will be used to elucidate the influence of change in each muscle function variable on
      change in primary, secondary and exploratory outcomes (biomarkers), adjusted for baseline
      values. Separate linear regression models will also be used to elucidate the influence of
      demographic factors on change in muscle function, self-reported outcomes, and early OA.
      Assuming a clinically relevant correlation of 0.30 between knee extension strength and
      self-reported pain, 84 patients are needed with 80% power at the 5% significance level. Based
      on this calculation, 100 patients will be included, including an approximate drop-out of 15%.
      For explorative purposes, an analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) will be used to investigate
      differences in the presence of early knee OA between the 100 patients with ACLR and twenty
      sex and age matched non-injured individuals, adjusting for activity level.
    
  