
    
      In this Phase I/II clinical trial, we seek to pilot the addition of HCQ to the standard
      front-line therapy of colorectal cancer, FOLFOX/bevacizumab. In toxicity terms, our previous
      studies lead us to believe that full dose (800mg) of HCQ will be welltolerated in this
      setting. By starting at 600 mg, we will ensure that the full dose is approached with an eye
      to safety, and if needed, we will use the lower dose. Both doses achieve autophagy inhibition
      in our current studies: for this reason, we are comfortable in including accrual to both
      dose-levels to the Phase II endpoints. If results are particularly striking, we will consider
      amending the study to expand accrual if the budget permits, but 25 patients permits an
      adequate assessment of activity of a novel regimen. The correlative endpoints of this trial
      are directed to the pharmacokinetics of HCQ, and pharmacodynamics of autophagy inhibition. We
      are currently constructing a population pharmacokinetic model of HCQ based on data from
      several ongoing trials, and the data from these patients will contribute to refining the
      model. We will analyze both measured and modelpredicted indices for their relationship to
      autophagy induction. Autophagy will be assessed as the accumulation of autophagocytic
      vesicles in the PMNs of treated patients, together with the induction of the expression of
      autophagyrelated proteins on western analysis, quantitated by densitometry. An exploratory
      correlative endpoint is the induction of metabolic changes as measured by 18FDG-PET. Our
      mechanistic hypothesis in this work is that the addition of HCQ will lead to a greater amount
      of cell death in the hypoxic regions of the tumor, that have increased as a consequence of
      bevacizumab treatment. We will document the rates of metabolic response as a consequence of
      treatment, as a therapeutic marker that may be related to the degree of autophagy inhibition.
      Finally, since we have demonistrated the key role of JNK1 in the induction of autophagy, we
      will analyze archival tumor materials to determine variability in this marker, as a baseline
      for potential future trials.
    
  