
    
      A. Study design

        1. Prospective randomization (Unipolar voltage subtraction map guided PV(pulmonary vein)
           isolation group vs. CT myocardial thickness map guided PV isolation group vs. Empirical
           PV isolation group )

        2. Target number of subjects: 480 (160 per group)

        3. Rhythm FU : 2012 ACC/AHA/ESC guidelines (Holter monitoring at the baseline, 2 month, and
           thereafter every 6 months; ECG if the patient has any symptom)

        4. Anticoagulant therapy followed by 2014 ACC/AHA/ESC guidelines

        5. All complications in each group will be evaluated including the re-hospitalization rate,
           major cardiovascular event, and mortality rate.

      B. Progress and rhythm/ECG follow-up

        1. To be performed in accordance with the 2012 ACC/AHA/HRS guidelines for AF management

        2. Follow-up at 1 weeks, 3 months, and thereafter every 6-month after procedure.

        3. Rhythm control at 3 months, and thereafter every 6-month follow-up with Holter

        4. If the patient complains of symptoms, ECG will be performed at any time, and rhythm
           follow-up will be carried out with a Holter or event recorder.

      C. Follow-up All the patients will be followed-up at 1, 3, 6 months, and thereafter every 6
      months. If the patient shows any symptom within the clinical study period, patient will visit
      the outpatient clinic. ECG will be performed at every outpatient visits, and 24-hour Holter
      or event recording will be performed every 6 months for 2 years, and every year after 2 years
      (2012 Heart Rhythm Society/EHRA/European Cardiac Arrhythmia Society Expert Consensus
      Statement guidelines). If atrial fibrillation or atrial tachycardia lasting more than 30
      seconds is observed in 12-lead ECG or Holter, it will be evaluated as recurrence. Recurrence
      within 3 months after the procedure will be classified as early recurrence, and that after 3
      months will be classified as clinical recurrence.
    
  