
    
      A tremendous challenge in home hospice care is ensuring that medication prescribing is
      appropriately aligned to patients' goals of care and that medications are appropriately
      managed by family caregivers. Therefore, the Investigators propose a novel intervention that
      trains hospice staff to 1. regularly review, simplify, and align patients' prescribed
      medications with their goals of care as their illness progresses, and 2. support family
      caregivers with education that empowers them to understand each medication's use, develop
      skills for safe administration, and understand when stopping medications may be beneficial.
      This program is called Standardized PatiEnt-CenTered medicatiOn Review (SPECTORx) in Home
      Hospice, and is based on a combination of 3 existing, complementary, educational programs
      that, together, train hospice staff to create a comprehensive, patient-centered, medication
      management care plan. The program also creates an online learning community that promotes
      ongoing education and practice change for hospice clinicians. This pilot study aims to
      demonstrate the feasibility of conducting a clinical trial to evaluate the efficacy of
      SPECTORx. The long-term objective is to test the hypothesis that SPECTORx reduces
      inappropriate medication prescribing and improves family caregiver reported quality of care.
      However, to accomplish this, the Investigators must first address challenging questions
      regarding the design, feasibility, and execution of trials in home hospice. The Investigators
      will accomplish this using a stakeholder engagement process to refine the SPECTORx
      intervention and trial protocol. The Investigators will then conduct a pilot cluster
      randomized trial and compare outcomes within and across 2 large, multi-office, hospice
      agencies from Utah and Massachusetts. Within each hospice agency, the Investigators will
      randomize 1 office to intervention and 1 office to attention control. Target enrollment is
      n=60 family caregiver-patient dyads of patients aged ≥65 years with advanced, life-limiting
      illness. Primary outcomes are acceptability and feasibility of the SPECTORx intervention by
      hospice stakeholders, and acceptability, burden and completion of family caregiver
      assessments (Family Caregiver Medication Administration Hassle Scale at baseline, 2 weeks, 4
      weeks, 12 weeks, and quarterly). The overarching goal of this research is to align patient's
      prescribed medications with their goals of care at each stage of their advanced illness and
      to support family caregivers' medication management challenges. Ultimately, the Investigators
      want to improve the quality of medication prescribing, reduce treatment complexity and
      medication-related harm, and improve family caregiver outcomes for the almost 600,000 elderly
      Americans who receive home hospice services annually.
    
  