
    
      Moyamoya disease is a rare medical disorder that affects the blood vessels (pipes that
      transport blood) in the brain. In Moyamoya disease, the large blood vessels in the middle of
      the brain close down over time. The cause of this disorder is unknown. In order to compensate
      for this narrowing, the body grows new small blood vessels around the blockage. These small
      branches grow larger (and may be more numerous) to give the disorder its name. "Moyamoya" is
      the Japanese term for "puff of smoke" and is used to describe the hazy appearance of these
      small blood vessels on an angiogram.

      Treatment for moyamoya is difficult because so little is known about the disease. Some people
      never have a stroke while others may have several. It is likely that the strokes are due to
      insufficient blood flow to the brain. There are surgical procedures that may improve blood
      flow to the brain, however, these procedures may cause complications and may not always
      improve the blood flow.

      The main purpose of this study is to determine if people with moyamoya disease who have
      insufficient blood flow are at a higher risk for stroke. In this study researchers will learn
      more about the risks and potential benefits of surgical treatment. This information will help
      decide if there are people at higher risk for stroke who might benefit from surgery or if
      there are those at a lower risk who might not benefit.

      In this study, participants will undergo baseline clinical and laboratory evaluation.
      Measurements of blood flow to the brain and oxygen use will be obtained using by positron
      emission tomography (PET). Participants will be followed for up to 5 years. PET studies will
      be conducted one and three years after enrollment to determine if blood flow improves over
      time. Participants treated with surgery (at the discretion of their treating physicians) will
      also be followed for perioperative complications, improvement in blood flow, and long term
      risk of stroke.
    
  