
    
      The prevalence of morbid obesity in Canada has risen almost 5 fold in the past three decades.
      Surgery remains the cornerstone of treatment of obesity and related comorbidities such as
      type-2 diabetes. Bariatric/metabolic procedures can be classified into 2 main categories: a)
      those that cause restriction, and b) those that add a malabsorptive component to restriction.
      Currently sleeve gastrectomy (SG), which is a purely restrictive operation, is the most
      frequently performed procedure in North America.

      Interestingly, combined restrictive/malabsorptive procedures such as Roux-en-Y gastric bypass
      (RYGB) or biliopancreatic diversion with duodenal switch (BPD-DS) are more effective
      procedures when compared to purely restrictive ones. Moreover, the conventional BPD-DS
      procedure has been shown to be significantly more effective than RYGB in achieving durable
      weight loss and resolving comorbidities such as type-2 diabetes. Despite superior outcomes,
      the performance of BPD-DS is highly institution dependant and comprises less than 5% of the
      annual bariatric procedures performed worldwide.

      Common reservations against BPD-DS are related to the side effects of the procedure, and
      include frequent bowel movements, flatulence, fat, micronutrient and protein malnutrition.
      Furthermore, longer operative times and surgical technical challenges are also reasons for
      lower prevalence of the BPD-DS procedure.

      Single anastomosis duodeno-ileal bypass with sleeve gastrectomy (SADI-S) is a modification of
      the conventional BPD-DS that potentially addresses many of these concerns. In addition, it is
      a suitable second-stage or salvage procedure for severely obese patients with inadequate
      weight loss or resolution of obesity-related comorbidities after SG. Despite showing
      excellent results of up to 5 years with acceptable postoperative morbidity, all the
      literature on SADI-S originates from a single center and has not been compared directly with
      BPD-DS. Hence, the investigators aim to evaluate the feasibility, safety, and postoperative
      outcomes of SADI-S as it compares to conventional BPD-DS in morbidly obese patients. Our
      project has three specific aims:

        1. To evaluate feasibility and short-term safety of SADI-S. The investigators will assess
           operative parameters (e.g. procedure time, inadvertent injuries, need for conversion to
           laparotomy, and transfusion of blood products) and 30-day postoperative adverse events
           (e.g. length of stay, superficial/deep surgical site infection, leak, venous
           thromboembolism (VTE), need for reintervention and readmission).

        2. To evaluate short and long-term beneficial outcomes. The investigators will evaluate and
           compare excess weight loss, resolution of type-2 diabetes and other comorbidities, and
           changes in quality of life at 1, 6, 12 months and yearly thereafter for both groups.

        3. To evaluate and compare long-term morbidity. The investigators will evaluate and compare
           both groups at 6, 12 months and yearly thereafter following surgery for long-term
           morbidities (e.g. frequency of bowel movements, fat malabsorption, micronutrient and
           protein-calorie malnutrition, need for supplemental nutrition, internal/incisional
           hernia, and gastro-esophageal reflux).
    
  