
    
      The study is randomized and controlled. 158 patients will be included in to study who apply
      to Dokuz Eylül University Faculty of Medicine, Department of Physical Medicine and
      Rehabilitation Clinic with the complaint of elbow pain, aged between 18-65 years and
      diagnosed with lateral epicondylitis by clinical and ultrasonographic methods. These patients
      will be divided into three groups randomly (group1 n:53, group 2 n:53, group 3 n:52).

      First group: A lateral epicondylitis bandage will be given to the patient for 6 weeks. The
      bandage will be positioned 5 cm distal to the lateral epicondyle to allow for elbow flexion.
      After the application, patients will be asked to punch and the belt on the band will be
      tightened. After the patients are asked to open the fist, the suitability of the pressure
      applied to the forearm will be evaluated. Patients will also be asked to repeat this
      application while wearing the band.

      Second group: A wrist extension splint will be given to the patient for 6 weeks. The splint
      will be used to keep the wrist at 15-20 degrees of extension and to wrap the distal wrist and
      forearm without hindering finger movements.

      Third group: These patients will be monitored with a wait-and-see policy. No splint or band
      will be given to the patient.

      Before treatment, age, gender, occupation, body mass index, duration of symptoms, trauma
      history, dominant hand, side of the symptom and previous similar complaint history will be
      questioned in all three groups.

      All of the patients will be asked not to lift heavy for 6 weeks, to use their splints
      throughout the day, and to remove them during bathing and sleeping. Throughout the study, all
      patients will be allowed to take only paracetamol oral tablets as pain relief if needed and
      will be asked to keep a medication diary.

      All patients will be evaluated 3 times, before the treatment, in the 3rd week during the
      treatment process, and in the 6th week after the treatment with a visual analog scale,
      patient-rated tennis elbow evaluation questionnaire, hand dynamometer, and ultrasonographic
      measurements. All evaluations will be done blindly by the clinician.

      The primary aim of this randomized controlled single-blind study is to compare the effects of
      lateral epicondylitis bandage and wrist extension splint treatment on ultrasonographic
      changes in patients with lateral epicondylitis. Ultrasonographic evaluations will include
      measurement of maximum tendon thickness and assessment of hypoechogenicity, heterogeneity,
      neovascularity, and bone abnormality. The maximum tendon thickness in the capitellar and
      radiocapitellar regions of the common extensor tendon will be measured for both upper
      extremities.

      The secondary aim is to compare the effects of these two different splint treatments on
      clinical changes such as pain, functional disability, sensitivity, and handgrip strength.
      Pain and functional disability will be measured by the Visual Analog Scale and Patient Rated
      Tennis Elbow Evaluation questionnaire, the sensitivity will be measured by algometer, and
      handgrip strength will be measured by hydraulic hand dynamometer for both hands.
    
  