
    
      Experimental protocol 6 days before hypoglycemic clamp subjects attended the clinic, and
      information about demography, lifestyle and clinical characteristics was collected. A
      physical examination with focus on possible thromboembolic disease was performed. Blood
      pressure was measured twice after 10 min rest in a sitting position. Measures of peripheral
      and autonomic neuropathy were assessed and a 12-lead electrocardiogram (ECG) was visually
      assessed. State of hypoglycemia awareness was classified according to Pedersen-Bjergaard et
      al [22]. The frequencies of episodes of mild and severe hypoglycemia in the preceding week
      were recorded in a questionnaire. A sensor for continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) was
      mounted (Guardian® REAL-time, Medtronic Minimed, Northridge, USA). Hereafter, the subject was
      re-introduced to the experimental protocol and cognitive tests were trained twice to avoid a
      learning effect during the experiments. Finally, study medication was injected intravenously
      over four minutes. Subjects were instructed to live and eat as they used to do, to avoid any
      rigorous exercise, use of alcohol and psychoactive drugs, for the next week. Calibration of
      the CGM was done by the patient with the blood glucose meter CONTOUR® LINK (Bayer Health
      Care, Leverkusen, Germany).

      3 days before experiment A new CGM sensor was inserted and a hypoglycemia alarm was
      activated. Because the CGM glucose value is delayed approximately 10 min compared to plasma
      glucose the alarm-point was set to 4.5 mmol/l. CGM glucose profiles for the last three days
      were downloaded to check if any insulin dosage changes should be done to decrease the risk of
      hypoglycemia until the experiment 3 days later. Finally, the subjects trained the cognitive
      function tests again.

      Day of experiment Subjects arrived at 8.00 a.m. in the laboratory after an overnight fast.
      Data from the CGM were downloaded. If hypoglycemia, defined by at least two consecutive CGM
      values below 3.5 mmol/l or one self-monitored blood glucose value below 3.5 mmol/l, had
      occurred during the preceding night, the experiment was postponed for at least 14 days. This
      was the case at one occasion. CGM warned the participants about decreasing blood glucose
      during the night before the experiment at three occasions before it actually occurred. In
      these cases the participants were instructed to eat a standardized meal of 10 grams of
      glucose and 35 g of dark bread. No participants had a CGM glucose > 20 mmol/l during the
      night before the experiments.

      The subject was introduced to the experimental setting and was equipped as follows: 1) One
      antecubital intravenous line for infusion of insulin and glucose and one line as distally as
      possible for blood sampling. Thereafter, the hand and arm were placed on and under heated
      pads to arterialize venous blood; 2) EEG (electroencephalography) cap, two ear lobe
      references and two precordial ECG leads connected to a digital EEG recorder (Cadwell,
      Kennewick, Washington, USA); 3) an automatic blood pressure unit (UA787, A&D Medical,
      Abingdon, UK). Subsequently, subjects trained the cognitive tests.

      The experiment was carried out in a cyclic manner with a total of three identical cycles: A
      baseline cycle (euglycemia), a hypoglycemic cycle and a recovery cycle (euglycemia). In the
      start of each cycle arterialized venous blood was drawn. Subsequently, hypoglycemic symptoms
      were assessed followed by measurement of blood pressure and pulse rate. Hereafter, evaluation
      of cognitive function was done with the California Cognitive Assessment Package (CALCAP), a
      trail making test and the Stroop test. All cognitive testing was conducted in the same
      sequence by the same person (PLK). At the end of each cycle, 5 min of EEG recording was done
      with eyes closed. Finally, arterialized venous blood was drawn again.

      Hypoglycemic clamp procedure Short-acting human insulin (Actrapid®, Novo Nordisk, Bagsværd,
      Denmark) mixed with heparinized plasma from the patient and isotonic saline was infused at a
      rate of 1.0 mU x kg body weight-1 x min-1. Capillary blood glucose was measured bedside every
      5 min and adjusted with a variable infusion of 20% glucose. The hypoglycemic target was 2.0 -
      2.2 mmol/l. During the euglycemic cycles the target was 5.0 mmol/l.

      Hypoglycemia symptom scoring Hypoglycemic symptoms were assessed by the The Edinburgh
      Hypoglycemia Scale, which is a questionnaire developed for experimentally induced
      hypoglycemia in which subjects must indicate the severity of 13 pre-defined hypoglycemic
      symptoms on a scale from one to seven [23].

      Cognitive function tests California Cognitive Assessment Package (CALCAP) The Danish version
      of the Mini CALCAP test (E.N Miller, California Cognitive Assessment Package, Norland
      Software, Los Angeles, 1990) runs on a computer screen and consists of two different reaction
      time tasks with different complexity: 1) a choice reaction task (RT1) with reaction to a
      specific number (seven) and 2) a choice reaction task (RT2) with reaction to two identical
      numbers in a sequence (shifting numbers). The latter test is a 1-back task and includes the
      use of sustained attention/working memory.

      Trail making test The trail making test is a test attention and executive function [24]. We
      used trail 5 of the Comprehensive Trail-Making Test (Pro-ed, Austin, Texas, USA), which is
      organized like the original trail making test, part B, developed in 1949, and added
      distracter circles [24]. In this test the subject must connect circled numbers and letters in
      alternating sequence (e.g. 1-A-2-B-3-C…). The time to finish the test was measured in
      seconds.

      Stroop Color and Word Test This test measures selective attention and cognitive flexibility
      [25]. A Danish version of the standardized version by Golden [26] was used according to the
      test-manual. The test consists of three pages, each having 100 items presented in 5 columns.
      On the first page the words "red", "green" and "blue" are printed in black and arranged
      randomly. On the second page "XXXX" is printed in red, green or blue and arranged randomly.
      On the last page words from the word page are printed in non-matching colors from the color
      page. On the first and the second page the subject is supposed to read loud the color of the
      items. On the word-color-page the subject must read the color of the ink for each item.
      Number of items during a 45 second period is recorded. Raw scores are presented.

      Neurophysiological tests Electroencephalography (EEG) A neurophysiologist specialized in
      clinical EEG reading (TWK) analyzed the EEG data. Continuous 20-channel EEG was recorded.
      Data were filtered by a first order 0.53 Hz low cut filter and a first order 70 Hz high cut
      filter. All data were visually inspected in a linked earlobe reference montage. For each
      subject the electrode giving the best representation of the dominant activity was chosen for
      power spectral analysis, which was performed using fast fourier transformation (FFT) on 2.5
      sec epochs (giving 0.4 Hz resolution in the FFT power spectrum). If a peak in the power
      spectrum could be identified in the range 4-13 Hz, it was extracted as representative for the
      dominant frequency.
    
  