
    
      DNA contains genetic information that acts as a blueprint for how parts of your body are made
      and work, determining such things as eye and hair color. DNA is made up of long strands of
      repeating letters that form a code. The order in which these letters are written is very
      precise. In the same way that a spelling mistake in a word could change its meaning entirely
      (for example, mean and meat), a single change in the sequence of DNA can lead to a change in
      how the body works, which may lead to disease. Currently, researchers and doctors know some
      of the genetic changes that may result in disease, but they do not know all of the genetic
      changes that can cause disease.

      Proteins are the basic building blocks of your body. The parts of your body such as your
      muscles, your skin, and your organs are made up mostly of proteins. DNA provides the plans,
      or instructions, for how each protein should be made. If there is a change in your DNA, there
      may be a change in how a protein is made. Sometimes these changes can lead to disease. To
      make a protein, the cells in your body take the DNA and make a copy called RNA. The cells
      read the RNA to make the protein. DNA can be thought of as the original master plan with RNA
      being photocopies of this plan. The number of copies of RNA can determine the amount of
      protein that can be made. If the body needs more protein, it can make more RNA but if it
      needs less protein, it can also shred the RNA so that it cannot be read. The amount of a
      particular RNA or protein can also be important in how the body works. Too much or too little
      of a particular protein can also lead to disease. Understanding the relationship between DNA,
      RNA and proteins can be important in knowing what causes disease and how to treat it.

      Identification of precisely which treatments to use against a specific patient's tumor is
      challenging. In this study, four cutting-edge technologies will be used to identify genomic
      (information we get from DNA and RNA) and proteomic (information we get from proteins)
      targets for the treatment of your tumor. These four tests will be used together to gather
      information about your tumor giving doctors and scientists a better understanding of the
      structure of your tumor and what the best treatment or combination of treatments may be for
      you. The therapy you receive to treat your tumor will be based on your medical history,
      previous treatments for your disease if applicable, current state of health, and the findings
      from these four tests. The therapy you ultimately receive will be selected by your doctor in
      consultation with a panel of experts in cancer and cancer genomics (the Treatment Selection
      Committee).

      The purpose of this study is to examine the impact of targeted therapy for breast cancer
      based upon proteomic and genomic profiling using four different methods of analysis.

        -  Reverse Phase Protein Microarray will be used to determine how often there are specific
           proteins that could make the tumor susceptible or resistant to treatment.

        -  Immunohistochemistry will look for specific markers of disease in DNA.

        -  RNA sequencing will be used to help doctors and scientists understand how genes are
           working.

        -  Low pass whole genome and exome sequencing will be used to help identify variants in
           DNA.

      The goal of this study will be to enroll at least 25 women who will receive therapy
      influenced by the results derived from genomic and proteomic profiling. Up to 30 women will
      receive treatment suggested by an identified target and up to 10 women will receive treatment
      that the subject and her doctor choose. The actual treatment of disease will be based upon
      multiple factors, including current physical condition, prior therapies if applicable,
      standard labs and tests, and physician's preference. The results from the genomic and
      proteomic profiling will add to the available information that will be used to aid us in
      deciding upon the course of therapy.
    
  