
    
      The MTS2 Study is funded for through a five-year K23 NIH training grant (appendix) awarded to
      Dr. James Davis, the Principal Investigator on this protocol. The study enrollment goal is
      N=240 adult smokers randomized to study treatments. Based on prior recruitment numbers, it is
      expected that roughly 50% (120) will choose to be in an intensive intervention and 50% (120)
      will choose to be in the non-intensive intervention. Participants who choose to be in an
      intensive intervention will be randomized to either MTS (n = 60) or ITS (n=60). MTS is a
      smoking cessation intervention that provides 8 mindfulness classes over a 6-week period. ITS
      will provide participants will access to the Freedom From Smoking Online Premium Program (at
      no cost) plus 8 smoking cessation classes over a 6-week period. Participants who choose to be
      in a non-intensive intervention (n=120) will receive a phone-based intervention through the
      Wisconsin Tobacco Quit Line. At the Orientation Meeting, participants who decide to enter the
      study will be allowed to choose whether they enter an intensive or the non-intensive
      intervention. Intensive intervention participants will attend an additional meeting called
      the Introductory Meeting where they are will undergo randomization into either the MTS or
      ITS. The Introductory Meeting will also provide instruction on the use of nicotine patches,
      smoking calendars and provide intervention materials. The study employs 3 study assessment
      visits. Study Visit 1 follows the Orientation Meeting, Study Visit 2 is 4-weeks post-quit,
      Study Visit 3 is 24-weeks post-quit. All participants will receive 2 weeks of free nicotine
      patches and $30 for attending each of the two post-quit study visits.

      The total time for the study including recruitment, intervention and participant follow-up
      for N = 240 will be three years. The study will recruit subjects from the Dane county region
      through the University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health Center for Tobacco
      Research and Intervention (UW-CRTI). Recruitment will take place through flyers, television,
      newspaper and radio advertisements.

      The principal hypothesis for the study is that MTS compared to ITS will show significantly
      higher point prevalent Carbon Monoxide confirmed smoking abstinence rates at 4 and 24 weeks
      post quit. Secondary hypotheses is that study group compared to controls will show
      significant differences in questionnaire results that test distress, depression, anxiety,
      attentional control, mindfulness and quality of life and bio-physiological markers such as
      weight, breath holding and hair cortisol.
    
  