
    
      The one-to-one peer mentor intervention will be evaluated for effectiveness on caregiver
      outcomes and use of family support services. 40 participants will be enrolled to assess the
      impact of one-on-one peer mentor relationships through the completion of the Kingston
      Caregiver Stress Scale (KCSS), Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9), and participation in
      family support classes.

      Participants will be recruited, based on inclusion and exclusion criteria, via in person
      meeting, by the study's research coordinator at Shepherd Center. Once a recruited subject
      expresses interest in participating in the study, the research coordinator will go over the
      informed consent form with the participant and enroll them into the study.

      Once informed consent is obtained, enrolled participants will be asked to answer questions
      about their demographics and psychological well-being (PHQ-9 and KCSS). At this time, the
      participant will be randomized into the peer mentor intervention group or the control group
      (receiving general peer support under usual care).

        1. Usual Care Peer Support Family support services offered at Shepherd Center under usual
           care involves peer mentoring, community support, brain injury education classes, and
           workshops. Within 5-10 days of admission, the caregiver of the patient is introduced to
           the peer support team. Caregivers are seen by peer mentors within the family support
           services on a referral basis from therapists, nurses, counselors, or physicians or on
           request from the caregivers/family. There are no scheduled interactions between peer
           support and the caregiver, nor is the caregiver assigned a peer mentor. The family is
           made aware of resources, but participation is optional for the family/caregiver. Access
           to the ABI Peer Support Facebook page is also available and the page is maintained by
           the Shepherd Peer Mentors.

        2. One-to-One Mentoring Caregiver will be matched based on characteristics such as age,
           date of patient injury, level of patient injury, cause of patient injury, marital
           status, work status before and after patient injury, interests, and leisure activities.
           After participant is matched with a peer mentor, they will be required to have at least
           one weekly one-to-one interaction from time of match until 30 days post- discharge. The
           use of family support services by the participant will be monitored by peer mentor
           reported interactions, as well as attendance in family support classes. The participant
           will be asked to briefly review each weekly scheduled one-to-one interaction to ensure
           mentorship needs are being met on behalf of the participant.

      Participant use of family support services offered by Shepherd Center will be monitored by
      attendance and by self-reported use of resources by caregiver, to peer mentors. Peer support
      documentation is recorded after each interaction by the peer mentor. Information logged
      includes the date, duration of interaction, type of interaction, and topics discussed.
      Attempts made at communicating with caregiver is also documented by the peer mentor within
      the database. C

      Before discharge from Shepherd Center, the participant will be asked to answer questions
      about their medical history, family history, and psychological well-being. At 30 days post
      discharge, participants will be asked to answer questions about their psychological
      well-being (PHQ-9, KCSS). Those in the intervention group will also be asked to give feedback
      on the one-to-one peer mentor program (One-to-one Peer Mentor Initiative Survey).
    
  