
    
      Introduction:

      At present, most people with modern cochlear implant systems can understand speech using the
      device alone, at least under favorable listening conditions.

      In recent years, research has increasing focussed on how implant users perceive sounds other
      than speech. In particular, music perception is of interest.

      A review of the literature on musical perception with traditional implants, coding only the
      temporal envelope [McDermott 2004], revealed the following elements:

        -  On average, implant users perceive the rhythm approximately as well as listeners with
           normal hearing

        -  With technically sophisticated multi-channel sound processors, melody recognition,
           especially without rhythmic or verbal cues, is poor.

        -  The perception of timbre, especially the sounds of musical instruments, is generally
           unsatisfactory.

        -  Implant users tend to rate the quality of musical sounds as less enjoyable than
           listeners with normal hearing And studies show that the fine structure of sound is the
           main vector of information for music and the location of sounds. [Smith et al. 2002] It
           therefore seems necessary to focus on the contribution of the coding of the fine
           temporal structure of sound to the cochlear implant.

      Main objective:

      Show the superiority of FS4 strategy compared to HDCIS strategy on the qualitative preference
      for the listening of musical pieces.

      Secondary objectives:

        -  Show the superiority of FS4 strategy compared to the HDCIS strategy on the perception of
           musical elements (contour test).

        -  Analyze the link between the results of musical perception tests and the subjective
           preference of musical listening.

        -  Show the non inferiority of FS4 strategy compared to the HDCIS strategy on the
           perception of speech elements.

        -  Analyze the link between the results of musical perception tests and the results of the
           perception of speech elements.

        -  Analyze the qualitative multidimensional perception with HDCIS and FS4

      Plan of the study:

      It is a prospective open monocentric randomized crossover study: measures will be done on the
      patient at 15 days and 30 days post-activation.
    
  