
    
      Informal caregivers provide the majority of care for chronically ill adults, including
      persons with dementia. While these individuals provide a great benefit to the chronically ill
      relative, being a caregiver is associated with deleterious health consequences, including
      premature mortality and higher rates of coronary heart disease (CHD). Another common
      complaint among dementia caregivers is poor sleep, which has been connected to premature
      mortality and higher rates of CHD in noncaregiving adults. Currently no sleep therapies are
      empirically validated as effective for caregivers of persons with dementia (PWD), and since
      PWD often arise at night, improving caregiver sleep could be potentially hazardous as a
      sleeping caregiver cannot provide supervision during night awakenings. Our primary purpose is
      thus to determine whether a combined intervention is effective in improving sleep in
      caregivers of PWD who arise at night. The intervention consists of a night home monitoring
      system that provides reliable alerts to caregivers when PWD leave the bed and move through
      the house. While this system improved home safety for PWD, it did not affect caregiver sleep,
      so a more traditional sleep therapy will be added-cognitive-behavioral therapy for insomnia.
      In the proposed study, experimental participants will receive the night home monitoring
      system + CBTi; active comparator participants will receive the night home monitoring system
      and sleep behavioral therapy. Participants will remain in the study for 29 weeks, with 4 data
      collection points. We hypothesize experimental participants will have less time awake after
      going to bed, and improved sleep efficiency (percent time asleep while in bed). Sleep data
      will be collected for multiple nights using actigraphy and sleep diary. Our secondary
      research questions focus on the relationship between poor sleep and CHD. Both in adults and
      in dementia caregivers, there appears to be a link between poor sleep and abnormal levels on
      coronary heart disease biomarkers, and likely an increase in CHD with poor sleep. We aim to
      further explore this relationship as well as determine whether levels of biomarkers improve
      with improved sleep from the intervention. We propose to draw blood samples at 4 data
      collection points and measure a set of biomarkers indicative of CHD.
    
  