
    
      First, a donor gave us blood to make CD19 chimeric receptor multivirus specific T cells in
      the laboratory. These cells are grown and frozen for the patient. To make these special T
      cells, they are first stimulated with proteins specific for the target 5 viruses, then grow
      them with stimulator cells. These stimulator cells are irradiated (exposed to X ray waves in
      the laboratory) so that they can no longer grow. The proteins help the T cells learn to see
      and attack cells infected with CMV, EBV, Adv, BKV and HHV-6 (the target 5 viruses).

      To get the CD19 antibody to attach to the surface of the T cell, the antibody gene is
      inserted into the T cell. This is done with a virus called a retrovirus that has been made
      for this study and will carry the antibody gene into the T cell. This virus also helps us
      find the T cells in the blood after injection. Once a sufficient number of T cells are made,
      they are frozen and tested to make sure they kill CD19+ tumor cells and cells infected with
      CMV, EBV, Adv, BKV and HHV-6 in the laboratory. The investigators will also test the cells to
      make sure they don't kill other normal cells in the body. Once testing is completed the cells
      will be ready to give to the patient.

      Because the patient will have received cells with a new gene in them, the patient will be
      followed for a total of 15 years to see if there are any long term side effects of gene
      transfer. Because this is what is called a dose-escalation study, the investigators will be
      testing 3 different doses of T cells to find out which dose is safe, and possibly beneficial.
      When patients enroll on this study, they will be assigned a dose of CD19 chimeric receptor
      multivirus specific T cells. The dose received depends on the number of patients who have
      been treated before the patient, and how well they tolerated the T cells.

      Patients will be given an injection of cells into the vein through an IV line at the assigned
      dose. Before they receive the injection, they may be given a dose of diphenhydramine
      (Benadryl) and acetaminophen (Tylenol). The injection will take about 10 minutes. The
      investigators will follow the patient in the clinic after the injection for up to 4 hours.
      Alternatively, if the patient has a high level of leukemia or lymphoma in the body, the
      investigators may decide to monitor the patient in the hospital after the injection. Patients
      will be required to remain local for at least 3 weeks after the T cell injection. This will
      be discussed before the treatment. The treatment will be given by the Center for Cell and
      Gene Therapy at Texas Children's Hospital or Houston Methodist Hospital.

      Medical tests before treatment- Patients will receive a series of standard medical tests
      including physical exam and blood tests to measure blood cells, kidney and liver function.

      Medical tests during and after treatment- Patients will receive standard medical tests when
      they are getting the infusions and after including physical exams and blood tests to measure
      blood cells, kidney and liver function.

      To learn more about the way the CD19 chimeric receptor multivirus specific T cells are
      working and how long they last in the body, extra blood will be drawn. This blood may be
      drawn from a central line (existing long-term IV) if the patient has one. On the day patients
      receive the cells, blood will be taken before the cells are given and 3 hours afterwards.
      Other blood will be drawn one week, 2 weeks, 4 weeks, 6 weeks and 8 weeks after the infusion,
      then at Months 3, 6, 9 and 12. Because patients have had a bone marrow transplant, the
      majority of these time points would require a blood draw to check the standard medical tests
      anyway. However, some of these time points may involve an extra trip to clinic and blood
      draw. Then blood will be drawn every 6 months for 4 years, then yearly for a total of 15
      years (up to 30 blood collections). If patients receive the cells at a time when sensitive
      tests indicate relapse or a high risk of relapse, patients will have additional reviews and
      blood tests to monitor these tests and look for relapse.

      Patients will receive supportive care for acute (short) or chronic (long-term) toxicity,
      including blood components or antibiotics, and other intervention as appropriate.
    
  