
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Essential hypertension is believed to be a heterogeneous group of disorders, the subtypes of
      which could be related to sodium sensitivity, obesity, diabetes, calcium intake and
      metabolism, the renin-angiotensin balance, or membrane cation transport. Essential
      hypertension aggregates in families. The syndromes leading to hypertension may involve shared
      genes, shared environmental factors, or both.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      In 1980 a series of biochemical and physiological tests were initiated in the 2,548 persons
      in 98 extended pedigrees in Utah. Most of the subjects were obtained from three major
      pedigree types: stroke cluster pedigrees; coronary heart disease cluster pedigrees; and
      pedigrees of Utah Hypertension Detection and Follow-up Program high blood pressure probands.
      Data were collected on personal history, medical family history and genealogy,
      anthropometrics, standard and 32-lead electro- cardiograms, multiple blood pressure
      measurements during sitting, standing, lying, tilting, isometric hand grip exercise, bicycle
      exercise, venipuncture and mental arithmetic. Cation tests included sodium-lithium
      countertransport, lithium-potassium co-transport, intracellular sodium, potassium, magnesium,
      sodium-potassium ATP-ase pump activity and binding sites and plasma levels of sodium,
      potassium, magnesium, ionized calcium and digoxin-like pump inhibitor. Information was also
      collected on stress, exercise, plasma renin activity, and urinary kallikrein. Statistical and
      pedigree analysis were conducted.

      The same tests were also performed on 600 new population-based hypertensive subjects on drug
      therapy and again four months after interruption of drug therapy. Tests were conduced for
      specific subtypes of high blood pressure among the 600 subjects using individual variables
      and multivariate combinations of variables. Three hundred nuclear families were screened to
      test for familiality of subtype indicators and to identify those high blood pressure subtype
      indicator variables needing detailed pedigree analysis.

      One thousand sequentially-sampled persons were studied for major genes, DNA probe linkage,
      and gene-environment interactions as determinants of specific types of hypertension.
    
  