
    
      This is an observational study designed to (1) evaluate the feasibility and utility of
      digital health technology in a Medication for Opioid Use Disorder (MOUD) treatment
      population, and (2) capitalize on the availability of Electronic Health Record (EHR) data to
      relate passive and active sensing data to treatment retention and medication adherence.

      Eligible participants are identified through EHR records, sent an invitational letter through
      secure message, and then called to recruit and screen. Following verbal consent to screen,
      research staff will perform a screening assessment over the phone/video to determine
      preliminary study eligibility prior to scheduling the baseline phone/video appointments.
      Following electronic signed informed consent, participants will be asked to complete an
      interviewer administered Baseline assessment. In addition to the screening and baseline
      assessments, the participants will be asked to wear a smartwatch and carry a smartphone
      continuously for a period of 12 weeks. Smartphone and smartwatch data will be passively
      collected. In addition, participants will be prompted to respond to questions through a
      smartphone (i.e., Ecological Momentary Assessment (EMA)) 3 times daily for 12 weeks. In
      addition to the EMA prompts, individuals will be asked to self-initiate EMAs if substance use
      occurred.

      After the 12-week active study phase, participants will be asked to complete a follow-up
      phone/video appointment.

      EHR and medical claims data will be extracted 16 weeks after study completion (data will be
      collected 12 months prior to EMA start through 12 weeks after EMA start).

      For those who consent to the optional social media component, social media data will be
      downloaded by the participant directly from the social media platform to a secure server
      using a remote desktop at the beginning of the study and at the end of the study.
    
  