
    
      Low back pain is reported in 75-80% of the population and can significantly influence
      patients' quality of life. Fortunately, 80-90% of individuals recover from their back pain,
      whether they receive treatment or not. However, the small percentage of people who do not
      recover quickly present a costly problem to society and a great challenge to health care
      providers. Low back pain is the second leading cause for missed days at work, potentially
      having disability and major socioeconomic consequences. Chronic LBP can also limit
      flexibility and/or range of motion, which may contribute to an overall decrease in functional
      capacity, and may ultimately heighten the risk for additional lower extremity injury. Many
      chronic LBP patients have conditions not amenable to spine surgery, or they have failed to
      achieve successful outcome with previous spine surgery. For these patients, SCS can be an
      effective alternative. For example, in a recent demonstration, randomized 100 failed back
      surgery syndrome (FBSS) patients to either SCS or conventional medical management. At 6
      months post-implant, 64% of patients had achieved the 50% reduction in leg pain criterion
      (vs. 18% of conventional medical management patients). Similarly, North et al. found 52% of
      patients had achieved at least the 50% reduction in pain when they investigated 171 patients
      treated with SCS.

      SCS uses electrical signals to decrease nociception of impulses arising from painful areas in
      the spine and or leg. In order to accomplish this goal, SCS involves implantation of a small
      electrical pulse generator, along with thin leads strategically placed into the epidural
      space. Stimulation provided by the generator to electrodes on the leads inhibits ascending
      pain signals, thereby decreasing pain perception. Occasionally, some patients feel a mild
      paresthesia as a result of the stimulation.

      While the effectiveness of SCS on reduction of subjective pain complaints is now
      well-established, such improvement may not translate into improved functional ability.
      Previous research found that, for FBSS patients treated with SCS, patients' scores on
      Oswestry Disability index did not correlate significantly with improvements in function as
      measured by an accelerometer contained within the stimulator device. Very few studies have
      examined the effect of SCS on objectively-measured functional abilities, including gait and
      balance. Those studies suffer from a small sample size and lack of electromyography (EMG) and
      full body kinematics analyses. Despite that, those studies did find improvement in the
      spatiotemporal variables (i.e. gait speed, step length and width) while other variables
      (ground reaction force and trunk motion) were not significantly different using the SCS.

      Therefore, the purpose of this study is to evaluate the effect of SCS, on the biomechanics of
      the lower extremities and spine, using dynamic EMG, video motion capture, and force plate
      analysis, during gait and static balance testing, in patients with chronic low back and/or
      leg pain, before and after intervention. In addition this study will compare these same
      biomechanical parameters found in the chronic low back pain and /or leg pain patients to an
      asymptomatic control group.
    
  