
    
      Substance use among criminal offenders constitutes a major public health problem and is tied
      to negative consequences for offenders, their families, and their communities. One of the
      direst of these consequences is repeated incarceration; thus, interventions that reduce
      criminal recidivism are needed. Forensic populations are often viewed with considerable
      therapeutic pessimism. However, offenders exhibit heterogeneity in personality traits, and
      the assessment of individual differences among offenders may provide valuable information
      that guides the use of psychotherapeutic interventions. Among offenders, psychopathy has
      emerged as an important personality construct for the understanding of violence and criminal
      recidivism. Moreover, core traits of psychopathy such as lack of empathy, deceitfulness, and
      lack of remorse may have negative implications for the efficacy of psychosocial
      interventions. A foundational premise of the present work is that understanding the
      moderating role of psychopathic traits on substance use treatment outcomes among offenders is
      essential to determining what works, and for whom. The current proposal is a Phase II
      randomized clinical trial that aims to examine the impact of psychopathic traits on the
      efficacy of a brief substance use intervention for offenders in a jail diversion program.
      Hypotheses that will be examined include: 1) that a Motivational Interviewing (MI) - based
      treatment will reduce substance use and related consequences relative to a Standard Care only
      condition, 2) that the reduction in substance use in the intervention group will mediate a
      reduction in later criminal recidivism relative to the Standard Care condition, and 3) that
      core psychopathic traits will moderate the efficacy of the intervention such that individuals
      with lower levels of these traits will derive greater benefits with regard to decreased
      substance use, decreased drug use consequences, and decreased criminal recidivism at a
      one-year follow-up. This work has the potential to provide important data regarding which
      individuals can benefit from a brief intervention for substance use. Such data will inform
      the effective and efficient allocation of treatment resources for substance using offenders.
    
  