
    
      Disease background:

      MM is a plasma cell tumor. It accounted for an estimated 20,180 new cases of cancer and
      11,170 deaths in the United States in 2010. With a prevalence of 23 per 100,000 people, MM is
      an orphan disease (prevalence <5:10,000). The median age at diagnosis is 60-65 years.
      Although MM remains incurable, unprecedented gains in survival outcomes have been achieved in
      the last three decades. Survival has been improved mainly in younger patients below the age
      of 65 with the advent of high-dose melphalan therapy followed by autologous stem cell
      transplantation (ASCT). In the last 10 years the introduction of novel therapies, such as
      thalidomide, lenalidomide and bortezomib have further improved overall survival. However, all
      patients ultimately relapse and will require salvage therapies.

      Therapy background:

      The main decision criterion for first-line treatment selection is the patient's eligibility
      for high-dose chemotherapy with melphalan and subsequent ASCT. Patients who are not eligible
      for this treatment, due to advanced age, comorbidities or poor performance status, are
      routinely treated with a combination of melphalan, prednisone and a novel agent such as
      thalidomide, bortezomib or lenalidomide. Currently, patients will relapse from their first
      line of therapy at a median of 2-3 years from diagnosis. Achieving a near complete remission
      and maintaining the residual tumor mass under control is considered as the mainstay in
      current treatment of MM.

      Treatment of relapsed/refractory myeloma is based on double or triple combinations with a
      novel agent such as lenalidomide or bortezomib with dexamethasone and/or cytotoxic drugs such
      as alkylators and anthracyclines. The choice of a regimen at relapse depends on the frontline
      therapy as well as disease- or therapy-related comorbidities. Although patients can achieve
      long lasting remissions with the novel agents MM remains a chronic disease. Patients will
      invariably relapse or become refractory to second and later line treatments. Therefore new
      treatment options for late-line patients are required.

      The combination of lenalidomide and bortezomib has been reported to show activity in a subset
      of lenalidomide and bortezomib double-refractory patients in a phase I/II trial and very
      recent retrospective data suggest that bortezomib containing regimens may be active in
      lenalidomide-refractory myeloma patients. There are no approved treatment options for
      lenalidomide and bortezomib double-refractory patients. Possible therapeutic alternatives
      such as carfilzomib and pomalidomide are still in clinical development and to date no
      clinical trials are open in Switzerland. Therefore, treatment options for
      lenalidomide-refractory patients remain very limited.

      Preclinical results in the NCI60 cancer cell line panel show that HIV protease inhibitors
      such as nelfinavir exhibit a wide spectrum of antitumor activity. They inhibit the
      proliferation of 60 cancer cell lines derived from nine different tumor types. This is
      consistent with previous reports demonstrating that HIV protease inhibitors are effective in
      other diseases like MM and Kaposi sarcoma. Nelfinavir induces cell cycle arrest and apoptosis
      in tumor cells through inhibition of proteasomal degradation and the PI3K/Akt pathway.
      Therefore preclinical evidence underscores the proteasome inhibiting activity of nelfinavir.
      Modulation of proteasome function is a rational approach to overcome chemo-resistance and
      achieve chemo-sensitization, suggesting that the addition of such an agent to myeloma
      standard treatment could restore sensitivity to the standard therapy.

      Pharmacologic intervention with the PI3K/Akt pathway induced cell death in MM cell lines and
      primary tumor samples. Inhibition of Akt phosphorylation by perifosine has shown significant
      clinical activity and manageable toxicity in patients with relapsed/refractory MM in
      combination with dexamethasone alone (≥MR (minor response) of 38%; SD (stable disease) of
      47%), or together with both lenalidomide and dexamethasone (≥PR (partial response) of 50%, MR
      of 20%). These data suggest an important role of the Akt pathway for malignant growth and
      survival of MM cells also in vivo. The addition of nelfinavir to standard
      lenalidomide/dexamethasone treatment in lenalidomide-refractory patients is expected to
      restore sensitivity of the myeloma cells to lenalidomide, acting via inhibition of the
      PI3K/Akt pathway and modulation of proteasome function.

      Aim of this study is to demonstrate the safety and activity of combining lenalidomide and
      dexamethasone with nelfinavir in patients with progressive MM that have failed
      lenalidomide-containing therapy.

      Treatment Nelfinavir:

      Nelfinavir mesylate (Viracept) is an inhibitor of the HIV protease 1. Inhibition of this
      viral protease prevents cleavage of the Gag and Gag-Pol polyproteins resulting in the
      production of immature, non-infectious virus. The pharmacokinetic properties of nelfinavir
      were evaluated in healthy volunteers and HIV-infected patients. No substantial differences
      were observed between the two groups. In Switzerland the registered dose of nelfinavir for
      the treatment of HIV-1 infection in combination with other antiretroviral agents is 1250 mg
      bid or 750 mg three times daily (tid).

      Plasma concentrations from a pharmacokinetic study with 10 HIV-positive patients after
      multiple dosing with 1250 mg twice daily for 28 days were 4.0 mg/L (peak plasma level) and
      2.2 mg/L / 0.7 mg/L (morning/evening trough), respectively. Peak plasma concentrations were
      approximately 6 microM. Nelfinavir in serum is extensively protein-bound (>98%). The area
      under the curve (AUC) is 1.5 times higher with the bid regimen compared to the tid regimen,
      without significantly elevated toxicity. The maximal concentration of nelfinavir is usually
      achieved 3 to 4 hours after administration with food. The effective half-life in blood plasma
      ranges from 3 to 5 hours. Multi-dose pharmacokinetics of nelfinavir, have not been studied in
      HIV-positive patients with hepatic or renal insufficiency.

      Nelfinavir is an inhibitor of cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) and is mainly metabolized by
      CYP3A4 and CYP2C19. The main metabolite of nelfinavir (the hydroxylated metabolite nelfinavir
      M8) is also active against HIV and circulates in the plasma at around 30% of the present
      nelfinavir amount.

      The dose limiting toxicity (DLT) has not been defined yet. A respective dose finding trial
      for nelfinavir mono-therapy in patients with solid tumors is ongoing. Preliminary data from
      that trial shows that nelfinavir is well tolerated at 2.5 times (2 x 3125 mg/day) the
      American Food and Drug Administration approved dose for the treatment of HIV infections of 2
      x 1250 mg/day with no grade 4-5 clinical toxicities. The most prevalent laboratory
      abnormalities grade 4 with a dose level (DL) of 3125 mg bid were transaminitis, hyperglycemia
      and diarrhea. The AUC of nelfinavir in plasma showed a plateau at doses of 1875 mg bid.

      A phase I study of Nelfinavir in liposarcoma with a maximum DL of 4250 mg bid shows a peak
      plasma level of 6.3 mg/L. One patient experienced transient grade 3 pancreatitis after one
      week of nelfinavir. No other DLTs were observed.

      Recent testing of this nelfinavir dose in combination with radiation therapy and weekly
      gemcitabine (200-300 mg/m2) in patients with pancreatic cancer did not cause increased
      toxicity in this trial.

      The main side effects of nelfinavir include diarrhea (>10%), rash, elevated liver enzymes,
      and reduced blood counts (1-10%) at the therapeutic standard concentration of 1250 mg bid.

      Treatment Lenalidomide:

      Lenalidomide (Revlimid) is a derivative of thalidomide. The exact mechanism of action of
      these immunomodulatory drugs is not known. Apart from interfering with the immune system,
      they are also thought to act on angiogenesis. There are multiple mechanisms of action, and
      they can be simplified by organizing them as mechanisms of action in vitro and in vivo. In
      vitro, lenalidomide has three main activities: direct anti-tumor effect, inhibition of the
      micro-environmental support for tumor cells, and an immunomodulatory role. In vivo,
      lenalidomide induces tumor cell apoptosis directly and indirectly by inhibition of bone
      marrow stromal cell support, by anti-angiogenic and anti-osteoclastogenic effects, and by
      immunomodulatory activity. Lenalidomide has a broad range of activities that can be exploited
      to treat many hematologic and solid cancers.

      Lenalidomide is one of the novel drug agents used to treat MM. It is a small molecular
      analogue of thalidomide that was originally found based on its ability to effectively inhibit
      tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) production. Lenalidomide is 50,000 times more potent than
      thalidomide in inhibiting TNF-α, and has less severe adverse drug reactions.

      The most important side effects of lenalidomide are thromboembolism and hematological
      toxicity. The most common side effects are neutropenia, thrombopenia, anemia, fatigue,
      constipation, diarrhea, asthenia and rash. In contrast to thalidomide, lenalidomide does not
      cause neuropathies. Hematotoxicity is dose dependent and easily manageable with dose
      reductions.

      Lenalidomide in combination with dexamethasone is a Swissmedic approved treatment for MM
      patients who have received at least one prior medicinal therapy. The combination of
      lenalidomide and dexamethasone compared to dexamethasone alone led to significantly improved
      progression free survival (median 11.1 vs. 4.6 months) and overall survival (median 38.0 vs.
      31.6 months) in patients with relapsed or refractory myeloma in two international phase III
      trials. More than 1/3 of these patients had previously been treated with the structurally
      related thalidomide.

      Treatment Dexamethasone:

      Dexamethasone is a glucocorticosteroid that is used in the treatment of MM, which reduces the
      activity of the immune system by attaching to receptors in various types of immune cells. In
      MM, high-dose dexamethasone is used together with chemotherapy to make chemotherapy more
      effective and to reduce certain side effects of cancer treatment, such as nausea and
      vomiting.

      It appears to cause apoptosis. This means that steroids such as dexamethasone can trigger the
      destruction of myeloma cells. Typically dexamethasone is given with other agents - such as
      vincristine, doxorubicin, thalidomide or lenalidomide - to treat MM. It has been found that
      steroids can increase the ability of chemotherapeutic and immunomodulatory agents such as
      lenalidomide to destroy myeloma cells.
    
  