
    
      The best management of patients with unruptured intracranial aneurysms is currently
      uncertain.

      The time-honored approach to treating UIAs is with microsurgical clipping, Surgical clipping
      is widely considered to be a safe, durable means to treat UIAs. In recent years, endovascular
      treatment (EVT) has increasingly replaced surgical clipping. The efficacy of EVT in the
      prevention of SAH remains unknown. EVT is reputed to be potentially less effective than
      surgery because of long term angiographic recurrences. Neither surgery nor EVT have been
      shown superior to conservative management. Yet, both endovascular and surgical treatment are
      used every day in a large number of patients, without evidence they are doing more good than
      harm, and without evidence that one is better than the other.

      There is currently no scientific evidence to support treatment of UIAs and there are no
      well-accepted guidelines. The overall annual rupture risk for conservatively managed lesions
      remains ~1-2% over a follow-up of 6-9 years, likely an underestimate. There is currently no
      all-inclusive care trial framework for UIA patients. There are also no randomized trials
      currently comparing active and conservative management for UIAs.

      The uncertainty regarding the management of UIAs has not progressed in the last 30 years.
      Avoiding iatrogenia and the consequences of over-diagnosis is an increasingly important
      public health goal. In the spirit of care trials, this CAM trial offers a comprehensive
      framework, so that all patients confronted with the clinical dilemma can be offered
      participation.

      Main objectives

        1. To provide a care research framework to manage all patients with UIAs.

        2. For patients for whom conservative management is contemplated, to validate previous
           observational studies claiming rupture risks are very low. This registry could be used
           in the future to recruit patients in trials assessing the potential value of imaging
           follow-up studies or trials assessing pharmacological prevention of ruptures (such as
           ASA or statins).

        3. For each patient for whom curative treatment is contemplated, to provide a 50% chance of
           being spared a potentially useless or harmful treatment.

        4. For each patient for whom surgical clipping is contemplated, to provide a 50% chance of
           being offered a less invasive alternative.

      Principal questions to be addressed:

        1. Can a care trial context assist clinicians and patients manage the UIA dilemma?

        2. When conservative management is contemplated, is the risk of rupture as low as
           unvalidated observational studies currently suggest?

        3. Do patients with UIAs, considered for curative treatments, have a better long-term
           clinical outcome with active treatment or conservative management? More specifically:

           3.1 When active endovascular treatment is contemplated, do patients with UIAs have a
           better long-term clinical outcome with endovascular or conservative management? 3.2 When
           active surgical treatment is contemplated, do patients with UIAs have a better long-term
           clinical outcome with surgical or conservative management? 3.3 When active treatment is
           contemplated, and surgical and endovascular management are both judged reasonable, do
           patients with UIAs have a better long-term clinical outcome with (surgical/endovascular)
           or conservative management?

        4. When patients are considered ineligible for conservative management, and surgical and
           endovascular management are both judged reasonable, do patients with UIAs have a better
           long-term clinical outcome with surgical or endovascular management?

      Study design This study is designed as a pragmatic, comprehensive way to address the
      unruptured aneurysm clinical dilemma, combining large simple clinical care trials whenever
      patients are judged eligible for more than one management option, or otherwise a registry of
      each option. All patients with one or more UIAs will be eligible for participation in either
      a registry or one of the trials. A non-invasive (MRA or CTA) or catheter angiogram and a
      baseline CT-scan or MRI of the brain are required to enter the study. These studies should
      demonstrate the unequivocal presence of a saccular aneurysm, not recently ruptured (> 4 weeks
      since the last SAH). If they accept, all subjects will be registered, and when eligible,
      included in a specific randomized trial using the algorithm below which includes a
      combination of clinical judgment and randomized allocation. Conventional randomization will
      be performed whenever and wherever possible. A double consent pre-randomization design is
      possible wherever the method is accepted by the local IRB.

      Planned algorithm for managing patients The algorithmic process combining clinical judgment
      and randomized allocation will proceed by asking the following questions to the treating
      physicians.

      Q1: Is the patient being considered for treatment? Possible answers: YES or NO.

      If the clinician selects NO, the patient will be included in the observational registry. If
      YES, the following question will be:

      Q2: What treatment option is being considered for this patient? Clinicians will use clinical
      judgment to select one of three options: endovascular, surgical, or they will select that
      either treatment is reasonable.

      Then comes the most important question:

      Q3: Is conservative management a reasonable alternative given the lack of evidence that
      treatments are beneficial? Potential answers are YES or NO. If NO, they will be included in
      the CURES trial or in of the 2 treatment registries (surgical or endovascular). If YES, they
      will be included in the appropriate randomized trial (according to the answer to question 2)
      that compares endovascular to conservative management (TEAM, or trial on endovascular
      aneurysm management), surgical to conservative management (TSAM, or Trial on Surgical
      Aneurysm Management), or they will be included in the TOES arm (Trial on Observational,
      Endovascular or Surgical management), with potential for a second randomization, comparing
      surgical to endovascular treatment.

      Hypotheses:

      The primary hypothesis for patients allocated to at least 2 options, one of which is
      conservative management is: The 10 year combined neurological morbidity and mortality (mRS
      >2) will be reduced from 24% to 16% (beta 80%; alpha 0.048; sample size 961 patients (836
      plus 15% losses to FU and cross-overs) with active treatment.

      Outcomes The primary outcome is survival without neurological dependency (mRS<3) at 10 years.

      Secondary outcome measures are needed to monitor patient outcomes during the duration of the
      trial.

      Secondary outcomes will be: 1/ The incidence of SAH during follow-up and related morbidity
      and mortality; 2/ The morbidity and mortality related to EVT or surgical treatment of the UIA
      at one year; 3/ Overall mortality at 1, 5 and 10 years; 4/ Overall morbidity (mRS>2) at 1, 5
      and 10 years; 5/ Length of hospitalization; 6/ Discharge to location other than home.

      This pragmatic care trial has been designed to potentially include all patients with UIAs.
      Inclusion criteria are as broad as possible and exclusions as few as possible.

      Frequency and duration of follow-up All the investigations proposed in the UIA care trial
      constitute part of routine, standard care in the treatment of unruptured intracranial
      aneurysms.

      Patients who undergo treatment will be seen in clinic at approximately 6-12 weeks after
      treatment as part of routine follow-up care. Patients will be followed with another routine
      clinic visit at one year, and at 5 and 10 years thereafter. All treated patients will have
      non-invasive imaging (CTA or MRA) at 12 ± 2 months post-treatment to determine the presence
      of a major, saccular aneurysm recurrence.

      Number of patients To assess whether the 10 year combined neurological morbidity and
      mortality (mRS >2) will be reduced from 24% to 16% with active treatment (beta 80%; alpha
      0.048) will require at least 961 patients (836 plus 15% losses to FU and cross-overs).

      Planned Statistical Analyses The 4 stratified trial arms (TSAM, TEAM II, TOES, and CURES) and
      the registries will be analyzed separately. Combined exploratory analyses will also be
      performed, looking for differences in group characteristics and in treatment outcomes between
      RCTs and registries, attempting to better understand the scope and limits of trial results.
      As with any trials of surgery, early risks may be followed by later benefit. Therefore the
      hazard ratio will be unfavorable during the recruitment years, while interventions are being
      performed. Initially, the DSMC will assure that treatment-related complications and
      hemorrhagic events are within confidence intervals compatible with a safe and meaningful
      trial. In order to describe how and when hemorrhagic events occur, analyses will include
      Kaplan-Meyer life-table methods to assess the 1, 5-, and 10-year survival, and survival
      without hemorrhage, among all those allocated immediate treatment (including the few who did
      not undergo it) and all those allocated deferral of any intervention (including the few who
      will eventually be treated). The 'survival' functions will be compared graphically and using
      a log-rank statistic. The main statistical tests will involve comparisons between the
      probabilities of mortality and morbidity-mortality 1/ from hemorrhage, excluding
      peri-operative complications, 2/ from hemorrhage or from complications of treatment, or 3/
      comparisons of the 1, 5 and 10-year probabilities of combined disease/treatment-related
      mortality/morbidity, in the absence of other causes of death or disability. Descriptive
      statistics will be done on demographic variables and potential risk factors to compare the
      groups at baseline. Means, standard deviations and range will be presented for quantitative
      variables such as size of aneurysms and frequency tables for categorical variables (such as
      number of patients with a previous history of SAH, or multiple aneurysms). Statistics will be
      broken down by center and by treatment arm. Comparability of the groups will be assessed
      through independent ANOVAs (quantitative data) or Mantel-Haentzel and X2 tests (categorical
      data). Assuming comparability of groups across centers, the primary outcome, disease or
      treatment-related combined morbidity/mortality (for both intent-to-treat and per-protocol
      populations) will be compared between groups through a Fisher's Exact Test for independent
      proportions at 1, 5, and 10 years. Similar analyses will be done for disease or
      treatment-related mortality combined mortality-morbidity. Secondary outcomes and overall
      morbidity will be compared between groups through independent t-tests (quantitative
      variables) or X2 statistics (categorical data). The analyses of neurological data at
      follow-up will control for baseline data using logistic regression, ANOVA or Cox regression
      multivariate models. All tests will be interpreted with adjustment for multiplicity to have
      the 0.05 level of confidence at 10 years only. Finally, a logistic regression will be used to
      find baseline variables capable of predicting hemorrhages or complications in both groups.
      The method planned is a stepwise forward on a likelihood ratio with a probability of 0.05 to
      enter a predictor (PIN in) and a probability of 0.10 to exclude a predictor (PIN out).
      Possible predictors include the size of the aneurysm, location, patient age, status of the
      aneurysm and previous history of SAH versus unruptured only) as well as other baseline
      characteristics. All analyses of the primary endpoint will be performed taking into account
      the multiplicity of tests and any interim analyses. Secondary analyses will be performed
      using an alpha of 5%.
    
  