
    
      Human schistosomiasis is a Neglected Tropical Disease caused by schistosome helminth worms
      with impressive epidemiological statistics associated: 800 million people at risk in 78
      countries, > 230 million infected and > 200 000 deaths each year. The disease is highly
      endemic in sub-Saharan Africa where it persists despite mass drug administration with
      Praziquantel (PZQ). Some schistosomes are specific to humans and induce two main disease
      forms (either mesenteric or uro-genital) while others are associated with wild animals.
      However, hybridization can occur between different schistosome species. In northern Senegal,
      hybridization between schistosome species specific to humans and animals is now known to be
      frequent with the potential risk of zoonotic transmission.

      This study will propose an integrative approach by conducting parasitological and molecular
      analysis including, schistosome miracidia genotyping to show if PZQ repeated treatment
      affects the genomic composition (Frequencies of alleles) of hybrid populations.

      The objectives are:

        -  Determine the current prevalence of potential hybrid schistosome populations in their
           natural setting in Senegal

        -  Determine the sensitivity of hybrid schistosomes to praziquantel treatment in field
           populations

        -  Determine the molecular basis (at the genome level) of such phenotypic changes).

      The study is a longitudinal observation of a cohort of school children after repeated
      Praziquantel (40 mg/kg) treatment, a drug commonly used through Mass Drug Administration
      (MDA) to treat schistosomiasis.

      The cohort will be followed over a period of three years. Before the followup, a baseline
      urogenital schistosomiasis test will be performed on 1, 450 school-age children randomly
      selected in the five sites (290 in each site). All positive children will receive a single
      treatment (T1) of Praziquantel (PZQ) (40 mg/kg). Among those who test positive for S.
      haematobium eggs, only 50 in each site (five sites), who meet all the eligibility criteria
      will be invited to participate to the longitudinal follow-up. Four rounds of a single
      praziquantel (PZQ) treatment will be administered to positive individuals every 6 months. One
      round will consist of one treatment (T1 to T4) followed by a control treatment after one
      month (CT1 to CT4), hence, before the potential re-infecting schistosomes become adults and
      start egg-laying, which could bias the effectiveness of treatment evaluations. At each CT
      time, samples will be collected and S. haematobium eggs quantified (number of excreted
      eggs/10 mls of urine). Parasites (miracidia hatched from excreted eggs) will be recovered
      before each initial treatment (T1 to T4) and at CT1 to CT4 for subsequent genetic analysis to
      characterize hybrid schistosomes between S. haematobium and S. bovis.
    
  