
    
      Background

      Osteoarthritis (OA) is the most common arthritic condition and is one of the leading causes
      of disability in adults in Switzerland and worldwide (CDC 2009, WHO 2004). With the steady
      escalation of world life expectancy and constant decline in world birth rates, the incidence
      and prevalence of OA are expected to rise continuously worldwide throughout the years to come
      (Badley 1998). In Switzerland, OA is associated with decreased quality of life and frequent
      use of the health care system (Rosemann 2008).

      Currently, no treatment can stop or reverse the progressive joint degeneration caused by OA.
      Most clinical interventions aim to improve pain and disability as these are the main symptoms
      afflicting OA patients (Grotle 2008), but managing pain associated with OA of the knee is
      difficult. Existing non-pharmacological and pharmacological interventions for OA remain
      insufficient. There are few effective nonsurgical treatments for painful knee OA (Jüni 2006).

      OA affects different compartments in the knee, and biomechanical factors play an important
      role. Observational studies suggest that approximately 60% of affected persons have medial
      joint involvement (Niu 2009), which is subjected to excessive loading as quantified by the
      adduction moment across the knee. Bone marrow lesions (BMLs) are seen in knees in most
      persons with painful knee OA on fat suppressed MRI images. In the MOST cohort study, 80% of
      persons with medial knee OA and knee pain had medial BMLs. On histology, BMLs represent areas
      of bone damage with micro-cracks and remodelling. They are strongly related to malalignment
      such that knees with varus alignment have a high risk of BMLs in the medial compartment and
      those with valgus alignment have a risk of lateral BMLs (Felson 2003).

      Wedges and orthotics which realign the knee have been tested in several randomized trials.
      This literature has undergone a Cochrane review of orthoses for treating knee OA (Brower
      2005) which noted in its conclusion that, 'wearing a laterally wedged orthosis compared to
      wearing a neutral wedge may not lead to any difference in pain, knee function, or overall
      well-being'. None of the trials testing orthotics and inserts have shown any significant
      effect compared to control in terms of knee pain reduction. The other notable finding of
      almost all of these trials is that they reduced the varus moment across the knee, but by only
      6% on average. One possible reason why inserts and orthotics have not worked to reduce pain
      is that they do not have a large enough realigning effect on the knee (as assessed by the
      varus moment).

      APOS therapy, a new popular medical device, is a shoe system demonstrating potentially
      improved effectiveness in patients suffering from OA. This footwear has two potential
      mechanisms of action: 1. it can alter the pattern of knee loading, with reported reductions
      in the varus moment of 17% (Elbaz 2010), and 2. it retrains lower extremity motor control.
      Forcing people to avoid walking on the usual wide plantar surface and to instead walk on two
      rubber balls (APOS shoe) for half an hour at the start of the study, increasing successively
      (+10 min/week) up to almost 5 hours/day after 24 weeks (not exactly according to scheme but
      at the physiotherapist's discretion), forces muscular retraining and therefore serves as a
      built-in exercise intervention.

      The investigators therefore aim to compare the efficacy and safety of APOS therapy in a
      large, pragmatic randomized controlled trial that includes gait analysis to understand the
      mechanistic action of the device.

      Objective

      Overall objective: The purpose of this trial is to evaluate whether APOS therapy can improve
      symptoms compared to Sham APOS therapy in participants with symptomatic knee OA.

      Primary objective: The trial will determine the effect of APOS therapy on pain compared to
      Sham APOS therapy after 24 weeks.

      Secondary objective: Secondary objectives will be to determine

        -  The effect of APOS therapy on pain compared to Sham APOS therapy after 4, 8, 12 and 16
           weeks

        -  The effect of APOS therapy on joint stiffness, disability and overall assessment of the
           disease compared to Sham APOS therapy after 4, 8, 12, 16, and 24 weeks

        -  The effect of APOS therapy on quality of life after 4, 8, 12, 16, and 24 weeks

        -  The effect of APOS therapy on gait analysis measurements at baseline, after 4, 8, 12, 16
           and 24 weeks

        -  The effect of APOS therapy on rescue analgesics compared to Sham APOS therapy throughout
           study duration (24 weeks) and after 24 weeks

        -  The time spent on average in the shoe

      Methods

      This trial is a patient-blind, single-centre, two-arm, parallel-group, 24 weeks (6 months)
      randomized controlled trial comparing APOS therapy and Sham APOS therapy. While the patients
      and physicians will be blinded regarding the intervention, the technician applying the shoes
      will not.

      The trial will be conducted among persons with painful knee osteoarthritis. 220 patients will
      be randomly assigned on a 1:1 basis to one of the two treatments, APOS therapy or Sham APOS
      therapy. Randomisation will be stratified according to lateral / medial and unilateral /
      bilateral knee OA status.
    
  