
    
      With healthcare spending accounting for almost one-fifth of the U.S. economy and an even
      larger share of public sector budgets, there is substantial interest in innovations in
      healthcare delivery that can reduce the "over use" of resources that have no or low value to
      patients. As a result, there is a key need for rigorous evidence on scalable interventions
      aimed at improving the efficiency of the U.S. healthcare sector in general, and in the public
      sector in particular, which accounts for $1.25 trillion in annual healthcare spending
      (Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, 2013).

      In particular, there is widespread concern in both the medical profession (Callaghan et al.,
      2014; Sherman, 2012) and the public sector (U.S. Government Accountability Office, 2008) of
      the cost and health risks of "over-scanning". Estimates suggest that as many as 30% of
      imaging in the U.S. are unnecessary (Consumer Reports, 2015; Dehn et al., 2000; Georgiou et
      al., 2011). Medicare direct spending on "high-cost" scans (e.g. MRs and CTs) was about $10
      billion in 2012, or about 2% of total Medicare costs (Medicare Payment Advisory Commission,
      2014); the indirect costs are likely considerably greater, since imaging often triggers
      additional follow up care (Sherman, 2012; Shreibati and Baker, 2011). It is also estimated
      that about 2 percent of cancers in the U.S. are due to CT use (Brenner and Hall, 2007).

      Reflecting this concern, starting in 2017 Medicare will no longer reimburse for high-cost
      scans unless ordered using an "acceptable" Clinical Decision Support (CDS) system (Pitts,
      2014). Despite this upcoming policy change, we know of no large-scale randomized trials on
      the impact of CDS for imaging.

      The intervention in this study provides Clinical Decision Support (CDS) for targeted
      high-cost radiology orders, MR and CT scans, to healthcare providers treating patients in
      outpatient settings affiliated with Mount Sinai Hospital and Mount Sinai Queens hospital in
      New York City. CDS is a tool embedded in an order entry system that provides information and
      guidance to providers on whether their intended order is "appropriate" and whether there are
      more highly recommended alternatives. The randomization is at the provider level: one group
      will receive the CDS, while the remaining providers will serve as the control group.

      The CDS will be delivered through the order-entry software, Epic, through ACRSelect software,
      which is a leading decision support tool based on the American College of Radiology (ACR)
      Appropriateness Criteria.

      Recommendations that appear in the CDS tool are a computerized version of guidelines created
      by the American College of Radiology (ACR). The guidelines score the appropriateness of a
      scan order for a given health indication, where indications include common symptoms and
      diagnosis keywords, such as "acute headache." In particular, indication-scan pairs are
      assigned an "appropriateness rating" from 1-9. Scores 1-3 are 'usually not appropriate,' 4-6
      are 'may be appropriate,' and 7-9 are 'usually appropriate.'
    
  