
    
      Bi-layered skin closure is one of the most common methods for closing cutaneous defects. The
      deep layer is closed with a conventional interrupted intradermal suture using absorbable
      materials, while the superficial layer is approximated with simple interrupted or simple
      continuous suture using non-absorbable materials. The cosmetic result of bi-layered closure
      is better than simple interrupted suture alone, because the interrupted intradermal suture
      component plays a major role in reducing wound tension, which has the effect of minimizing
      suture marks. Although the advantages of bi-layered closure are recognized, bi-layered
      closure is often not used in favor of simple interrupted suture due to the fact that
      interrupted intradermal suture is time consuming and more suture material is required. Thus,
      if an intradermal suturing technique can be identified that takes less time and requires less
      material while yielding a similar cosmetic result, patients would have more opportunity to
      receive bi-layered closure and obtain a better wound outcome.

      Several novel intradermal suturing techniques could be alternative to the conventional
      interrupted intradermal suture technique, including buried butterfly suture, double butterfly
      suture, subcutaneous inverted cross mattress suture, and interrupted oblique intradermal
      suture. Among these novel techniques, interrupted oblique intradermal suture (OIS) is
      recognized for its relative simplicity. OIS is easy to perform, even for beginners. The
      simplicity and effectiveness of OIS increase its potential of becoming one of the standard
      suturing techniques in medical practice.

      OIS is very similar to conventional interrupted intradermal suture (IS), except that the
      suture in OIS is canted or angled relative to the vertical plane. To perform OIS, the needle
      is passed from deep to superficial dermis and canted 30°-60° from the normal vertical plane.
      The needle is then inserted into the opposite wound edge from superficial to deep dermis in a
      mirror-image fashion. The thread is tied with a square knot to finish the suture. The key
      characteristic that distinguishes OIS from IS is that OIS involves suturing on an angle to
      the vertical plane and IS involves suturing on the vertical plane.

      In theory, OIS is a hybrid method that combines IS and buried horizontal butterfly suture.
      OIS combines the ability of IS to reduce tension at the wound edge and the ability of
      horizontal butterfly suture to provide good wound edge apposition and eversion. Because OIS
      is canted, it can provide tension in both the vertical and horizontal planes. Moreover, 1
      stitch of OIS should yield wound closure approximately equal to that of 2 stitches of IS due
      to the same horizontal distance between 1 OIS stitch and 2 VIS stitches. Accordingly, it can
      be inferred that OIS should result in a 50% reduction in both suturing time and suturing
      material used.

      However, OIS has the same obstacle as many other novel suturing techniques that there is very
      little literature to support OIS clinically which makes usage and generalization of TIS
      remain limited. It was hypothesized that OIS is equivalence to IS in wound outcome while
      consumes less time and less suture material. This study aims to demonstrate the equivalence
      of wound outcomes between the interrupted oblique intradermal suture (OIS) and conventional
      interrupted intradermal suture (IS) methods.
    
  