
    
      Hypertension is a major cardiovascular disease risk factor affecting >70% older adults in the
      United States. It is also a major contributor to cognitive impairment and dementia that
      affect over 8 million US older adults. Hypertension can cause deteriorations in brain
      structure and function such as reduced cerebral blood flow, leading to various types of
      cognitive dysfunction with declines in executive function being the most common. Of note,
      executive function is a strong predictor of older adults' ability to live independently in
      the community. Meta-analyses showed that Tai Chi reduces blood pressure (BP) by 12-15 mmHg
      for systolic BP and 4-6 mmHg for diastolic BP, and improves cognitive function with an effect
      size of 0.5 for global cognitive function and 0.9 for executive function. Surprisingly, no
      study has investigated the relationship between the heart and brain health benefits of Tai
      Chi among older adults with hypertension.

      The primary purposes and hypotheses are presented below. Of note, investigators will define
      the changes of BP, cognitive function focusing on executive function, and brain structure and
      functions in response to the 12-week online Tai Chi intervention as the chronic change (see
      primary outcomes 1 to 9).

        1. To examine the relationship between the BP and cognitive function, focusing on executive
           function, response to a 12-wk online Tai Chi intervention. Investigators hypothesize
           that the BP and cognitive function, focusing on executive function, response to a 12-wk
           online Tai Chi intervention will be positively correlated.

        2. To examine changes in measures of brain structure and functions in response to a 12-wk
           online Tai Chi intervention, and explore their associations with the BP and cognitive
           function, focusing on executive function, responses to Tai Chi. Investigators
           hypothesize that the relationship between the BP and cognitive function, focusing on
           executive function, responses to the 12-wk online Tai Chi intervention is mediated by
           the changes in brain structure and function.

      The secondary purposes are to examine the relationship between the BP and cognitive function,
      focusing on executive function, response to a single session of Tai Chi exercise.
      Investigators hypothesize that the BP and cognitive function, focusing on executive function,
      response to a single session of Tai Chi exercise will be positively correlated. Of note,
      investigators will define the changes of BP, cognitive function focusing on executive
      function in response to a single session of Tai Chi exercise as the acute change (see
      secondary outcomes 1 to 5).

      The participants will be randomized to either a Tai Chi (n=10) or control group (n=10).
      Participants will receive informed consent material and attend live online Q&A sessions.
      Participants who signed the informed consent form will attend online visits 1 and 2, and
      in-person visit 3 to complete eligibility screening. For pre-intervention measures,
      participants will attend online visit 3 and in-person visits 4 and 5. In-person visits 4 and
      5 will be in randomized order and include: 1) the Acute Exercise Visit A during which
      participants will attend a 45-minute Tai Chi exercise session at the local senior center; and
      2) the Control and Magnetic Resonance Imaging [MRI] Visit A at the Brain Imaging Research
      Center [BIRC] at UConn Storrs during which participants will attend a 45-minute sham control
      session (i.e., watching Tai Chi themed video). A trained, blinded research assistant will: 1)
      measure resting BP and cognitive function before and after the 45-minute Tai Chi session in
      the Acute Exercise Visit A and the 45-minute sham control session in the Control and MRI
      Visit A; and 2) attach participants to a 24-hour ambulatory BP (ABP) monitor at the end of
      both the Acute Exercise Visit A and the Control and MRI Visit A that will be worn to the next
      morning. In addition, participants will participate in an 60-minute MRI scanning session at
      BIRC in the Control and MRI Visit A. The 12-week online Tai Chi intervention will start after
      in-person visit 5, participants assigned to the Tai Chi group will attend live online Tai Chi
      sessions led by a certified Tai Chi instructor for 3 sessions/week, 45 minutes/session for 12
      weeks. The participants will also practice Tai Chi at home between sessions using
      instructional video that will be shared with them at the end of each live online Tai Chi
      session. Meanwhile, participants in the control group will perform only their regular
      habitual daily activities throughout the 12-week study. After the 12-week intervention
      period, participants will attend in-person visit 6 (Control and MRI Visit B) at the BIRC with
      procedures identical to those conducted in in-person visit 4 or 5 (Control and MRI Visit A).
      Participants will attend in-person visit 7 (Acute Exercise Visit B) at the local senior
      center with procedures identical to those conducted in in-person visit 4 or 5 (Acute Exercise
      Visit A).
    
  