
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Develop an evidence-based behavioral intervention to increase cruciferous vegetable
      intake, with the goal of attaining desirable urinary isothiocyanates (ITC) levels effective
      for anti-cancer activities.

      II. Conduct a feasibility pilot of our dietary behavioral intervention through a hybrid I
      implementation randomized controlled design in 80 non-muscle invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC)
      survivors, where the treatment group (n=40) will receive an evidence-based telephone
      intervention to increase cruciferous vegetable intake and the control group (n=40) will
      receive a general fruit and vegetable intake intervention based on National Cancer Institute
      (NCI) guidelines.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To ascertain the level of gene expression changes in urinary exfoliated epithelial cells
      (due to the intervention) as a surrogate for intermediate efficacy.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

      I. Engage the clinical care providers of patients enrolled in our intervention to ascertain
      the barriers and facilitators of intervention implementation within clinical practice through
      conducting 20 semi-structured interviews.

      OUTLINE:

      AIM I: Develop an evidence-based behavioral intervention using a systematic process
      consisting of information gathering, discussion groups, and mock intervention delivery.

      AIM II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM A (HEALTHY EATING PROGRAM A): Patients receive mailed educational materials about the
      importance of consuming cruciferae, setting healthier eating goals, and the importance of
      keeping track of what they eat. Patients also receive one phone call from study staff to make
      sure they understood the educational materials received and 11 interactive voice response
      (IVR) phone messages over 6 months.

      ARM B (HEALTHY EATING PROGRAM B): Patients receive mailed educational materials about general
      fruit and vegetable intake, setting healthier eating goals, and the importance of keeping
      track of what they eat. Patients also receive one phone call from study staff to make sure
      they understood the educational materials received and 11 IVR phone messages over 6 months.
    
  