
    
      This is a retrospective chart review. We will review charts of patients who underwent
      gastrostomy with gastropexy and primary percutaneous gastrostomy tube placement with pull
      through technique and compare immediate complications such as (pain, bleeding, and
      infection), and long term complications such as (feeding problems, pain, death, infection,
      bleeding and granulation), and for readmission in the 3 months following placement. Our
      control group will be the patients with primary percutaneous gastrostomy tube placement with
      pull through technique compared to the outcomes of the gastrostomy with gastropexy patients.

      Inclusion Criteria:

      Inclusion criteria is pediatric patients requiring an alternate means of nutrition with
      gastrostomy placement. Subjects ages 0-17 years of age. Data created starting 01/01/2005 to
      07/31/2015.

      Exclusion Criteria:

      Patients that do not meet inclusion criteria.

      Procedures: Most pediatric gastroenterologists use an endoscopic pull technique to place
      gastrostomy tubes. We will assess an endoscopic gastropexy technique for gastrostomy tube
      placement that allows immediate placement of a low profile gastrostomy tube or
      gastro-jejunostomy tube. The procedure involves endoscopy with the placement of three
      T-fasteners that are placed through the skin into the stomach, placating and securing the
      stomach to the abdominal wall. This attachment process promotes formation of a stable
      gastrostomy tract, facilitating an immediate placement of a low profile gastrostomy button or
      gastro-jejunostomy tube. Serial dilators are then used to obtain the desired diameter of the
      ostomy for the tube placement and a low profile gastrostomy button of appropriate size is
      placed. We will review complications both long term and short term of both the primary
      percutaneous gastrostomy tube placement with pull through technique compared to the outcomes
      of the gastrostomy with gastropexy patients.

      Screening of GI cases at the Children's Hospital of San Antonio will be performed by PI and
      research staff to identify eligible patients. The subject record will be accessed and data
      recorded. The information recorded will be coded in the event a subject record requires
      subsequent reviews to obtain data. The subject record will be coded in order to protect
      subject PHI confidential. Please see section S for the data collection tool. The chart review
      will include records created starting 01/01/2005 - 06/26/2018.

      Sample size: Local: 150, Worldwide: 150 The sample size is the any patient who underwent a
      gastrostomy with gastropexy or primary percutaneous gastrostomy tube placement with pull
      through technique by the gastroenterologists at the Children's Hospital of San Antonio.

      Data Analysis: The primary comparison is the difference between immediate complications such
      as (pain, bleeding, and infection), and long term complications such as (feeding problems,
      pain, death, infection, bleeding and granulation) to evaluate efficacy and safety of
      gastrostomy with gastropexy.
    
  