
    
      Integrated Science Education Outreach (InSciEd Out) is one novel program that seeks to
      promote scientific and health literacy through fostering scientific inquiry. The guiding
      premise of InSciEd Out's health promotion arm is a concept called Prescription Education
      (PE), which uses science education as a direct and early intervention for disease behaviors.
      The underlying hypothesis of InSciEd Out PE is that a student who lives a scientific
      experience in his or her own voice (undergoes true inquiry-based science) will be empowered
      to elect healthier behaviors in any targeted health paradigm. PE's proposed mechanism of
      change is that inquiry-based science catalyzes transitions from knowledge to understanding to
      attitudes to intents to actual behavioral change.

      InSciEd Out partnership with the the school in this study began in Spring of 2013 with a
      projected health promotion arm targeting mental health and addiction. The current iteration
      of the partnership commenced in Summer of 2014 under the annual InSciEd Out summer
      internship. This internship led to creation of grades 7 and 8 curriculum in mental health and
      addiction. Version 1 of this curriculum was piloted last year. A revised version of the
      curriculum will be implemented in Spring of 2016. Although there are education-specific
      metrics for assessment already built into program evaluation of InSciEd Out, there are
      currently no clinically relevant inventories in place to specifically probe efficacy of the
      lesson plans upon key mental health outcomes.

      The study herein is the establishment of clinically relevant inventories around implemented
      InSciEd Out curriculum in mental health and addiction (called My Mind, My Body). These
      inventories are selected to measure student changes in their mental health-related knowledge,
      attitudes, and help-seeking behavioral intentions. The research group hypothesizes that
      students undergoing InSciEd Out mental health and addiction curriculum will exhibit pre-post
      increases in mental health literacy, decreases in mental health stigmatization, and increases
      in mental health help-seeking behavioral intentions.
    
  