
    
      Approximately 250.000 patients are diagnosed with type 2 diabetes (T2DM) in Denmark, and
      world-wide close to 350 million people suffer from diabetes. T2DM develops in genetically
      susceptible individuals as a result of excess energy intake and insufficient amount of daily
      physical activity. The pathophysiology encompasses a mismatch between the insulin secretory
      capacity and insulin sensitivity, predominantly manifested in skeletal muscle as insulin
      resistance. T2DM is associated with increased morbidity and mortality.

      The disease is triggered by the individual lifestyle, and thereby the potential for
      prevention and reversal of the disease in its early years after diagnosis is quite large.

      One potential way to improve glucose homeostasis is by intermittent fasting, also known as
      alternate day fasting. Intermittent fasting means switching between eating and fasting, and
      it is a variation of calorie restriction. Intermittent fasting has been studied in animals.
      Together with calorie restriction, intermittent fasting is the most efficient way to expand
      lifespan of many animal species without genetically altering them. A wide range of age
      related changes are delayed including beneficial effects on hypertension, degenerative brain
      disease, immune responses, DNA repair capacity and glucose homeostasis. Fat redistribution
      with fat translocating from between the organs and the liver to the subcutis.

      Little is known about intermittent fasting in humans. In 2005 the investigators
      experimentally tested this concept in young healthy males and found that 15 days of
      alternating days with fast and food intake increased insulin sensitivity by 16% without any
      changes in body weight.

      The explanation could be oscillations in cellular energy stores. Skeletal muscle contains
      approximately 80% of the stored glycogen alone by virtue of the muscle mass. The liver has a
      higher glycogen concentration, but it is much smaller. A single prolonged (>24 hrs) day of
      fasting may not decrease muscle glycogen, while the decrease in the liver is very fast. A
      muscle glycogen lowering effect of continued intermittent fasting would be expected, and
      experimentally indicated.

      The intermittent fasting method may appeal to some patients, who do not exercise, and the
      need for testing this intervention in patients with type 2 diabetes is obvious.
    
  