
    
      A workgroup is formed in the NICU to provide expert opinions in the process of development,
      implementation, and evaluation of the guideline. It consists of five nurses, one
      neonatologist and one physiotherapist. After that, 16 evidence-based articles were identified
      in several scientific databases, and practices in the guideline are developed after reviewed
      and appraised the articles.

      Interventions in the guideline involve six components as

        1. choice of "right" nasal interfaces, in which the "right" size of nasal interface either
           short binasal prongs or nasal mask is chosen according to the size of the infant's nose
           and distance between two nasal nares. In addition, the "right" size of bonnet using to
           anchoring the ventilator tubing is also selected according to the size of infant's head.

        2. use of skin protective dressing, in which the hydrocolloid dressing is used to cover the
           skin areas underneath the nasal interface and anchoring straps;

        3. alternate the nasal interfaces from the short binasal prongs to nasal mask every 6
           hours;

        4. positioning the infants regularly for 4-6 hours, at optimal developmental body position
           but avoid prone position, and well supporting the devices to prevent displacement and
           traction onto the infant's skin after changed position;

        5. supportive care including to wet the prongs with sterile water or saline before
           inserting into the nasal nares, to clean the infant's faces and nasal areas daily, to
           wipe away any water condensate over infant's nasal areas every 4-6 hours, to gently
           massage the areas during removal of the nasal interfaces or devices for examination at
           every routine care, to provide oral care every 3-4 hours and avoid unnecessary nasal
           suctioning, to provide adequate humidification to the ventilation circuit, to remove
           water condensate in the interfaces and ventilator circuit, to aspirate air from the
           gastric tube before every tube feeding to relieve abdominal distension;

        6. regular assessments on infants receiving NIV for pain level by Neonatal Pain, Agitation
           and Sedation Scale, intact of skin integrity for the areas in contacting with the nasal
           interfaces and devices of NIV, and to rate the severity of injury by the staging system
           from National Pressure Ulcer Advisory Panel.

      The study includes two periods of "pre-implementation" and "post-implementation". In the
      pre-implementation period, all infants receiving NIV will be providing the usual care
      including choice of nasal interfaces in which larger or smaller interfaces may be given to
      the infant, use of skin protective dressing, positioning which is not restricted to the
      frequency of turning or types of position, supportive care of providing humidification to the
      ventilator circuit, oral care and avoiding of unnecessary nasal suctioning, removing of water
      condensate in the ventilator circuit, aspirating of air before alternate tube feeding.

      A one-month training will be given to nurses working in the NICU after completion of the
      pre-implementation period. The training contains a dialect lecture, video demonstration of
      care, and scenario discussion.

      After completion of the one-month training, the post-implementation period will be commenced,
      and the care in the guideline will be provided to infants receiving NIV.

      Data collection on infant participants and nurses will be conducted during the study period.

      Data analysis will be performed to evaluate the effectiveness of the guideline as well as the
      increase of nurses' knowledge in care of infants receiving NIV and their compliances to the
      guideline.
    
  