
    
      Since the emergence of minimally invasive technology twenty years ago, as a surgical concept
      and surgical technique for colorectal cancer surgery, its obvious advantages have been
      recognized.

      Laparoscopic technology, as one of the most important technology platform, has got a lot of
      evidence-based support for the oncological safety and effectiveness in colorectal cancer
      surgery Laparoscopic technique has advantages in terms of identification of anatomic plane
      and autonomic nerve, protection of pelvic structure, and fine dissection of vessels.

      But because of the limitation of laparoscopic technology there are still some deficiencies
      and shortcomings, including lack of touch and lack of stereo vision problems, in addition to
      the low rectal cancer, especially male, obese, narrow pelvis, larger tumors, it is difficult
      to get better view and manipulating triangle in laparoscopy. However, the emergence of a
      series of new minimally invasive technology platform is to make up for the defects and
      deficiencies. The robotic surgical system possesses advantages, such as stereo vision, higher
      magnification, manipulator wrist with high freedom degree, filtering of tremor and higher
      stability, but still has disadvantages, such as lack of haptic feedback, longer operation
      time, high operation cost and expensive price.

      3D system of laparoscopic surgery has similar visual experience and feelings as robotic
      surgery in the 3D view, the same operating skills as 2D laparoscopy and a short learning
      curve. Transanal total mesorectal excision (taTME) by changing the traditional laparoscopic
      pelvic surgery approach, may have certain advantages for male cases with narrow pelvic and
      patients with large tumor.

      No prospective study has compared these four surgical techniques. Furthermore, the learning
      curve still remains a crucial problem in term of data interpretation.

      We will collect synchronized videos and data on surgeon performance during colorectal
      surgeries using the Vinci Logger (dVLogger, Intuitive Surgical, Inc.), it is a personalized
      recording tool that captures synchronized video in the form of endoscope view at 30 frames
      per second. Kinematic data included characteristics of movement such as instrument travel
      time, path length and velocity. Events included frequency of master controller clutch use,
      camera movements, third arm swap and energy use.

      We will explore and validate objective surgeon performance metrics using novel recorder
      ("dVLogger") to directly capture surgeon manipulations on the daVinci Surgical System.
    
  