
    
      Background and rational Prophylactic cranial irradiation Small cell lung cancer (SCLC) is an
      aggressive type of lung cancer, with high sensitivity to chemotherapy and radiotherapy but
      with high incidence of local and distant recurrences. The brain is a common site of
      metastases from SCLC with a risk of up to 70% for brain involvement [1]. Prophylactic cranial
      irradiation (PCI) is the standard treatment for patients with limited disease (LD) SCLC after
      completing chemo-radiotherapy to the chest. The treatment includes whole brain radiotherapy
      (WBRT), reduces the incidence of brain metastases and improves overall survival (OS) by 5%
      [1]. The down side of WBRT is that the central nervous system (CNS) is vulnerable to
      radiotherapy (RT) and its related toxicity may be associated with irreversible cognitive
      dysfunction [2].

      Radiotherapy and neuro-cognitive function It has been demonstrated that there are two main
      regions of human containing multipotent neural stem cells (NSCs): the subgranular zone (SGZ)
      within the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus, and the subventricular zone (SVZ) on the lateral
      aspect of the lateral ventricles [3,4,5,6,7,8]. These NSCs are capable of replacing adult
      neuron loss caused by various forms of harm (e.g. local ischemia, brain trauma, and radiation
      exposure and neurodegenerative diseases). However, they are extremely sensitive to X-rays,
      and thus reduction of NSCs may play an important role in radiation-induced neurocognitive
      impairment [6,7,8]. Neurocognitive function (NCF) has a major impact on QOL and has been
      actively studied in brain tumor patients treated with radiotherapy. Many studies have
      evaluated the neurocognitive outcome of patients treated with radiation for brain metastases
      and primary brain tumors [9,10,11,12,13,14]. Radiation primarily causes coagulation necrosis
      of the white matter tracts and cerebral vasculature by axonal demyelination and damage to
      vascular endothelial cells. Radiation has been shown to negatively affect various
      neuropsychological domains. WBRT has been shown to have greater neuropsychological impairment
      than focused radiation treatment [14]. Correlation, between radiation dosage to the bilateral
      hippocampi and impairment of NCF, was found in adult patients with benign or low-grade brain
      tumors treated with fractionated stereotactic radiotherapy (FSRT) [14].

      An ongoing clinical trial of the radiation oncology group (RTOG) is testing the applicability
      of hippocampal sparing and its impact on neurocognitive changes in cancer patients with brain
      metastases.

      Neuro-cognitive function testing Even though many studies have evaluated NCF in relation to
      radiation, there is no consensus regarding standardization of tests selection, time points
      for evaluation and correlations with biomarkers. Many studies use the Folstein Mini-Mental
      State Examination (MMSE) to assess neurocognitive function [15,16]. The MMSE is not a
      sensitive tool for detecting cognitive impairment and does not measure the cognitive
      functions affected by radiation. The NeuroTrax system is described elsewhere [17]. In brief,
      Mindstreams consists of custom software that resides on the local testing computer and serves
      as a platform for interactive cognitive tests that produce accuracy and reaction time
      (millisecond time-scale) data. In case of conducting several trails for a single patient,
      Mindstreams uses a different version of the tests in each trial, in order to avoid a learning
      bias. Tests are available in multiple languages, and equivalence among English and Hebrew
      versions has been shown [17]. After tests are run on the local computer, data are
      automatically uploaded to a central server, where calculation of outcome parameters from raw
      single-trial data and report generation occurs. All responses are made with the mouse or with
      the number pad on the keyboard. Participants are familiarized with these input devices at the
      beginning of the battery, and practice sessions prior to the individual tests instruct them
      regarding the particular responses required for each test.

      Hippocampal sparing during PCI Recent data suggest minimal risk for hippocampal involvement
      in patients with SCLC and brain metastases suggesting that reduced radiation dose to these
      areas during PCI would not significantly compromise the control in the brain [18]. There is
      no published data thus far testing the effect of hippocampal sparing during PCI on the
      patient's neuro-cognitive function, QOL, and survival. Volumetric arc radiotherapy (VMAT) and
      intensity modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) use advanced radiation planning software with
      computerized algorithms of inverse planning to allow differential radiation dose distribution
      within the same radiation field. A preliminary dosimetric work in the radiation oncology unit
      at Sheba medical center has proved the feasibility of generating WBRT plans using these
      techniques while reducing the dose to the hippocampi. The investigators compared 3
      radiotherapy plans (standard 2 lateral field plan, IMRT plan and a VMAT plan) aiming to give
      30Gy to the brain, with 40Gy integrated boost to evident brain metastases (using magnetic
      resonance imaging - MRI scan) and reduced dose to the hippocampi (<10Gy) according to RTOG
      0933 protocol. IMRT achieved better results in general then the VMAT plans, especially in
      patients with brain metastases located closer to the hippocampi. The work has been presented
      in the EANS European Association of Neuro-Surgeonsmeeting last year.

      Serum biomarkers for CNS damage Neuron-specific enolase (NSE) and S100 are two serum tumor
      markers that may be used as a potential screening tool for brain injury caused by radiation
      [19-27]. NSE is a glycolytic enzyme found in the CNS, expressed by neural and neuroendocrine
      cells. Elevated levels of NSE have been found in patients with brain metastases from NSCLC. A
      multi-center retrospective study involving 231 NSCLC patients demonstrated that high serum
      levels of NSE indicated shorter survival and was a specific marker of metastases. It is
      thought that the rise in NSE in brain metastasis patients reflects the extent of neuronal
      damage, as seen following a cerebral stroke. S100 protein is a nervous-system-specific
      cytoplasmic protein found in astrocytes and released into the serum when the blood brain
      barrier (BBB) is breached. Brain metastases were shown to be associated with elevated levels
      of S100 in several malignancies. Serum S-100B has also been demonstrated to be useful in
      determining brain damage related to stroke.

      Imaging biomarkers for CNS damage Although brain radiotherapy induces white matter changes
      which can be depicted in standard MRI scans, no correlation was found between these changes
      and cognitive impairment. BBB disruption is an early, readily recognizable pathophysiological
      event occurring after radiation injury. It is detectable in vivo/in vitro by MRI and other
      imaging modalities, and appears to precede white matter necrosis. Micro-vascular leakage
      (MVL), calculated from perfusion MRI, is more sensitive than conventional contrast-enhanced
      MRI to subtle BBB opening, reflecting abnormal permeability of immature vessels. Treatment
      response assessment maps (TRAM) is a novel methodology, based on T1-MRI acquired up to 90 min
      after contrast injection, which allows depiction of subtle BBB disruption [28]. The resulting
      calculated maps, depict BBB functioning of the full brain, with high spatial resolution and
      high sensitivity to subtle BBB abnormalities. Results in >200 patients with primary and
      metastatic brain tumors demonstrate the high sensitivity for subtle BBB disruption and the
      ability of the investigators maps to depict and differentiate various BBB disruption patterns
      within the tumor and the irradiated area.
    
  