
    
      Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant (AlloSCT) is the treatment of choice for many
      malignant and non-malignant hematological disorders. However, this treatment is frequently
      complicated by acute graft-versus-host-disease (aGVHD), wich can be associated with high
      morbidity and mortality.

      Steroids are still the first line treatment for established aGVHD, with a response rate of
      30-50%, and there is no established and effective therapy for severe steroid-refractory
      aGVHD. The outcome for patients is poor and overall survival low, with few patients alive at
      2 years.

      In the case of failure after corticosteroid treatment, different therapeutic options have
      been introduced as second or third-line strategies. In this scenario, infusion of ex vivo
      expanded mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) has emerged as an additional tool for treatment of
      GVHD.

      MSCs are non hematopoietic multipotent cells with self-renewal properties and the ability to
      differentiate into mesenchymal tissues. Several lines of evidence in the past few years have
      confirmed the ability of theses cells differentiate into cells derived form embryonic
      mesoderm, such as osteocytes, adipocytes and chondroblasts. In vitro, culture-expanded MSCs
      express membrane antigens that can be immunophenotyped by flow cytometry. The most widely
      accepted antigen expression pattern is cluster of differentiation (CD) 29, CD105, CD73, and
      CD90 positivity in 97 % of cells and minimal expression of CD45, CD34, CD3, CD14, CD19, or
      human leukocyte antigen (HLA) -DR, which should be positive in less than 3 % of cells.

      Because they are easy to isolate and culture and due to their differentiation potential and
      production of growth factors and cytokines, MSC have become ideal candidates for regenerative
      protocols.

      The purpose of this work is conduct a study in patients with refractory and/or resistant GVHD
      corticosteroids treatment. It will be randomized into two groups: one group that will receive
      the MSCs and the other group will follow the acute GVHD steroid-resistant and/or refractory
      treatment according to the routines of the Bone Marrow Transplantation service of Hospital de
      Clinicas de Porto Alegre. It will be evaluated aspects of immune recovery early after MSCs
      infusion.

      METHOD: This is a prospective, randomized, controlled, open label study to evaluate the
      effectiveness of early treatment of steroid-resistant acute GVHD with MSC. All patients with
      refractory and/or resistant steroids GVHD will be included after signing of free and informed
      consent.

      After randomization, patients will be allocated to receive conventional treatment:

        1. Basiliximab 20mg dose for adults and 10mg for children, 1 time a week or every 3 days if
           worsens the stage of GVHD until reaching Very Good Partial Response (VGPR) or for a
           maximum of 4 doses, whichever comes first.

        2. If after the item (1) will not obtained VGPR: Infliximab 5 to 10 mg/kg dose, 1 time a
           week, four weeks or even VGPR.

      Patients in the study group will receive two infusions of MSC per week during two weeks and 1
      more MSC infusion (2 + 2 + 1 scheme).

      After 28 days, if VGPR is not obtained, crossover between groups will be allowed as well as
      for the patients with progressive GVHD in spit of treatment arm, before day +28. The latter
      group of patients, who use both treatments (MSC + Conventional treatment) before day + 28
      will be analyzed separately.

      Bone marrow (BM) derived MSCs from normal BMT donors (third part) will be isolated and
      expanded under conditions of Good Manufacturing Practice. The quality control involves
      immunophenotyping, differentiation, microbiological control, mycoplasma and endotoxin tests.

      Patients response evaluation will be at Day + 28:

        1. Complete response: disappearance of all symptoms

        2. Partial response: with a decrease at least of one degree of GVHD

        3. VGPR: decrease to the stage I of GVHD

        4. Stable disease: when there is a stability of the disease

        5. Number and type of infection in the first 100 days after transplant

      The transplant-related mortality, disease-free survival, overall survival and the development
      of chronic GVHD or not, will also be evaluated.
    
  