
    
      Pancreatitis is a common complication especially in patients with gallbladder stones, most
      patients with biliary pancreatitis may recover spontaneously without sequelae, but in 10-20%
      of patients, the disease is severe and mortality rates of up to 30% are detected in these
      patients. In patients with severe pancreatitis, aggressive fluid replacement, organ damage
      follow-up, appropriate antibiotherapy, and endoscopic sphincterotomy and radiological
      interventions may be of great benefit. In the evaluation of acute biliary pancreatitis, many
      scoring systems have been established (Atlanta, Ranson, APACHE, BISAP etc.) from past to
      present to determine morbidity and mortality of the disease. There are limited number of
      studies in the literature about the immune parameters in the evaluation of acute
      pancreatitis. In a studies, serum inflammatory markers such as IL-1, IL-6 and CD4, CD8 T
      lymphocyte and Treg population were evaluated. It was reported that inflammatory markers,
      especially anti-inflammatory IL-10 levels were elevated in patients with acute pancreatitis,
      and CRP and IL-1β levels of inflammatory markers were higher in patients with organ failure.
      Treg cells are reported to be an independent prognostic factor in determining the severity of
      acute pancreatitis. There is only one study with a limited number of patients in whom PD-1
      values in T lymphocytes and PD-L1 values in monocytes were determined in the literature. In
      this study, it is stated that PD-L1 can be used as a new marker in determining infectious
      complications. In patients diagnosed with acute biliary pancreatitis, determination of the
      course of the disease at the time of diagnosis is extremely important for treatment and
      survival.

      In this study, the investigators aimed to evaluate the correlation between morbidity and
      mortality of acute biliary pancreatitis and serum proinflammatory cytokines with ELISA and
      lymphocyte subtypes with Flow-cytometry.
    
  