
    
      Background:

      Type 1 diabetes is caused by antibodies attacking insulin-producing β-cells in the pancreas.
      Treatment is usually by regular insulin injections, informed by glucose measurements from
      fingerprick blood samples. However, injections do not mimic the normal behaviour of the
      β-cell and this leads to suboptimal blood glucose control and complications including kidney
      failure, blindness, nerve damage and heart disease. Aggressive treatment can help but may
      lead to potentially-dangerous low blood glucose levels (hypoglycaemia). Glucose control is
      measured by HbA1c (normal range 4 to 6%), a measure of the amount of haemoglobin exposed to
      glucose over a period of around 3 months.

      Current regimens for treating Type 1 diabetes in clinical practice are mainly based on
      injections of subcutaneous insulin several times daily in dosages determined by intermittent
      blood glucose measurements. The DCCT (Diabetes Control and Complications Trial) demonstrated
      that intensive management using these principles reduced complications by 50-76%. This was at
      the expense of increased hypoglycaemia, especially at HbA1c levels <7.5%. In other studies,
      intensive management resulted in people spending 30% of the day with glucose values >10mM and
      >2 hours/day in hypoglycaemia, often at night.

      A closed loop system provides the potential to improve HbA1c while avoiding hypoglycaemia. It
      requires continuous glucose measurement, a control device and a pump for insulin delivery.
      The subject has been extensively reviewed. Intelligent control devices have been developed by
      others, using the principles of feedback control or predictive modelling. These were
      initially cumbersome e.g. the 'biostator' but more recent systems have been miniaturised and
      are capable of achieving blood glucose control in the fasting state, when provided with an
      input of interstitial glucose levels. They have not yet proven robust, may be associated with
      hypoglycaemia and are not capable of achieving adequate post-prandial control nor of coping
      with intercurrent illness outside hospital environments.

      This clinical trial protocol assesses the Imperial College closed loop insulin delivery
      system. The closed loop insulin delivery comprises 3 main components: the glucose sensor, the
      control algorithm and the insulin delivery system.

      The glucose sensor that will be used throughout the clinical validation studies is a CE
      marked, MHRA approved device manufactured by Medtronic. It is a subcutaneous sensor which
      sits just under the skin and samples interstitial fluid using an enzyme electrode. A small
      voltage is applied across the sensor and a current is fed back to the sensor instrumentation.
      This current is proportional to the glucose concentration in interstitial fluid and is
      calibrated against blood glucose a minimum of 12 hourly.

      The control algorithm is derived from physiological experiments carried out by other groups
      which have demonstrated how the beta cells in the pancreas produce insulin in people without
      diabetes. Utilising the data from these experiments it has been possible to implement the
      behaviour of the beta cell in software and we have used a simulator with 200 virtual patients
      to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of the software. The data from the simulator is
      attached to this application as an appendix. The simulator was developed from human data and
      takes into account sensor errors, sensor placement, route of insulin administration and
      meal-time glucose absorption. It has been approved by the FDA in the United States as a step
      in the pathway of developing an artificial pancreas and has been validated against human
      data. In the clinical validation device the control algorithm is implemented on a printed
      circuit board using a programmable micro-controller.

      The insulin pump device used throughout the clinical validation is the Roche Accu-Check Combo
      Spirit. This is a CE marked MHRA approved device and will be supplied by Roche with
      capability for direct communication from the motor so that we can verify the pump is doing
      what the software commands and with a license to use the communications protocol for research
      purposes. This ensures safe communication between the control algorithm and the pump and
      provides a fail-safe to ensure that the pump motor is responding appropriately to the control
      algorithm.

      Clinical validation of the closed loop insulin delivery device follows a path of incremental
      challenges to the algorithm and hardware, starting with a fasting basal study in advisory
      mode and progressing to ambulatory, meal studies in full closed loop.

      The aim of this trial is to assess the safety and efficacy of the closed loop device by
      applying the technology to participants with type 1 diabetes in a variety of scenarios,
      starting with a fasting test and progressing to overnight control, mealtime control and,
      finally, an ambulatory test.

      Brief outline of each of the 5 visits within the trial period:

        -  Visit 1: Screening including clinical examination, fasting blood tests, completion of
           diabetes quality of life questionnaire, continuous glucose monitor attached to subject

        -  Visit 2: Review of continuous glucose monitoring results after 5 days

        -  Visit 3: Short Duration Fasting Closed Loop (6 hours of closed-loop assessment)

        -  Visit 4: Long Duration/ Overnight Fasting Closed Loop and Standard Meal Challenge (13
           hours of closed-loop assessment)

        -  Visit 5: 24 Hour Ambulatory Automatic Closed Loop

      During visits 3-5 blood sampling for capillary glucose & ketones, venous glucose and insulin
      levels will take place every 15-30 minutes while the closed-loop insulin delivery system is
      running.
    
  