
    
      Extraarticular fractures (fracture not involving the glenoid articular surface) of the
      scapula (shoulder blade) have been traditionally managed nonoperatively. The logic for this
      course of treatment was based on the healing potential of the extensive muscular envelop of
      the scapula, the inherent mobility of the shoulder joint, and the difficulty in objectively
      assessing the degree of injury given its irregular osseous architecture.

      Scapular fractures specifically involving the glenoid neck have the potential to
      significantly change the geometry of glenohumeral joint (shoulder joint) as well as affect
      the actions of muscles and nerves that act across it. Although most reports indicate patients
      sustaining glenoid neck fractures did well following nonoperative treatment, there was little
      use of validated outcome measures. Additionally, the context of severe trauma may have lead
      to an underestimation of functional recovery.

      Advances in imaging technology combined with the evolution of internal fixation techniques
      have resulted in sporadic attempts at fixation of glenoid neck fractures, usually when they
      occurred in concert with bony injury to other members of the shoulder girdle, as in the
      "floating shoulder". However, in the absence of a universal canon of radiograph measurements,
      there are no current recommendations for operative versus non-operative management based on
      the characteristics of osseous injury as correlated with probable clinical outcome. Moreover,
      the common assertion that nonoperative management of scapular fractures leads to adequate
      functional outcome has not been rigorously examined in a prospective fashion, despite this
      being the standard of care nationally.

      Recent evidence suggests that nonoperative treatment may lead to significant decreases in
      strength and forelimb function despite the fact that the standard of care for the vast
      majority of these injuries does not involve surgery or reduction. The same may be true of
      glenoid neck fractures, as significant shortening or angulation of this metaphyseal isthmus
      may have a detrimental effect on the functional geometry of the glenohumeral (shoulder)
      joint. If so, surgical management may be indicated to restore a more physiologic geometry to
      the joint, and thereby give the best chance of recovery to a pre-injury level of function. It
      is our hope that these correlates of measurements and outcome will help codify an a priori
      set of radiograph evaluation criteria to help guide decisions for surgical versus
      non-operative management of glenoid neck fractures. The purpose of the study is to: 1) define
      the degree of forelimb dysfunction brought about by this specific injury and 2) the magnitude
      of osseous injury to the glenoid neck that can be tolerated before functional outcome is
      unacceptably impeded.
    
  