
    
      Introduction

      Background and rationale

      Since the release of the recombinant human erythropoietin (rhuEPO) at the beginning of the
      90s, transfusions are less needed to treat anemia in chronic kidney disease patients. This
      has been a major revolution in the management of renal anemia in chronic kidney disease and
      led to a tremendous decrease in hepatitis B and C transmissions in dialysis patients.

      However the use of rHuEPO to treat anemia in acute kidney injury (AKI) is controversial. AKI
      is a common disease with a worldwide incidence estimated at 21% and a trend to be higher in
      the critical care setting.

      The Kidney Disease Improving Global Outcomes (KDIGO) work group combined the RIFLE and AKIN
      classifications of AKI. Therefore, AKI has been defined as an increase in serum creatinine
      (SCr) ≥0.3 mg/dL (≥26.5 μmol/L) within 48 h or an increase in SCr to ≥1.5 times baseline
      within the last 7 days or a urine volume of <0.5 mL/kg/h for 6 hours.

      As it was already shown, the majority of patients admitted with AKI have anemia (91% in Hales
      et al study) and the anemia seems to be related to the degree of oliguria and uremia level.
      Erythropoietin is secreted at the tubulo-interstitial level and it has been shown that a
      chronic injury would lead to a decrease in erythropoietin secretion. Some studies have shown
      that erythropoietin level increases the first 48 hours of acute kidney injury then decreases
      progressively. Transfusions are needed when critically ill patients stay at the hospital for
      a long period of time. And transfusions during acute kidney injury may lead to sensitization
      and cause limitation for future transplantation in patients who reach end-stage renal
      disease. Therefore prevention of transfusions in acute kidney injury patients is highly
      needed.

      A search of the literature for "human recombinant erythropoietin" and "acute renal failure"
      or "acute kidney disease" or "acute kidney injury" did not reveal any clinical trial or
      observational study targeting this issue. Some studies assessed the role of rHuEPO to prevent
      acute kidney injury in cardiac surgery patients and contrast-induced nephropathy with
      conflicting results. Some experimental studies on rats demonstrated a favorable effect of
      rHuEPO and darbepoetin on the ischemic renal injury. A recent metaanalysis of 10 randomized
      controlled trials showed no beneficial effect of erythropoietin on preventing AKI or dialysis
      or death but the majority of patients received a single dose of rHuEPO.

      The role of rHuEPO after the occurrence of acute kidney injury is not well studied. One
      retrospective study in 2005 showed that rHuEPO administration in acute renal failure patients
      did not decrease the transfusion requirements. However it included many limitations such as
      the low dose of rHuEPO used, the absence of preset hemoglobin level threshold for blood
      transfusions. A recent clinical trial in children with hemolytic uremic syndrome showed a
      decrease in transfusion in patients receiving EPO. Therefore a clinical trial taking into
      account all of these factors would be more conclusive regarding the exact role of
      erythropoietin in acute kidney injury patients.

      Trial objectives The primary objective of this trial is to compare the number of red blood
      cell transfusions in patients with acute kidney injury and anemia whether receiving or not
      rHuEPO.

      The secondary objectives are a) to compare the renal survival between the two groups, b) to
      compare the patient survival between the two groups.

      Trial design This is a randomized, controlled, multicenter, pragmatic clinical trial.
      Patients will be randomized to one of two arms and then group one will receive the rHuEPO and
      group two the usual treatment.

      This study will assess the superiority of rHuEPO use in acute kidney injury with anemia
      against no use of rHuEPO.

      Methods: Data collection, management, and analysis

      Data collection methods Data collection will be carried out using excel program. Data for
      presumed cause of acute kidney injury, comorbidities, medications and laboratory results are
      collected from the patients' medical records. The following variables will be studied: age,
      gender, body mass index (BMI), diabetes, smoking in the last year, hypertension,
      hyperlipidemia, previous cardiovascular disease, previous inflammatory disease, previous
      chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), previous serum creatinine (Scr) and Scr on
      admission (with corresponding eGFR using the CKD-EPI equation), phosphate, calcium, albumin,
      bicarbonate, hemoglobin, ferritin, TSAT, vitamin B12, uric acid and CPK. Data on previous
      medications will be collected: iron substitutes, multivitamins, non-steroidal
      anti-inflammatory drugs, antihypertensive medications such as ACE inhibitors and ARBs,
      antiplatelet agents, urate lowering therapy, antibiotics and corticosteroids.

      Definitions Acute kidney injury is defined based on the RIFLE, AKIN and KDIGO criteria.
      Anemia is defined in general as Hb <13 g/dl in male patients and <12 g/dl in females. Anemia
      in this trial will be defined as Hb<11 g/dl.

      Coronary artery disease is defined as a history of myocardial infarction or obstructive
      coronary artery disease, treated medically or interventionally. Diabetes and hypertension are
      defined as taking antidiabetic treatment or antihypertensive treatment respectively.

      Statistical analysis Continuous variables will be presented as mean ± standard deviation
      (SD). Differences between the study groups will be tested using χ2 tests (for categorical
      variables). Bivariate correlation analysis will be performed using the Pearson's correlation
      coefficient. The Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate the cumulative survival. Cox
      regression will be used to determine the effect of erythropoietin on renal survival and total
      mortality. Statistical analysis will be performed with SPSS. A P-value of ≤0.05 is considered
      statistically significant.

      Methods: Monitoring

      Data monitoring Follow-up with laboratory measurements and medication dosage Hemoglobin and
      creatinine will be measured with the standard laboratory techniques every day. C-reactive
      protein (CRP) will be measured at least twice.

      Medications administered during the hospitalization will be collected as the total dose of
      the duration of stay, particularly noradrenaline, dopamine, furosemide, antibiotics,
      anticoagulants, vitamins, enteral or parenteral nutrition, proton-pump inhibitors.

      Transfusions: quantity of units of packed red blood cells, platelets, fresh frozen plasma
      will be collected.

      Clinical follow-up Data including daily systolic and diastolic blood pressure, average
      hospital length of stay (LOS), oligo-anuria at any stage of the AKI, need for dialysis and
      number of days till serum creatinine starts to decrease will be collected.

      Adverse events will be also reported such as any thrombotic event.
    
  