
    
      Objectives: The main objective is to determine the prevalence of anemia (Hb ≤ 11 g / dl) in
      the third trimester of pregnancy (T3) and to identify the predictive factors in the first
      trimester (T1).

      Type of study: Prospective monocentric cohort.

      Experimental plan: Pregnant women are included during the ultrasound of T1. Written consent
      will be sought after delivery of the information notice. Hemoglobin, classical iron balance
      (ferritin, transferrin saturation coefficient) as well as other original parameters: hepcidin
      and the soluble transferrin receptor are assayed. Socioeconomic and clinical parameters
      likely to favor an iron deficiency are sought through validated questionnaires. Nutritional
      advice, combined with martial supplementation if necessary, is given according to a
      standardized management protocol resulting from the current international recommendations and
      validated by an internal committee. The prevalence of iron deficiency anemia is determined at
      T3 (after 34 SA). The predictive factors for this anemia will be sought according to the data
      collected in T1.

      The 2012 WHO's recommendations are in favour of a systematic supplementation of pregnant
      women. Epidemiological studies show that the anaemia at the end of pregnancy increases the
      risk of severe anaemia in the postpartum hospital stay and the frequency of transfusions in
      the mother is multiplied by 9. The quality of life of the mother seems too altered by the
      anaemia with increased susceptibility to infections, cognitive and emotional disorders in the
      postpartum period and a decrease of capacity of work and performance. In the human new-born,
      the anaemia is associated with a risk of prematurity, low weight birth and especially a
      certain degree of later psycho-motor delay, or even perinatal mortality. Side effects of iron
      orally, it's cost, make debatable systematic supplementation as interventional studies have
      given contradictory results in terms of morbidity and mortality infant. In areas where the
      anaemia prevalence is very high, a systematic supplementation of pregnant by 60 mg of iron
      (with folic acid) is beneficial in children on clues of psycho-intellectual development at
      12, 18 and 24 months while multiple supplementation in micronutrients (containing 30 mg of
      iron) is not effective. However, systematic supplementation in countries with high
      socioeconomic level did debate. An Australian study Interventional, controlled, randomized
      conducted at 430 women showed no efficacy on the intellectual development of children in 4
      years, without changing the quality of life of the mother during pregnancy, the authors
      observing even an increase of abnormal behaviors of the children of the mothers in the Group
      supplemented iron. In another study, the rational is highly questionable, a treatment by Iron
      versus placebo was given to pregnant women not anaemic with a high haemoglobin (an average of
      14 g/dl): the women who took iron had high blood pressure at the end of pregnancy more and
      their children had a lower birth for the term weight.

      In a developed country such as the France, one can legitimately wonder about the potentially
      harmful effects of routine iron supplementation for a population of pregnant women mainly not
      anaemic. In Great Britain of the recently published recommendations are pronounced against a
      systematic supplementation of iron in pregnant women. Other European authors advocate focused
      on the rate of ferritin supplementation. However, we are lacking of studies allowing, from
      clinical criteria and biological precise, to better target pregnant women who could benefit
      from supplementation of iron in the first quarter.
    
  