
    
      Knowing the ability of the low-power laser to provide the body with an improvement in
      inflammatory response, with consequent reduction of edema, minimizing painful symptoms and
      leading to biostimulation, laser therapy is presented as an alternative for processes that
      present an inflammatory reaction, Pain and need for tissue regeneration. The literature shows
      the efficacy of laser in the postoperative surgery for extraction of third molars. However,
      to date, there is no consensus on the best protocol to be used in these cases. Thus, the
      objective of this study will be to evaluate two laser application protocols. To this end, 60
      patients will be selected who require surgical treatment for the extraction of third molars,
      regardless of race or gender, between the ages of 16 and 40, from the School of Dentistry of
      São José dos Campos (UNESP). These patients will be divided randomly into 3 groups: group 1 -
      intraoral irradiation with 660 nm laser at a dose of 10 J (30 mW, 10 J / cm 2), group 2 -
      intraoral irradiation with 660 nm laser at a dose of 10 J (30 mW, 10 J / cm 2) and group 3 -
      control group, with application of placebo laser. At 3 and 7 days after surgery, patients
      will be evaluated by two evaluators who will measure edema, mouth opening (assessment of
      muscle spasm) and pain. To compare the data, we will use the analog pain scale (VAS), the
      method of Ustün et al. (2003), and the millimeter rule. The patient will also be questioned
      about possible postoperative problems, as well as the surgeon, who will classify the
      postoperative repair process according to Batinjan et al. (2013). The tissue repair will also
      be evaluated after 1, 3 and 6 months of surgery, through radiographic analysis and
      periodontal conditions in the distal of the lower second molar. The results will be submitted
      to descriptive statistics and compared using the statistical analysis of variance (ANOVA) and
      Tukey test with significance level of 5%.
    
  