
    
      Introduction A decade ago, minimally invasive surgery (MIS) was considered a promising
      development in spine surgery, yet the value of the pioneering technologies was questionable.
      With the growing number of experienced MIS surgeons, the influx of evidence in favour of MIS
      is rapidly increasing. This makes a compelling argument towards MIS offering distinct
      clinical benefits over open approaches in terms of blood loss, length of stay,
      rehabilitation, cost-effectiveness and perioperative patient comfort. Due to the limited or
      inexistent line-of-sight in MIS procedures, surgeons need to rely on imaging, navigation, and
      guidance technologies to operate in a safe and efficient manner. Therefore, a plethora of new
      and ever improving navigational systems have been developed. These systems allow a consistent
      level of safety and accuracy, on par with results achieved by very experienced free hand
      surgeons, with a reasonably short learning curve. Computer-based navigation systems were
      first introduced to spine surgery in 1995 and while they have been long established as
      standards in certain cranial procedures, they have not been similarly adopted in spine
      surgery.

      Designed to overcome some of the limitations of navigation-based technologies, robot-guided
      surgery has become commercially available to surgeons worldwide, like SpineAssist® (Mazor
      Robotics Ltd. Caesarea, Israel) and the recently launched ROSA™ Spine (Zimmer-Biomet, Warsaw,
      Indiana, USA). These systems are rapidly challenging the gold standards. SpineAssist®, and
      its upgraded version, the Renaissance®, provides a stable drilling platform and restricts the
      surgeon's natural full range of motion to 2 degrees of freedom (up/down motion and yaw in the
      cannula). The system's guidance unit moves into the trajectory based on exact preoperative
      planning of pedicle screws, while accounting for changes in intervertebral relationships such
      as due to distraction, cage insertion or changes between the supine patient position in the
      preoperative CT and the prone patient on the operating table. Published evidence on
      robot-guided screw placement has demonstrated high levels of accuracy with most reports
      ranging around 98% of screws placed within the pedicle or with a cortical encroachment of
      less than 2 mm.4 Although the reliability and accuracy of robot-guided spine surgery have
      been established, the actual benefits for the patient in terms of clinical outcomes and
      revision surgeries remain unknown. We have recently conducted cohort studies that showed some
      evidence that robotic guidance lowers the rate of intraoperative screw revisions and implant
      related reoperations compared to free hand procedures, while achieving comparable clinical
      outcomes. We now want to assess these factors, among others, on a higher level of evidence.
      We aim to conduct a prospective, multicenter, multinational controlled trial comparing
      clinical and patient reported outcomes of robotic guided (RG) pedicle screw placement vs.
      navigated (NV) vs. free hand (FH) pedicle screw placement using pooled data from three
      centers.

      Study Design The European Robotic Spinal Instrumentation (EUROSPIN) study is a prospective,
      international, multicentre, pragmatic, open-label, non-randomized controlled trial comparing
      the effectiveness of three techniques for pedicle screw instrumentation, namely RG, NV (CT-,
      O-Arm, or 3DFL-based), and FH. Following the baseline evaluation, patients will receive one
      of the three treatments, and will subsequently be followed up for 24 months (Figure 1). The
      primary analysis will be conducted using the 12-month data.

      Sample Size Calculation It was determined that, to detect an intergroup difference of 5% in
      the primary endpoint, 205 patients are required per group to achieve a power of 1 - beta =
      0.8 at alpha = 0.05. The incidence rates were based on the published literature, with an
      approximated incidence rate of the primary endpoint of 0% for the intervention and 5% for the
      control group. Because the study protocol is in line with the normal clinical follow-up of
      most centers, a low dropout rate is expected. This led to a minimum total sample size of 615
      patients.

      Monitoring An epidemiologist from the sponsor institution will organize an initiation monitor
      visit at every participating center before starting recruitment. This monitor visit will
      check whether all study staff are properly trained and the delegation of tasks are well
      documented (complete Investigator Site File, training and delegation logs). An additional
      audit will be carried out at 6 months after initiation of recruitment to check whether source
      documentation and eCRF documentation is similar. Throughout the entire study additional
      queries by the monitor are send to the investigator in the data capturing system to ensure
      proper data capturing.
    
  