
    
      There are 3 cohorts for this study. Cohort A & Cohort B are for patient subjects. Patients
      can participate in both cohorts simultaneously, or only one cohort per patient preference.

      The investigators anticipate that most patients who participate in Cohort B will also
      participate in Cohort A because Cohort A only requires a one-time blood draw at baseline.
      Cohort C is for healthy volunteers. The purpose of recruiting health volunteers is purely for
      testing of the CTC chip system as the investigators routinely spike (inject) tumor cell lines
      in healthy human blood to ensure optimal CTC yield (quality control).

      Cohort A: 20 patients with NSCLC and 20 patients with SCLC. Blood samples will be collected
      from eligible patients only once at baseline. These samples will be immediately processed for
      CTCs and CTC derived xenografts.

      Cohort B: 15 patients with NSCLC and 15 patients with SCLC. Blood samples will be collected
      from eligible patients at baseline just prior to initiation of therapy. Samples will also be
      collected on day 1 of every cycle of therapy for 4 cycles (typical cycles are 21 days for
      chemotherapy, 28 days for targeted therapy and 14 days for immune therapy). At the time of
      initiation of the treatment break, blood samples will be collected. During the treatment
      break, patients will be followed every 6-12 weeks with imaging studies, and we will collect
      blood samples at each visit. At the time of disease progression in the event patient goes on
      best supportive care, the last blood draw will be at the time of this decision as there will
      unlikely be any further imaging studies going forward. If a patient is found to have disease
      progression while on active therapy, the next blood draw will be on the first day of the next
      therapy and time point of subsequent blood draws will depend on the type of therapy the
      patient receives. The goal is to define whether CTC loads whether CTC loads predict symptoms,
      response, and disease recurrence.

      For Cohorts A & B: Investigators will make every attempt to time the blood collection to
      coincide with blood collection for therapeutic purposes in order to minimize discomfort.
      Blood sample collection will take place in the outpatient clinic. Patients can participate in
      both cohorts simultaneously, or only one cohort per patient preference.

      Cohort C: 10 subjects. Blood samples will be collected from eligible health volunteers only
      once. These samples will be used to test the CTC chip system as investigators routinely spike
      (inject) tumor cell lines in healthy human blood to ensure optimal CTC yield (quality
      control). Two samples of peripheral blood will be collected and taken to the Principal
      Investigator's lab for processing.
    
  