
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To test the benefit of interfering with the function of the estrogen receptor (ER) and
           providing downstream target inhibition (PI3K/AKT/mTOR) with a combination of optimal
           dose fulvestrant and everolimus (Arm 2) to improve progression-free survival compared to
           the optimal dose fulvestrant alone (Arm 1).

        -  To test the benefit of adding the non-steroidal aromatase inhibitor anastrozole to
           optimal dose fulvestrant and everolimus (Arm 3) in order to improve progression free
           survival over optimal dose fulvestrant (Arm 1).

      Secondary

        -  To compare progression-free survival among those receiving fulvestrant + everolimus +
           anastrozole (Arm 3) versus fulvestrant + everolimus (Arm 2).

        -  To compare overall survival among the treatment arms in post-menopausal patients with
           hormone-receptor positive (HR+) Stage IV breast cancer.

        -  To assess and compare toxicities, feasibility and compliance among the study regimens.

        -  To compare response rates and clinical benefit rates among the study regimens.

        -  To test molecular determinants of response to endocrine therapy and everolimus in
           circulating tumor cells:

             1. CTC-Endocrine Therapy Index (CTC ETI) on the CellSearch® platform.

             2. CTC-Next Generation Sequencing Analysis (CTC-NGS) of single cells captured on the
                HD-CTC® platform.

      OUTLINE:

      This is a multicenter study. Patients will be stratified according to the following factors:

        -  Measurable versus evaluable non-measurable disease

        -  Prior adjuvant hormonal therapy completed more than 5 years ago vs. prior adjuvant
           hormonal therapy completed 1-5 years ago vs. de novo presentation of metastatic disease
           or no prior adjuvant hormonal therapy.

      ARMS:

        -  Arm 1: fulvestrant + placebo (everolimus) + placebo (anastrozole)

        -  Arm 2: fulvestrant + everolimus + placebo (anastrozole)

        -  Arm 3: fulvestrant + everolimus + anastrozole

      Blood and tissue samples are collected for correlative science studies.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for 2 years and
      then yearly thereafter for 5 years.
    
  