
    
      Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a common (5-10%) childhood-onset
      neuropsychiatric disorder worldwide among children and adolescents with 50- 60% persistence
      to adulthood (3-4%). Individuals with ADHD have been reported to have higher risk of school
      failure, conduct problems, antisocial behaviors, legal problems, substance use problems and
      other psychiatric comorbidities, and face many difficulties of the interpersonal
      relationship, occupation and family in every day life. Despite plenty of researches reported
      in the west countries, we have limited information in Taiwan about adult ADHD and the
      associated impact on the function and quality of life of the affected individuals. For the
      perspective of public health, it's mandatory to collect information from the high risk
      populations of ADHD for further policy establishment to prevent further impact on
      individuals, families, and society in Taiwan.

      This study target on two populations: (1) imprisoned adults (2) adolescents with problems in
      school and followed by three private charitable organizations. Each population is assessed by
      the instruments for ADHD symptoms (ASRS and SNAP-IV), psychopathology (ASRI and/or YSR and
      CBCL), and academic/social/occupational /family function (WFIRS-S, WFIRS-P). Adult population
      is also checked for the quality of life (AAQoL). We will recruit the community-based controls
      matching with sex and age is assessed with the same instruments.

      We anticipate that this study will provide the primitive data on the prevalence of ADHD and
      other psychopathology, academic/occupational/social/family function, quality of life of
      adolescent and adult patients in the high risk populations, will evaluate the difference
      between adults in prison, adolescents dropping out from school, and their community controls
      with regards to symptomatology, quality of life, and function; and young psychiatric
      researchers will learn to collect data, conduct statistical analysis, and prepare the
      manuscript. Our findings should have clinical implication in assessing adults and adolescents
      at high risk of ADHD and provide the reference data for future public health policy planning
      regarding early identification of ADHD at childhood and intervention program to offset the
      adverse social and academic/occupational sequalae of ADHD.
    
  