
    
      Basic Design:

      This study will pilot a group therapy intervention for adolescents seen in the diabetes
      clinic who have had elevated HA1c's for at least 3 months. This group will be offered in fall
      of 2014. Group therapy sessions will include 8 teen sessions that cover the following topics:
      acceptance of diabetes, family issues, division of diabetes management, communication and
      facilitating motivation and skill development to improve diabetes care. Motivational
      interviewing and cognitive behavioral techniques will be the therapeutic modalities used in
      sessions. Parents will be involved in 3 therapy sessions that cover topics regarding family
      functioning, division of responsibility and parenting strategies. Participants will complete
      questionnaires measuring self-efficacy, family support, quality of life, readiness to change
      and symptoms of depression. Questionnaires will be administered at an initial assessment
      prior to participation in the group, at completion of the 8 week program, at a follow-up
      visit 2 months following the completion of the group and 1 year post-intervention.
      Questionnaires will take approximately 45 minutes to complete. HA1c levels will be evaluated
      for participants every 3 months as per regular clinic care. This intervention program will be
      offered to teens upon an elevated HA1c result.

      Primary Outcomes:

      HA1c levels will be tested every three months as per regular clinic care. Basic demographic
      information will be obtained from participants during the initial assessment for the group
      (age, family size, and date of diagnosis of diabetes).

      Secondary Outcomes:

      Psychosocial functioning will be evaluated pre- and post-intervention by having participants
      and their parents fill out the following questionnaires: Self-efficacy for Diabetes Scale
      (SED); Diabetes Quality of Life for Youths; Diabetes Family Behavior Scale; Beck Depression
      Inventory for Youth (BDI-Y); Diabetes Management Questionnaire; Child Behavior Checklist
      (Parent form); Low Blood Sugar Survey, and Children's Hope Scale.
    
  