
    
      The study will be a single-center, prospective and randomized study. It will be conducted at
      the Emergency Department of Eskisehir Osmangazi University Education, Application and
      Research Hospital.

      Patients will be allocated to treatment groups by blocked randomization (www.randomizer.org).
      Advanced cardiac life support algorithm will be initiated as outlined in the current
      resuscitation guidelines and cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) will be continued either
      manually or mechanically (with the chest compression system), according to the randomization
      scheme. Due to the nature of the interventions carried out in the study process, blinding of
      healthcare providers was not possible.

      Before the initiation of the study, the team members participating in the study will receive
      theoretical and practical training on CPR, mechanical chest compression system utilization
      and NIRS.

      Patients who develop cardiopulmonary arrest during their clinical evaluation in the emergency
      department will receive CPR, and the chest compression method will be determined by the
      senior physician according to the randomization scheme.

        1. The manual CPR group will receive chest compressions, respiratory support and medical
           treatment in accordance with the recommendations of current guidelines. If return of
           spontaneous circulation (ROSC) is achieved, post-resuscitation care will be provided. If
           ROSC is not achieved, CPR will be terminated in accordance with the recommendations of
           current guidelines.

        2. The patients on the mechanical chest compression group will receive manual chest
           compressions until the mechanical compression device is installed (about 15-20 seconds).
           In this time interval, thorax and sternum measurements will be evaluated for suitability
           for the study, and mechanical compression device will be installed on patients who are
           deemed suitable. The patients will receive chest compressions, respiratory support and
           medical treatment in accordance with the recommendations of current guidelines. If ROSC
           is achieved, post-resuscitation care will be provided. If ROSC is not achieved, CPR will
           be terminated in accordance with the recommendations of current guidelines.

      The presence of ROSC or the decision to terminate CPR will be determined according to the
      vital signs (arterial blood pressure, heart rate, oxygen saturation with pulse oximeter), end
      tidal carbon dioxide (ETco2) measurement (with the module device used for the measurement of
      rSO2) and cardiac assessment with bedside ultrasonography (Vivid e, General Electric
      Healthcare, China).

      As soon as cardiopulmonary arrest is identified, sensors measuring the value of rSO2 will be
      placed on the patient's head bifrontally (forehead area) in order to measure the cerebral
      perfusion. During CPR, rSO2 values will be continuously recorded. The placement of the
      sensors and the measurements will be carried out by a medical staff who received necessary
      training prior to the study. In order not to affect the clinical decisions made during CPR,
      the rSO2 device will be placed in a convenient area which is out of the CPR performers'
      eyesight.

      Arterial blood pressure, heart rate, respiratory rate, body temperature, oxygen saturation on
      pulse oximeter, primary arrest rhythm, any known diseases (if existent) and defibrillation
      attempts (if existent) will be recorded on the case report form during CPR.

      In patients with ROSC, 6-hour and 24-hour survival after CPR, discharge from the hospital
      with favorable neurologic outcome and the presence of additional pathologies (such as heart
      failure and neurologic sequelae) will be evaluated. Favorable neurologic outcome was defined
      as a Cerebral Performance Category score of 1-2. In patients with ROSC, post-resuscitation
      care will be provided as recommended in the current guidelines.
    
  