
    
      Background Dysbiosis and known bacterial drivers play a significant role in the
      carcinogenesis of colorectal cancer. Among bacterial drivers, Fusobacterium nucleatum (FN)
      and the formation of biofilm on the surface of the colonic epithelium are considered
      pro-carcinogenic. The increased permeability of the mucosal layer and the invading bacteria
      in the colonic crypts and submucosal space result in genetic and epigenetic changes along
      with immune responses that are all important oncogenic factors. Clinical studies have found
      biofilm formation and positive staining for FN in almost all right-sided colon cancers and
      adenomas. Two studies compared the bacterial growth in normal mucosa from patients with and
      without adenoma. They found a different composition of bacteria in the normal mucosa from
      patients with adenomas in terms of richness, diversity and bacterial strains, thus indicating
      that the bacterial composition in the gut could contribute to the growth of adenomas and
      subsequently, adenocarcinomas.

      Endoscopic preoperative local antibiotic treatment of the biofilm and tumors would
      theoretically result in decreased tumor mass, recovery of the mucosal layer, and a
      normalization of the immune response in the treated section of the colon. The oral
      administration of the antibiotic metronidazole in mice has already been shown to decrease
      tumor growth (FN-positive xenograft tumors) as well as a decrease in intratumoral FN
      abundance.

      Investigational Medicinal Products In this study a gel containing the antibiotics fosfomycin
      and metronidazole will be sprayed endoscopically on the mucosa of the right hemicolon. The
      gel will be prepared on site by combining solutions of fosfomycin and metronidazole with a
      gel-forming gum.

      Study objectives The aim of this study is to investigate the effect of local antibiotic
      treatment with fosfomycin and metronidazole on tumor characteristics and the colonic biofilm
      in patients with right-sided colon cancer or right-sided colon adenomas.

      Study design This study is a clinical proof-of-concept intervention study. It is based on a
      non-randomized trial design with an open label single group assignment. There are two tracks
      depending on the pathology of the tumor: track 1, patients with right-sided colon cancer;
      track 2a, patients with right-sided colon adenoma. The intervention is a therapeutic
      endoscopy where the antibiotics fosfomycin and metronidazole are sprayed throughout the right
      colon section from caecum to the right colon flexure in a gel-forming mixture. Patients will
      be included from the surgical department of Herlev Hospital and Zealand University Hospital.
      There will be a retrospective cohort of patient with colon adenoma, track 2b.

      Effect parameters For patients with right-sided colonic carcinomas and/or adenomas, the
      investigators hypothesize that endoscopic, preoperative antibiotic treatment in the right
      colon with a gel-forming spray containing fosfomycin and metronidazole will result in
      normalization of the colonic epithelium and immune response as well as a reduction in colonic
      biofilm formation often seen in these patients.

      Trial structure and responsibilities The principal investigator (Astrid Bennedsen) is
      responsible for the preparation of the protocol, the Case Report Forms (CRFs), coordinating
      any meetings of the safety data monitoring committee as well as implementing decisions in the
      daily operations of the trial. Along with a team of co-investigators, the principal
      investigator will do the screening, recruitment, data collection and writing of the CRFs. The
      safety data monitoring committee consists of three members and will be impartial. They will
      overview the progress and the safety of the trial. The meetings of the safety data monitoring
      committee will take place every six months, but an extra meeting will be held in case of any
      severe adverse events or any other serious incidents during the trial. The trial will be
      monitored by a local GCP unit. The funding source had no role in the design of this study and
      will not have any role during its execution, analyses, interpretation of the data, or
      decision to submit results.

      Stopping rules In case of serious side effects or adverse events, the data will be monitored
      and the trial stopped if there is any evidence of lack of safety regarding the intervention
      and the study drugs. Included are unexpected complications in relation to colon cancer
      surgery.

      Study course This study has two tracks depending on the pathology of the colon tumor. When
      colon cancer is suspected, patients are referred to a colonoscopy during which biopsies are
      taken to confirm pathology indicating adenocarcinoma or benign pathology. There is a
      retrospective track 2b, where the investigators will retrieve FFPE adenoma tissue from up to
      28 random patients operated with endoscopic mucosal resection in 2018. The trial drugs will
      be accounted for - both per site and per patient.

      Selection and enrollment of participants Consecutive patients with endoscopically diagnosed
      right-sided colon adenomas or right-sided colon cancer tumors will be eligible for inclusion
      in the study. The investigators plan to include 14 patients with colon cancer (track 1) and
      14 patients with colon adenoma (track 2a).

      Also, 28 patients with colon adenoma will be included retrospectively (track 2b). The
      investigators will retrieve FFPE tissue from the resected mucosa bearing adenoma. They have
      had endoscopic mucosal resection performed in 2018 at Department of Surgery, Zealand
      University Hospital.

      Recruitment of patients will be done consecutively according to the Research Ethics
      Committee's recommendations. Patients who are eligible for inclusion will receive both oral
      and written information about the study. At the end of the enrolment meeting the patient may
      sign the informed consent if they wish, and may also be given the time needed for
      consideration (at least 24 hours). The informed consent will be written in accordance with
      the Danish law. Patients will be informed if any changes in the study occur, as this might
      influence the patient's willingness to participate or the safety of the participating
      patients. The approved document will be updated accordingly.

      A completed test person

      A completed test person is defined as:

        -  Track 1: a patient who received the therapeutic endoscopy and had preoperative blood
           samples drawn on the operation day. Other than the interview on the day of the
           out-patient clinic visit (approximately postoperative day 14) there is no further
           study-related physical follow-up of the patient.

        -  Track 2a: a patient who received the therapeutic endoscopy and had preoperative blood
           samples drawn on the operation day. Other than the telephone interview on postoperative
           day 14 there is no further study-related physical follow-up on the patients.

      Dropout procedure Dropout and withdrawals may happen at any point from the written consent
      till the preoperative blood sample on the operation day, and will not have any influence on
      the treatment of the patient.

      Participating patients can withdraw from the study at any time for any reason. The patients
      will be informed of this right in accordance with the Helsinki Declaration.

      The investigator can withdraw patients if the investigator feels the safety of the patient is
      compromised by the participation in the study. In that case, the investigator must inform the
      patient about the reason for withdrawal.

      Patients who withdraw their consent will receive standard treatment. The reason, if stated,
      for the withdrawal will be noted in the CRFs. The number of dropouts and withdrawals will be
      reported. No further data will be collected from the patients withdrawing from the study;
      however, the previously collected data will be part of the final data analysis unless the
      patient specifically requests all data to be deleted.

      Study interventions and procedures Intervention This is a non-randomized trial with an open
      label single group assignment. The intervention is a single therapeutic endoscopy during
      which patient´s right colon section will be sprayed with a predetermined volume of two
      component solutions, one containing fosfomycin and metronidazole, the other containing a gum
      that forms a gel on mixing with the former. During administration, the two components will be
      delivered through a dual channel colono-videoscope. The gel will form on the bowel wall and
      adhere to the mucosa.

      Track 1: patients with colon cancer Preoperative procedures - blood samples On the day of the
      therapeutic endoscopy study, blood samples are drawn. Blood samples are analyzed for
      hemoglobin (Hb), leucocytes and differential counts, c-reactive protein (CRP), thrombocytes,
      albumin, creatinine, estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR), transaminases in order to
      have baseline information on the patients and to be able to adjust for these variables in the
      multivariate analyses. Blood samples will also be analyzed for tumor-specific markers:
      carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA). Samples are also analyzed by means of the nCounter® PanCancer
      Immune Profiling Panel (nanoString).

      Preoperative procedures - therapeutic endoscopy At least 24 hours after the patient has given
      informed consent to participating in the study, the patient will be given a bowel
      preparation. After 48-72 hours the therapeutic endoscopy will take place. The bowel
      preparation procedure will follow the different sites standard guidelines of bowel
      preparation using Picoprep. The patient will be offered to be sedated before the endoscopy.
      Pictures of the colon will be taken during the endoscopy.

      Before spraying the right hemicolon, biopsies will be taken from the central and peripheral
      part of the tumor, and biopsies from the macroscopically normal mucosa in the proximal colon
      at least 10 cm orally and anally from the tumor.

      The proximal colon will be sprayed with a predetermined volume of the study medication
      through a double spray catheter from the ileum to the right flexure using a Video
      Colonoscope. The study medication contains fosfomycin and metronidazole, which are mixed in
      situ with the gel-forming components formulated on behalf of Reponex Pharmaceuticals A/S.

      Preoperative procedures - pathology Some biopsies taken during the therapeutic endoscopy will
      all be directly fixed in Phosphate-buffered (PBS-buffered) formalin and embedded in paraffin
      before microscopic assessment and further molecular biological or immunologic tests are
      performed. One biopsy from the healthy mucosa, one biopsy from the tumor center and one
      biopsy from the tumor periphery will be frozen immediately following the local protocol.

      Operation On the day of surgery, blood samples will be taken again. They will be analyzed
      using the same methods as the preoperative blood samples. Inclusion in the study does not
      interfere with the standard surgical protocol for patients with right-sided colon cancer.

      Postoperative procedures - pathology The resected colon section will be sent unfixed to the
      Pathological Department at the site, where the initial macroscopic assessment is performed:
      measuring of the tumor, lymph node assessment etc. One tissue sample from the healthy mucosa,
      one tissue sample from the tumor center and one tissue sample from the tumor periphery will
      be frozen immediately following the local protocol. The hemicolon will then be
      formalin-fixed. The paraffin-embedded tumor samples will be cut according to the standard
      protocol before microscopic assessment and further molecular biological or immunologic tests
      are performed. The histological assessment will follow the standard protocol.

      Discharge The discharge criteria are the same for patients included in the study as for other
      patients on the ward. Discharge is expected to take place on the 3rd postoperative day if no
      complications arise. A prolonged hospital stay will be defined as 10 days after surgery.

      Postoperative out-patient visit - follow-up Patients will be seen after their postoperative
      out-patient visit. The investigators will assess the patient's wellbeing and to ensure that
      any side effects or adverse reactions to the medicine in the trial are registered.

      Follow-up Patients will be contacted by telephone 12 months after surgery. There is no
      further study-related physical follow-up on patients, as it has no influence on the
      endpoints. The investigators will however, read the patient's hospital files after 12 months
      to see whether the therapeutic endoscopy has changed the clinical course of the patient, i.e.
      if staging and oncological treatment are changed because of the procedure. The patients are
      receiving the standard post-operative program with ambulatory follow-up according to the
      Danish Colorectal Cancer Group (DCCG) recommendations.

      Track 2: patients with adenomatous polyps of the colon Preoperative procedures - blood
      samples On the day of the therapeutic endoscopy, study blood samples are drawn. They will be
      analyzed by the same methods as the preoperative blood samples in Track 1.

      Preoperative procedures - therapeutic endoscopy The bowel preparation procedure and sedation
      are the same as in Track 1. Pictures of the tumor will be taken during the endoscopy.

      Before spraying the right hemicolon, biopsies from the macroscopically normal mucosa will be
      taken at least 10 cm orally and anally from the polyp.

      The spraying procedure is the same as in Track 1.

      Preoperative procedures - pathology Three of the four biopsies of the normal mucosa taken
      during the therapeutic endoscopy will all be directly fixed in PBS-buffered formalin and
      embedded in paraffin before microscopic assessment and further molecular biological or
      immunologic tests are performed. One biopsy of the normal mucosa will be frozen immediately
      following the local protocol.

      Resection On the day of resection, blood samples will be taken again. They will be analyzed
      by the same methods as the preoperative blood samples. During the endoscopic mucosal
      resection, biopsies from the healthy colon will be taken: two biopsies 10 cm orally and two
      biopsies 10 cm anally from the polyp.

      Postoperative procedures - pathology Three of the four biopsies of the normal mucosa taken
      during the operation will all be fixed directly in PBS buffered formalin. One biopsy of the
      normal mucosa will be frozen immediately following the local protocol. The resected mucosa
      with the adenoma will be send non-fixed to the Pathological Department at the site, where the
      initial macroscopic assessment is performed, measurement of the polyp in three dimensions.
      The mucosa and the biopsies will be fixed with formalin, and will be cut according to the
      standard protocol and paraffin embedded before microscopic assessment and further molecular
      biological or immunologic tests are performed. The histological assessment will follow the
      standard protocol.

      Follow-up On postoperative day 14+/-2, an investigator will call the patient to assess the
      patient's wellbeing and to ensure that any side events or adverse reactions to the medicine
      in the trial are registered. The Follow-up is as in Track 1.

      Archived FFPE tissue from patients with colon adenoma FPPE tissue blocks from colon adenomas
      will be retrieved from the archive of Department of Pathology, Zealand University Hospital.
      The tissue blocks will be cut according to standard protocol. They will be analyzed as the
      tissue from the resected mucosa of the patients included in track 2a.

      Pathology procedures for both tracks The paraffin blocks will be sectioned in series. In each
      step, the section 1 is stained with standard hematoxylin and eosin (H&E), section 3 is
      stained immunohistochemically for CD8 and CD3 (following the local immunoscore protocol), and
      section 5 will be stained for CD68 (macrophages). Sections 7, 9 and 11 will be analyzed for
      bacterial biofilm using a general bacterial PNA FISH probe. Section 13 will be prepared for
      PanCancer IO 360TM Gene Expression Panel (nanoString) analysis following the nanoString
      protocol. The remaining sections (2, 4, 6, 8, 10 and 12) remain unstained, and will be kept
      at -80°C.

      Microbiology procedures for both tracks In this study tissue samples will be analyzed for
      bacteria and biofilm using Fluorescence in situ hybridization and Metagenome sequencing.
      These analyzes will be performed at Costerton Biofilm Center.

      Safety assessments In this study, patients are administered the study drugs in a standard
      single dose of 800 mg of fosfomycin and 200 mg of metronidazole. The general dosage guideline
      for adults treated with fosfomycin infusions is 6 g*3 per day (in patients with renal
      insufficiency and a creatinine clearance of 10 ml/min the suggested dose is 1 g*2 per day).
      The general dosage guideline for treatment with metronidazole is 1500 mg as a single
      infusion.

      Blood samples The drawing of blood samples will result in some discomfort and may risk
      bruising at the site. A total of 8.5mL will be drawn at the sites: Zealand University
      Hospital, Roskilde, and Herlev Hospital (3.0 mL Gel + LiHep Tubes + 3.0 mL EDTA Tubes + 2.5
      mL PAXgene Blood RNA Tubes). A total of 11.5 mL will be drawn at the site: Zealand University
      Hospital, Køge (3.0 mL Gel + LiHep Tubes + 3.0 mL Gel + LiHep Tubes + 3.0 mL EDTA Tubes + 2.5
      mL PAXgene Blood RNA Tubes).

      Therapeutic endoscopy:

      In this study a full colonoscopy is necessary to deliver the study medication to the mucosa
      of the right hemicolon. Also, to assess the effect of the local antibiotic treatment it is
      necessary to take biopsies from the healthy mucosa, and if the patient is included in track
      1, also the colon cancer tumor. Forty-eight-72 hours before a colonoscopy the patient needs
      to be given a bowel preparation (15). There are risks associated with a colonoscopy:
      intestinal bleeding, bowel perforation, localized infection, adverse reaction to the
      sedatives and generalized bowel infection. Of these, intestinal bleeding and iatrogenic bowel
      perforation are the most prominent adverse events associated with a significant mortality
      rate and the need for surgical intervention. The risk of accidental bowel perforation has
      been estimated to 0.85/1000, and the risk of bleeding has been estimated to 1.64/1000 (16).
      However, the complications are less common with colonoscopies that do not involve
      polypectomy, such as this study. The colonoscopy will be performed by a trained specialist
      surgeon in the out-patient clinic. Patients unable to be sedated due to known allergies or
      comorbidities have already been excluded from study participation.

      Adverse events During and after administration of fosfomycin and metronidazole any adverse
      events or intercurrent illnesses will be reported. Patients who have known allergy to
      fosfomycin and or metronidazole are excluded from study participation. Treatment with
      metronidazole is known to give rise to Antabuse (disulfiram)-like reactions in patients who
      continue to drink alcohol. Patients who are currently heavy drinkers are excluded from study
      participation. Patients will be orally instructed not to drink alcohol from the day before
      the therapeutic endoscopy during the enrollment meeting. This information is included in the
      Patient information. A summary of the product characteristics of fosfomycin and metronidazole
      will function as reference documents in evaluation of adverse effects. The investigators will
      monitor adverse events from the day of the intervention until postoperative day 14
      (approximately 19 days in total). Safety of the intervention will be measured by adverse
      events.

      All serious adverse events (SAE) will be registered and reported to the sponsor by
      investigator within 24 hour after the event has been recorded. All adverse events will be
      reported to the Danish Medicines Agency and the local Ethics Committee in an annual report
      with a report on patient safety of the trial. All serious adverse reactions (SAR) will be
      reported in an annual report together with a report on patient safety to the Danish Medicines
      Agency. All SAR will be judged through the product summary if they are a possible suspected
      unexpected serious adverse reaction (SUSAR). The investigators are responsible for reporting
      all lethal or life-threatening SUSAR to the Danish Medicines Agency and the regional Ethical
      Committee as soon as possible and no later than 7 days after knowledge of such reaction has
      been received. No later than after 8 days after the reporting, will the Danish Medicines
      Agency be informed of the follow-up. All other SUSAR will be reported to the Danish Medicines
      Agency and the regional Ethics Committee no later than 15 days after knowledge has been
      received by the sponsor and the investigators. The patient will in these situations be
      followed until the reaction has terminated either via the outpatient clinic at the hospital
      or via contact with the sponsor or the investigators.

      Statistical considerations The investigators plan to include 14 consecutive patients with
      right-sided colon adenoma and 14 consecutive patients with right-sided colon cancer tumor.
      The trial will end by the last visit of the last patient. The retrospective cohort of 28
      patients with colon adenoma (track 2b) will be matched 2:1 with the prospective 14 patients
      with right-sided colon adenoma (track 2a). The investigators estimate a dropout rate of 15%.
      Therefore inclusion will stop by the 24th fully evaluable patient. This is a clinical
      proof-of-concept intervention study, and the investigators are to our knowledge the first
      group to look into local antibiotic treatment of biofilm in patients with colon cancer or
      colon adenoma. the investigators expect this number of patients to be sufficient to provide
      the necessary experience in implementing the technique and form a basis for future studies,
      including their sample size calculation.

      Data will be analyzed using non-parametric statistics or parametric statistics depending on
      the distribution of the data. P-values <0.05 are considered significant. Correction for
      multiple comparisons will be performed if needed. Descriptive statistics will be used for
      baseline characteristics. Both a principal intention-to-treat analysis and a per-protocol
      analysis will be performed, along with a standard sensitivity analysis. The effect of any
      missing data will be assessed with sensitivity analyses. Missing data will be addressed with
      a creation of clinically responsible imputations. The investigators will focus on molecular
      signatures discovery using supervised analyses (statistical tests like t-test or Wilcoxon
      test) and unsupervised analyses like PCA (principal component analysis) and ICA (independent
      component analysis). Statistics will be performed in collaboration with biostatistician
      Nicolas Derian.

      Patients included in track 2a, who are diagnosed with cancer after the postoperative
      pathological assessment of the polyp, will be included in the intention-to-treat analysis.

      Data collection and quality assessment In accordance with Danish law on personal data, the
      investigators will seek approval for this trial from the Danish Data Protection Agency. Data
      handling will be in accordance with the act on processing of sensitive personal information,
      the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the Data Protection Act. The investigators
      will also seek approval for the trial from The Research Ethics Committee and the Danish
      Medicines Agency.

      Data from each patient will be recorded continuously and written in forms (CRF) prepared
      before the trial begins. During the recruitment meeting, the investigators will use a paper
      work sheet for baseline data and inclusion/exclusion criteria. During the therapeutic
      endoscopy, the investigators will use paper work sheets for data collection; afterwards data
      will be entered into an electronic database using the Easytrial platform. All other data will
      be recorded directly to the electronic Easytrial database. The paper work sheets will be
      stored identifiable in a locked cabinet at the respective research sites. All collected data
      will have source documentation.

      Data will be stored as personally identifiable for 10 years, after which they are deleted the
      1st of February 2029. Data will be stored in compliance with GDPR and at Teamsite (secure
      data storage).

      If a patient withdraws from the study, the collected data will be anonymized. If the patient
      requests the collected data to be deleted, this will be done.

      Good Clinical Practice and quality assessment This trial is performed in accordance with the
      Danish Medicines Act §88 section 2 and the order on good clinical practice number 744 of 29th
      of June 2006. The trial will be monitored by a Good Clinical Practice (GCP) unit, Capital
      Region of Denmark. The existing procedures for quality assurance and control in intervention
      studies will be followed through a scheduled monitoring agreement at the beginning, mid-term
      and at the end of the project. At auditing, monitoring and/or inspection from the Danish
      Medicines Agency, GCP-unit or from other relevant authorities, these will all be allowed
      relevant access to the data and information stored.

      Ethical considerations The study is performed in accordance with the Helsinki Declaration and
      Danish law 593 of 14th June 2011 on the Research Ethics Committee's practices regarding
      health research trials. The project has been approved by the department management, the
      Danish Data Protection Agency (REG-010-2019), the Regional Research Ethics Committee (number
      SJ-753), and the Danish Medicines Agency (2019-000131-51). The study is registered at the
      EudraCT (number 2019-000131-51) and will be registered at www.clinicaltrials.gov. The trial
      will be monitored by the local GCP Unit. Any modification of the protocol which may impact on
      the conduct of the study, potential benefit of the patient or may affect patient safety,
      including changes of study objectives, study design, patient population, sample sizes, study
      procedures, or significant administrative aspects will require a formal amendment to the
      protocol. An amendment will be agreed upon by the study group and will need the approval of
      the Ethics Committee as well as other authorities prior to implementation, if suited.

      The study will be conducted in the Surgical Department, Herlev Hospital, and Zealand
      University Hospital. It will contribute to the clarification of whether local antibiotic
      treatment of the colon tumor and the surrounding normal mucosa has a place in the treatment
      of colon cancer and colon adenomas.

      Study patients are included after they have received oral and written information and after
      written consent has been obtained. At any time, the patients can withdraw their consent
      without impairing their relationship to the investigator or the doctors involved and without
      prejudicing their treatment at the Department. All patients can require further information
      about the project from the clinically responsible doctor.

      The patients will be informed of any additional health information found in the study.

      Funding and insurance DMSc Ismail Gögenur (sponsor), MD Hans Raskov (investigator), MD Mahdi
      Alamili (investigator) and MD Astrid Bennedsen (principal investigator) initiated this
      project. The investigators and the sponsor have no financial interests or conflicts of
      interest in this study. Reponex Pharmaceuticals A/S (Slotsmarken 12, 1.th.DK-2970 Hørsholm)
      will distribute the trial drugs and colonoscopes to the participating departments as well as
      cover salary expenses for MD Hans Raskov and MD Astrid Bennedsen and the running costs of the
      trial. The funding source had no role in the design of this study and will not have any role
      during its execution, analyses, interpretation of the data, or decision to submit results.

      Information about external funding is included in the written information for the patients.

      Insurance Patients are covered by the already existing insurance for hospitalized patients in
      the Surgical Department, Herlev Hospital and Zealand University Hospital (Patient Insurance
      Scheme).

      Publication of research findings Positive, negative and inconclusive research results will be
      published in international peer-reviewed journals. The Research Ethics Committee and the
      Danish Medicines Agency will be informed within 90 days when the last patient has had the
      last visit, and a final report will be reported within 12 months in the EUDRA database.

      No later than 12 months after trial termination, an article including the obtained results
      will be submitted for publication in an internationally recognized peer-reviewed journal with
      high impact. The investigators expect to get three publications from the study; a feasibility
      publication with a detailed description of the methods, a publication of the results of the
      intervention on patients with colon cancer and a publication on patients with colon adenoma.
      Authorship eligibility will be based on the guidelines of the International Committee of
      Medical Journal Editors (ICMJE).
    
  