
    
      Primary objective: Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) provides a
      non-invasive means of altering brain neural activity. This pilot study will test whether 5
      days of rTMS reduces cue-induced cocaine craving and cocaine use in cocaine users.

      Hypothesis: We predict that active rTMS will significantly lower craving for cocaine compared
      with sham rTMS.

      Study population: Thirty healthy adult cocaine users (for at least 2 years, currently
      averaging at least 3 times weekly) with no other major psychiatric disorders except nicotine
      dependence (DSM IV criteria) will be recruited from the community.

      Design: Following a baseline phase to evaluate subject characteristics, subjects will be
      randomly assigned to receive 5 days of active or sham rTMS treatment. rTMS at 1 Hz and
      strength 120% of the motor threshold will be applied to the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex
      (DLPFC) using an H-coil (HADD version) contained in a helmet, beginning 1 second before
      presentation of a cocaine-associated visual cue and lasting for 30 seconds. Brain site
      localization will use a computerized navigation system based on structural MRI scans obtained
      before the first session. Each treatment session (lasting around 31 minutes) will consist of
      54 trials (cue presentations): 36 with cocaine-associated cues and 9 each with
      non-drug-associated positive or neutral cues. No rTMS will be administered with the
      non-cocaine-associated cues. Subjects return for follow-up assessments one and two weeks
      after the final rTMS session.

      Outcome measures: The primary outcome measure will be cocaine craving assessed by 100-mm
      visual analog scales before and after every TMS treatment and at one- and two week follow-up.
      Secondary outcome measures will be the 14-item Cocaine Craving Questionnaire, self-reported
      cocaine use, and urine drug testing at each rTMS session and follow-up visit, and changes in
      regional brain responses to cocaine-associated visual cues assessed by fMRI done before and
      after the 5 rTMS sessions.

      Benefits: There is no direct benefit to individual subjects. The future benefit to society
      may be development of better methods for treatment of cocaine addiction.

      Risks: The primary risks from rTMS are transient headache, scalp discomfort, decreased
      spatial recognition memory, and hearing loss (minimized by wearing ear plugs). Seizures are
      very rare when rTMS is administered within accepted safety guidelines and individuals at
      increased risk of seizures are excluded. The risk of inducing a manic episode is minimized by
      excluding individuals with a history of non-drug-induced mania/hypomania.
    
  