
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose of tipifarnib when administered with doxorubicin and
      cyclophosphamide in women with metastatic breast cancer (non-regional stage IV disease).
      (Phase I closed to accrual as of 1/19/04) II. Determine the pathologic complete remission
      rate in patients with locally advanced breast cancer (stages IIB, IIIA, IIIB, or IIIC)
      treated with the recommended phase II dose of this regimen.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the clinical complete response rate in patients treated with this regimen.

      II. Determine the toxicity profile of this regimen in these patients. III. Correlate
      pretreatment levels of ErbB1, 2, 3, 4 and phosphorylated levels of Akt, STAT3, and Erk ½ with
      clinical response in these patients and with percent inhibition of proliferation (Ki-67) and
      percent induction of apoptosis in post-treatment tumor specimens.

      IV. Correlate percent decrease of farnesyltransferase (FTase) activity levels, HDJ-2
      farnesylation, phospho-Akt, phospho-STAT3, and phospho-Erk ½ with clinical response rates in
      these patients and with percent inhibition of proliferation (Ki-67) and percent inhibition of
      apoptosis.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study of tipifarnib. Patients are stratified
      according to presence of inflammatory carcinoma (yes vs no).

      PHASE I (nonregional stage IV disease) (closed to accrual as of 1/19/04): Patients receive
      doxorubicin IV over 10-15 minutes and cyclophosphamide IV over 30 minutes on day 1, oral
      tipifarnib twice daily on days 2-7, and filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously on days 2-13.
      Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of tipifarnib until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2
      of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

      PHASE II (stage IIB, IIIA, IIIB, or IIIC): Patients receive tipifarnib at the MTD and
      doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, and G-CSF as in phase I (phase I closed to accrual as of
      1/19/04). After the fourth course, patients may undergo complete resection.

      Patients are followed every 3-4 months for 3 years, every 6 months for 2 years, and then
      annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 3-12 patients will be accrued for phase I (closed to accrual
      as of 1/19/04) of this study. A total of 21-50 patients will be accrued for phase II of this
      study.
    
  