
    
      Obtaining erectile function after phalloplasty in female-to-male transsexuals remains a
      challenging issue and requires the implantation of a device. For biological males, several
      erectile implants exist and widespread research has demonstrated the successful outcome of
      these devices. However, substantial differences exist between a native penis and a neophallus
      and explain the poorer outcome of these devices in female-to-male transsexuals.

      In 2018, Falcone et al. published the largest retrospective series on this subject so far and
      reported that after a mean follow-up of 20 months, only 58% of their patients still had their
      original implant in place. The main obstacle in these female-to-male transsexuals is
      represented by the lack of corpora cavernosa in the neophallus which leads to difficult
      anchorage of the prosthesis, little stability of the prosthesis and a higher risk of cylinder
      erosion.

      Until recently, all penile implants were manufactured for erectile dysfunction in biological
      males and thus presumed the presence of two corpora cavernosa. In 2016 however, the Swiss
      company, Zephyr Surgical Implants (ZSI), created a 3-piece inflatable erectile device
      specifically for female-to-male transsexuals: the Zephyr ZSI 475 FTM. This prosthesis has a
      realistic gland shape, only one cylinder, and a specific anchorage device made of titanium
      and silicone to anchor the system to the pubic bone of the patient. These specific features
      could potentially address the aforementioned issues with implanting erectile devices in the
      neophallus and hopefully lead to better surgical outcomes in these particular patients.

      So far, no literature regarding surgical or functional outcome of the Zephyr ZSI 475 FTM
      exists. The aim of this study is to prospectively collect data of all female-to-male
      transsexuals that are treated with the implantation of this device at Ghent University
      Hospital.
    
  