
    
      The plane of occlusion refers to an imaginary surface that theoretically touches incisal
      edges of the incisors and the tips of the occluding surfaces of the posterior teeth". A plane
      usually signifies a flat surface; however, it is not so where the occlusal plane is
      concerned. Two areas comprising of anterior and posterior teeth constitute the occlusal plane
      and must be considered individually. Anterior tooth position is governed by esthetics,
      phonetics and the required anterior guidance. On the contrary, functional needs predominantly
      determine the position of posterior teeth and this position is also affected by the
      incorporation of the anteroposterior and mediolateral curves. Optimal function, aesthetics
      and phonetics following prosthodontic rehabilitation is dependent on the establishment of
      physiologically accurate vertical dimensions of occlusion, palatal contours, positioning of
      the teeth and the level of occlusal plane.

      The occlusal plane orientation is lost in patients with mutilated dentitions or those
      rendered edentulous and needs to be re-established for optimal function and comfort.

      Different intra- and extra-oral landmarks used by clinicians to define the level of the
      occlusal plane include the upper lip, corners of mouth, lateral margins of tongue, Camper's
      plane and interpupillary line, the parotid papilla and the retromolar pad (RMP).

      Any discrepancy in establishing the optimal level of occlusal plane causes adverse effects on
      periodontal tissues in dentate individuals and may result in vague symptoms such as
      headaches, migraines or stiffened shoulders and in edentulous patients, compromising the
      stability of the prosthesis, ultimately leading to alveolar bone resorption.

      A combination of various landmark along with a judicious clinical judgment should be taken
      into account for the location of the occlusal plane in edentulous patients.

      If the level of occlusal plane is too high, the tongue is unable to lie on the lingual cusps
      of the mandibular denture teeth and hence, fails to counter the movement of the denture. It
      may also result in food accretion in the labial and lingual sulci. In contrast, a low level
      of occlusal plane will promote tongue and cheek biting. Therefore, it is mandatory for the
      prosthodontist to re-establish the lost occlusal plane, both while dealing with multiple long
      span posterior restorations as well as in complete denture prosthodontics.

      Material and Methods:

      The patients will be recruited from the Department of Prosthodontics at the University of
      Hama Dental School. Forty edentulous patients. Record bases had anterior occlusal wax rims at
      the anterior region only in maxillary and mandibular. The mandibular posterior occlusal plane
      was determined on the level of coronoid notch (CN) on the anterior part of ramus,. Then, this
      plane in patient's mouth was modified to fit the lateral border of the tongue and the
      commissure of the lips. The determinants of the registration of the centric relationship were
      fixed to the posterior inferior mandibular occlusal wax rims, and the posterior wax rims of
      maxillary was made according to the posterior wax rims of mandibular. Then We will measure
      the occlusal plane in all forty a participants determined to the level of CN at the anterior
      border of ramus in mandible.

        -  Inclusion criteria allowed all male and female subjects that were in the 45-75

      Inclusion :

        -  Stable systemic health, including absence of a history of cardiovascular disease

        -  No evidence of infection or trauma in oral region

        -  Negative history of TMJ disorders

      Exclusion Criteria:

        -  Patients with ages beyond the accepted age range
    
  