
    
      Written informed consent has to be obtained from 9 random female Caucasian patients aged
      between 40 and 80 years who will receive a Peeling assisted volume enhancing (PAVE) facelift
      procedure in Ocean Clinic, Marbella Spain, to take part in the histologic case control study
      with a within-subjects design.

      After completing the facelift, the subcutaneous undermined abundant pre-auricular skin of
      both sides which is to be resected as consequence of the lift anyhow of each study patient is
      not resected and split completely in half to yield four samples of the same size, two on each
      side, without contacting each other in order to prevent any interaction between the peeling
      agents (n=9 samples per treatment). One sample serves as the control, while the other three
      samples are each treated with different peeling agents by the same surgeon: Trichloroacetic
      acid (TCA) peel at concentrations of 20% and 40% and a phenol/croton oil peel. The TCA
      samples are peeled immediately for 2 to 4 minutes until even frosting and neutralized at the
      even frosting point. The phenol/croton oil peeled samples are occluded with silicone tape for
      24 hours and not neutralized. After 24 hours during the routine in-hospital stay of the
      patient, the skin samples are resected, the preauricular wound is closed, and all samples are
      placed in 10 % neutral buffered formalin. The samples are immediately processed, trimmed,
      embedded, sectioned and stained with haematoxylin and eosin (H&E) by the same researcher.
      Histological evaluation which will take place in Tuebingen is carried out using a microscope,
      and pictures are captured at 10x, 25x and 100x magnification using a digital camera. Two
      trained histological examiners blinded to the study design independently perform histological
      evaluations. The depth of necrosis in µm is determined by analysing the tissue damage in
      relation to histological skin layers. All slices are evaluated using light microscopy to
      assess the mean depth of necrosis in three samples at three different sites for each
      specimen. The vertical height in µm between the cutaneous basal membrane and the deepest
      penetration of tissue damage is measured as well as the total thickness of the epidermis and
      dermis. Based on the histomorphological changes, actual peeling depth is determined and
      classified analogously to the current classification of burns: superficial,
      superficial-partial, deep-partial and full thickness.
    
  