
    
      Microbiota to the ecosystem formed by symbiotic and pathogenic microorganisms (bacteria,
      fungi, viruses, archaea, etc.) living in and on the surface of the human body; All of the
      genes encoding them have been called the microbiome (Whitman et al., 1998). The relationship
      between microbiota and many diseases that will have important consequences in human life has
      been proven. Infection and infectious diseases increase the risk of developing complications
      in critically ill patients, sometimes followed by death. Microbiota in healthy individuals
      contains many different microorganisms. The microbiota that begins to form immediately after
      birth varies according to nutrition, genetics, age and geographic region and climate. Human
      microbiota may change after applications such as infections, use of antibiotics, various
      chemicals (antiseptic solutions, soaps, shampoos, etc.). This study was planned to compare
      the effect of wiping bath with 2% daily chlorhexidine gluconate and soap-free body washing
      solution on the skin microbiota of the patients hospitalized in the PICU. This research will
      be done as a randomized controlled experimental. The research population consists of 30
      pediatric patients hospitalized in the Pediatric Intensive Care Unit of the Health Sciences
      University Umraniye Training and Research Hospital in 2021, who were wiped with 2%
      chlorhexidine gluconate, and 30 who were wiped with a soap-free body wash solution. Power
      analysis was erformed using the G * Power (v3.1.7) program to determine the number of
      samples. The strength of the study is expressed as 1-β (= type II error probability) and
      generally the studies should have 80% power. According to Cohen's effect size coefficients;
      Assuming that the evaluations to be made between two independent groups will have a large
      effect size (d = 0.8), it was decided to recruit 30 people, considering that there should be
      at least 26 people in each group at the level of α = 0.05 and there might be losses in the
      working process. The research sample was randomly divided into branches; group I will consist
      of 30 patients and group II will consist of 30 patients. Children in Group I will be applied
      soap-free body washing solution and children in Group II will be applied a wipe bath with 2%
      chlorhexidinegluconate, which is the routine application of the unit. In both groups, swab
      samples will be taken from the right armpit and right groin before and after the wipe bath
      (6th hour). '' Child Identification Form'' and ''Wipe Bathroom Application Chart'' will be
      used to collect data. The Child Diagnostic Form consists of questions containing information
      about the child (age, gender, reason for hospitalization, date, etc.). It is planned to
      record information on the wiping bath application schedule, the skin reactions that may occur
      in the patient during the wiping bath and the effect on the skin flora in the swab samples
      taken before and after the children's bath applications. Data collection tools will be filled
      in by the researcher through observation. During the data collection process, it was decided
      by the researcher to take swab samples before each wipe bath application and after the wipe
      bath application (6th hour) in order to check whether there was growth in the skin flora of
      the child's armpit and groin areas. Before the research, the parents of the participants will
      be informed about the research and verbal / written consent will be obtained from the parents
      declaring their acceptance to participate in the study. Collected data will be evaluated
      using the SPSS Statistics 22 package program. At the end of the study, it is thought that it
      will guide the improvement of patient care quality.
    
  