
    
      Prior to implementing the intervention, Dr. Simpson will work with VA study team members
      (e.g., Drs. Brenner, Matarazzo, Signoracci) to modify WtoH manual semantics and graphics to
      meet the needs of the U.S. Veteran population. Dr. Brenner has a long history of working
      within the Veterans Health Administration (VHA) and is a Diplomate in Rehabilitation
      Psychology. An expert committee (up to 15 participants) will also be convened for a meeting
      focused on the cross-cultural adaptation of WtoH. All efforts will be made to include experts
      in treating TBI and stakeholders (e.g., Veterans with or without TBI and/or family
      members/support persons) on the committee. Members of the research team will contact
      potential committee members by phone, email, mail or in person. Presentations may also be
      made to Veterans/family members/support persons receiving care, participating in patient
      advocacy activities, or providing peer support. Prior to reviewing the content, the expert
      committee will be provided background on the current state of knowledge about suicidality and
      hopelessness after TBI, available treatment options, and information regarding the underlying
      theoretical basis and key features of the WtoH program. The committee will then review the
      ten sessions to identify potential changes required to the therapeutic content, exercises,
      language and graphics to ensure that it is culturally appropriate for the VAMC context.
      Modifications will be made employing a consensus approach among the expert committee.

      The adapted program will then be trialed across four pilot groups. Once the pilot groups have
      been completed (see below) the expert committee will be reconvened for a final review of the
      program. Data collected on acceptability and feasibility will be presented to the committee
      and test therapists. Any necessary final modifications to assessment procedures and/or the
      intervention to ensure that the program is appropriate for the Veterans' condition will be
      made employing a consensus approach.

      The revised version of the manual will be used to conduct the RCT. Up to 90 Veterans will
      participate.
    
  