
    
      ABSTRACT It is planned to investigate the effect of telephone counseling on pain and sleep
      quality in patients with gastritis who have received gastritis management training. The
      individuals who constitute the target group in the planned study will be determined through
      the records of patients diagnosed with gastritis who applied to the Internal Medicine
      Polyclinic of Çankırı State Hospital. The target group of this study are individuals over the
      age of 18 diagnosed with gastritis. In the study, 18 years and older, who have Gastritis,
      have pain and sleep problems; The sample of the study is that patients with hearing loss,
      visual impairment, inability to understand / speak Turkish, who do not have a communication
      problem to prevent or prevent education or to participate in the study, who can communicate
      by phone, who are literate, and who voluntarily participate in the study. Research data will
      be collected with 7 forms prepared by the researcher.1.form is the elucidated form of
      consent, 2.form is the Introductory Information Form for determining the socio-demographic
      characteristics of the individuals who will participate in the research.3.form is the
      Richards Campbell Sleep Scale. 4. form is the Pain Assessment Scale. 5. Form is the Upper
      Gastrointestinal System Symptom Severity Scale. 6.form is the Tele Nursing Form for Gastritis
      Symptoms.7. form is the Telephone Call Evaluation Form.The planned study is an experimental
      study.The sample will be calculated by power analysis. The study will include an initiative
      group, a control group. Patients in both the initiative and the control group will be met and
      informed about the study by the researcher via face-to-face interview after their written and
      oral consent has been obtained. The first five forms will be applied to the control group and
      all 8 forms will be applied to the experimental group. The sampling individuals in the
      experimental group will receive gastritis management training and telephone counseling, while
      the individuals in the second group will form the control group. In the experimental group,
      the effect of a comprehensive gastritis management training program and 4 phone counseling
      and sms reminders one day a week on sleep quality and stomach pain will be evaluated. Phone
      calls 1. Week 3. Week 5. week and 7. it is weekly and will be performed biweekly.In the
      control group, no attempt will be made other than the rank given by the doctor. However, when
      the study is finished, a training booklet will be provided. An email was sent to the experts
      for the gastritis management training booklet prepared based on the relevant literature.
      DİSCERN Measurement Tool has also been sent as an e-mail to evaluate together with the
      booklet. The intervention group will be trained on topics such as reducing gastritis
      complaints, improving sleep quality, rational drug use, damages of smoking and alcohol,
      coping with stress, and factors triggering gastritis. Phone calls are expected to be between
      12.00-18.00 and approximately 15 minutes.A business card will be printed by the researcher to
      enable patients to easily access the researcher. During the phone calls, they will be told
      that they can call on the topics they need between 08:00-20:00 in the evening.The results of
      the study will be analyzed in computer environment with SPSS program.
    
  