
    
      Participants The study was designed as a split-mouth randomized clinical trial. The protocol
      and informed consent forms were approved by the ethics committee at the University of Sassari
      (n° 1000/CE).

      To participate in the study, all the subjects were carefully informed about the study's
      purpose, risks and benefits.

      The study inclusion criteria were the following:

        -  Generally good health despite the seriousness of their illness;

        -  A clinical reduction of salivary flow;

        -  The presence of two or three teeth which were hypersensitive to stimulation with a blast
           of air.

      In addition, patients were considered suitable for the study if they had sensitive teeth
      showing abrasion, erosion or recession with the exposure of the cervical dentine.

      The study exclusion criteria were:

        -  teeth with subjective or objective evidence of carious lesions, pulpitis, restorations,
           premature contact, cracked enamel, active periapical infection or that had received
           periodontal surgery or root-planning up to 6 months prior to the investigation;

        -  patients who had received professional desensitizing therapy during the previous 3
           months;

        -  patients who had used desensitizing toothpaste in the last 6 weeks. Patients were also
           excluded if they were under significant medication that could have interfered with pain
           perception (e.g., antidepressants, anti-inflammatory drugs, sedatives, and muscle
           relaxants).

      Clinical Procedure

      Saliva collection

      All salivary assessments were performed in the absence of acute sialadenitis. All assessments
      were performed by the same observer. The flow rate was determined in every person according
      to the method described by Sreebny. Saliva was collected in a standardised manner. Patients
      were instructed not to eat, drink, or smoke for 90 minutes before the sialometric assessment.
      All assessments were performed at a fixed time of the day, between 10 am and 1 pm, in order
      to minimise fluctuations related to a circadian rhythm of salivary secretion and composition.
      The whole saliva sample was collected in pre-weighed plastic tubes using electronic scales.

      Unstimulated salivary secretions were collected for 5 min with the patient seated in an
      upright position, with the head tilted forward . When possible the tongue, cheek and lip
      movements were limited during the procedure. At the end of the collection period the patient
      had to expectorate saliva into the test-tube. Stimulated whole saliva samples were collected
      by asking patients to chew a small block of paraffin wax or chewing gum. All the saliva
      secreted for 5 min was then collected in the test-tube. Measuring vessels were weighed after
      each collection using an electronic scales, and salivary flow rate was expressed in ml/min,
      which is nearly equivalent to g/min (31). A secretion rate < 0.1-0.2 ml/min for unstimulated
      flow and < 0.5-0.7 ml/min for stimulated flow was considered as an objective sign of
      hyposalivation.

      Assessment of hypersensitivity and application of desensitizing agents.

      A week before the experiment, patients received oral prophylaxis. Non-fluoride toothpaste
      (Biorepair, Coswell), a soft toothbrush (Oral-B Sensitive Advantage, Procter & Gamble) and
      oral hygiene instructions were also provided. The level of sensitivity experienced by each
      patient was considered as independent of the position of the hypersensitive tooth in the oral
      cavity. The pain experience was assessed by a Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) using the
      methodology described in our previous study. The pain experience was measured using a VAS
      graded from 1 to 10. The pain stimulus was given by one examiner with the same equipment
      yielding similar air pressure each time, while another one performed the treatments. The same
      operator carried out the sensitivity test evaluating the subject's response before the
      application of the materials (PRE-1), immediately after (POST-1), after 1 week (POST-2), 4
      weeks (POST-3), and 12 weeks (POST-4) .

      The following dental materials were used following the manufacturers' instructions: Verities
      Flow™ (VF) (Kerr Corporation, Orange, CA, USA), a self-adhering composite; Universal Dentin
      Sealant (UDS) (Ultradent Products Inc., South Jordan, UT, USA), a biocompatible,
      non-polymerizable, high molecular weight resin sealant in alcohol solvent; Clearfil Protect
      Bond (CPB), (Kuraray Noritake Dental, Osaka, Japan) a methacrylate-based resin, self-etching
      adhesive system, and Flor-Opal® Varnish (FOV), (Ultradent Products Inc., South Jordan, UT,
      USA), a fluoride-based varnish.

      In view of the treatment with the desensitizing agents, teeth were randomly assigned into
      four groups (N = per group).
    
  