
    
      During Phase 1, we used an innovative expert panel and community advisory board process to
      develop a new structural model for delivery of well-child care (WCC) to low-income families.
      The new model of care was developed using a WCC Framework that considered alternative
      structure for care: non-physician providers (nurses, lay health educators, social workers),
      non-traditional formats (group visits, internet, phone), and non-clinical locations (daycare
      centers, home visits, grocery stores) for each of six major WCC visits (physical exam,
      immunizations/laboratory screening, behavioral/developmental services, anticipatory guidance,
      psychosocial screenings, and sick visits/after-hours care), as well as a feasible mechanism
      for provider reimbursement. The model that was developed was a Team-Based Care, Parent Coach
      Model for WCC.

      Recruitment of study participants carried on for approximately six months. We posted flyers
      in two Los Angeles pediatric clinics. The flyers instructed parents to contact the study
      investigators by phone or email, or alternatively speak with the office receptionist, if
      interested in participating. A bilingual (English and Spanish) research associate (RA) was
      available 2-3 days per week in each clinic site to answer questions that interested parents
      may have had; that person was also available by phone and email 5 days a week to respond to
      requests for information. A parent who saw a flyer in the clinic on the day of their visit
      could have approached the clinic receptionist, expressed an interest in the study, and then
      directed to either speak with the RA in a private room at the clinic. Additionally, when
      parents arrived for a visit for a child in the age range specified for the study, they were
      handed a 1-page flyer regarding the study during check-in at the receptionist's desk. The
      flyers instructed parents to call, email, or speak in person privately with the study RA if
      they were interested in participating or needed more information.

      Eligible parents were informed of their intervention assignment and were asked for contact
      information and to complete a 10 minute survey. All parents were informed that they would be
      contacted 6-months and 12-months post-enrollment to complete two additional surveys. Parents
      in the intervention group were informed that they may be randomly selected to participate in
      an additional component to provide study staff with additional information regarding the
      health services that the parent received during the 12 months that he/she was enrolled in the
      study.

      During enrollment the parents in the intervention group were informed of the additional
      services available to them. Parents were able to enroll in a text messaging program which
      provides parents with age-tailored health information through texts. The texts are available
      in English and Spanish. They contain information such as: car seat safety, dental care for
      baby and reminders to schedule child's physicals. The second service available to parents is
      a web-based parent tool called the Well Visit Planner (WVP) tool. The tool gives parents the
      opportunity to customize their child's upcoming routine physical. The WVP also gives the
      parents an opportunity to learn about developmental milestones that their child should be
      meeting. Lastly, parents are given the opportunity to choose priorities to discuss with the
      physician and the Parent Coach. The data from the pre-visit tool is automatically uploaded to
      the electronic health record, where red flags indicate areas of further need.

      The Parent Coach is also available to intervention patients at the two participating clinics.
      The Parent Coach is a trained child bilingual health education specialist that will be
      available at each clinic at least two days a week and over the phone at least one day a week.
      She is available to help parents schedule appointments and review flagged items on the Well
      Visit Planner tool. The Parent Coach addresses psychosocial, developmental and behavioral
      concerns that parents may have. She is also gives parents tips on how parents can help their
      baby grow and develop. In addition, she is trained to check if the baby is developing
      normally and if there is reason for concern she will bring it to the attention of the
      pediatrician at clinic and help parents with referrals for further testing.

      Enrollment into the RCT began in June 2013 and ran through December 2013. We enrolled 251
      patients over two clinical sites. Half of the participants at each clinic were placed in the
      control group (n= 125) and the other half in the intervention group (n=126). Research
      associates are available over the phone and in person at to complete parents follow- up
      surveys. The 12 month post enrollment surveys are schedule to be completed in December 2014.
    
  