
    
      One in three older adults have foot problems such as bunions, corns, calluses, foot pain, or
      nail disorders, but those problems are often ignored or overlooked until they threaten
      mobility or quality of life. With proper self-management, skin and nail problems can be
      addressed before they become severe; however, older adults without diabetes are not routinely
      informed of self-management techniques unless they consult a specialist. Targeting a foot
      care self-management program to community-dwelling older adults without diabetes may not only
      enhance foot function and preserve independence but also reach older adults with limited
      healthcare access.

      Study participants will be 24 nondiabetic older adults recruited from two Midwestern
      community senior centers. One community center will be randomized to receive the
      intervention, 2 Feet 4 Life, the other will be a true control group receiving no
      intervention. The 2 Feet 4 Life foot care self-management program is based on Social
      Cognitive Theory and will be delivered in four weekly, one-hour group sessions. The program
      includes self-management teaching, interactive lecture, and group activities, including
      instruction, demonstration, and practice of routine foot care. In addition to usual lecture
      and handouts, 2 Feet 4 Life will rely on group interaction, practice opportunities, and the
      provision of foot care supplies so participants can perform foot care at home. Program topics
      include appropriate foot hygiene and footwear, identification and treatment of common foot
      problems, demonstration of proper foot care with opportunities for practice and instructor
      feedback, and guidance in obtaining appropriate footwear.

      Outcome measures will be assessed pre-intervention, immediately post-intervention, three
      months post-intervention, and six months post-intervention. This will be the first study to
      test a nurse run, community-based, foot care self-management program for non-diabetic older
      adults.
    
  