
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the overall survival, disease-free survival, isolated local regional
           disease-free survival, and distant disease-free survival in women with previously
           resected, early stage, invasive breast cancer treated with breast radiotherapy with or
           without regional radiotherapy.

        -  Compare the toxic effects of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare the quality of life of patients (in certain participating centers) treated with
           these regimens.

        -  Compare the cosmetic outcomes in patients (in certain participating centers) treated
           with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to number
      of positive nodes (0 vs 1-3 vs more than 3), number of axillary nodes removed (<10, > or
      equal to 10); type of chemotherapy (anthracycline containing vs other vs none), hormonal
      therapy (yes vs no), number of axillary lymph nodes excised*, and participating center.
      Patients are randomized to one of two treatment arms.

      NOTE: * Patients with a negative sentinel node dissection with or without an axillary
      dissection will be stratified according to the total number of nodes removed

        -  Arm I: Patients undergo standard breast radiotherapy alone 5 days a week for 5 weeks in
           the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients undergo breast and regional radiotherapy 5 days a week for 5 weeks in
           the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Radiotherapy in both arms begins as soon as possible after randomization. Radiotherapy must
      begin within 8 weeks after completion of adjuvant IV chemotherapy, unless radiotherapy is
      administered concurrently with chemotherapy (i.e., cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and
      fluorouracil [CMF]), or within 16 weeks after the last breast surgery for patients treated
      with hormonal therapy alone.

      Quality of life is assessed (in patients in certain participating centers) within 2 weeks
      prior to randomization, during the last week of radiotherapy, at 3 and 9 months after
      completion of radiotherapy, and then annually until first distant disease recurrence.

      Cosmetic outcome is assessed (in patients in certain participating centers) within 2 weeks
      prior to randomization, and then at 3 and 5 years after completion of radiotherapy or until
      first distant disease recurrence.

      Patients are followed at 3, 6, and 9 months, every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually
      thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 1,822 patients will be accrued for this study within
      approximately 4 years.
    
  