
    
      Rationale: In the past decade multiple agents targeting specific signaling proteins important
      for tumor growth, including (tyrosine) kinase inhibitors, EGFR inhibitors, mTOR inhibitors
      and BRAF inhibitors, or agents that modulate the immune response such as ipilimumab, have
      been developed and have reached clinical approval. Initially it was anticipated that these
      agents would be active without causing major toxicities, but recent clinical experiences have
      changed these expectations. Diagnostic tools to predict whether a patient will develop
      toxicity to targeted agents are not yet available. Our general hypothesis is that
      immunophenotyping studies combined with (phospho) proteomic and kinase activity profiling in
      normal tissue before and during treatment with targeted agents may provide more insight in
      underlying causative mechanisms of toxicity and provide potential biomarkers for clinical use
      to predict for toxicity.

      The investigators hypothesize that targeted therapy- induced toxicity is caused by
      interference with normal physiological homeostasis at the tissue level. To date, preclinical
      strategies to predict for clinical toxicities of targeting therapies are lacking.

      This study is intended to (1) explore the biological (immunological) mechanisms of targeted
      agents at the systemic and local tissue level in relation to toxicity (2) determine if
      off-target receptor kinase inhibition in normal cells and tissues is related to toxicity of
      the treatment and (3) try to identify novel biomarker(s) predictive of toxicity.

      Objective: The main objective of this pilot study is to determine the biological impact of
      treatment with targeted agents at the systemic and local tissue level in relation to
      toxicity.

      Study design: Single center, non-randomized, interventional pilot study with feasibility
      analysis after enrollment of 20 patients.

      Study population: Adult patients with advanced solid tumors, for whom standard palliative
      treatment with targeted agents as monotherapy is indicated, including antiangiogenic tyrosine
      kinase inhibitors, EGFR inhibitors, mTOR inhibitors, BRAF inhibitors and ipilimumab.

      Intervention: Patients will be treated with targeted therapies according to the clinical
      standard guidelines. At this point, five targeted therapies with considerable skin and
      gastrointestinal toxicities have reached widespread clinical use and therefore
      "antiangiogenic" tyrosine kinase inhibitors, EGFR inhibitors, mTOR inhibitors, BRAF
      inhibitors and ipilimumab will be investigated in this study. After feasibility analysis in
      the first twenty patients, twenty more patients will be included in each of the five drug
      cohorts. Biopsies will be performed to determine possible immunohistochemical and
      histopathological changes in normal tissue, possible immunomodulatory changes as expressed by
      Tcell phenotyping and cytokine profiling and to compare tissue (phospho) proteomic and kinase
      activity profiles before and during therapy and also at the development of toxicity.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: The main objective is to explore the biological impact of
      treatment with targeted agents at the systemic and local tissue level in relation to
      toxicity. This objective will be assessed by studying in normal tissue whether treatment with
      targeted agents induces significant changes in normal tissue of (1) histopathology, such as
      differences in the presence of infiltrating immune cells, (2) (phospho)proteomic profiles and
      (3) kinase activity profiles. Secondary objectives are (1) to perform pharmacokinetics and to
      study whether serum peptide profiles and systemic circulating immune cells and cytokine
      profiles in patients during treatment with targeted agents are related to toxicity and (2) to
      identify novel biomarkers predictive of treatment induced toxicity based on pretreatment
      systemic or local tissue phenotypes.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: Enrolment in this study is possible when the indication to receive standard
      targeted therapy has been determined. Adverse events as a result of this standard treatment
      may occur. Biopsies of skin, oral mucosa, colon mucosa once prior to and during treatment
      will be taken. If toxicity develops, a re-biopsy of the affected area will be taken. These
      biopsies may cause physical discomfort. During therapy, follow-up will include laboratory
      analysis on a visit to the outpatient clinic. Results of this study may provide new clues for
      prediction and treatment of targeted therapy induced toxicity
    
  