
    
      A Randomized Control Trial with three groups (SmartFeeding4Kids, SmartFeeding4Kids Social
      Support, SmartFeeding4Kids Health) x 4 times (pre, post, 3-months, 6-month follow-up)
      repeated measures design will be used.

      Invitation to participate in the program, through flyers and social media messages, will show
      a link where parents can access detailed information about the program (study objectives,
      procedures, random allocation to one of the three conditions, data that will be collected
      during the study). Participants need to give informed consent before proceeding to a final
      screen in which the individuals provide their name and email address, to allow data
      validation and facilitate contact as needed. As this is a Randomized Control Trial study with
      repeated measurements, participants' identification must be recorded. The data related to the
      parent's answers to evaluation protocols and self-monitoring, and time or interaction with
      the application/program, are associated with a personal account created by the participants
      at the beginning of the process. Consent protocol includes a paragraph that explains which
      data will be recorded and how it will be saved; parents must consent to researchers accessing
      this information. Only relevant information is collected. All data will be stored in a secure
      server. We chose Amazon Web Services as our server because is one of the most used services
      for hosting a website securely. Amazon Web Services delivers a mature set of services
      specifically designed for the unique security, compliance, privacy, and governance
      requirements of large organizations.

      Once registered, parents are directed to the initial assessment package. After the completion
      of the questionnaires, parents will be randomized and allocated to one of the three
      conditions through an automated web-based randomization program. For all the conditions,
      parents will be invited to participate in six sessions plus two brief booster sessions. A new
      session is only accessible once parents have visualized the contents of the last session and
      performed the tasks proposed between sessions (for experimental conditions). A new session
      will be accessible each week, but the parents can extend the time to fill all the tasks for
      up to two weeks. After the completion of the six sessions, parents receive two brief booster
      sessions, also weekly. At the end of the program, parents are redirected to fill the second
      assessment package; a similar procedure is performed after 3 and 6 months.

      The sample will be collected until 70 participants in each group (N = 210) finish the
      program. Statistical power analysis was performed for sample size estimation based on
      published data regarding this topic. For our repeated measures within-between group
      comparison study, we used Cohen's d criteria and considered a small effect size of 0.15, an
      alpha equal to 0.05 and power of 0.80 for a three-group with four repeated measures design
      (with a moderate correlation pattern between time measurements of 0.35). The projected sample
      size needed is approximately 162 participants and was computed using G*Power 3.1.9.2. Our
      proposed sample size will also be adequate for other statistical procedures such as
      multilevel modeling analyses with level-1 repeated measures nested within level-2 individuals
      by assuring a minimum of 50 individuals required for level-2 sample sizes. Finally, we
      calculate a dropout rate of approximately 25%. Enrolment will pursue until obtaining 55
      parents in each of the three-arm groups at the end of the four assessment times.

      As mentioned before, the application does not allow participants to proceed to the sessions
      without completing all items of the baseline evaluation protocol, nor the participants have
      acess to a new session if they do not complete the requested between-sessions records. As
      such, missing data will only be due to participant's dropout. We will use intention-to-treat
      principles, with the participants being analysed in the group in which they were allocated in
      the randomization process, independently of whether they had completed all measurement time
      points and/or the intervention. Missing values will be estimated using the last observation
      carried forward (LOCF) method.
    
  