
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To assess human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine-type-specific seroconversion rates at
      12-months post-transplantation among kidney transplant recipients who receive >= 1 doses of
      the recombinant human papillomavirus nonavalent vaccine (Gardasil 9 HPV vaccine) >= 30 days
      prior to transplantation.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the following in adult kidney transplant recipients who receive >= 1 doses of
      the Gardasil 9 HPV vaccine prior to transplantation:

      Ia. HPV vaccine-type-specific seroconversion rates at 12-months post-transplantation.

      Ib. Persistence and stability of HPV vaccine-type-specific geometric mean titers (GMT) at 6
      and 12-months post-transplantation, and rise in HPV vaccine-type-specific GMT at the 13 month
      post-transplant visit.

      Ic. Vaccine safety profile and allograft rejection/opportunistic infections stratified by
      number of vaccine doses and time between the last vaccine dose and the transplant procedure.

      Id. HPV detection in self-collected samples from the cervix/vagina, and oral cavity at
      baseline (pre-vaccination) and at 6- and 12-months post-vaccination, overall and by number of
      vaccine doses (1, 2, or 3), sexual behavior, type-specific seroconversion rates, and time
      elapsed between the last vaccine dose and the transplant procedure.

      Ie. Descriptive analysis to explore differences or similarities between the genders from the
      secondary objective outcomes above.

      OUTLINE:

      Participants receive the first dose of the recombinant human papillomavirus nonavalent
      vaccine intramuscularly (IM) at baseline, at least 30 days prior to the kidney transplant
      surgery. The second dose is given at least one month after the first dose. The third dose is
      given at least five months after the first dose and at least three months after the second
      dose. The timing of the second and third doses is dependent on the scheduling of the kidney
      transplant surgery. Patients are followed up at 6- and 12-months after the kidney transplant
      surgery to measure vaccine-induced immune responses. Patients may receive either one, two, or
      all three vaccine doses prior to the kidney transplant surgery, and are offered additional
      visits at least one year after the surgery to complete any remaining doses of the three-dose
      vaccine series.
    
  