
    
      The study will involve 2 study interventions, cryoballoon and RF ablation, to which patients
      will be randomly assigned (in a 2:1 allocation scheme). Randomization will be performed
      centrally using a random number generator - the following short script will be used in R
      language to generate a random sequence with a 2:1 probability of assignment to cryoballoon
      versus RF.

      Each patient's randomization will be known only to the operator of the ablation procedure
      (and of course to the investigator who will attend the procedure to record procedural
      parameters, complications, outcome etc.). All personnel involved in patient follow-up and
      echo data analysis will be blinded to patient randomization (patient records will be
      accompanied by a randomization number corresponding to a masked randomization list kept in
      digital form at the coordinating center, which will be unlocked after completion of the last
      patient's follow-up). The Ablation Procedure Data Sheet will be filed separately from other
      CRF documents to maintain blinding.

        1. RF ablation Antral PV isolation will be performed in all patients randomized to RF
           ablation, without additional ablation of extrapulmonary sites, with the exception of
           individuals with documented typical atrial flutter.

           An irrigated radiofrequency ablation catheter will be used to perform ablation, with the
           aid of electroanatomical mapping (Carto 3, Biosense Webster), following a single
           transeptal puncture. Pulmonary vein potentials will be recorded with a circular mapping
           catheter (Lasso® NAV eco, Biosense Webster) before, during and following antral ablation
           (the default strategy will be to create two ablation lines, around the two ipsilateral
           pulmonary veins, unless left atrial anatomy dictates another approach). The endpoint of
           the ablation procedure will be entrance and exit block in all pulmonary veins. A waiting
           time of 20-30 minutes will be observed after initial pulmonary vein isolation and
           further ablation will be performed in case of reconduction between the veins and the
           atrium.

           Patients with a history of documented sustained typical atrial flutter before the
           ablation procedure will additionally undergo cavotricuspid isthmus ablation. Use of
           additional modalities, including intracardiac ultrasound and integration of computed
           tomography or magnetic resonance imaging anatomical data of the left atrium, will be
           left to the discretion of the operators.

           Repeat ablation will not be allowed over the 3-month follow-up of the study.

        2. Cryoablation A single big cryoballoon approach, using a 28-mm cryoballoon (Arctic Front
           Advance™ Cardiac CryoAblation Catheter, Medtronic, Minneapolis, MN) will be employed.
           The cryoballoon catheter will be introduced into the left atrium, following a single
           transeptal puncture, through a 12F FlexCath steerable sheath (Medtronic), constantly
           flushed with heparinized saline. A circular mapping catheter (Achieve, Medtronic) will
           be advanced through the cryoballoon to the PV orifice and positioned as proximally as
           possible inside the vessel to record the PV potentials at baseline and monitor the
           isolation procedure in real time.

      The cryoballoon will be inflated and advanced to the ostium of each PV. The quality of
      vascular occlusion will be ascertained by injection of diluted contrast material into the PV.
      Once the best occlusion is obtained, cryothermal energy will be applied for 240 seconds, as
      recommended by the manufacturer. An additional application of energy will be systematically
      delivered after PV isolation.

      Before ablation of the right-sided PVs, a quadripolar electrode catheter will be positioned
      in the superior vena cava to constantly pace the right phrenic nerve at a 2-sec cycle length
      during freezing. In case of cessation or weakening of diaphragmatic contraction, freezing
      will be immediately discontinued.

      iv) Real-time 3D echocardiographic evaluation of left atrial dimensions and function
      Real-time 3D echocardiography (RT3DE) will be performed before the ablation procedure and 1
      month post-ablation, on iE33 machines (Philips Medical Systems, Bothell, Washington) equipped
      with X3, a fully sampled matrix transducer. Apical full-volume data sets will be obtained
      during end-expiratory apnea within 1 breath hold. The RT3DE datasets will be stored digitally
      and quantitative analyses will be performed off-line at a core echo laboratory (at a
      different site than the recruiting center) by personnel blinded as to each patient's
      treatment allocation.

      Quantification of left atrial volumes will be performed using the semiautomated contour
      tracing algorithm, marking 5 atrial reference points: 4 at the anterior, inferior, lateral,
      and septal parts of the atrial dome and 1 at the level of the mitral annulus. Volumes will be
      measured at three time points during the cardiac cycle: (a) LAmax at end-systole, just before
      mitral valve opening, (b) LAmin at end-diastole, just before mitral valve closure; and (c)
      LApreA obtained at the time of the P wave on the surface electrocardiogram. Indexing to body
      surface area will be applied, as recommended.11

      Left atrial functional quantification will be performed by calculating the following indices:

        -  Left atrial ejection fraction: LAEF = [(LAmax - LAmin)/LAmax] * 100%

        -  Active atrial emptying fraction: LAactive = [(LApreA - LAmin)/LApreA] * 100%

        -  Passive atrial emptying fraction: LApassive = [(LAmax - LApreA)/LAmax] * 100%

        -  Atrial expansion index: LAreservoir = [(LAmax - LAmin)/LAmin] * 100%. Echocardiographic
           evaluation will also include all standard 2D and Doppler measurements. Measurements of
           particular interest will be: left ventricular ejection fraction (modified Simpson's
           rule), mitral E/e' velocity ratio (lateral aspect of the mitral annulus),
           semi-qualitative assessment of mitral regurgitation (grade 0 to 3: no regurgitation,
           mild, moderate, severe), right ventricular systolic pressure.

           v) Other study procedures Before the index procedure, in a run-in visit, eligibility
           criteria will be reviewed and a 24-hour Holter recording will be undertaken.

      All patients will be hospitalized for 48 hours post-ablation. Blood samples will be obtained
      as 12-hour intervals to measure troponin T with a high-sensitivity assay, as well as other
      biochemical parameters (blood samples will be centrifuged and plasma aliquots will be kept at
      -80oC until measurement).

      Patients will return for 2 visits after the ablation procedure: a 1-month visit for RT3DE,
      symptom review, assessment for potential complications, clinical and electrocardiographic
      evaluation, and a 24-h Holter recording, and a 3-month visit for symptom review, assessment
      for potential complications, clinical and electrocardiographic evaluation, and a 24-h Holter
      recording.
    
  