
    
      Acute Coronary Syndrome (ACS) is the leading cause of death worldwide. Differentiating ACS
      from other non-ischemic chest pain is imperative in emergency medicine and missed myocardial
      infarction remains one of the highest sources of medical malpractice in Emergency Departments
      (ED). At the same time, economic pressures and limited resources demand that physicians avoid
      hospital admission or protracted observation for every patient with chest pain or suspicious
      symptoms. In the absence of clear ST elevation (STE) on the electrocardiogram (ECG), ED
      providers have no reliable tools to quickly triage non-STE (NSTE) ACS patients. Current
      guidelines rely on blood biomarkers (e.g. cardiac enzymes) to identify this syndrome and do
      not completely describe ischemic ECG changes associated with it. ED Providers will need to
      delay the management of these high risk patients until cardiac biomarkers are withdrawn,
      analyzed, and interpreted. This results in greater mortality rates in NSTE-ACS patients and
      overburdens the healthcare system. The prolonged observation times at EDs and unnecessary
      admissions are just additional consequences that overuse nursing times and exacerbate nursing
      shortage.

      ECG changes other than ST elevation and dynamic ECG changes are a rich opportunity for
      improving diagnostics. This proposal intends to provide new insights into how ischemic
      repolarization changes evolve over time in the subacute phase of myocardial ischemia. Sixty
      patients with suspected coronary artery disease referred for nuclear cardiac stress testing
      will be included. Resting 12-lead ECGs will be obtained before the stress test and one after
      the stress test but before the nuclear scan. Alterations in novel, computerized T wave
      indices will be correlated with focal myocardial ischemia seen on nuclear scans. Repeated
      Measures ANOVA with between group comparisons, and Generalized Estimation Equation will be
      used in the analysis. The results will provide insight on the diagnostic value of different
      novel T wave indices to detect myocardial ischemia. Results from this study will provide
      tools for ED providers to distinguish ACS from non-ischemic chest pain patients early in the
      triage process, especially in the absence of STE that constitutes the common standard
      nowadays.
    
  