
    
      Two in every 3 Australians will be affected by skin cancer over their lifetime. The
      prevalence of skin cancer will continue to increase due to the ageing population and
      represents a significant problem in our community. Cure of early (T1-2) de novo cutaneous
      squamous cell carcinoma (CSCC) treated with either curative intent surgery or radiotherapy is
      85-100%. However, the cure rate for locally advanced, recurrent, or metastatic disease to
      regional nodes following surgery alone are much lower, in the order of 20-70%. Metastatic
      CSCC is the most common malignancy of the parotid region in Australia. The 5 year
      loco-regional control with surgery alone is in the order of 40%-45%. The addition of
      post-operative radiotherapy improves loco-regional control by 15-20%, and is therefore
      considered the standard of care in this group of patients.

      Recent data have shown that synchronous post-operative chemo-radiotherapy is superior to
      post-operative radiotherapy alone in "high-risk" mucosal head and neck squamous cell
      carcinoma (HNSCC). However, to date, there is no evidence from randomised trials that such a
      benefit exists in CSCC of the head and neck. At present there is little consensus amongst
      clinicians in Australia as to who should receive post-operative chemo-radiotherapy in CSCC.
      Although tumour control rates may be improved, the addition of chemotherapy may also
      significantly increase treatment related toxicity. Nonetheless, some centres have adopted the
      use of post-operative chemo-radiotherapy in selected patients with CSCC based on
      extrapolation from mucosal sites. This has resulted in a wide variability in practice for
      this disease.

      Australia is uniquely placed to perform such a trial comparing post-operative
      chemo-radiotherapy to post-operative radiotherapy alone in high-risk CSCC due to the high
      rate of skin cancer. Currently there are limited data to guide management of patients with
      resected CSCC who are at high risk for recurrence. While it is reasonable to hypothesize that
      concurrent chemotherapy in this setting will confer a similar benefit to that seen in mucosal
      HNSCC, this can only be established by a randomized trial as proposed. If the addition of
      chemotherapy is shown to be beneficial and safe, then these results are likely to be
      translated into standard practice both nationally and internationally quite rapidly. On the
      other hand, if the treatment is found to be ineffective then patients will be spared the
      unnecessary toxicity and inconvenience associated with the addition of chemotherapy. A
      further important aspect of this trial will be the assessment of patient-related outcomes
      using a validated quality of life questionnaire. It will be important to ascertain whether
      any improvement in locoregional control due to the addition of chemotherapy, is also
      associated with improvement in quality of life compared to the control arm.
    
  