
    
      Background:

        -  Resections to remove tumors in the liver, bile ducts and pancreas are rarely curative,
           and patients frequently succumb to disease recurrence in the ensuing months to year(s)
           after the operation.

        -  Standard adjuvant therapies, which typically begin 6-12 weeks after surgery, offer
           little demonstrable decreases in the rates of tumor recurrence.

        -  The concept and implementation of immediate perioperative therapy has not been evaluated
           given the serious concerns related to healing and recovery with standard cytotoxic
           chemotherapy and newer targeted agents.

        -  A significant percentage of metastatic colorectal cancers, and primary tumors of the
           pancreas and bile ducts express Sialyl Lewis, an epitope on the well-established tumor
           marker, CA 19-9.

        -  MVT-5873, a fully human antibody against Sialyl Lewis, has displayed ADCC and CDC in
           vitro, potentiated chemotherapeutic efficacy in mouse models and demonstrated efficacy
           in Phase 1 trials of patients with advanced inoperable HPB cancers.

        -  MVT-5873 is well tolerated as a single agent; moderate elevations in AST/ALT appear to
           be dose-limiting.

        -  Patients with resectable Sialyl Lewis-expressing cancers represent an ideal population
           to explore the use of perioperative MVT-5873 given moderate level of CA 19-9 elevations,
           and the potential for extension of recurrence-free survival.

      Objectives:

        -  Document the safety of perioperative MVT-5873 in patients undergoing pancreas and liver
           resections.

        -  Determine if perioperative MVT-5873 can decrease 1-year recurrence rates for patients
           with operable CA 19-9-producing cancers.

      Eligibility:

        -  Histologically or cytologically confirmed adenocarcinoma of the

             -  Colon (metastatic to liver)

             -  Pancreas

             -  Bile Ducts (Cholangiocarcinoma)

        -  Serum CA19-9 levels greater than the upper limit of normal, but less than 2500.

        -  Disease amenable to complete surgical extirpation.

      Design:

      -Pre-operative one-time treatment with MVT-5873, resection to remove all demonstrable disease
      in the liver, bile ducts and pancreas, and continuing MVT-5873 mono-therapy until off
      treatment criteria are met.
    
  