
    
      This is a prospective study with study sites in Ontario, Canada (University of Waterloo);
      Quebec, Canada (University of McGill); Texas, United States of America (Retina Foundation of
      the Southwest); and Queensland, Australia (Queensland University of Technology). There are
      three study conditions. 1) binocular treatment at home, 2) binocular treatment in office and,
      3) standard patching therapy.

      Participants will be recruited from university-affiliated clinics and local clinical
      practices. Following full informed consent, participants will complete baseline testing to
      confirm eligibility and provide pre-treatment measurements of visual acuity, stereopsis,
      interocular suppression and motor function. Eligible participants will then be randomized to
      either binocular treatment or patching.

      The treatment consists of dichoptically presented children's animations with all characters
      seen by the amblyopic eye and only a subset of characters seen by the fellow eye. Images
      shown to the amblyopic eye will be presented at 100% contrast and images presented to the
      fellow eye will be presented at 20% contrast on session 1 and contrast will increment by 10%
      of the prior session's contrast level for each subsequent session. Participants will complete
      4 x 1-hour sessions per week for two weeks. After 2 weeks of treatment, participants will be
      offered the opportunity to complete an additional 2 weeks (8 hours) of treatment. Treatment
      will take place in the home or in-office depending on the study site.

      The control group will patch for 2 hours every day, at home, for 2 weeks. A calendar will be
      provided (to both groups) in order for parents to track compliance. After 2 weeks of
      patching, participants in the control group have the option to crossover to the treatment
      group for an additional 2 weeks.

      The primary analysis will compare visual acuity improvements from baseline between the
      binocular treatment and patching groups after 2 weeks of treatment. Secondary analyses will
      include comparisons of binocular vision and motor function outcomes between the binocular
      treatment and patching groups, comparisons of at-home vs. in-office binocular treatment
      outcomes and an evaluation of crossover effects.
    
  