
    
      This study is designed to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of using the UV-X™ system for
      treating corneal ulcers that have proven refractory to conventional antibiotic treatment.

      The UV-X™ system is a combination product consisting of a UVA 365 nm wavelength light source
      (UV-X™ Illumination System) and riboflavin (Medio-Cross® Riboflavin 0.1%) ophthalmic
      solution. The therapeutic effect is mediated by the photochemical interaction of the
      ultraviolet (UV) light with the riboflavin that has been saturated into the infected corneal
      stromal tissues.

      The photochemical interaction of UVA light with riboflavin has been used to sterilize
      pathogens in blood and blood products. Pathogens including viruses, bacteria, fungi, and
      protozoa have shown to be sterilized using this photochemical process. Presumably singlet
      oxygen is produced by the interaction of the UVA with the riboflavin. It is this singlet
      oxygen that interacts with the pathogen's Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) in a sufficiently
      disruptive manner to render the exposed field sterile.

      The cross-linking improves mechanical properties in the anterior stroma and has been shown to
      stabilize corneal structure in patients with progressive keratoconus and ectasias following
      refractive surgery. The same technology has been applied to a handful of patients with
      corneal ulcers and a single small series with bullous keratopathy. In no case was the patient
      worsened by this treatment. In the majority of the cases, considerable clinical reversal of a
      deteriorating clinical course was obtained. There has been debate about the mechanism of
      action of this beneficial effect. It has been speculated that a proteolytic collagenase
      enzyme was destroyed by the photochemical process. As an alternate, it has been suggested
      that the corneal collagen is strengthened by the cross linking and becomes more resistant to
      the infectious process. Finally a direct sterilization effect of the UVA light, the
      riboflavin, or the combination has been postulated. Recent laboratory work has shown that
      staphylococci cultures on an agar plate will be killed when exposed to the combination of UVA
      and riboflavin as used in these experiments. Neither the UVA nor the riboflavin alone had any
      bactericidal effect.

      The procedure that has been used and that the investigators propose to study to treats
      corneal infections and ulcerations is identical to the procedure used to strengthen the
      cornea. It is performed by saturating the cornea with riboflavin 0.1% riboflavin solution and
      then exposing the riboflavin soaked cornea to UVA light. After the corneal stroma saturation
      is achieved, the infected tissues are exposed to UVA light at 365 nm and an irradiance of 3
      mW/cm2 for 30 minutes. Exposure of the cornea to this combination of UVA light (365 nm; 3
      mW/cm2 irradiation; 30 minutes duration) after topical administration of riboflavin appears
      to have a broad sterilization effect based on the photochemical interaction of the UVA and
      the riboflavin.
    
  