
    
      At Parkwood Institute, the Outpatient Acquired Brain Injury Program receives approximately
      350 referrals per year related to concussion (an increase of 500% since 2010). This program
      is renowned for its innovative programming, strong ties to brain injury research across the
      province, and the way that patients are engaged in program design, development and
      evaluation.

      People who experience persistent and disabling problems three months beyond their brain
      injury are characterized as having "post-concussion syndrome". The list of post-concussion
      symptoms is long. Some of the most prevalent and debilitating symptoms include severe
      headaches and fatigue, forgetfulness, blurred vision and dizziness resulting in balance
      difficulties, poor concentration, sleep disturbances and depression. These symptoms can
      impact someone's daily functional ability, cause emotional distress and potentially limit
      their ability to return to work or school, which includes early back to work employment.
      Further, the impact of these debilitating symptoms can result in the breakdown of the family
      unit; whereby the patient's recovery is put at risk along with the mental health and
      financial impact on their family.

      While trying to cope with these persistent symptoms, many individuals also experience a lack
      of post-recovery education and ongoing daily support as to how best to manage their symptoms
      while they begin to recover. Resting can actually prolong symptoms and lead to more
      difficulties, while being too active can restart or increase the severity of symptoms.
      However, health care providers at Parkwood Institute have discovered that patients who learn
      how to appropriately pace and plan their activities can minimize their symptoms, enhance
      recovery, and resume activities that had previously been a major part of their lives.

      In 2013, the Parkwood Institute Outpatient Acquired Brain Injury Team developed a paper-based
      pacing and planning points system with a scale for rating the difficulty of daily activities
      (like grocery shopping, driving, and reading) according to the amount of energy each
      requires, and the severity of symptoms they trigger.

      By tracking the maximum number of points they can comfortably expend in a day, patients
      learned how to self-manage their symptoms and improve participation in daily activities. In
      using this system, patients found they were able to reduce the severity and frequency with
      which symptoms occurred. A former outpatient said, "the points plan was such an effective way
      for me to get through the day without being utterly exhausted. I continue to use it as it has
      made me more independent, and as such, less reliant on my support people." In efforts to make
      this system more user-friendly and readily available for more patients, the investigators
      have created a mobile version of this planning and pacing points system, "MyBrainPacer™".
      Preliminary usability testing has indicated user and clinician satisfaction with the app.

      For this next stage of development, the investigators plan to conduct a large-scale
      evaluation trial to demonstrate the effectiveness of the app more fulsomely. Completing this
      process will not only provide evidence related to the effectiveness of the app, but will also
      generate data to inform an existing gap in scientific literature: understanding of concussion
      recovery patterns. Analysis of the data will facilitate a better understanding of the
      patterns that exist between symptoms and everyday activity. In turn, this will enable
      development of a more personalized and customized version of the app, where the app 'learns'
      the patterns of a particular person and tailors their point system to their specific needs.
    
  