
    
      The purpose of this IRB proposal is to gain access to genetic data generated from
      participants of publically-funded genomic studies and deposited into dbGaP. It is our
      intention to use dbGaP data to conduct secondary analysis of the influence of admixture on
      the outcome of data quality control (QC) in genetic association studies to inform future
      studies of the optimal QC metric for the genetic association analysis of admixed population.
      The data we intend to use is deposited in dbGaP and is from the Michigan University Health
      and Retirement Study (HRS). This protocol is being sent to you because of a dbGaP requirement
      for this specific de-identified dataset to be reviewed by an IRB as that was not in the
      protocol.

      This work will require the use of statistical analyses tools to estimate the genetic ancestry
      make-up of each sample, from the genotype data, and determine how that ancestry relates to QC
      outcomes (i.e. whether or not the sample might be excluded from an analysis due to its
      ancestral genetic composition rather that the sample genetic quality).

      Objectives and specific aims: This work aims to investigate samples failing heterozygosity
      and sample genotype call rate quality control (QC) to determine whether or not the samples
      call rate and heterozygosity rate have to do with the ancestry composition of the outliers
      rather than the quality of the samples and inform future studies of potential loss if general
      QC is applied to genetic data of admixed sample sets.

      Rationale and Background: In genetic association studies DNA sample quality can vary largely
      across study participants and such variation has an impact on genotype call rate and genotype
      accuracy; samples of low DNA quality tend to have lower genotype call rate and genotype
      accuracy. Heterozygosity rate (proportion of heterozygous loci per individual) and genotype
      failure rate (proportion of missing genotypes per individual) are jointly and routinely used
      to identify samples with low DNA quality at the data quality control (QC) stage of genetic
      association studies. Excessive heterozygosity rate may indicate sample contamination whilst a
      reduced heterozygosity rate could indicate inbreeding [1]. Samples with 3-7% [2,3] genotype
      call-rate and heterozygosity > 2-3 standard deviations from the mean heterozygosity are
      usually excluded from genetic case-control studies.

      Generally, the sample size of genetic association studies involving minority ethnic groups
      such as admixed African American tends to be small. It is hence important to ensure samples
      are not discarded unnecessarily, resulting into reduced statistical power, by using QC
      thresholds applied to homogenous groups which might not be appropriate for an admixed sample
      set. The aim of this analysis is to investigate samples failing heterozygosity and sample
      genotype call rate QC to determine whether or not the samples call rate and heterozygosity
      rate have to do with the ancestry composition of the outliers rather than the quality of the
      samples. The motivation is to inform future studies of potential loss if general
    
  