
    
      The transtheoretical model (TTM) is a purposeful behavioral change model. It is a systematic
      study of people's behavior change based on a variety of theories. Effective outcomes with TTM
      also have been applied in many studies of health behavior change, especially in the field of
      two aspects: on the one hand, to change unhealthy behaviors such as smoking, drinking, weight
      control and so on. Besides, a way to involve individuals in health behavior change is
      motivational interviewing (MI). MI is a way that taking patients as the center approach to
      interpersonal communication, which helps patients discover and overcome their ambivalence,
      thereby triggering behavioral changes. A study showed that MI might have favorable effects on
      changing patients' depression and found that the effect of a single use of MI was better than
      that of cognitive-behavioral therapy. In summary, the TTM-based interventions and MI were
      used to change behavior fields. To our knowledge, few studies have been conducted to
      determine the effects of the TTM-based intervention and MI on depression. Therefore, this
      study decided to determine the effects of TTM-based intervention and MI on the management of
      depression in hospitalized patients with CHD.

      The aim of this study was to determine the effects of TTM-based intervention and MI on
      patients' stages of change, processes of change, decisional balance, self-efficacy, and
      depression. The study's hypothesis was: (1) The patients in the intervention group would be a
      positive shift in stages of change, the scores of cognitive level, behavioral level,
      perceived benefits, self-efficacy, perceived barriers and depression after intervention
      compared with the control group.

      The sample comprised 110 (each group: 55) patients with coronary heart disease (CHD) in the
      Medicine-Cardiovascular Departments of three hospitals in Changsha.

      The whole trail was on the basis of the CONSORT statements and a single, blind, randomized,
      controlled trial. Study procedures were approved by the institutional review boards of all
      participating All patients were recruited by enrolling researchers for eligibility and then
      enrolled in the study if they were eligible and informed consent. Patients were randomly
      divided into two groups by using a block randomization list with a block size of 4 at 1:1.

      A research assistant put the generated random number into opaque consecutively numbered
      envelopes and sealed the envelopes, and then handed it to enrolling researchers. When the
      eligible patients were recruited in the study, the enrolling researchers numbered the
      patients, opening the same numbers sealed envelopes. The enrolling researchers were blind
      about the design of this study.

      The patients in the intervention group received conventional care, TTM-based intervention and
      MI; Interventions were provided by trained nurses. First, The leader of this research
      contacted the hospital, getting the consent of the relevant departments and ward heads of the
      hospital to screen research objects before the beginning of the study, telling patients the
      purpose, significance, methods of the research, times to fill out the questionnaire, and the
      possible risks and benefits of the study.

      The MI was implemented 2 times, 20 minutes each time, the trained nurses interviewed each
      patient face-to-face in the unit. Data were collected at 2 time points: the patient was on
      admission (T, obtain the baseline information) and the patient was 2- days before discharged
      (T0, obtain the information after intervention), according to the assessment of their current
      stage of change and depression delivered by filling the Stages of Change Subscale and
      Hamilton Rating Scale. TTM - based intervention was given 3 times in the form of a small
      course, 20 minutes each time according to the changing stage.

      No interventions were performed for the control group participants during the study. However,
      these patients received conventional care ( nursing procedure, education about diet, exercise
      and so on).

      Data were collected by a research assistant who was blind to the study design and allocation
      of participants. At baseline, sociodemographic and clinical characteristics were collected
      from medical records and personal interviews.
    
  