
    
      BACKGROUND:

      African-American women have a substantially higher prevalence of hypertension and suffer
      greater morbidity and mortality due to blood pressure elevation than white-American women.
      Much of this ethnic difference in blood pressure is due to increased obesity in
      African-American women. In contrast, young African-American and white-American girls have
      similar levels of obesity and blood pressure. The hemodynamic changes that occur with
      developing obesity and result in this ethnic difference in blood pressure have not been well
      characterized. Cross-sectional studies of adolescents have shown that despite similar blood
      pressure levels, African-Americans have higher total peripheral resistance while whites have
      higher cardiac output. Cross-sectional studies of adults show that obesity is associated with
      elevation of cardiac output. If such an obesity-related increase in cardiac output is
      superimposed on the underlying elevation of total peripheral resistance in African-American
      girls, these hemodynamic factors could be responsible for the developing ethnic divergence in
      blood pressure seen in late adolescence as African-American girls develop an increasing
      prevalence and severity of obesity.

      This investigation will provide important new knowledge regarding the longitudinal changes
      and interrelationships among the potential hemodynamic factors which define the association
      between developing obesity and blood pressure elevation. In the clinical setting where
      obesity is very difficult to prevent or treat, it is important to understand the mechanisms
      by which obesity results in elevated blood pressure. The results of this cohort study will
      provide the basis for rational and specific clinical strategies to interrupt the
      pathophysiologic process by which obesity leads to hypertension and places African-American
      women at particularly increased risk for cardiovascular disease morbidity and mortality.

      The NGHS was initiated by the NHLBI in 1985 as a contract-supported program to determine if
      the Black-white differences in the development of obesity in 2,379 pubescent females were due
      to differences in psychosocial, socioeconomic and other environmental factors. The study also
      sought to determine whether differences in the development of obesity led to Black-white
      differences in other coronary heart disease risk factors, such as blood pressure and serum
      lipids. The study has been renewed twice, the last time as an investigator-initiated study.
      See the National Growth and Health Study for the complete write-up.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The ancillary study is a prospective cohort study of 355 African-American and 315
      white-American females from the NHLBl Growth and Health Study as these women progress from
      age 18-19 years to age 21-22 years. The study includes yearly measurement of anthropometrics,
      blood pressure, and echocardiographic determination of cardiac output and total peripheral
      resistance. In addition, factors which may relate to changes in cardiac output and total
      peripheral resistance, such as circulating blood volume (left ventricular end-diastolic
      volume), heart rate, left ventricular contractility, whole blood viscosity, and left
      ventricular mass and geometry are measured.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  