
    
      Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a brain disease and is the most common form of dementia. Clinical
      trials for the prevention of AD have been moving to enroll subjects at increasingly earlier
      time-points, and are now focusing upon individuals who are not only cognitively normal but
      also have biomarkers associated with an increased risk of developing AD. Detecting one
      specific biomarker on brain scans, i.e. amyloid-beta protein, is currently used to inform
      diagnoses in cognitively impaired individuals, and its use may expand to pre-clinical AD
      cases as preventive therapies are developed.

      In the REVEAL-SCAN clinical trial, the investigators are examining the psychological and
      behavioral impact of learning "elevated" and "not elevated" amyloid neuroimaging results
      pertaining to the risk of progressing to Alzheimer's disease dementia by age 85 among
      cognitively normal older adults. The study's goal is to learn how to communicate these
      amyloid brain scan results and the risk of developing AD dementia by age 85 in a diverse
      population of cognitively normal older adults. Findings will be relevant to future
      decision-making in research trials and clinical practices.

      Study sites will enroll older, cognitively normal individuals (approx. 370 total) using APOE
      genotyping to enrich the enrollment sample such that roughly 100 of those scanned will have
      elevated amyloid brain scan results. From this enriched sample, participants (approximately
      25% African-American) will all receive their Alzheimer's Disease Dementia Risk Assessment
      based on known risk factors. Half of the participants will be randomized to also learn their
      amyloid brain scan result at that time, while the other half will learn their scan result 6
      months later. Cognitive, psychological, and behavioral outcomes will be compared between
      these two groups. Participants will be followed for up to 9 months with up to 7 in-person
      visits and 5 phone calls.

      REVEAL-SCAN is the first multisite randomized clinical trial to explore the benefits, risks
      and limitations of disclosing amyloid results, and will help researchers and clinicians
      understand downstream implications of this emerging technology as it becomes increasingly
      utilized to compile comprehensive neuroimaging profiles for older adults at risk for
      developing Alzheimer's disease dementia.
    
  