
    
      Screening period: Patients will be screened for eligibility for the clinical study within a
      4-week period.

      Randomization and leukapheresis periods: When the patients meet all entry criteria, they will
      be randomized in a ratio of 1:1 into one of the following two groups:

      Group A (experimental group): Treatment with DC in addition to chemotherapy with 4-6 cycles
      of pemetrexed/carboplatin as first-line induction chemotherapy followed by pemetrexed as
      maintenance therapy. These patients will undergo leukapheresis within 1 week after
      randomization before start of treatment.

      Group B (control group): Chemotherapy with 4-6 cycles of pemetrexed/carboplatin as first-line
      induction chemotherapy followed by pemetrexed as maintenance therapy.

      Treatment periods:

      Standard of care chemotherapy will be administered to patients in both treatment groups in
      cycles. Each chemotherapy cycle will be 3 weeks long. Patients in the group A will start with
      chemotherapy 2-5 days after leukapheresis, and patients in the group B will start with
      chemotherapy within 2 weeks after randomization.

      Induction chemotherapy period

      Pemetrexed in combination with carboplatin will be administered on Day 1 of each 3-week
      chemotherapy cycle. After 2 cycles of chemotherapy, tumor response will be evaluated
      according to RECIST v. 1.1. Patients with progressive disease or intolerance to chemotherapy
      will terminate study treatment but will be followed for survival. Patients with complete
      response, partial response, or stable disease will continue chemotherapy with carboplatin and
      pemetrexed for a total of 6 cycles . After at least a total of 4 cycles of chemotherapy,
      patients can be administered pemetrexed maintenance chemotherapy.

      Maintenance chemotherapy period

      During the Maintenance chemotherapy period, patients will receive pemetrexed of each 3-week
      chemotherapy cycle. Chemotherapy with pemetrexed will be administered in up to a total of 21
      cycles or until disease progression or development of intolerance.

      DCVAC

      Patients in the group A will start with DC treatment on Day 15 of chemotherapy Cycle 3
      provided.During the Induction chemotherapy period, DC will be administered on Day 15 of each
      subsequent 3-week chemotherapy cycle of chemotherapy. During the Maintenance chemotherapy
      period, DC will be administered on Day 15 of every other 3-week chemotherapy cycle.

      Follow-up periods: Patients who complete or discontinue all study treatments after Cycle 3
      before disease progression will undergo disease evaluation by CT scan every 3 months until
      progression of the disease.Patients who discontinue all study treatments before or at Cycle 2
      for any reason or those who complete or discontinue all study treatments after Cycle 3 after
      disease progression will be followed up for survival. The survival data will be collected
      every 3 months by directly contacting the patient (or a relative/caretaker) by phone until
      death from any reason or termination of the study. The clinical study will be terminated when
      at least 45 PFS (progression-free survival) events have been reached, which is assumed to
      happen approximately 24 months after start of treatment of the first patient included in the
      study.
    
  