
    
      The Study Drug:

      Ofatumumab is designed to bind to the surface of some white blood cells (B-cells) and to kill
      these cells. It can destroy cancer cells that come from B-cells, and can be used to treat
      cancers of B-cells such as B-CLL.

      Study Drug Administration If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you
      will receive ofatumumab up to 20 times during this study. You will receive 8 weekly infusions
      and then an infusion every 2 months for 2 years or until the disease gets worse. You will
      receive ofatumumab by vein over about 6 ½ hours the first time and over 4 hours for all the
      following infusions. The first infusion will be the smallest dose. The second and later
      infusions will be 3 times larger than the first.

      Before you receive the study drug each time, you will receive Tylenol (acetaminophen) by
      mouth to reduce the risk of fever. You will receive Benadryl (diphenhydramine) by mouth or
      vein and prednisolone (a steroid) by vein over about 30 minutes to reduce the risk of an
      allergic reaction or an infusion reaction.

      During the infusions, you will be monitored closely. You will be expected to stay in clinic
      for about 71/2 hours on the day of the first infusion and 5 hours for all other infusions.

      You will be seen at MD Anderson for mandatory visits for enrollment, ofatumumab infusions,
      for response assessment after 8 weekly ofatumumab doses (Month 3), during maintenance every 6
      months and for follow-up at least once a year. Your local doctor may perform other visits and
      laboratory studies.

      If you decide to have your local doctor perform study visits and laboratory studies, a letter
      will be sent to your doctor, describing your participation in this study and asking for your
      doctor's agreement to help manage your care.

      Study Visits

      The following tests and procedures will be performed every other week during Weeks 1- 8
      (Weeks 1, 3, 5 and 7):

      You will have a complete physical exam including measurement of your vital signs.

      Your medical history will be recorded. Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine
      tests.

      Starting at Month 3, you will have the following tests and procedures every 2 Months:

      You will have a complete physical exam including measurement of your vital signs.

      Your medical history will be recorded. Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine
      tests.

      Starting at Month 3, you will also have the following tests and procedures every 6 months, in
      addition to the ones performed every 2 months:

      Blood (about an additional 1 teaspoon) will be drawn for other routine tests. You may have CT
      scans to check the status of the disease, if your doctor thinks that this test is needed (at
      Month 3 only).

      You will have a bone marrow aspirate/biopsy to check the status of the disease.

      Additional Information Depending on the results of your hepatitis tests performed at the
      screening visit, you may have additional hepatitis tests. The study staff will tell you if
      you will have these tests performed. If you do have the additional hepatitis tests, blood
      (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn during Months 3-24. The blood will be drawn at the same
      time of the routine blood draws to prevent unnecessary needle sticks.

      Length of Study You may continue taking the study drug for up to 20 doses (up to 24 months).
      You will no longer be able to take the study drug if the disease gets worse or intolerable
      side effects occur.

      Your participation on the study will be over once you have completed the follow-up visits,
      which will last until you begin receiving any other treatment.

      Follow Up Visits Every 3 Months You will have a complete physical exam including measurement
      of your vital signs.

      Your medical history will be recorded. Blood (about 2 teaspoons every 3 months, about 1
      teaspoon every 6 months) will be drawn for routine tests.

      If your doctor thinks it is needed, blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for hepatitis
      testing.

      Every 6 Months, you will have a bone marrow aspirate/biopsy to check the status of the
      disease.

      This is an investigational study. Ofatumumab is FDA approved for CLL resistant to standard
      chemotherapy. Ofatumumab's use in patients with residual CLL or SLL is investigational.

      Ofatumumab will be provided at no cost to you while you are on the study.

      Up to 42 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  