
    
      Crab meat is low in fat and is a good source of sustainable protein that also provides high
      levels of minerals (Se, Zn, I), vitamins (B12) and long chain omega-3 fatty acids. However,
      crab meat can also contain high levels of the heavy metal cadmium (Cd), both in the white
      meat but especially so in the brown meat (the hepatopancreas and liver). While European
      legislation sets a limit of 0.5mg Cd/kg wet weight for the white meat from crab, there
      currently is no limit set for the brown meat from crab due to the large range in
      concentrations found across member states.

      Cd occurs in an inorganic form as an environmental contaminant, both through natural
      occurrence and from agricultural and industrial sources. The general population is exposed to
      Cd from various sources, including smoking, but in the non-smoking general population, food
      is the principal source. Cd is predominantly toxic to the kidney, but it also causes bone
      demineralisation and is statistically associated with increased risk of cancer in the lung,
      endometrium, bladder and breast. Moreover, blood Cd levels as low as 0.5 - 0.8 µg/l have been
      associated with chronic disease. A study of 8,989 US adults from the National Health and
      Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) found such levels to be associated with all-cause
      mortality, cardiovascular disease, and heart disease after around 5 years follow up and
      adjustments for a number of potential confounding factors (Tellez-Plaza et al. 2012).

      Cd is thought to be absorbed within the body through the use of the same transport pathways
      as essential metals including zinc, calcium and iron in the intestine. After absorption, Cd
      is transported in the blood to the liver where it forms a complex with metallothionein, a low
      molecular weight family of proteins. In the kidney, the Cd-metallothionein complex is
      filtered in the glomeruli and then reabsorbed in the renal tubules. Although absorption of Cd
      from the diet in humans is comparatively low (3-5%), it is efficiently retained in the kidney
      and liver, with a long biological half-life (10 to 30 years). Cd excreted in the urine is a
      well-characterized exposure biomarker and can be used as a quantitative indicator of
      cumulative internal dose.

      Accumulation of Cd increases with age (Olsson et al, 2002), with 50yrs being the age where
      urinary cadmium is maximal (WHO/FAO, 2004). Cd is primarily toxic to the kidney, especially
      to the proximal tubular cells where accumulation over time may cause a decrease in the
      glomerular filtration rate and eventually, renal failure. Cd causes bone demineralisation,
      either through direct bone damage or indirectly as a result of renal dysfunction. It is
      through long term accumulation of Cd that its toxic effects are mainly manifested. As Cd has
      a high affinity for the main intestinal iron transporter (Kim et al, 2007), the absorption of
      Cd is influenced by body iron status and there is a close inverse association between serum
      ferritin (a marker of iron stores) and blood Cd (Berglund et al, 1994). In this regard,
      studies on human populations have shown increasing blood Cd levels with decreasing serum
      ferritin in women at fertile age and during pregnancy due to their generally decreased iron
      status (Berglund et al., 1994).

      There is concern that Cd from crab meat consumption can contribute greatly to the body's Cd
      burden however, no studies have investigated whether the Cd present in crabmeat increases the
      levels of Cd in the body and similarly, it is not known whether higher Cd intakes in regular
      crab meat eaters is associated with increased incidence of kidney damage. This study will
      examine some of these issues. There is evidence from some studies suggesting that selenium
      and perhaps zinc, which are both present at high levels in crab meat, may counteract the
      toxicity of Cd (Lindh et al, 1996; Skröder et al, 2015). Moreover, some evidence may suggest
      that the bioavailability of Cd from crab meat may be less compared to Cd in other foods (Lind
      et al, 1995). The study will investigate whether volunteers who regularly consume brown
      crabmeat have higher levels of Cd compared to volunteers who do not consume crabmeat. A
      frequency questionnaire will be designed to estimate participants' total brown crabmeat
      intake and to evaluate Cd exposure from crab consumption and this will be compared to the Cd
      body burden (assessed as urinary Cd and blood Cd levels) to determine whether an association
      between these variables exists and whether regular crab meat consumers have a higher body
      burden of Cd compared to non-crabmeat consumers.

      HYPOTHESIS

      The central hypothesis is that regular habitual consumption of brown crabmeat increases the
      body burden of cadmium

      OBJECTIVES The objective of the study is to determine if regular brown crabmeat consumers
      have an increased body burden of cadmium compared to non-crabmeat consumers.
    
  