
    
      Secondary objectives will compare telmisartan (80 mg) (MICARDIS® and ramipril (5 mg and 10
      mg) on: 1) the reduction in the last 6-hour ABPM mean pulse pressure (PP) relative to dosing,
      2) the reductions in the 24-hour ABPM mean DBP, SBP and PP relative to dosing, 3) reductions
      in ABPM mean DBP, SBP and PP during other periods of the 24-hour dosing interval (i.e.,
      morning, daytime, and nighttime) relative to clock time, 4) change from baseline in systolic
      and diastolic blood pressure load during the 24-hour dosing interval, 5) reductions in the
      mean seated trough DBP and SBP measured using a manual in-clinic cuff sphygmomanometer, 6)
      responder rates as determined by both ABPM and manual in-clinic cuff measurements and 7)
      Health-Related Quality of Life (HRQL).

      Study Hypothesis:

      It is hypothesised that the rise of blood pressure (BP) during the last hours of the sleeping
      period is a cause of the high incidence of cardiovascular events in the morning. The purpose
      of the present study is to demonstrate that telmisartan (MICARDIS®) is not inferior to
      ramipril in lowering blood pressure in patients with mild-to-moderate hypertension. Blood
      pressure will be assessed by ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM) as this will allow
      comparison of the full 24-hour effects of both treatments without artefacts (e.g., white-coat
      hypertension) introduced by measurement of blood pressure in the clinic. This will measure
      diastolic blood pressures over the entire 24-hour dosing interval, with primary attention
      focused on the last six hours of the dosing interval.

      NULL AND ALTERNATIVE HYPOTHESES In order to test the multiple hypotheses (e.g.,
      non-inferiority and superiority of telmisartan compared to ramipril), multiple dosages (i.e.,
      telmisartan 80mg (MICARDIS®) versus ramipril 5mg and ramipril 10mg after 8 and 14 weeks of
      treatment, respectively), and the two endpoints (i.e., reduction in DBP and SBP during the
      last 6 hours of the 24-hour dosing interval) as measured by ABPM, a completely hierarchical,
      closed testing procedure will be used.

      Hierarchical Closed Testing Procedure:

        1. Non-inferiority of telmisartan 80 mg (MICARDIS®) compared to ramipril 5 mg at the end of
           the 8 week treatment period in the reduction of DBP during the last 6 hours of the 24
           hour dosing interval; if significant then,

        2. Superiority of telmisartan 80 mg (MICARDIS®) compared to ramipril 5 mg at the end of the
           8-week treatment period in the reduction of DBP during the last 6 hours of the 24-hour
           dosing interval; if significant then,

        3. Superiority of telmisartan 80mg (MICARDIS®) compared to ramipril 5 mg at the end of the
           8-week treatment period in the reduction of SBP during the last 6 hours of the 24-hour
           dosing interval; if significant then,

        4. Non-inferiority of telmisartan 80mg (MICARDIS®) compared to ramipril 10 mg at the end of
           an 14 week treatment period in the reduction of DBP during the last 6 hours of the
           24-hour dosing interval; if significant then,

        5. Superiority of telmisartan 80mg (MICARDIS®) compared to ramipril 10 mg at the end of an
           14-week treatment period in the reduction of DBP during the last 6 hours of the 24-hour
           dosing interval; and if significant then,

        6. Superiority of telmisartan 80mg (MICARDIS®) compared to ramipril 10mg at the end of an
           14-week treatment period in the reduction of SBP during the last 6 hours of the 24-hour
           dosing interval.

      A difference of 2 mmHg was determined to be the maximum difference between the mean
      reductions in DBP during the last 6 hours of the 24-hour dosing interval for the two
      treatments which would be considered to have no clinical importance (i.e., the limit for non
      inferiority). Thus non-inferiority of telmisartan compared to ramipril will be tested using
      the following set of hypotheses:

      Null Hypothesis:

      The overall mean reduction from baseline in ABPM mean DBP during the last 6 hours of the
      24-hour dosing interval for telmisartan 80 mg (MICARDIS®) is inferior to that for ramipril by
      at least 2 mmHg.

      Alternative Hypothesis: The overall mean reduction from baseline in ABPM mean DBP during the
      last 6 hours of the 24-hour dosing interval for telmisartan 80mg (MICARDIS®) is less than 2
      mmHg smaller than that for ramipril.

      These hypotheses can be stated as:

      H0: dT - dR less than or equal to -2 mmHg versus HA: dT - dR > -2 mmHg where dT and dR
      represent the overall mean reduction from baseline in ABPM mean DBP during the last 6 hours
      of the 24-hour dosing interval for telmisartan and ramipril, respectively, adjusted for any
      other factors included in the statistical model.

      If the lower limit of the two-sided 95% confidence interval for the difference between the
      least square means of both treatments (telmisartan - ramipril) lies above -2 mmHg, then it
      will be concluded that telmisartan 80mg (MICARDIS®) is at least as effective as ramipril (5mg
      after 8 weeks of treatment or 10mg after 14 weeks of treatment, depending upon the
      comparison) in reducing DBP during the last 6 hours of the 24-hour dosing interval.

      Superiority of telmisartan (MICARDIS®) compared to ramipril will be tested using the
      following set of hypotheses:

      Null Hypothesis:

      The overall mean reduction from baseline in the ABPM mean during the last 6 hours of the
      24-hour dosing interval for telmisartan 80mg (MICARDIS®) is less than or equal to that for
      ramipril.

      Alternative Hypothesis: The overall mean reduction from baseline in the ABPM mean during the
      last 6 hours of the 24-hour dosing interval for telmisartan 80mg (MICARDIS®) is greater than
      that for ramipril.

      These hypotheses can be stated as:

      H0: dT - dR less than or equal to 0 mmHg versus HA: dT - dR > 0 mmHg where dT and dR
      represent the overall mean reduction from baseline in ABPM mean DBP during the last 6 hours
      of the 24-hour dosing interval for telmisartan and ramipril, respectively, adjusted for any
      other factors included in the statistical model.

      If the lower limit of the two-sided 95% confidence interval for the difference between the
      least square means of both treatments (telmisartan (MICARDIS®) - ramipril) is greater than
      zero, then it will be concluded that telmisartan 80mg (MICARDIS®) is statistically superior
      to ramipril (5mg after 8 weeks of treatment or 10mg after 14 weeks of treatment, depending
      upon the comparison) in reducing blood pressure (DBP or SBP, depending upon the comparison)
      during the last 6 hours of the 24-hour dosing interval.

      Comparison(s):

      Reductions in blood pressure during the last 6 hours of the 24-hour dosing interval as
      measured by ABPM in patients treated with telmisartan (MICARDIS®) compared to patients
      treated with ramipril. The primary analysis will consist of a closed testing procedure first
      testing for non-inferiority of telmisartan 80mg (MICARDIS®) compared to ramipril 10mg after
      fourteen weeks of treatment in the reduction in diastolic blood pressure (DBP); if
      significant, testing for superiority of telmisartan 80 mg (MICARDIS®) compared to ramipril 10
      mg in the reduction in DBP; if significant, testing for superiority of telmisartan 80 mg
      (MICARDIS®) compared to ramipril 10 mg in the reduction of systolic blood pressure (SBP); if
      significant, testing for non-inferiority of telmisartan 80 mg (MICARDIS®) compared to
      ramipril 5 mg after eight weeks of treatment in the reduction in DBP; if significant, testing
      for superiority of telmisartan 80 mg (MICARDIS®) compared to ramipril 5 mg in the reduction
      in DBP; and if significant, testing for superiority of telmisartan 80mg (MICARDIS®) compared
      to ramipril 5mg in the reduction in SBP.
    
  