
    
      Background:

      Laboratory-based investigations have contributed to an improved understanding of
      pathophysiology and to the development of new therapies for hematologic malignancies.

      The aim of this protocol is to facilitate biologic study of leukemias, pre-malignant
      conditions, myelodysplastic syndromes, lymphomas, and other blood disorders.

      This is a sample acquisition protocol for targeted study of hematologic malignancies by a
      collaborative network of NIH investigators from multiple Institutes/Centers.

      Objective:

      This biology protocol is designed to allow sample acquisition for use in the study of
      hematologic malignancies. A variety of laboratory investigations designed to support NIH
      translational trials; to apply new methodologies in the study of cellular, and molecular
      biology; to probe for new therapeutic targets; and to develop new treatment approaches will
      be performed.

      Eligibility:

      Diagnosis of any hematologic malignancy or pre-malignant conditions, including but not
      restricted to the following: Acute Lymphocytic Leukemia (ALL), Acute Myelogenous Leukemia
      (AML), Myelodysplastic Syndrome (MDS), Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia (CML), Juvenile
      Myelomonocytic Leukemia (JMML, J-CML), Non-Hodgkin s Lymphoma (NHL), Hodgkin s Disease

      Tumor tissue that has been previously collected and is available for study or that can be
      collected with minimal additional risk to the subject during sampling required for routine
      patient care.

      Patient age: birth to 75 years.

      Design:

      Biologic assays relevant to the investigation of hematologic malignancies will be performed
      in an exploratory fashion, some studies are developmental, i.e., assay design in support of
      current or planned CC clinical trials. Others are standard assays that will be applied in
      attempt to identify new targets or test new therapeutic approaches.

      .
    
  