
    
      Previous prevention-trial planning efforts have indicated that Phase III studies of HIV
      prevention interventions will require the participation of large numbers of persons at high
      risk for HIV infection. In addition to accruing large numbers of participants, research
      centers conducting Phase III HIV prevention studies must retain participants in extended
      periods of follow-up in order to accurately reflect the impact of the intervention in the
      target population. A current measurement of HIV incidence, the risk factors associated with
      HIV infection, and the retention rate of newly enrolled high-risk women is necessary for an
      upcoming HPTN trial. In addition, HPTN requires an assessment of its ability to enroll and
      retain HIV-discordant couples for a proposed HPTN trial, as well as a timely assessment of
      the HIV incidence rate in these exposed partners. This study will provide essential
      experience and a preliminary base for the enrollment of discordant couples into future HPTN
      clinical trials. Taken together with the need for current estimates of HIV incidence in the
      cohort and community populations and the need for data to ensure high retention rates, this
      protocol is important for the HPTN generally and for HPTU in Pune in particular.

      Potential study participants will undergo eligibility screening, including administration of
      a questionnaire, physical examination, and HIV antibody testing. Once participants are
      enrolled in the study, the requirements will include follow-up every 3 months for 17.5
      months, phlebotomy, physical exams, and questionnaires. At every follow-up visit, a short
      questionnaire will be administered to all participants to assess their continued
      understanding about the nature, duration, benefits and risks of being in the study and to
      assure their voluntary participation in the study. Participants seen in follow-up also will
      have a physical examination, be evaluated and treated for any STDs, receive additional
      counseling, and be offered retesting for HIV infection. In addition, participants also will
      be invited to participate in additional assessment issues addressing retention using a series
      of focus groups, key informant interviews, and individual qualitative and quantitative
      assessments. Participants in this protocol may also be eligible to enroll into 1 of 2
      proposed ancillary laboratory substudies (HPTN 034A and 034B).
    
  