
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the safety profile and tolerability of oral combination therapy with ixazomib
      citrate (ixazomib) (I), venetoclax (V), dexamethasone (D) in non-t(11;14) relapsed/refractory
      multiple myeloma (RRMM) with dose-escalating design to determine the maximum tolerated dose
      (MTD) and recommended phase II dose (RP2D). (Phase I) II. To compare overall response rate
      (ORR; measured as best response) of IVD and ID in a proteasome inhibitor (PI)-non-refractory
      cohort. (Phase II, Cohort 1) III. To evaluate ORR of IVD in PI-refractory cohort. (Phase II,
      Cohort 2)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To observe and record anti-tumor activity. II. To determine the rate of very good partial
      response (VGPR) or better. III. To determine time to progression (TTP). IV. To determine
      duration of response (DOR). V. To determine progression-free survival (PFS). VI. To determine
      overall survival (OS).

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To correlate and predict responses with the following tests, using bone marrow aspirate
      samples at (a) baseline and (b) during treatment on day 8 (or day 9 to allow for scheduling
      flexibility): BCL2, NOXA, and MCL1 by flow cytometry; polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for
      BCL2, BCL2L1 (=BCL-XL), and MCL-1 messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) expression, and
      BCL2:BCL2L1 and BCL2:MCL1 ratios; and Ex vivo Mathematical Myeloma Advisor (EMMA).

      II. To evaluate the drug exposure and to correlate with toxicities using venetoclax
      peripheral blood pharmacokinetic (PK) analysis.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of venetoclax followed by a phase II study.
      PI non-refractory patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive ixazomib citrate orally (PO) on days 1, 8, and 15, venetoclax PO once
      daily (QD) on days 1-28 and dexamethasone PO on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Cycles repeat every 28
      days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive ixazomib citrate PO on days 1, 8, and 15, and dexamethasone PO on
      days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM III: PI-refractory patients receive ixazomib citrate, venetoclax and dexamethasone as Arm
      I.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for 30 days.
    
  