
    
      Aspiration is defined as entry of a solid or liquid material into the respiratory tract,
      below the vocal folds, or inhalation of fumes and vapors. Aspiration pneumonia is an
      infectious process caused by aspirated oropharyngeal flora, while aspiration pneumonitis is
      caused by a direct chemical insult due to the aspirated material.

      Aspiration pneumonitis and pneumonia among hospitalized patients result in increased
      morbidity, mortality and utilization of resources, with increased costs of care. Early
      identification of patients at risk for aspiration is crucial to prevent this preventable and
      often iatrogenic condition.

      In general, the most common predisposing factors for aspiration in adults are alcoholism,
      stroke, neuromuscular disorders, seizures, and loss of consciousness, and these patients are
      usually cared for in the ICU setting. Furthermore, critically ill patients are also at risk
      as they are frequently under varying degrees of sedation, especially early in the post
      extubation period. Postoperative patients in addition may have prolonged functional dysphagia
      due to lingering effect of neuromuscular blocking agents. However, risks of aspiration may
      apply to any hospitalized patient and further studies with broader inclusion criteria will be
      needed based on the preliminary results of this pilot study.

      There are multiple tools to assess for risk of aspiration in the ICU. These include Dysphagia
      Admission Screening Tool (DAST), Fiberoptic Endoscopic Evaluation of the Swallow (FEES) and
      Modified Barium Swallow (MBS), which are routinely performed at our institution. The DAST is
      relatively novel screening tool, brought up as an early method for identification of
      dysphagia, as mandated by Joint Commission. This test has not been yet validated. It was
      created in 2004 in order to reduce the risk of aspiration among new stroke patients, based
      upon literature review, research and a strong foundation of knowledge and experience in
      Speech-Language Pathology in evaluating dysphagia. The FEES and MBS are time consuming, often
      delayed and involve advanced testing that is performed by a certified speech-language
      pathologist and/or radiologist. MBS also requires transport of the patient from the ICU to
      the radiology suite and back. These tests examine function of swallow mechanism in order to
      predict individual patient's risk of aspiration. They are reported as pass or fail and graded
      from 1-8, depending on the degree of the bolus penetration into the airway and/or expulsion
      from the airway. The current "gold standard" to determine the risk of aspiration is
      considered to be MBS.

      We hypothesize that among critically ill, impairments in phonation correlate significantly to
      impairments in deglutition. Since in current practice patient's risk for aspiration is judged
      based on swallowing ability, strong correlation between impairments in speech and swallow
      mechanisms may allow prognostication based on phonation assessment alone. As the phonetic
      evaluation is simple, bedside test, it may result in earlier identification of the patient at
      risk for aspiration and obviate need for additional, invasive and expensive tests, and
      additional staff utilization for patient transport, testing and interpretation.
    
  