
    
      Post-surgery, patients are traditionally observed and treated in post-anesthesia care units
      (PACU) until they are discharged to the ward (or directly home) assessed by standardized
      international discharge criteria.

      The research project "Why in PACU?" (Rigshospitalet, Denmark), has since the beginning of
      2016 systematically collected and analyzed procedure-related complications in the recovery
      phase. The complications include pain, nausea/vomiting, circulatory and respiratory problems,
      orthostatic intolerance and cognitive disorders. Common to all the above-mentioned
      post-operative problems are the possible links to the inflammatory response caused by the
      surgical trauma.

      Glucocorticoids can in this context be central for the reduction of acute postoperative organ
      dysfunctions, caused by the anti-inflammatory effect. In a number of different surgical
      procedures, single dose, pre-operative glucocorticoids have been shown to reduce
      post-operative nausea and vomiting (PONV), acute pain and need of opioids as well as
      accelerate the convalescence.

      Meta-analyses also showed that single-dose administration of glucocorticoids
      (methylprednisolone and dexamethasone) for surgical patients is safe as opposed to long-term
      treatment.

      The "Why in PACU?" database shows that 70 % of patients experience moderate to severe pain in
      the immediate postoperative phase. This is despite a multimodal analgesic regime with
      preoperative analgesics and local analgesic catheter in the surgical site.

      Opioids are frequently administered to relieve pain, resulting in sedation, risk of hypoxia
      and delaying mobilization.

      Patients having Ganz osteotomy are primarily young women with hipdysplasia, that are
      otherwise healthy. Lenght of stay is typically 5 days, due to pain and lack of mobilisation.

      In this study patients are randomized to either high dose (48 mg) or standard/low dose (8 mg)
      dexamethasone, administered preoperatively. The hypothese is that patients receiving high
      dose dexamethasone will experience less pain in the immediate postoperative course and
      receive less opioids.

      The study is not placebo-controlled since the positive effects of dexamethasone 8 mg on PONV
      have been shown in numerous trials, and is already being administered to all patients at the
      clinic. It would therefore not be ethically correct to withdraw from this practise.
    
  