
    
      This is a Phase I/IIa inter-patient dose-escalation study assessing weekly doses of
      Interleukin-7 (CYT107) in HBeAg-negative chronic hepatitis B infected adult patients. The
      dose escalation is aimed at establishing the safety of a biologically active doses of CYT107
      added to the current antiviral therapy with entecavir or tenofovir and vaccination or not. At
      each dose level, study patients will receive one subcutaneous administration of CYT107 per
      week for a total of 4.

      Groups of 8 patients will be entered at each dose level of CYT107. Three dose levels are
      planned.

      At each dose level, patients are randomized between 2 arms of treatment: tritherapy (CYT107,
      vaccine and antiviral treatment) or bitherapy (CYT107 and vaccine). Each treatment group is
      composed of 4 patients, 3 receiving experimental treatments, 1 just the current antiviral
      treatment (control patient).

      According to the treatment arm, eligible patients initially receive a vaccine if in treatment
      group of tritherapy, thereafter, CYT107 is added for a cycle of four weekly injections (if
      not a control patient) at a defined dose level. If in treatment group of tritherapy, patients
      will receive 2 additional doses of vaccine.

      The treatment phase for the tritherapy group is from first vaccine D0 to last vaccine W12 and
      includes CYT107 administration from W4 to W7.

      The treatment phase for the bitehrapy group is from W4 to W7 corresponding to CYT104
      injections.

      The patients are then followed on a regular basis until reaching 52 weeks after the D0.

      Participants will have 1 overnight hospitalization and 12 clinic visit on a period of 55
      weeks.

      During the visits the following may be done:

        -  medical history, physical examination, blood tests

        -  electrocardiograms (ECG)

        -  chest X-Ray

        -  liver/spleen imaging

        -  urine tests
    
  