
    
      The treatment of strabismus is often surgical. A better surgical plan would be possible if
      the exact limbus-insertion distance of the extraocular muscles was known. The clinical
      ophthalmologic examination, such as slit lamp biomicroscopy, cannot elucidate the muscle
      insertion position prior to surgery. This information is especially important in patients who
      have undergone prior strabismus surgery. In these patients, previous surgical data may not be
      available or the muscle insertion may be in a different location than expected. Thus, a
      preoperative imaging study that could accurately locate the muscle insertion may be useful
      for designing the surgical plan, possibly improving the success of the surgery, and reducing
      operative time and intraoperative complications.

      Previous studies that used computed tomography (CT) scans and high-resolution magnetic
      resonance imaging (MRI), have failed to reliably detect the rectus muscle insertions. Ocular
      ultrasound allows anatomic visualization of the EOM, but has a low image resolution.
      Ultrasound biomicroscopy (UBM), can accurately measure the limbus-insertion distance,
      however, it induces significant measurement errors due to the pressure applied to the globe
      during examination. The recent advances in AS-OCT imaging allow non-invasive, detailed,
      cross-sectional examination of anterior segment structures by generating a two-dimensional
      high resolution image from a reflected light beam. Two previous studies have successfully
      used AS-OCT to analyze EOM insertions, but the number of participants was small and patients
      with previous strabismus muscle surgery were not included.

      The investigators purpose is to gather limbus-EOM insertion distance data using the AS-OCT in
      a greater number of patients, include patients who have undergone previous strabismus
      procedures, and correlate AS-OCT measurements with intraoperative findings in those patients
      undergoing strabismus surgery.

      Procedures

        1. After recruitment, a written consent will be obtained from subjects who agree to
           participate.

        2. A review of medical records will be performed to obtain demographics data, type of
           strabismus, history of previous eye surgery, etc (see Data Collection Sheet)

        3. AS-OCT imaging of the rectus muscles will be performed in all patients using the Visante
           (Visante AS-OCT; Carl Zeiss Meditec) and/or Heidelberg Spectralis (Spectralis AS-OCT;
           Heidelberg Engineering) instruments.

        4. For patients undergoing strabismus surgery, the distance from the corneoscleral limbus
           to the insertion site of the rectus muscles will be measured with calipers at the time
           of the surgery.

        5. After the surgery, AS-OCT imaging of the rectus muscles will be performed during
           routinely scheduled post-operative clinic visits.

      All acquired images will be stored in the Bascom Palmer Eye Institute MERGE HealthCare
      Completes Acquisition of Ophthalmic Imaging Systems (OIS), a clinical imaging storage system,
      which is secured against unauthorized access. All background information will be entered into
      REDCAP data capturing system by one of the investigators and be accessible only to the
      investigators (http://www.project-redcap.org/).

      The AS-OCT devices that will be used are commercially available, FDA approved, and routinely
      used in clinical settings to evaluate the anterior and posterior segments of the eye. There
      are no experimental imaging procedures planned for the purpose of this study. All imaging
      acquisition protocols have been well-established and are non-invasive. There is no contact
      with the eye during image acquisition. This exposes the subjects to no greater than minimal
      risk as the result of participating in this study.

      All eligible adult patients who are undergoing strabismus evaluation at the Bascom Palmer Eye
      Institute will be invited to participate. The consent processes will occur during the clinic
      visit. The study does not involve any additional clinic visits. The patient will have ample
      opportunity to discuss the study, review the consent form, and sign the consent form during
      the course of the visit. This study will follow the SOP: Informed Consent Process for
      Research (HRP-090).

      Non-English Speaking Subjects We will exclude patients whose English proficiency precludes
      reading the form and understanding its contents.
    
  