
    
      Abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAA, ICD10 I71.4) are asymptomatic dilatations of the infrarenal
      aorta (≥3cm) with potential to rupture. This multifactorial disease is known to be caused by
      the progressive degradation of the aortic wall. AAAs have life-threatening consequences in
      the event of rupture (rAAA): the mortality is 100% if left untreated. The risk of rupture is
      closely related to the size of the AAA. When a patient is diagnosed with an AAA, life-long
      surveillance is initiated with regular ultrasound or computed tomography (CT) scans performed
      at vascular services. Prophylactic surgery is performed when the risk of rupture exceeds the
      risk of treatment: according to international guidelines, surgical evaluation and repair is
      indicated at a threshold of 55 mm (50 mm in women) to avoid rupture and subsequent death.

      The mortality after planned, elective AAA repair is estimated at 1.5%. By contrast, the
      mortality after emergency surgery for rAAA reaches 30%. As such, there is much to be gained
      by early identification of AAAs to enable timely intervention and reduce aneurysm-related
      morbidity and mortality in the population. The important non-modifiable risk factors for
      developing the disease include male sex, smoking, high age and family history of AAA. Since
      2006, one-time ultrasound screening for AAAs among elderly men has been gradually introduced
      in Sweden - the programme reached nationwide coverage in 2015. A prevalence of 1.4-2.0% has
      been recorded in the screened population and an overall reduction of 40% in aneurysm-related
      death has been demonstrated (annual decline in aneurysm-related mortality of 4%). It is not,
      however, cost-efficient to screen the female population due to low prevalence and high age at
      onset of disease.

      Previous investigations have indicated that 10-25% of all patients admitted for rupture were
      already known by the health care system but were subsequently lost to follow-up. Importantly,
      some large aneurysms never rupture while some small aneurysms (<55 mm) unpredictably do so -
      in the randomized controlled trial of UKSAT, an annual rupture risk of 1% was documented for
      small AAAs.

      Despite these shortcomings at a patient-specific level, there is still only one verified
      measure, the diameter, for evaluating growth, risk of rupture and indication for surgery.
      Consequently, the current follow-up protocol for AAA patients is generalized and fails to
      consider factors such as age, female sex, smoking, aneurysm morphology and lung function
      impairment. The major challenge within the field is risk assessment with high precision in
      order to provide treatment for the right patient and the right time.

      The standard surveillance entails repeated diameter measurements: the larger the aneurysm,
      the shorter the control intervals. The POP-STAR project explores new methods of AAA
      surveillance by prospective data collection comprising of patient demographics, radiological
      properties and follow-up information on patients diagnosed with AAAs. All patients will be
      subjected to standard care flow - POP-STAR adds patient risk profiling and scheduled imaging
      follow-up. The goal is to be able to characterize the radiological and biomechanical profiles
      of AAAs for accurate risk stratification, ultimately aiming at individualized AAA patient
      care.
    
  