
    
      Morphological analysis of fine-needle aspiration cytology (FNAC) under ultrasound classifies
      thyroid nodules in 6 categories (Bethesda classification). The diagnostic approach is
      codified by the Society of Endocrinology and for cytologies of indeterminate type (Bethesda
      3, 4 and 5), surgery of thyroid nodules is currently recommended. However, only 15.9% of the
      cytologies classified Bethesda 3, 26.1% of the Bethesda IV and 75.2% of the Bethesda V are
      actually cancers in the definitive histological analysis on surgical resection.

      Thus, new tools for predicting the risk of thyroid nodule malignancy need to be developed.

      To date, various risk stratification biomarkers have been reported in the literature but have
      not been validated in independent cohorts, thus excluding their implementation in daily
      practice.

      In addition, two commercial nucleic acid tests are proposed at a cost not compatible with
      generalized diffusion. The first approach is based on a next generation sequencing analysis
      of a target gene panel at the nucleotide sequence or transcribed level. The second
      alternative combines an analysis at level 1) of the deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) with the
      search for somatic variations such as mutations in oncogenes or the presence of fusion genes,
      and 2) microRNA with the measurement of their level of expression.

      Due to their stability, their ability to modulate the expression of various messenger RNA,
      microRNA are an attractive line of research.

      The aim is to validate a signature of 10 microRNA selected in a first exploratory study
      allowing the stratification of the cytologies of indeterminate type (In a first step, the
      teams will focus on standardising the pre-analytical stages and defining a threshold of
      positivity. The results of microRNA signature on a cohort of 70 patients will be compared
      with the ultrasound and then histological data of the resection specimen.
    
  