
    
      Chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection remains a health burden in people living with human
      immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Compared to the midpoint prevalence rate of HCV coinfection to
      be 2.4% in the general HIV-positive population, the prevalence rates are higher among
      bisexual men (4.0%), gay men (6.4%), and people who inject drugs (PWIDs) (82.4%). Following
      the widespread use of antiretroviral therapy (ART) for HIV which improves the health outcome
      by reducing the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS)-related deaths, the liver-related
      death has become a frequent cause of non-AIDS-related deaths in HIV-positive population. If
      HCV is left untreated, the HIV/HCV-coinfected patients may have higher risks of developing
      hepatic decompensation or hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) than HCV-monoinfected patients due
      to the accelerated progression of hepatic fibrosis.

      Interferon (IFN)-based therapy is the treatment of choice for HCV infection for HIV
      coinfected patients in earlier years. However, the treatment responses are far from ideal and
      the treatment-emergent adverse events (AEs) are frequently encountered. Based on the
      excellent efficacy and safety, IFN-free direct acting antivirals (DAAs) have been the
      mainstay of therapy for HCV. Furthermore, the world health organization (WHO) has set the
      goal of global HCV elimination by 2030. The microelimination of HCV among HIV/HCV-coinfected
      patients is also listed as the prioritized target by WHO.

      Although the overall treatment response has improved dramatically during the past 5-10 years,
      several studies have indicated the HIV/HCV-coinfected patients had high risks of reinfection
      following successful antiviral treatment. The risk of HCV reinfection was reported to be
      24.6% among HIV-positive men who have sex with men (MSM) in Austria, German, France and the
      United Kingdom who attained sustained virologic response (SVR) by IFN-based therapy. Two
      recent studies from Canada showed that the incidence of HCV reinfection in HIV-positive
      patients was higher that HIV-negative patients (3.44 vs. 1.13 per 100 person-year; 2.56 vs.
      1.12 per 100 person-year). In Taiwan, 14.1% of the HIV-positive patients had HCV reinfection
      following treatment-induced or spontaneous viral clearance, resulting an incidence of 8.2 per
      100 person-year with a total of 218.3 person-years of follow-up for these patients.

      Because data regarding to the HCV reinfection in HIV-positive patients are still limited,
      where a more comprehensive assessment of HCV reinfection is important based on the
      perspectives of HCV microelimination among HIV-positive patients in Taiwan, the investigators
      thus aim to conduct a long-term, large-scale cohort study to assess the risk of HCV
      reinfection in HIV-positive patients achieving SVR after IFN-based or IFN-free therapies, and
      to assess the factors associated with different risks of reinfection in these patients.
    
  