
    
      Methamphetamine (meth) use is very common among men who have sex with men (MSM), particularly
      MSM living with HIV. Meth use among HIV-negative and HIV-positive MSM is up to 13 and 34
      times more prevalent than in the general U.S. adult population, respectively. Meth use is
      independently associated with HIV-related sexual risk behaviors among MSM and can function as
      a barrier to antiretroviral therapy (ART) and pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) adherence.
      Thus, effective interventions to reduce meth use may also function as an important HIV
      prevention and care intervention by reducing meth-related HIV risk behavior, and optimizing
      ART and PrEP adherence. MSM comprise two-thirds of the new infections in the United States.
      Despite this continued domestic HIV epidemic and the high prevalence of meth use among MSM,
      few interventions have proven efficacious for MSM who use meth. The investigators seek to
      address this gap by evaluating the efficacy of intermittent oral naltrexone enhanced with an
      ecological momentary intervention (ION+EMI) for meth use treatment. Naltrexone, a µ-opioid
      receptor antagonist, is a promising agent for MSM who use meth. Meth is rapidly metabolized
      to amphetamine in the bloodstream and daily naltrexone has shown efficacy in reducing
      amphetamine urine-positivity and relapse. Oral naltrexone is inexpensive and has few
      toxicities, but the standard daily regimen for naltrexone hampers compliance as patients
      frequently neglect to take the medication. Alternate regimen schedules have been proposed to
      increase efficacy and expand the population that may benefit from this pharmacologic agent.
      One alternative approach is the targeted administration of intermittent oral naltrexone
      (ION), whereby individuals are instructed to take the medication as needed in anticipation of
      substance use, after exposure to triggers of substance use, or during periods of craving.
      Administration of naltrexone prior to exposure to amphetamines significantly attenuated
      amphetamine craving in 4 trials. Additionally, emerging evidence suggests that ecological
      momentary interventions (EMI) that respond to in-the-moment contexts can lead to positive
      health behaviors, such as increasing medication dosing. EMI are particularly well-suited to
      enhancing as-needed dosing of naltrexone because anticipation of meth use and meth craving in
      a natural setting changes within a person from moment to moment, and the detection of these
      momentary fluctuations can support the delivery of just-in-time messages to encourage
      medication use to prevent participants from proceeding from craving to meth use. A pilot
      study led by our research team on ION found that meth-using MSM who use at least 1 day per
      week had significantly greater reductions in meth-using days when treated with as-needed
      naltrexone, compared to placebo. Moreover, naltrexone participants had greater reductions in
      serodiscordant receptive anal intercourse and serodiscordant condomless receptive anal
      intercourse, compared to placebo. In the pilot, participants reported taking study drug 64%
      of the days that they craved or anticipated meth use. Participants also completed ecological
      momentary assessments (EMA) with a 74% response rate, indicating that real-time assessments
      are feasible and acceptable. To build on the results of this study and 4 other naltrexone
      trials, the investigators propose to evaluate intermittent naltrexone to treat meth in a
      phase 2b efficacy trial supplemented by an EMA-informed EMI that responds to a participant's
      real-time craving levels or anticipated meth use to provide in-the-moment medication
      reminders when participants would most benefit from naltrexone. The investigators hypothesize
      that pairing ION with EMI will further amplify reductions in meth use by providing
      just-in-time reminders for naltrexone to optimize adherence, thereby interrupting the
      progression from craving to meth use.
    
  