
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and recommended phase II dose (RPTD) of
           vorinostat (SAHA) when administered continuously with standard doses of irinotecan
           hydrochloride, fluorouracil, and leucovorin calcium (FOLFIRI) in patients with advanced
           upper gastrointestinal cancer.

        -  Determine the MTD and RPTD of SAHA when administered intermittently with standard doses
           of FOLFIRI in these patients.

      Secondary

        -  Describe the toxicity of the SAHA and FOLFIRI combination.

        -  Explore the effects of SAHA and FOLFIRI combination on TGF-β expression.

        -  Explore the alteration of survivin expression by the SAHA and FOLFIRI combination.

        -  Describe the effect of FOLFIRI on the pharmacokinetics of SAHA.

        -  Describe the effect of SAHA on the pharmacokinetics of irinotecan.

        -  Describe the response rate, progression-free survival, and overall survival of patients
           treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: Patients receive irinotecan hydrochloride IV over 90 minutes and leucovorin calcium
      IV over 2 hours on day 1 and fluorouracil IV continuously over 46 hours on days 1 and 2
      (FOLFIRI). Patients also receive oral vorinostat (SAHA) according to 1 of the following
      dosing regimens outlined below, depending upon time of study entry:

        -  Determination of maximum tolerated dose (MTD) for continuous SAHA dosing: Patients
           receive SAHA once daily on days 2-14 of course 1 and then on days 1-14 of all subsequent
           courses.

        -  Evaluation of SAHA pharmacokinetics at MTD for continuous dose SAHA: Patients receive
           SAHA on day -7 (before beginning course 1) and then once daily on days 1-14 at the MTD.

        -  Determination of MTD for intermittent SAHA: Patients receive SAHA once daily on days 1-7
           at the MTD determined for continuous SAHA dosing. Patients receive escalating doses of
           SAHA until the MTD of intermittent SAHA is determined.

      Treatment with FOLFIRI and vorinostat repeats every 2 weeks for 24 courses in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Some patients undergo tumor tissue and blood sample collection periodically for
      pharmacokinetic and correlative studies. Tumor tissue samples are assessed for TGF-β
      expression by immunohistochemical methods and by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain
      reaction for mRNA expression. Immunohistochemistry and immunoenzymatic techniques are
      performed to study survivin expression before beginning treatment and after completion of
      course 1. Pharmacokinetic studies for irinotecan, SN38, and SN38G are obtained on days 1
      (before SAHA) and 15 (after SAHA). Blood is also collected for analysis of UGT1A1
      polymorphism. Other patients undergo blood collection on days -7 (before FOLFIRI) and 2 (with
      FOLFIRI) for vorinostat Pharmacokinetic studies. Samples are analyzed by liquid
      chromatography-mass spectrometry.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for 4 weeks.
    
  