
    
      Sickle Cell Disease related pulmonary hypertension is a heterogeneous condition that results
      in a high mortality and for which no therapy has been documented to be beneficial. We propose
      to perform a safety and tolerability study of treatments based on right heart catheterization
      derived hemodynamic profiles associated with higher mortality in our cohort. These same
      hemodynamic profiles have previously been described and confirmed in other large cohorts as
      well. We propose treatment of sickle cell subjects with pulmonary arterial hypertension
      (PAH), defined hemodynamically by pulmonary arterial mean pressures (mPAP) of 25 mmHg or
      greater, with low estimated left ventricular filling pressures (low pulmonary capillary wedge
      pressures, or PCWP), and high pulmonary vascular resistance (PVR), with imatinib, a tyrosine
      kinase inhibitor that modifies the Platelet Derived Growth Factor (PDGF) pathway. PDGF is
      involved in Sickle Cell related PAH and there is now evidence that imatinib is effective in
      the treatment of idiopathic PAH. The hemodynamic profile of elevated mPAP with elevated left
      ventricular filling pressures is also associated with higher mortality rates, and we propose
      to treat this subgroup with carvedilol, a unique beta-adrenergic receptor antagonist that has
      been demonstrated to attenuate the adrenergic response and improve right and left heart
      function. The third subgroup with elevated mPAP is the hyperdynamic group, which by
      definition has low PVR and the absence of elevated left ventricular filling pressures. This
      group is also at higher risk but over a longer period of time and for less evident reasons.
      We will continue with aggressive sickle cell management in the hyperdynamic group according
      to the expertise offered by the Sickle Cell Group at the Clinical Center while systematically
      following them and intervening with optimal care. Those who do not quality for any of the
      three subgroups described above will go into a fourth subgroup and be followed for mortality
      and data sharing. Our primary endpoint is the safety and tolerability of these interventions
      and our secondary endpoints will be the clinical efficacy of these treatments.
    
  