
    
      In recent years, autism has been found that the outcomes can be much better after early
      training interventions. The training programs are often categorized as behavior analytic,
      cognitive or structured teaching, developmental or relationship-focused and so on. Although
      the approaches focus on different aspect of rehabilitation, they also overlap, playing
      complementation roles for one another. From our clinical experiences, we find that different
      children, in their different stages, with different problems, will need different approaches.
      For example, at early stage behavior modulation method is useful to regulate the child's
      behaviors. When the child is able to cooperate with adults, structure teaching helps him/her
      improve cognitive ability. Relationship-focused methods may help the child on social
      interaction. BCRI model, a comprehensive model, is based on the three kinds of approaches
      above.

      All the autistic children will receive examinations before assignment, including history and
      symptoms collection, diagnostic interview, evaluation(using PEP-3 for autistic children to
      evaluate intelligence level). DQ is calculated through PEP-3 assessment. (DQ, development
      quotient, equals to development age in month over chronological age in month). Children will
      be randomly assigned to one of two interventions arms: BCRI intervention program or standard
      community care.

      BCRI intervention program aims to teach the parents to master how to apply correct approaches
      and strategies and hold the training both at home and/or in training institutes. During the
      program, doctors deliver the knowledge and skills to the parents, set a complete schedule for
      the intervention, assess the progress and development for the children and communicate with
      the parents about any problems and frustration. Parents play an important and direct role in
      the training and educating procedure. The contrast group receives standard community
      intervention.
    
  