
    
      The goal of the Cellular and Tissue Based Therapy Registry (CTPR) for Wounds is to provide
      comparative effectiveness data for patients with chronic wounds and ulcers and to understand
      whether clinical practice guidelines are followed in the use of these products. These
      products are referred to by a variety of names of which are inaccurate reflections of their
      structure or purpose (e.g. Cellular and Engineered Tissue Alternatives, "bioengineered
      tissues," "biological dressings"). The preferred term is cellular and/or tissue based
      products (CTPs). CTPs are utilized for their biological influence on the healing process by
      stimulating or supporting healing. They may or may not be incorporated into regenerating
      tissue. Both tissue derived and biosynthetic products may be made with or without dead cells
      and biomaterials made of living cells may be comprised of autologous cells (cultured and not
      cultured), xenogenic, or allogenic cells (minimally manipulated, cultured, immortal).The
      diversity of products and the rate at which they are becoming available for clinical use make
      it impossible to perform randomized controlled trials to compare their effectiveness against
      one another. Effectiveness in real world patients is the best current option to understand
      the role of CTPs in wound healing.

      Hospital based outpatient wound centers participating in the US Wound Registry agree to
      provide data as part of quality initiatives and to meet their Stage 2 Meaningful use
      criteria. The CTPR is a subset of the USWR data. All patient data from all participating
      outpatient clinics are transmitted to the USWR where it is available for benchmarking, PQRS
      and other initiatives. Data used for effectiveness research is HIPAA de-identified. These
      data are derived from structured language entries directly transmitted from electronic health
      records which also link to billing and charge documents once practitioners sign and lock
      charts, confirming the veracity of data entries.
    
  