
    
      Aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) is a devastating form of stroke affecting relatively
      young patients. It has an incidence of about 7 per 100,000. Associated economic costs are
      high. Treatment of the aneurysm to prevent rebleeding is the primary goal. Nevertheless, 3 to
      12 days after the initial bleeding secondary ischemic changes occur in 30% of the patients.
      This delayed cerebral ischemia (DCI) remains the most important cause of mortality and
      morbidity in patients surviving aneurysm treatment.

      Aneurysmal SAH exposes the brain to erythrocytes. Several days after the hemorrhage lysis of
      erythrocytes takes place and the brain is exposed to high concentrations of hemoglobin.
      Elevated hemoglobin concentrations are present not only at the basal surface of the brain,
      but also distributed around the brain and into deeper layers of the cortex. Heme is degraded
      by heme-oxygenase into carbon monoxide, biliverdin and iron. Free iron can react with H2O and
      O2- to form hydroxyl radicals (OH*). The generation of hydroxyl radicals in this cascade,
      known as the Haber-Weiss or Fenton reaction, leads to extraction of hydrogen from unsaturated
      lipids in the cell membrane and initiates lipid peroxidation. Additionally it can exacerbate
      excitotoxicity by increased intracellular iron accumulation.

      Iron chelators remove the excess of iron and are standard care in iron-overloaded patients.
      The use of iron chelators for SAH has been subject of animal studies with promising results
      on reduced vasospasm, oxidative stress, neuronal cell death and mortality. No clinical study
      for the use of deferoxamine in aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage has been performed. A
      safety study for the use of Deferoxamine in patients in intracerebral hemorrhage (which is
      distinct from subarachnoid hemorrhage) has been performed. There were no associated serious
      adverse events or mortality, Deferoxamine is a chelator is used for more than 40 years in
      patients with iron overload diseases. This study investigates the safety and tolerability of
      deferoxamine versus placebo in patients with SAH for 3 consecutive days.
    
  