
    
      Background:

      The use of immunosuppression prior to adoptive transfer of lymphocytes from tumor bearing
      mice was based on a variety of murine models demonstrating improved therapeutic effectiveness
      of the adoptive transfer of lymphocytes following immunosuppression of the host.

      Because the degree of immunosuppression has been highly correlated with the ability to
      eliminate large tumors in murine models, we have been conducting a clinical trial, 04-C-0288,
      in which 200cGy of total body irradiation is used in conjunction with the same
      cyclophosphamide and fludarabine regimen used in our prior adoptive cell therapy trials which
      have demonstrated significant clinical responses.

      We have measured T-regulatory cells in patients participating in 04-C-0288 and have
      demonstrated that despite the addition of 200cGy total body irradiation (TBI), T-regulatory
      cells promptly reconstituted in the host. Complete clinical responses have not been
      significantly improved over other adoptive cell therapy regimens.

      Thus, in this trial we would like to more adequately test our hypothesis that more intensive
      lymphodepletion will increase complete responses and persistence of the transferred cells.

      Objective:

      To determine whether tumor reactive lymphocytes infused in conjunction with the
      administration of high-dose IL-2 in patients who have received prior therapy with IL-2 and
      those who have not may result in complete clinical tumor regression in patients with
      metastatic melanoma receiving a myeloablative lymphoid depleting preparative regimen.

      To evaluate the safety of the treatment in patients receiving the myeloablative conditioning
      regimen, cell transfer and IL-2.

      To determine the survival in patients, of infused cells following the administration of the
      myeloablative regimen, using analysis of the sequence of the variable region of the T cell
      receptor or flow cytometry (FACS).

      Eligibility:

      Patients who are greater than or equal to 18 years of age who have tumor reactive cells
      available, with metastatic melanoma, and are physically able to tolerate high-dose IL-2.

      Design:

      Patients will be assigned to one of two cohorts, those having received prior therapy with
      IL-2 and those who have not.

      Patients will receive a myeloablative lymphocyte depleting preparative regimen consisting of
      cyclophosphamide (60 mg/kg/day x 2 days IV), fludarabine (25mg/m^2/day IV X 5 days) and 1200
      cGy total body irradiation (TBI).

      Patients will receive intravenous adoptive transfer of tumor reactive lymphocytes (minimum 3
      X 10 (9) and up to a maximum of 3 X 10(11) lymphocytes) followed by high-dose intravenous
      (IV) IL-2 (720,000 IU/kg/dose every 8 hours for up to 15 doses).

      On day 1 of patients will receive intravenous administration of cryopreserved autologous
      CD34+ cells.

      A complete evaluation of evaluable lesions will be conducted 4-6 weeks after cell infusion.
      Patients will be enrolled into two strata, using a phase II optimal design to rule out a
      modest CR rate of 24%, with 33-54 patients enrolled in each strata.
    
  