
    
      First, parent facilitators will be recruited and matched with their peers. Parent
      facilitators will be members of the Effingham County Navigator Team with a child with a
      disability. The peer matching resembles the community lay health worker model. The community
      lay health worker model will reduce the amount of time needed to meet face to face with
      families. To begin adapting the facilitator training and curriculum, the program directors
      will work with representatives from the University of Montana Rural Institute on Disabilities
      to review and update training materials. A representative from the Rural Institute on
      Disabilities will deliver an online intensive facilitator training. The facilitator training
      is approximately 15 hours long. The training includes three major components: peer training,
      facilitator training, and Master "Train the Trainer" training. The project directors will
      work with the Effingham County Navigator Team to recruit parents. The Navigator Team will
      recruit five parents as parent facilitators. The parents will work together with the project
      directors to deliver the adapted curriculum to participating families. With bi-weekly
      meetings for 10 weeks between parent facilitators and family participants in the home or
      another desired location. The project directors have already participated in the facilitator
      training and will serve as mentors to newly trained facilitators. At the end of the online
      training session, the parent facilitators will be equipped to successfully implement the
      Living Well curriculum. The project directors will schedule a working meeting before and
      after the facilitator training to discuss curriculum changes with the Rural Institute on
      Disabilities representative. Changes in readability are anticipated since the target audience
      includes adolescents. Curriculum delivery methods will need tailoring to match a family-based
      approach including activities to be completed at the home at the family and individual levels
      for parents, siblings, and children. Both GSU faculty and the Navigator team will lead
      monthly summary meetings to review the adapted content. These meetings will take place at a
      convenient location in the community as determined by the Navigator team. Pre and post focus
      groups will take place before and after these monthly meetings at a convenient locale in the
      community.
    
  