
    
      Exercise is a commonly prescribed treatment for patients with musculoskeletal pain, and is
      effective in treating tendon pain. It is well documented, that an acute bout of aerobic or
      resistance type exercise reduces sensitivity to pain in healthy individuals. Therefore the
      efficacy of exercise as an intervention may be partially due to the analgesic effect of
      exercise, also termed exercise-induced hypoalgesia (EIH).

      For tendinopathies, high load resistance exercise is frequently used during rehabilitation.

      However, the optimal mode and dosages required for reducing pain in patients with
      tendinopathies is unknown. Understanding the effect of different forms of exercise on pain
      may help optimize the prescription of exercise for pain management.

      A recent study by Rio and colleagues documented the acute effect of two different forms of
      resistance exercise in patients with patellar tendinopathy. The study compared, isometric
      resistance exercise (static muscular contractions), in comparison to isotonic resistance
      exercise (dynamic contractions) and found that isometric exercise induced greater
      participantive pain relief in response to an aggravating task. This study was the first to
      compare the analgesic effect of different forms of resistance exercise in patients with
      tendinopathy.

      Although the results appear promising, a limitation of the study was that it did not quantify
      the effect of the different exercises on measures of pain sensitivity as in previous studies
      examining EIH.

      Purpose The purpose of this study is to compare the acute effects of two different types of
      resistance exercise (isometric versus isotonic) on exercise induced hypoalgesia during an
      aggravating activity, in participants with patellar tendinopathy.

      Hypothesis The primary hypothesis is that isometric exercise will induce greater pain
      relief/reduction during an aggravating activity in comparison to isotonic exercises.

      Study Design and Methods The proposed study is a participant blinded, randomised crossover
      superiority trial, to examine acute effect of isometric versus isotonic resistance exercise
      on pain in patients with patellar tendinopathy. The trial will be pre-registered on
      clinicaltrials.gov before inclusion of participants commences.
    
  