
    
      Biventricular (BiV) pacing is an established treatment of symptomatic heart failure patients
      with severely reduced left ventricular ejection fraction (HFrEF) and wide QRS due to bundle
      branch block (BBB) on a 12-lead ECG. BiV pacing is normally achieved with an endocardial
      pacing lead in the right ventricle and an epicardial lead over the left ventricle situated in
      a coronary vein. BiV pacing does not correct the BBB but corrects the mechanical dyssynchrony
      that is a consequence of the BBB. It has been shown to work best on patients with "true" left
      bundle branch block (LBBB) where the block is due to disease within the conduction system
      (and not for example left ventricular hypertrophy or scars). Even if the patient is an ideal
      candidate for BiV pacing it can sometimes be difficult to achieve the best mechanical
      resynchronization because of anatomic difficulties, high pacing thresholds or phrenic nerve
      capture.

      In recent years it has been demonstrated that the level of block in true LBBB is often within
      the bundle of HIS and it is possible in many cases to place a pacing lead distally to the
      site of block and get capture of both right and left bundles thereby "correcting" the BBB and
      achieve a normal or near-normal QRS complex. If the conduction system is intact distal to the
      block this mode of pacing leads to complete resynchronization of the ventricles. HIS-pacing
      can be achieved as either selective HIS-capture where it is only the conduction system that
      is paced leading to a narrow QRS complex. However, mostly it is achieved with non-selective
      HIS-capture where both the septal myocardium close to the pacing site and the His-bundle is
      captured. This leads to a QRS resembling the QRS achieved by selective HIS-capture but
      preceded by a delta-wave-like deflection which broadens the QRS complex. Since it is only a
      small part of the septum that is captured early this does not influence the resynchronization
      of the heart. In some patients HIS-pacing cannot be achieved due to anatomical difficulties
      that hinders reaching the HIS bundle with the present tools available. In others it is not
      possible to come distal to the block and recruiting both the left and the right bundle
      branch.

      There is to date no randomized studies between HIS-bundle pacing and BiV pacing in HFrEF
      patients with LBBB but there are several case reports and retrospective data on successful
      HIS-bundle pacing in these patients. The present study will randomize 50 patients in a single
      centre to HIS-pacing or BiV pacing to determine to which extent it is possible to achieve
      normalization or near-normalization of the QRS with HIS-bundle pacing and what this
      translates to with regard to symptom relieve, walking distance, echocardiographic measures
      and N-terminal pro B-type natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) levels as compared to BiV pacing.
    
  