
    
      Emotional disorders, specifically anxiety disorders and depression, are common, chronic,
      costly, and debilitating to quality of life (Barlow, 2002). Best estimates from various
      epidemiological studies place the one year prevalence of any anxiety disorder for individuals
      over 18 at 11.8%, and the one year prevalence of any mood disorder 5.1% (Narrow, Rae, Robins,
      & Regier, 2002). Lifetime rates are higher. We understand the nature and causes of anxiety
      and unipolar mood disorders (major depressive disorder and dysthymia) somewhat better than 10
      years ago, with evidence pointing to generalized biological and psychological vulnerabilities
      interacting with specific learning and, sometimes, stressful triggering life events as
      etiological factors (Barlow, 2002; Brown, Chorpita, & Barlow, 1998). Pharmacological and
      psychological treatments have been proven effective, at least in the short term, but most
      studies have ignored the effects of treatment on broad-based patterns of comorbidity that
      accompany these disorders. Most comorbid disorders are usually additional emotional disorders
      (Brown, Campbell, Lehman, Grisham, & Mancill, 2001). More importantly, treatment outcomes
      have been less than satisfactory or ineffective for up to 50% of patients, even for the
      principal disorder (Nathan & Gorman, 2002). A common pharmacological treatment exists for
      many emotional disorders, which is selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and
      closely related compounds. Effective psychological treatments, on the other hand, have been
      developed to be very specific to each DSM-IV diagnostic category. The purpose of this
      proposal is to create a unified psychological approach to the emotional disorders. To do,
      this we will take advantage of recent advances in our understanding of the nature of
      emotional disorders, as well as emerging knowledge of the process of regulation and change in
      emotional behavior, in order to distill and refine basic principles of successful
      psychological treatments. It is expected that this approach will simplify training and
      dissemination, possibly improve efficacy, and perhaps also shed further light on the nature
      of emotional disorders. Thus, the specific aims of this proposal are to:

        1. Develop and refine a unified psychological treatment for anxiety and non-bipolar mood
           disorders derived from distilling the major ingredients of current effective approaches
           in light of advancing knowledge of emotion regulation and modification.

        2. Revise and develop methods of evaluating adherence and outcome utilizing this new
           treatment protocol, focusing not only on symptom reduction but also quality of life and
           adaptive functioning.

        3. Treat a small number of patients with heterogeneous DSM-IV mood and anxiety diagnoses
           with this new protocol with the purpose of making appropriate modifications for a
           subsequent pilot study.

        4. Conduct a pilot study testing this unified treatment in comparison to a wait-list
           control condition in order to determine credibility and efficacy in terms of both
           symptomatic functioning and quality of life, and relating these outcomes to those from
           more disorder specific treatments.
    
  