
    
      Patients with autoimmune diseases like inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and rheumatoid
      arthritis (RA) are at increased risk of infections. This increased susceptibility to
      infections is due to the disease itself, but also be-cause many patients with autoimmune
      conditions are treated with immuno-suppressive drugs. Different drugs are well-known
      suppressors of the immune system: Prednisolone, Azathioprine, Methotrexate (MTX), TNF-a
      inhibitors, and the newer biological agents such as, e.g., Rituximab (RTX), which is a drug
      used in the treatment of RA patients often in combination with MTX. The extent of
      immunosuppression induced by these therapeutic agents seems to depend, to some extent, on
      pharmacological dose/response relationships and on the combination of drugs, but individual
      variability plays a major role as well.

      Prophylactic measures such as vaccination, quick upstart of antibiotics in case of fever and
      general information to patients about how to handle fever etc. are important in order to
      prevent as many cases of serious infections as possible among patients in immunosuppressive
      treatment.

      Streptococcus pneumoniae is a cause of worldwide morbidity and mortality. Pneumococcal
      vaccines have been available since the early 1980's. The vaccine which has been licensed for
      immunization of children >2 years and adults is a polysaccharide-based vaccine (23PPV)
      consisting of capsule parts of the 23 most frequent serotypes of pneumococci. This vaccine
      elicits in normal immunocompetent persons a high antibody response, which lasts for
      approximately 10 years. Because the 23PPV is a polysaccharide-based vaccine, it induces a
      T-cell independent response with no memory and there-fore with no possibility of boosting. In
      2001, the first generation of conjugate pneumococcal vaccines (PCV7) was licensed. In the
      PCV's, the capsule material from the pneumococci has been conjugated to a protein, which
      means that the vaccines can elicit a T-cell dependent immune response even in infants giving
      memory response and booster possibility. This vaccine has been licensed for use in children
      from 0-5 years, but studies suggest that PCV immunization might be useful in other groups of
      people as well etc. immunodeficient children and adults (especially now where the
      second-generation vaccines PCV10, PCV13 have been licensed covering more pneumococcal
      serotypes).

      Some studies have shown that patients treated with immunosuppressive drugs cannot mount a
      sufficient antibody response upon vaccination whereas other studies suggest that these
      patient groups do respond to conventional vaccination.

      It is recommended in the Danish guidelines for pneumococcal vaccination, that elderly
      patients with chronic diseases and patients with a decreased immune system are vaccinated
      against pneumococcal diseases. Accordingly, patients with Crohn's disease treated with TNF-a
      inhibitors are recommended pneumococcal vaccination.

      In this study, the investigators aim to carry out an investigation of the response to
      pneumococcal vaccination in persons with Crohn's disease treated with TNF-a inhibitors and/or
      azathioprine, in order to determine if there is a place for the usage of conjugate
      vaccination in these patient groups.
    
  