
    
      Reliable identification of coronary plaque at risk of causing future adverse cardiovascular
      events would allow patient-specific targeting of intensive therapy. The majority of events
      are precipitated by coronary plaque rupture, with ruptured plaques exhibiting a large
      necrotic, lipid core with superimposed thrombus. The proposed precursor lesion shares similar
      plaque compositional features to ruptured plaques but with a thin overlying fibrous cap and
      is termed a thin-cap fibroatheroma (TCFA)1. At present there is a major emphasis on imaging
      modalities that can identify these higher-risk plaque subtypes.

      We have previously validated an invasive imaging modality, virtual-histology intravascular
      ultrasound (VH-IVUS) against histology, and found that VH-IVUS identified TCFA with a
      diagnostic accuracy of 74%2. In prospective studies, VH-defined TCFAs were associated with a
      7x greater risk of future events than other plaque subtypes3. Although this technique shows
      promise in permitting plaque-based risk stratification, it is limited by its invasive nature.
      Thus, alternate, non-invasive imaging options are required for more widespread risk
      assessment.

      Recently, we have devised a novel method of creating "Plaque Maps" using CT attenuation data
      individualised to each patient (Figure 1), which permits identification of coronary plaque
      components with a diagnostic accuracy of 75%-85%4. However, whilst CT Plaque Maps could
      identify fibroatheroma with similar diagnostic accuracy to VH-IVUS (79% vs. 74%), the spatial
      resolution of CT was unable to detect the thin fibrous cap and distinguish fibroatheroma from
      TCFA (Figure 2). More recently we have introduced necrotic core/fibrous plaque ratio as a
      possible Plaque Map surrogate for identification of TCFA. Using a ratio of >0.58, the
      sensitivity to detect a TCFA was 84% and specificity 75%; an improvement over all previously
      identified CT-defined features of high risk plaques4. Whether this novel strategy can
      prospectively improve identification of plaque vulnerability is unproven.
    
  