
    
      The goal of this trial is to estimate the sensitivity and specificity of stool vimentin
      methylation, serum galectin-3 ligand, and fecal immunochemical testing for colorectal
      adenocarcinoma, or 2) screen relevant neoplasms (high-grade dysplasia or adenoma with ≥25%
      villous histologic features or adenoma measuring ≥1 cm in the greatest dimension or sessile
      serrated polyps measuring 1 cm or more in diameter) as single markers and in combination.
      Asymptomatic subjects undergoing a colonoscopic procedure for screening for colorectal cancer
      are eligible. Patients who have a first or second positive fecal immunochemical test, a
      positive stool guaiac test or a positive Cologuard test are eligible. Up to 2,500 stool blood
      or Cologuard positive subjects will be recruited on this protocol. Up to an additional 1,000
      subjects who have not had previous FIT tests will be recruited. Subjects with a negative
      stool blood or Cologuard test are not eligible for enrollment. Subjects will meet with
      research staff prior to initiation of any colonoscopic preparative procedure. After
      completing informed consent, they will complete Early Detection Research Network (EDRN) data
      element forms. Blood and urine will be obtained following EDRN standard operating procedures
      (SOPs). Subjects will be provided with kits to collect stool samples for fecal immunochemical
      test (FIT) and processing for stool based biomarkers. The collected samples will be shipped
      to the Central Laboratory at the University of Michigan or German Cancer Research Center
      (Deutsches Krebsforschungszentrum, DKFZ), Heidelberg, Germany where the stool will be
      homogenized, aliquoted, and stored at the Umiversity of Michigan CLASS laboratories . The FIT
      tests will be sent to the Central Laboratory at the University of Michigan or to DKFZ for
      quantitative analysis following standard operating procedures provided by Eiken Chemical
      Company. Data from the screening colonoscopy will be obtained. One year after colonoscopy,
      subjects will be contacted to determine if they have had a neoplastic colorectal diagnosis or
      other neoplastic events. Data management and protocol coordination will be performed by the
      Data Management and Coordinating Center (DMCC) of the EDRN along with the GLNE Prevention
      Research Base at the University of Michigan and will include a Web-based front end and
      relational database backend, with biosample tracking (VSIMS). Biosamples will be managed in a
      high quality repository facility at the University of Michigan.

      We will estimate sensitivities and specificities and the corresponding confidence intervals
      of the stool DNA tests and serum/plasma tests for detection of invasive colorectal neoplasms
      and for screen relevant neoplasias (Aim 1). We will then test the primary hypothesis to
      confirm the clinical accuracy of a particular biomarker test or panel (Aim 2). The specific
      primary hypothesis will be defined prior to data analysis based on state of the art
      information available at that time about candidate biomarkers and tests. Several specific
      examples of potential primary hypotheses are given to justify study sample size. Finally,
      several alternative tests and multi-marker panels will be evaluated. (Aim 3). In secondary
      analysis, we will (a) provide measures of diagnostic accuracy standardized to the age and
      gender distribution of US population and (b) assess the effect of subject heterogeneity on
      the marker performance. A primary objective is to establish an archive of appropriately
      preserved stool, serum, plasma and DNA human biospecimens to be used by EDRN-approved
      investigators for future validation and biomarker discovery research (Aim 4).
    
  