
    
      There are three groups in this study: 40 MCD subjects with abnormal coronary reactivity
      testing (CRT), 20 CSX subjects with symptoms and nomral stress testing, and 40 normal
      controls. Normal controls will complete two study visits while MCD subjects may have up to
      three study visits.

      Recruiting participants from Protocol 14906:

      To date, no participants from Protocol 14906 have completed the study yet. All the
      participants who are currently enrolled in 14906 will be approached by the investigator at
      their next study visits. Prospectively new participants will be approached while they are
      consented for 14906.

      Recruiting participants from Protocol 11753:

      Participants who are currently enrolled in Protocol 11753 will be approached at their next
      study visits. Prospectively new participants will be approached while they are consented for
      11753. Research staff may also identify past patients who have completed 11753 and fulfill
      the requirements for healthy individuals.

      All participants will be asked to undergo research procedures including mental stress tasks,
      heart rate variability, cold pressor testing, and peripheral arterial tonometry. These
      procedures are described below by visit:

      VISIT ONE:

      MENTAL STRESS TESTING Mental Stress Testing will be used to study what happens to heart rate,
      blood pressure, heart rhythm, and blood vessels in arms and hands when participants are in a
      stressful situation. It will take up to 3 hours to complete all the procedures in the mental
      stress testing including the following specific procedures: In Mental Stress Tasks, different
      types of stress testing, including a speech task over a situation that made participants
      upset or angry, and/or a math test involving adding or subtracting numbers under a specific
      constraint, and/or a memory test, will be administered to study the effect of stress on
      heart; In Heart Rate Variability (HRV), participants will be asked to wear a Holter monitor
      that measures heart rate and rhythm for approximately 24 hours; In Cold Pressor Testing,
      participants' heart rate, blood pressure, heart rhythm, and blood vessels will be monitored;
      In Peripheral Arterial Tonometry (PAT), a blood pressure cuff will be placed on one arm and
      probes will be placed on participants' fingers. The probes and cuff are attached to a
      monitoring device that transfers a waveform graph of participants' pulse. Then the blood
      pressure cuff will be inflated for 5 minutes. At the end of the 5-minute period, the blood
      pressure cuff will be deflated to get the final tracings.

      RESPERATE BREATHING TRIAL In subjects who have MCD, to know whether a controlled breathing
      relaxation technique using an FDA-approved paced breathing device, RESPeRATE, helps with
      chest pain and shortness of breath and to test to see if this form of biofeedback or
      relaxation technique helps with heart rate variability during mental stress, MCD subjects
      will be randomized to completing a RESPeRATE breathing trial or performing their own choice
      of relaxation technique for 8 weeks.

      VISIT TWO:

      SINGLE PHOTON EMISSION COMPUTED TOMOGRAPHY (SPECT) CARDIAC SCAN WITH 123I-MIBG AND MYOVIEW
      Single Photon Emission Computed Tomography (SPECT) cardiac scan with 123I-mIBG and Myoview
      will be used to measure cardiac sympathetic activity. The test will take approximately 5
      hours with approximately 3.5 hours of break in the middle.

      VISIT THREE:

      REPEATED MENTAL STRESS TESTING Only subjects with MCD will have the visit that will take
      about 3 hours to complete. During this visit, MCD subjects will be asked to complete repeated
      Mental Stress Testing, including Mental Stress Tasks, Holter Heart Rate Variability, and PAT
      testing as outlined above

      All the procedures are research-related. Participants may consent to some but not all of the
      procedures due to our current limited funding.

      There are no collaborations with other sites.
    
  