
    
      Pain in the post-operative period has been a limiting factor delaying recovery following
      abdominal surgery. Furthermore, it has been associated with several complications including
      ileus, urinary retention, delay to tolerating oral intake and enteral feeds, thrombo-embolic
      complications, and respiratory complications such as atelectasis and pneumonia. Diminishing
      pain in the post-operative period has been a subject of great study and to date the role of
      epidural analgesia, epidural anesthesia, patient controlled anesthesia and narcotic analgesia
      has been well documented to assist in controlling pain, decreasing morbidity and accelerating
      recovery in the post-operative period following colorectal surgery.

      Nevertheless, the use of opioid-based analgesic techniques via epidural, nurse or patient
      controlled delivery systems either oral or parenteral can produce adverse effects such as
      nausea, vomiting, ileus, delay in tolerance or urinary retention. Concomitant use of
      non-narcotic based analgesics have failed to obviate the need for narcotic based analgesia.
      Recently, several companies have developed devices that deliver a constant rate of local
      anesthetic via a spring loaded device through a multiport catheter inserted into the
      incision. The effectiveness of these bupivicaine infusion pumps has been demonstrated to
      diminish post-operative pain following orthopedic, plastic, thoracic and cardiac surgeries
      but to date their role has not been evaluated in colorectal surgery or abdominal surgery.

      The rational of the study is that bupivicaine infusion pumps are being used at St. Joseph's
      Healthcare for patients undergoing laparoscopic assisted colorectal surgery, and anecdotally,
      the patients have less pain, need less narcotics and can ambulate and be discharged sooner.
      This pilot study aims to gather prospective randomized data regarding post-operative length
      of stay and patient pain scores so that a properly powered randomization study can be
      undertaken to understand if the bupivicaine infusion system helps decrease length of stay and
      patient's post-operative pain.
    
  