
    
      Men and women between the ages of 19-64, who have a diagnosis of major depressive disorder,
      and are currently in a severe depressive episode with suicidal thoughts, are eligible to
      participate in this voluntary research study. A control group will consist of men and women
      between the ages of 19-64 who have a diagnosis or major depressive disorder and are currently
      in a severe depressive episode but are not having suicidal thoughts.

      During the screening visit, appropriate demographic, medical, and psychiatric data will be
      collected, including a diagnostic assessment and an assessment of the severity of your
      depression. You will be asked to complete several pen and pencil questionnaires to learn more
      about your current state of mind. This evaluation will take approximately two hours. If you
      qualify for the control or assessment group, you will be asked to meet with researchers again
      at 2, 4 and 6 days after your initial evaluation. If you qualify for the study group, you
      will be randomly (like the flip of a coin) assigned by a computer to receive either
      risperidone (1-2 mg/day) or placebo once a day by mouth. You will take the study medication
      for 5 nights in addition to your standard of care antidepressant prescribed by your doctor.

      Forty participants will enter a double-blind study, which means that neither you nor your
      doctors will know which study medicine (risperidone or placebo) you are receiving. If
      medically necessary, the medication information will be released so your doctor can find out
      what medicine you were randomly assigned to.

      You will have a follow-up evaluation (either in the hospital or returning for an office
      visit) at Day 5. At this visit, you will be evaluated by a psychiatrist and will be asked to
      complete questionnaires designed to assess the effect of the study medications on your
      symptoms. At this visit you will also be asked about possible side effects and how you are
      tolerating the medicine. These visits should take approximately one hour each.

      At the screening and the end of the five day treatment, additional neuropsychological
      evaluations will be administered to assess your progress. These additional assessments will
      take approximately one hour to complete.

      Members of the control group will receive no study related medications and will not return
      for a follow up visit.

      Information for Women of Childbearing Potential or Men Fathering a Child Because risperidone
      may affect mother's milk or a developing fetus, breast-feeding and pregnant women are not
      allowed to take part in the study. Women who can become pregnant must take a pregnancy test
      before the start of the study. Unless they cannot have children because of surgery or other
      medical reasons, men and women must have been using an effective method of birth control
      before starting the study. Effective birth control includes birth control pills, patch, IUD,
      condom, sponge, diaphragm with spermicide, or avoiding sexual activity that could cause
      pregnancy.

      Optional functional MRI(fMRI) brain Sub-study

      10 participants will participate in the fMRI sub-study, which will include a 5 day open-label
      trial of risperidone. An fMRI scan will be done prior to receiving study drug and 5 days
      later. During this fMRI, a picture of your brain will be obtained. The fMRI procedure
      requires you to lie still on a narrow table with a circular scanner around your head. The
      fMRI scan takes approximately 40 minutes. Two of the neuropsychological assessments will be
      administered during the scan. Sub-study participants will complete a computer-based version
      of the tasks that will be performed during the fMRI scan prior to the brain imaging session.
      This is necessary to ensure you understand the tasks you will be performing while the imaging
      is taking place. Electing not to participate in this sub-study will not jeopardize
      participation in the drug trial. A neurologist, Dr. Lawrence Ver Hoef will review the MRI
      scans for incidental findings.
    
  