
    
      The aim of the NEO study is to understand the direct and underlying determinants of
      sub-standard care and improve the quality of care using innovative technologies to strengthen
      decision making and management of newborn emergencies. The NEO-study builds on and add to
      established mHealth initiatives for maternal and child health in Zanzibar, Tanzania and
      Denmark.

      This is the study protocol for a 14-month quality improvement study involving all district
      level hospitals and one cottage hospital (Chake Chake, Mkoani, Wete, Micheweni) in Pemba,
      Zanzibar. The protocol is developed in equal partnership between the research team from
      Public Health Laboratory, Ivo de Carneri and the research team from University Hospital
      Copenhagen (Rigshospitalet). The partnership between the two institutes have been long-term
      and long-standing for more than a decade. The first exploratory visits for the NEO-study was
      conducted in February 2016 and October 2017. On both visits the investigators held fruitful
      meetings with managements at all district level hospitals and the relevant departments;
      maternity, paediatric and outpatient clinics to ensure participatory commitment and
      involvement in the process and development of the project. The principals of the Paris
      Declaration on Aid Effectiveness are applied to the presented research protocol and the
      investigators have included the needs expressed by the local health system and changed the
      protocol in accordance with requests and necessities expressed [1]. The investigators have
      raised funds between the first exploratory meetings and the study has the necessary financial
      support from national and international donors. The investigators are continuing to raise
      funds for future collaborations and extension and expansion of the NEO-study.

      The final version of the protocol has been developed by the international and local research
      teams during a three-month research stay at Public Health Laboratory, Ivo de Carneri, Pemba
      from February to May 2019. In this period, the investigators conducted meetings, hearing,
      direct and indirect observations and pilot-testing of tools and feasibility testing of method
      of choice to ensure participatory involvement and continuous support from hospital
      managements at all district level hospitals. Furthermore, the investigators have sought to
      involve clinical staff at relevant maternity, paediatric and outpatient departments by
      informal conversations during observatory days and the investigators will make continuous
      efforts of staff involvement; at all levels to create local ownership. The investigators have
      identified a local focal person at each department who can support the implementation and be
      part of the change. The investigators are exploring new ground with novel methods to capture
      and improve the quality of care, and therefore the investigators have pre-tested the
      feasibility, acceptability, technicality and limited-efficacy testing in the "Feasibility
      Study - The efficacy of Video Analysis as a Supplementary objective tool to Criterion Based
      Clinical Audit (CBCA) in Newborn Emergencies" (NO.ZAREC.02/APR/2019/20)

      The investigators hope this research proposal can add to the unfinished agenda of neonatal
      mortality and morbidity and support health workers who are assisting women and their babies
      during labour, delivery and in the first month of life.
    
  