
    
      The current study is a small year-long pilot to collect data for a planned larger, randomized
      control trial in the future. The current protocol focuses on modifying a Cognitive-Behavioral
      Therapy (CBT) recurrence prevention protocol for the study population, finalizing a therapist
      training manual, finalizing therapist adherence and competence scales, and fine tuning
      research procedures for recruitment and retention of subjects. This phase will involve
      enrolling 20 subjects in order to have at least 12 subjects receive CBT treatment for 12
      weeks with assessments conducted bimonthly. The subjects will have the option of having
      additional monthly "booster" CBT sessions. Independent Assessments by HRC-approved study
      staff and interviews with study psychiatrists will occur at 16 weeks, 24 weeks, 36 weeks, and
      1 year after study initiation. Participants will be offered the opportunity to speak with a
      study psychiatrist at every visit.

      The primary outcome measure is rate of recurrence and/or re-initiation of antidepressant
      treatment up to 12 months post-randomization. The study end point of procedures is 12 weeks
      after baseline; the study end point for follow-up assessments is one year after treatment.

      At the point of enrollment, subjects will have reviewed risks and benefits of perinatal
      depression treatment in a consultation with a non-study psychiatrist in the MGH Center for
      Women's Mental Health (CWMH) program and in collaboration with the subject's primary
      psychiatrist, and decided to discontinue AD treatment.

      The potential subject will then undergo a preliminary phone screening with a CWMH research
      coordinator where basic eligibility criteria are reviewed. If the potential subject is
      interested, she will be scheduled for a baseline study visit conducted by the PIs or another
      study clinician. After an explanation of study procedures, written, informed consent will be
      obtained. This will occur prior to execution of any study assessments or procedures.

      After consent is obtained, the clinician will conduct a structured clinical interview using
      the MINI and HRC-approved study staff will complete study assessments. If the potential
      subject continues to be interested in participating in the study and remains eligible, she
      will meet with a study psychiatrist who will instruct her on how to begin the taper of her
      antidepressant, if she has not already started to taper. The subject will then meet with the
      clinician who will administer the CBT treatment for the first session

      After the 12 weeks have passed, subjects will be asked to complete assessments at 16 weeks,
      24 weeks, 36 weeks, and 1 year after beginning the study, and will be able to choose to
      continue monthly booster sessions of CBT-PR. Subjects will also be offered the opportunity to
      meet with study psychiatrists every booster session. Visits with the study psychiatrist will
      be arranged at the discretion of the study psychologist and/or upon participant request. An
      optional qualitative interview will be conducted by study staff after completion of the acute
      treatment phase in order to obtain feedback on the intervention.

      Participants who experience a relapse of depressive symptoms during study participation will
      have the option of remaining in the study and continuing to receive CBT treatment regardless
      of decisions regarding antidepressant treatment. Additionally, the investigators will ask
      patients who experience a relapse to complete a questionnaire regarding the course of relapse
      and their treatment decisions at one year after study enrollment. This questionnaire can be
      completed over the phone or at home and returned by mail.
    
  