
    
      STUDY DESIGN:

      The PERFORM-TAVR trial (Protein and Exercise to Reverse Frailty in OldeR men and woMen
      undergoing Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement) is a multicenter randomized clinical trial
      with a parallel-group design. We will screen consecutive patients ≥70 years of age before
      TAVR and enroll those that have evidence of physical frailty defined as an SPPB score ≤8 or
      an SF36-PF score ≤55. The SPPB and SF36-PF were chosen as the main inclusion criteria and
      also as key endpoints based on their ease-of-use, reproducibility, responsiveness to change,
      and superior predictive value for mortality and patient-centered outcomes in the Frailty-AVR
      Study. We will randomly allocate 200 patients to receive a multi-faceted intervention
      consisting of home-based exercise and protein supplementation or standard-of-care lifestyle
      counselling.

      INTERVENTION GROUP:

      The multi-faceted intervention consists of two synergistic components performed by
      participants at their homes. The first component is a home-based supervised exercise program
      that combines walking and weight-bearing exercises to build strength and balance performed
      for 12 weeks after the patient is discharged home post-TAVR. The exercises are based on the
      WEBB program that was developed at the University of Sydney and validated to help therapists
      individually prescribe progressive exercise that is challenging but safe for older adults
      (http://www.webb.org.au/attachments/File/WEBB_draft_19.pdf). Starting as soon as the patient
      returns home post-TAVR, a trained therapist (TT; physiotherapist or certified exercise
      physiologist, depending on local expertise) will visit their home for 1 hour twice weekly
      over a 12-week period to supervise and tailor the exercises according to each individual's
      capability and progress, and to reinforce the goal of moderate-intensity aerobic activity
      such as brisk walking at least 30 minutes 5 days per week. If the patient is transferred to a
      convalescence or inpatient rehabilitation facility or another hospital, the TT will defer
      home visits until they are discharged to their home. If the patient is referred to an
      outpatient rehabilitation program, the TT will continue to perform home visits concurrently.
      The low use of center-based rehabilitation reflects well-known accessibility barriers in our
      Canadian healthcare environment and reaffirms the high relevance of our home-based
      intervention.

      To monitor compliance, the TT will ask patients to note their daily exercises in their log
      book and wear a wrist-worn accelerometer (Garmin Vivofit 4) to record daily step counts. The
      accelerometer provides motivational cues such as individualized daily step count goals and
      gentle beeps to remind patients to move when they have been sedentary for a prolonged period
      during the day. We previously used the Garmin Vivofit in an elderly cardiac population as
      part of the Get Going Trial and found it to be "geriatric-friendly" owing to its minimalist
      interface, large font size, lightweight waterproof design, and year-long battery that does
      not necessitate charging or computer syncing. The majority of patients (including those ≥80
      years) reported a high level of comprehension and satisfaction with this device. The TT will
      sync the patient's accelerometer devices at every home visit using a smartphone or tablet,
      review their step counts, and provide personalized coaching to increase daily walking.

      The second component is a protein-rich oral nutritional supplement (Ensure Enlive) with 20g
      protein and 1.5g HMB per serving, delivered as a ready-to-drink beverage in 235 mL bottles,
      consumed twice daily for 4 weeks pre-TAVR and 12 weeks after the patient is discharged home
      post-TAVR. This beverage contains 350 calories, and is provided in chocolate and vanilla
      flavors. It should be consumed with breakfast (first serving of the day) and with exercise
      (second serving of the day), not before meals, so as to supplement rather than replace food
      intake. The HMB ingredient stimulates muscle protein synthesis, particularly when combined
      with exercise due to the muscle priming effect. To monitor and promote compliance, the TT
      will ask patients to note their beverage consumption in their log book, instruct them to
      consume a beverage during home exercise sessions, periodically replenish their supply of
      beverages during home visits, and perform bottle counts. The log book provided to the
      participants also contains information on healthy eating and maintaining an active lifestyle
      (same as control group).

      LIFESTYLE COUNSELLING GROUP:

      Lifestyle counselling consists of formalized usual care - instructing patients to perform
      moderate-intensity aerobic activity at least 30 minutes 5 days per week as tolerated and eat
      a balanced diet based on the AHA/ACC Guideline on Lifestyle Management. In order to
      standardize this counselling and ensure that it is safely carried out in both groups, the TT
      will provide and explain information on healthy eating and maintaining an active lifestyle
      based on the "Easy Tips for Heart Healthy Eating" and "Walking for a Healthy Heart" brochures
      designed by the American Heart Association. The latter outlines practical tips to safely
      begin a walking program and gradually increase walking time over a 12-week period to meet the
      goal of 150 minutes per week. All of this information will be easily legible in a log book
      provided to participants. We will not instruct lifestyle counselling group patients to
      consume protein-rich nutritional supplements during the trial unless prescribed by their
      treating physician.

      OUTCOME MEASURES:

      The primary endpoint is the SF36-PF score at 12 weeks. Secondary endpoints are physical
      functioning measured by the Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB), health-related QOL
      measured by the 36-Item Short Form Health Survey (SF-36), cognitive function measured by the
      Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA), habitual physical activity level measured by the
      modified Paffenbarger questionnaire, handgrip strength measured by a Jamar dynamometer, body
      composition and phase angle measured by a portable bioimpedance device, frailty measured by
      the Essential Frailty Toolset, sarcopenia measured by the SARC-F questionnaire and EWGSOP
      criteria, and a composite safety endpoint of all-cause mortality, injurious fall, acute
      kidney injury, or readmission for worsening angina, heart failure, or arrhythmia. The
      aforementioned primary and secondary endpoints will be re-assessed at 24 weeks to detect
      latent effects and sustained adherence, and vital status and questionnaires will be assessed
      by telephone at 52 weeks. Clinical events will be defined according to the Valve Academic
      Research Consortium-2 data dictionary. A 3-member independent Data Safety and Monitoring
      Board will review all adverse events.
    
  