
    
      Goals:

        1. To determine the safety of intradermal and subcutaneous injection of lipopolysaccharide
           (LPS) as a vaccine adjuvant with a multipeptide vaccine.

        2. To obtain preliminary data on whether administration of a multipeptide vaccine plus each
           of 2 TLR agonists is immunogenic with or without Incomplete Freund's Adjuvant (IFA)

        3. To obtain preliminary data on whether addition of either of 2 toll-like receptor (TLR)
           agonists improve the persistence of circulating CD8+ T cell responses to vaccination
           with a multipeptide vaccine.

        4. To determine the local and systemic toxicities of administration of a multipeptide
           vaccine with each of 2 TLR agonists, and with or without incomplete Freund's adjuvant.

        5. To determine the cytokine and chemokine profile of the vaccine-site microenvironment
           week 1 after injection of a multipeptide vaccine and each of 2 TLR agonists, with or
           without IFA.

        6. To obtain preliminary data on T cell activation status and apoptosis in the vaccine site
           microenvironment (VSME) as a function of vaccine adjuvant.

        7. To assess whether circulating CD8 T cells induced by vaccination express different
           homing receptor profiles (CLA, CXCR3, α4β1 integrin, α4β7 integrin).

        8. To evaluate dendritic cell activation and function in sentinel immunized nodes draining
           the site of vaccination, for production of IDO, arginase, IL10, IL12.

        9. To characterize MyD88 expression in dendritic cells infiltrating vaccination sites.

       10. To identify regulatory processes in the vaccination site.

      Design: This is an open-label, randomized, pilot study of cellular and molecular events at
      the cutaneous site of immunization with a multipeptide vaccine. This and related peptide
      vaccines have been associated with immunologic efficacy in a majority of participants and
      have been associated with clinical tumor regressions in some participants. The maximum number
      of participants accrued will be 51.

      Endpoints:

      Primary:

        -  Safety, with measures of adverse events, locally and systemically

        -  CD8+ and CD4+ peptide-reactive T cell responses among lymphocytes in the peripheral
           blood and in sentinel immunized nodes (SIN)

      Secondary:

        -  Toll-like receptor signaling in the replicate immunization site

        -  CCR and integrin expression on vaccine induced T cells in the peripheral blood and at
           the replicate immunization site

        -  Th1, Th2, and Th17 profiles of T cells in the vaccination site and SIN as measured by
           cytokine expression (IFNγ, IL-2, TNFα, IL-4, IL-5, IL-10, IL-17, IL-23), and nuclear
           expression of transcription factors (T-bet, GATA3, RORγt) by immunohistochemistry.

        -  Chemokines CXCL9, 10, and 11; CCL19, CCL21, CXCL12, CXCL13 in the vaccine site
           microenvironment.

        -  Markers of activation, regulation, and apoptosis on CD4 and CD8 T cells in the vaccine
           site and SIN: CD69, Ki67, FoxP3, and TUNEL staining.

        -  Homing receptors expressed by antigen-reactive (tetramer-positive) T cells induced by
           vaccination, in the circulation and SIN.

        -  MyD88 expression in the VSME and SIN

        -  Regulatory processes in the immunization site and SIN

             -  Regulatory T cells (CD4+CD25hi FoxP3+)

             -  Myeloid suppressor cells

             -  Indole-amine dioxygenase

             -  PD-1, B7-H1

             -  IL-10 and IL-12 expression by dendritic cells (DC)
    
  