
    
      There is an unmet demand for surgical services in Ontario. The situation worsens as the
      population ages(9). Ontario healthcare costs account for a staggering 40% of the provincial
      budget(1).Provincial budget deficits mean an influx of healthcare resources are not
      forthcoming. The aging population costs Ontarians in excess of $2 billion dollars
      annually(1).

      Constrained and overburdened OR resources can result in patients having surgery at night and
      sometimes surgical procedures being performed by staff not specialized for surgical procedure
      type(8). Moreover, patient outcomes often decline while they await their surgical date(4,
      10-13).

      Operating rooms are regarded as an area of intensive resource requirements. With no regard to
      the complexity of a given procedure or demonstrable resource requirements, ORs are typically
      managed at critical care levels. This is true for specialized support staff like nurses as
      well(14). Allocation of resources is not tailored to the individual scenario. This
      inefficient model of surgical care delivery has been the status quo for decades and the
      fiscal impact, as well as the challenges this poses to productivity, have taken a toll on
      hospital budgets and contributed to lengthy provincial wait times for surgical procedures
      stretching months and even years. For example, according to Health Quality Ontario, the
      average wait times for elective orthopaedic surgery procedures at London Health Science
      Center (LHSC) is 96 days to first surgical consultation and an average of 211 days to
      operating on the patient.

      Faced with rising costs in an aging population, the investigators are compelled to find
      innovative solutions that will allow hospitals to accomplish more with less. These changes
      are necessary to maintain the standard of Canadian healthcare system and provide timely
      services in a cost-efficient manner.

      Standard or "Status quo" OR set ups are always equipped with the same, fixed set of assigned
      resources, regardless of case complexity or actual resource requirements. Allocation of
      resources in standard ORs is the same whether one is having heart surgery or bunion removal.

      To challenge these apparent incongruities, the investigators and the hospital pilot tested a
      tiered strategy for surgical procedures wherein resources were carefully matched to procedure
      complexity. Preliminary results suggested dramatic improvements in efficiency (up to 35%) and
      reductions in cost (up to 62%). This Academic Centre Tiered Operating Room strategy
      (ACTION-in-the-OR) presents a shift from the old, one-size-fits-all OR archetype to a novel,
      efficient model.

      By reducing OR time for minor procedures, the surplus OR time saved could be made available
      for the more time consuming surgical procedures and for more patients overall. Specialization
      and standardization has the potential to improve access and quality of care.

      This project evaluates an attempt to employ tiered ORs to redistribute finite surgical care
      resources with orthopedic surgery. While results from a pilot test of high efficiency OR was
      positive, demonstrating case cost reductions and increased efficiency in OR turnover, longer
      follow-up, larger sample size, an economic evaluation, and additional high quality evidence
      is needed to bolster this work.

      The investigators propose a prospective, comparative cohort study to evaluate the viability
      of an altered surgical health care delivery model on participant satisfaction and clinical
      outcomes as well as economic impact of an innovative healthcare delivery model in orthopedic
      patients undergoing elective foot and ankle surgery. This project is a portion of a larger
      proposal which also will examine the impact of tiered OR design on other surgical procedures
      in arthroplasty and general surgery.
    
  