
    
      The potential of non-invasive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS) as a therapeutic tool
      for improving schizophrenic symptoms, in particular resistant hallucinations, has been
      increasingly studied over the past decades. Several studies have demonstrated that
      low-frequency patterns of repetitive TMS (rTMS) on the left temporoparietal junction (TPJ),
      which are known to decrease local activity, significantly reduce auditory verbal
      hallucinations in schizophrenic patients. In spite of highly promising results, a high level
      of inter-individual variability in the response to non-invasive brain stimulation treatments,
      and the fact that rTMS may prove ineffective in some patients, keep spurring controversy on
      the efficacy of these approaches as currently performed, and on how to increase its efficacy
      and consistency. To date, few studies have aimed to explain this variability when, in fact, a
      better understanding of this common phenomena in the neurostimulation domain would clearly
      increase the effectiveness of this treatment, and lead to individualized therapeutic
      approaches specifically tailored to the conditions of each patient. Moreover, many questions
      stand, particularly regarding the influence of rTMS treatment on the anatomical and
      functional connectivity in schizophrenic patients.

      Accordingly, the objectives of this project are to better understand the impact of rTMS on
      the brains of patients with resistant auditory hallucinations, and to use this information
      not only to better understand this condition but to develop more efficient and consistent
      therapies. The investigators hypothesize that there is a baseline difference in anatomical
      and/or functional connectivity between responder and non-responder patients who are treated
      with rTMS. Therefore, this project aims to determine some anatomical and functional
      connectivity markers of response to rTMS treatment in patients with schizophrenia. For this,
      the investigators compare the patterns of diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) white matter
      tractography and resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data between
      responder and non-responder patients to rTMS treatment. Moreover, the investigators believe
      that rTMS can increase the functional connectivity between frontal and temporo-parietal
      cortices in schizophrenic patients associated with improvements in auditory hallucinations.
      Therefore, the second objectives of this work are to evaluate the impact of rTMS in
      functional connectivity in patients with schizophrenia by comparing the DTI and resting-state
      fMRI data before and after rTMS treatment in both responder and non-responder patients.
    
  