
    
      Adapted physical activity (APA) in the context of cancer is a field of growing interest and
      has been explored in numerous publications. In adults, the effects of APA on survival,
      symptoms and quality of life are established and its physiological consequences on immunity,
      angiogenesis and hormone secretion are under investigation.

      In children and adolescents, evidence is scarce: pilot studies show clinical benefit of
      physical activity practiced in a wide variety of situations and protocols with low level of
      scientific evidence. It is therefore not possible to recommend this practice in pediatrics
      despite the large number of initiatives and the conviction of many clinicians that there is a
      benefit for patients. In particular, there are few trials in children with advanced cancer
      pathologies or in palliative care. However, these patients have a high prevalence of severe
      symptoms (pain, digestive disorders, asthenia, and anxiety) for which physical activity may
      represent a therapeutic option.

      The purpose of our study is to describe a protocol of adapted physical activity and to
      evaluate its feasibility and toxicity according to a well-known and validated methodology in
      oncology used in drug development.

      Methodology is based on a simple and reproducible intervention combining brisk walking on
      treadmill and exercises of muscular strengthening with varying durations and intensities
      depending on physical capabilities of patients.

      The primary objective is to define the volume of physical activity that can be proposed to a
      patient starting APA based on the assessment of his physical condition evaluated by a
      6-minutes walking distance test.

      Inclusion criteria are broad to allow study population to represent the diversity of patients
      in pediatric palliative oncology. Stratification of patients in three groups based on a
      6-minutes walking distance test aims to adapt intervention to physical capability of patients
      and improve tolerance.

      Dose escalation will be set with a "3 + 3" regimen used in drug early phases trials.

      Primary outcome measure is perceived tolerance evaluated by the patient with a subjective
      scoring on CREST scale. Any score greater than 8/10 defines intolerance.

      Secondary objectives include the description of tolerance during sessions with shortness of
      breath and pain scores, the comparison of objective (HR) and perceived measures, and the
      study of patient's characteristics and medical history as confusion factors.

      The evolution of the patient's physical capability will be evaluated at the end of the study.
      The continuation of physical activity beyond the duration of participation will be
      documented. The impact on pathology-related symptoms and quality of life will be reported.
    
  