
    
      Postpartum depression (PPD) is a serious syndrome which resembles a major depressive episode
      and occurs in 10-20% of all mothers in the year following delivery. The etiology of PPD
      involves psychological factors, environmental factors such as stress and sleep deprivation,
      biological factors including hormonal changes, and social factors. Women with histories of
      major depression (MDD) are at an increased risk for PPD and recurrent PPD with subsequent
      pregnancies. No consistent hormonal abnormalities have been found in women with PPD and,
      instead, they may be sensitive to the normal changes in hormone levels during the postpartum
      time. One possible genetic vulnerability to depression, and in particular PPD, is the
      brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) gene. BDNF is an important member of the
      neurotrophin family and is known to affect neuronal outgrowth, differentiation, synaptic
      connectivity and neuronal repair for a broad range of neuronal cell types including
      serotonergic neurons. In humans, serum BDNF levels have been shown to be significantly lower
      in patients with depression, including women . Interestingly, estrogen has been shown to
      upregulate the expression of the BDNF gene in animals, suggesting that BDNF could be a
      critical link for women who have hormonally related depressive symptoms. In addition,
      serotonin-selective reuptake inhibitors (SSRI) used to treat depression are known to
      upregulate the expression of BDNF in the brain. Interestingly, links between depression,
      perturbed energy metabolism and BDNF signaling have recently been elucidated. In the present
      study, NIA investigators will measure levels of BDNF and reproductive and energy-regulating
      hormones in serum samples from subjects enrolled in Dr. Jennifer Payne s study of PPD.

      All subjects in this study will be enrolled, evaluated and serum samples collected by Dr.
      Payne and her staff at Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine under Dr. Payne s already
      Johns Hopkins approved IRB protocol NA_0008149.

      NIA Role:

      Coded serum samples will then be sent to Dr. Mattson at the NIA facility. Data obtained in
      the analysis of serum samples will be sent to Dr. Payne and maintained in her database, and
      analyzed to elucidate relations between levels of serum markers and clinical and genetic data
      acquired by Dr. Payne.
    
  