
    
      Management of pharyngoesophageal stenosis (PES) after cancer treatment in patients with head
      and neck cancer (HNC) remains a challenge. The etiology of PES in this group of patients is
      probably multifactorial, being associated with surgical manipulation, ischemic effects of
      radiotherapy and even cancer recurrence. It is estimated that up to 50% of patients treated
      for advanced HNC will present some degree of dysphagia. PES is a frequent cause of post
      treatment dysphagia of HNC patients. Although the exact prevalence is unknown, several
      retrospective series estimate that upper cervical stricture is present in 1% to 23% of the
      cases. The initial approach to PES is endoscopic dilation with a reported success rate
      ranging from 76% to 96%. In patients with refractory strictures to dilation sessions,
      endoscopic corticosteroid injection, such as triamcinolone, is usually added to the dilation
      sessions, which may increase the success of the endoscopic treatment. A relatively small
      group of patients will be refractory to the association of dilation and corticosteroid
      injection treatment. Metal stents may be considered in this scenario, but in the case of
      pharyngoesophageal stenosis, this approach is limited by cervical pain and foreign body
      sensation. Surgical reconstruction for pharyngoesophageal stenosis refractory to endoscopic
      treatment is the last therapeutic option (2). Previous radiotherapy, eventual reconstruction
      with cutaneous flaps make a surgical manipulation of the cervical region a real challenge,
      with increased adverse event rate, including restenosis.(2) Because of such difficulties,
      this prospective study aimed to evaluate the efficacy of Mitomycin C (MMC) endoscopic
      injection for the treatment of pharyngoesophageal stenoses in patients who were treated for
      head and neck cancer, refractory to endoscopic dilation treatment. There are descriptions of
      the use of Mitomycin C for scar prevention after ophthalmologic and otorhinolaryngological
      interventions (8). Its use in endoscopy has previously been described for the treatment of
      laryngeal and tracheal stenosis as well as refractory esophageal stenosis. Mitomycin C is a
      substance isolated from the bacterium Streptomyces caespitosus, which is used as a
      chemotherapeutic agent and has antiproliferative effects on fibroblasts, reducing fibroblast
      proliferation and collagen formation. Some studies demonstrated the ability to decrease
      fibroblast activity and consequent scar formation after the application of Mitomycin C on
      culture of fibroblasts in low concentrations (0.1 to 0.4 mg / ml) for 5 to 10 minutes,
      affecting their proliferation for over 3 weeks.
    
  