
    
      VA Cooperative Study CSP #591 is designed to compare the effectiveness of Prolonged Exposure
      and Cognitive Processing Therapy for treating posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) in male
      and female Veterans. PTSD is a serious and prevalent condition in Veterans, affecting just
      under 9% of VA patients in FY11. Since 2005, the number of VA patients with PTSD has
      increased 14.8% annually, due not only to new Veterans but also to increased numbers of
      Vietnam Veterans who are seeking care. In FY11, PTSD was the 3rd most common
      service-connected disability in VA.

      Despite solid evidence that Prolonged Exposure and Cognitive Processing Therapy are effective
      treatments for PTSD in Veterans and non-Veterans, there is insufficient evidence about the
      effectiveness of these treatments relative to one another. The only study to compare the
      treatments, a single-site trial in non-Veteran female rape survivors, failed to find a
      difference, but the study was not adequately powered to compare two such effective
      treatments. Other data are similarly inconclusive. CSP #591 would break new ground as the
      first large-scale comparative effectiveness trial of treatment for PTSD and the first study
      to provide definitive information about how effective treatments for PTSD compare with one
      another.

      The study will be a prospective randomized clinical trial with blinded assessment. The
      population will be male and female Veterans with PTSD due to any traumatic military event.
      Patients who are eligible and agree to participate in the study will be randomly assigned in
      a 1:1 ratio to receive Prolonged Exposure or Cognitive Processing Therapy. The investigators
      propose to administer 12 weekly sessions of each treatment as a standard "dose" but to allow
      participants who improve more rapidly to finish in 10 or 11 sessions and participants who
      have not attained adequate improvement by session 12 to have up to 2 additional sessions.

      The primary outcome is improvement in PTSD symptom severity as measured by change on the
      Clinician-Administered PTSD Scale after treatment. The outcome measure will be determined
      from regular follow-up visits of the patients, which will occur at the middle and at the end
      of treatment and then 3 and 6 months later. Secondary outcomes include other measures of
      PTSD, comorbid mental health problems, functioning, quality of life, and service utilization.
      The investigators also will measure participants' treatment preference and examine whether
      concordance between preference and allocation is associated with increased treatment
      effectiveness.

      In order to detect a standardized mean difference in improvement in PTSD symptom severity of
      d = .25, a sample size of 900 randomized patients provides 90% power to detect a difference
      between arms using the linear mixed effects model with a two-sided = .05. Given the lack of
      conclusive findings to predict which treatment is better, the investigators propose to test a
      nondirectional hypothesis. Assuming 2.5 years of accrual and an enrollment of 26 participants
      per year at each site, the investigators would need 14.1 sites to enroll a total of 64
      participants per site. The investigators propose to recruit 17 sites to guard against the
      possibility that some sites will not enroll the required number of participants.

      VA has a vested interest in understanding the relative effectiveness of Prolonged Exposure
      and Cognitive Processing Therapy. Both treatments are recommended at the highest level in the
      VA/DoD PTSD Practice Guideline. VA is required to make these treatments available to Veterans
      seeking PTSD care. The treatments are being disseminated nationally across the VA system in
      order to enhance the availability of evidence-based treatments to Veterans with PTSD. VA also
      has developed a national PTSD Mentoring Program for PTSD Program Administrators to help them
      manage their clinics to permit the delivery of these treatments. Every facility has an
      evidence-based therapy coordinator as well to facilitate training in evidence-based
      psychotherapy.

      As a large multi-site trial with men and women, CSP #591 would provide definitive information
      about the comparative effectiveness of Prolonged Exposure and Cognitive Processing Therapy
      and maximize the study's impact on the field. Because the treatments are based on differing
      theories about the development of PTSD, a demonstration that one treatment is superior to the
      other would further scientific exploration by challenging theoretical accounts of etiology
      and treatment. Regardless of which treatment is better, patients would have more information
      to help them make an informed decision about which treatment to choose and VA would have
      stronger evidence to help make care Veteran-centered.
    
  