
    
      There is currently no effective therapeutic to stabilize or reverse the cognitive impairment
      of Alzheimer's Disease (AD) and related dementias. Clinical trials with drugs have been
      unsuccessful because the wrong therapeutic target/species were selected, because drugs have
      great difficulty traversing the blood-brain barrier and getting into neurons, and/or because
      drugs largely have only a single mechanism of action. Since ever-increasing experimental
      evidence indicates that the toxic forms of both beta-amyloid and tau are the soluble
      "oligomeric" species of these two proteins, therapeutics to disaggregate these oligomers
      within neurons represent perhaps the best chance for attaining cognitive benefit in AD
      patients.

      Pre-clinical studies performed by the Sponsor and his collaborators have demonstrated that AD
      transgenic mice treated daily with electromagnetic waves in the radiofrequency (RF) range are
      protected from cognitive impairment or show a reversal of pre-existing cognitive impairment.
      These cognitive benefits appear to be due primarily to two complimentary mechanisms: 1)
      disaggregation of toxic protein oligomers within neurons, and 2) mitochondrial enhancement to
      increase energy metabolism. Moreover, no deleterious effects of treatment over many months
      have been observed in these pre-clinical studies.

      In order to provide similar treatment to mild/moderate Alzheimer's patients clinically,
      NeuroEM Therapeutics has developed a unique head device that provides electromagnetic (RF)
      treatment to the entire human forebrain at levels similar to those that provided cognitive
      benefits in pre-clinical studies. Using the MemorEM 1000 head device in the present Phase I
      trial, AD patients receive twice daily 1-hour treatments in-home, as administered by their
      caregiver. The device allows for the patient to have complete mobility for moving throughout
      their home.

      A comprehensive array of markers will be analyzed both during and following the 2-month
      treatment period, with baseline (pre-treatment) values serving as controls. Cognitive safety
      and efficacy will be evaluated using a variety of cognitive assessments including ADAS-cog
      (Primary), and secondary cognitive measures including ADCS-ADL, Rey AVLT, Trails A & B, Digit
      span, and clock draw tasks. Treatment effects on brain energy metabolism will be determine by
      FDG-PET scans, while treatment effects on brain functional connectivity will be determined
      through both resting state MRI and Diffusion Tensor Imaging. Also being assessed are the
      effects of treatment on various beta-amyloid and tau protein species (e.g., monomers,
      oligomers) in both blood and CSF. Safety of the treatment will be monitored by regular
      Adverse Events Assessment, physiologic monitoring, and patient daily diaries maintained by
      the caregiver.

      Expected Results: The investigators expect that 2-months of daily electromagnetic (RF)
      treatment will not present any significant side effects or safety issues. The investigators
      further expect that cognitive measures will be stable and/or improve by the end of treatment.
      In addition, the investigators anticipate that brain functional connectivity may be improved
      and that enhanced brain metabolism (FDG-PET) will occur. Changes in blood/CSF levels of
      various beta-amyloid and tau species are also anticipated.
    
  