
    
      The severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 pandemic causing COVID-19 disease affects
      hundreds of thousands of patients. Of these, 5% will present with acute respiratory failure,
      the most severe form of which is Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS). Hospital
      mortality affects 45% of patients with severe ARDS. The improvement in mortality associated
      with ARDS seems largely explained by the reduction in lesions induced by mechanical
      ventilation, in particular a tidal volume (Vt) set at 6 ml / kg of the weight predicted by
      the size associated with a plateau pressure must not exceed 30 cm of water. Unfortunately and
      despite the application of these recommendations, ARDS related COVID-19 is associated with a
      mortality of 65%. About 42% of patients hospitalized for COVID-19 pneumonitis will develop
      ARDS and the onset of ARDS is rapid after admission with a median of 2 days. Interestingly, a
      study reported that patients suffering from ARDS and having received corticosteroids had a
      mortality rate of 46% (23 out of 50) compared to 61.8% (21 out of 34) in patients who did not
      receive corticosteroids. However, this difference was not significant (P = 0.15). The
      survival curve showed, however, that the administration of corticosteroids
      (Methylprednisolone) reduced the risk of death (Hazard ratio: 0.38 (95% confidence interval
      0.20-0.72); P = 0.003). The authors concluded that a randomized study was necessary to
      confirm this impression.

      The theoretical justification for treatment with corticosteroids is related to the
      recognition of the inflammatory syndrome as a factor in the development of an uncontrolled
      and harmful fibroproliferative phase. It seems certain that late administration (beyond the
      14th day after the start of ARDS) is deleterious in patients by increasing mortality.
      However, a recent study shows that early administration of dexamethasone (within 30 hours
      after the start of ARDS) is associated with an increase of ventilator-free days and a
      decrease in mortality at 2 months.

      In COVID-19 disease, there is also a cytokine storm and an intense inflammatory reaction.
      Currently the use of corticosteroids is not recommended during a severe acute respiratory
      syndrome coronavirus 2 infection. Administration of corticosteroids may delay elimination of
      the virus. Recently, a preliminary study reported that the administration of
      hydroxychloroquine (200mg x3 per day) decreased or even made disappear the viral load. This
      clinical study appears to corroborate an experimental study. However, hydroxychloroquine can
      have cardiac toxicity which, although rare, can be serious.

      In summary:

        -  The appearance of an ARDS during a COVID-19 is burdened with a mortality of 65%

        -  The viral load has decreased when ARDS is present

        -  The use of hydroxychloroquine makes it possible to significantly reduce the viral load

        -  Early administration of corticosteroids seems beneficial in ARDS
    
  