
    
      1. Screening and Informed Consent Subjects will be screened on a weekly basis for eligibility
      of enrollment. If eligible, patients will be approached by study staff at the initial
      surgical consultation. The purpose of the study and risks of the procedures will be explained
      to the subject and the consent process must be documented accordingly in the medical record.
      Subjects who agree to study participation must sign an IRB approved informed consent form.
      Subjects will be informed that their participation in this study is voluntary and they may
      refuse to participate or discontinue from the study at any time. Subjects will be given the
      opportunity to ask the investigator questions so that they are adequately informed about the
      research. A copy of the signed informed consent must be provided to the subject and the
      informed consent process will be documented in source documents. If new information becomes
      available that may affect a subject's decision to continue to take part in the study, this
      information will be discussed with the subject by the investigator.

      Failure to meet submission requirements:

      Each patient will be required to meet their individual insurance companies requirements for
      submission of bariatric surgery approval. Subjects who provide study consent but then do not
      submit for insurance approval or are denied will be considered "discontinued" and will not
      require additional study follow-up visits. The reason for the discontinuation will be clearly
      delineated on the applicable case report form. Subjects in whom the robotic RYGB procedure is
      begun but not completed will be considered "discontinued" once discharged from the hospital
      and not require any additional study follow-up visits. Reasons for discontinuation will be
      recorded in the case report form. Additionally, female patients of child bearing age will
      undergo a standard of care pregnancy test at the time of the pre-operative surgical testing
      (2/3 weeks before surgery) and always the morning of surgery by urine HCG.

      Surgical Procedures:

      The operation will be performed per standard of care for both the laparoscopic RYGB and the
      robotic RYGB. The main difference between the two procedures is that in the robotic
      procedure, the intestinal anastomosis will be hand-sewn and in the laparoscopic RYGB, the
      anastomosis will be performed using a linear staple. Subjects will be maintained on a
      low-calorie diet for the first post-operative month, as per standard of care. In addition,
      multivitamin supplements, calcium, and iron should be prescribed and maintained per standard
      of care.

      Schedule:

      Subjects will be evaluated preoperatively, during the procedure, at discharge, and at 2
      weeks, 6 weeks, 3 months, 6 months, 9 months, and 12 months. Assessments to be conducted/data
      collected at each visit are listed below and in the study assessments table.

        1. Pre-operative Assessment

           The following assessments will be performed pre-operatively prior to the scheduled
           surgical procedure and the results recorded on the appropriate subject report form:

           Verification of pre-operative eligibility criteria Subject demographics (gender, age,
           race, ethnicity, smoking history) Height, weight, and body mass index (BMI) Comorbidity
           assessment (prevalence and duration of type 2 diabetes mellitus, sleep apnea,
           hypertension, dyslipidemia/hyperlipidemia, and other clinically relevant comorbidities
           as determined by the treating physician), including medications Fasting labs (glucose,
           hemoglobin, HbA1C, hematocrit, ferritin, albumin, total protein, calcium, parathyroid
           hormone, vitamin A, Vitamin B1, Vitamin B12, Vitamin D2/3, Vitamin 3, Vitamin K, folic
           acid, insulin, lipid panel, triglycerides, total cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein
           (HDL), low-density lipoprotein (LDL), C-peptides, iron, copper, and zinc) Surgical
           history Health- related Quality of life, as measured by the SF-36 assessment
           Gastrointestinal symptom rating scale, as measured by the GSRS form GERD HR-QL
           Pre-operative Dietary Restrictions

        2. Operative Assessment The following procedures and assessments will be performed on the
           day of/during the procedure: Weight and BMI American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA)
           grade operative time (defined as skin to skin time) anesthesia start and stop time
           estimated blood loss adverse events surgical technique surgical conversions to open
           concomitant procedures performed during the procedure

        3. Discharge Assessment

           The following procedures and assessments will be performed prior to discharge:

           Length of hospital stay Surgical site infection assessment Surgical site infection (SSI)
           Adverse events (see below)

        4. Post-operative follow-up assessments

           The following procedures and assessments will be performed at 2 weeks, 6 weeks, 3
           months, 6 months, 9 months and 12 months post procedure (+/- 7 days for 2 and 6 week
           follow-up, +/- 14 day days for all other months).

           Post-operative standard of care:

           Compliance with prescribed dietary supplements Weight and BMI EWL Comorbidity assessment
           (prevalence and duration of type 2 diabetes mellitus, sleep apnea, hypertension,
           dyslipidemia/hyperlipidemia, and other clinically relevant comorbidities as determined
           by the treating physician), including medications and relevant lab tests per standard of
           care at 3, 6, and 12 months (glucose, hemoglobin, HbA1C, hematocrit, ferritin, albumin,
           total protein, calcium, parathyroid hormone, vitamin A, Vitamin B1, Vitamin B12, Vitamin
           D2/3, Vitamin 3, Vitamin K, folic acid, insulin, lipid panel, triglycerides, total
           cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein (HDL), low-density lipoprotein (LDL), C-peptides,
           iron, copper, and zinc) Surgical site infection assessment at 1 month only
           health-related quality of life (HR-QOL) (SF-36), GERD-HRQL and GSRS questionnaire
           expressed as change from baseline at 3, 6 and 12 months only EGD at 1 year to assess
           stricture, marginal ulceration, and gastritis adverse events (see below)

        5. Adverse Events Adverse events for all bariatric procedures are tracked within our
           centers Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery Accreditation and Quality Improvement Program
           (MBSAQIP) database. All bariatric centers accredited by the American Society for
           Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery (ASMBS) are required to submit all bariatric surgery
           data to the MBSAQIP database for quality review. Our bariatric surgery team has open
           access to our centers data for quality review purposes and will compare adverse events
           for the robotic and laparoscopic RYGB to the other procedures performed by our center.
           Adverse events are categorized by organ system (wound, respiratory, urinary tract, CNS,
           cardiac, or other) as specified by the MBSAQIP. Any post-operative occurrence within 30
           days will be documented if related to the bariatric procedure. Bariatric related
           readmission and reoperations are also tracked per MBSAQIP guidelines.
    
  