
    
      All eligible patients over a two month period will be identified and invited to take part in
      the study. Identification will be done though examination of clinical case notes of patients
      who are candidates for total knee replacement or revision surgery. Demographic and medical
      history data for all study patients will be collected. This will include age, gender, BMI,
      smoking habits, alcohol consumption, diagnosis, operation, laterality and comorbidities. All
      eligible patients who fulfil the selection criteria will be informed of the study at their
      pre-surgery consultation, provided with the patient information sheet and approached to take
      part in the study at a later date.

      Patients who have agreed to take part in the study will have their knee surgery performed in
      the same manner as if they had not agreed to take part. The clinical team will be informed of
      a patient's participation in the study and will ensure that the AQUACEL™ Ag SURGICAL cover
      dressing is used instead of the standard dressing protocol with these patients, both
      immediately after surgery and at any other time when the patient requires the dressing to be
      changed before discharge. Study patients will also be given a sufficient supply of the
      dressing for home use on discharge from the hospital.

      Patients will be observed during their inpatient stay where data including the wound status,
      occurrence of blistering, dressing wear time, number of dressing changes, ease of dressing
      changes, any unforeseen side effects and any surgical site infection will be recorded to
      quantify the dressing performance by the healthcare staff. Appropriate data from lab results
      will be extracted. After discharge, data will be collected from the Prevention and Control of
      Infection team at regular intervals up to 30 days postoperatively. Study patients will be
      followed up, as per hospital protocol, at six weeks by the Arthroplasty Outcomes team. Data
      from this follow up will also be included in the study. After this appointment, patients will
      no longer have any involvement in the study.

      Once the data set is completed statistical analysis will be carried out to compare the
      results of this study with those of a retrospective cohort study of a similar patient group,
      where the Jubilee method dressing (a combination of DuoDERM® and AQUACEL® was used).
    
  