
    
      Despite recent new therapeutic options, allogeneic Stem Cell Transplantation remains the only
      curative option in patients with Myelofibrosis. Therefore, optimalization of this therapy
      remains a major challenge. Improvement of the clinical condition of these patients,
      decreasing spleen size can be accomplished by JAK2 inhibitor treatment and might improve SCT
      outcome. In addition, selective JAK2 inhibitors might modulate GvHD which can also add to
      improved SCT outcome. Also, decreasing the burden/activity of the disease before allo-SCT
      might also improve final disease response. The first, limited, clinical data of ruxolitinib
      treatment before allo-SCT show controversial effects on the outcome of SCT. Therefore,
      additional prospective clinical trials have to be done to establish the role of JAK2
      inhibition before allogeneic SCT. Since ruxolitinib has considerable myelosuppressive effects
      which might limit the clinical use in some MF patients, other selective JAK2 inhibitors might
      be useful in this setting. Pacritinib, as a JAK2/FLT3 inhibitor, has a very potent JAK2
      inhibitory activity without myelosuppressive effects and might therefore be more suitable
      than ruxolitinib. The major possible side effects are gastro-intestinal and can be managed
      with medication. In several studies, pacritinib has shown to be effective in decreasing
      spleen size and has shown to improve clinical condition of patients. Therefore, this compound
      seems promising in improving the outcome of allo-SCT. Although pacritinib causes no
      inhibition of JAK1 activity and therefore might have limited effects in decreasing
      inflammatory response, this might also be of benefit since a "withdrawal syndrome" as has
      been described after cessation of ruxolitinib is not to be expected.

      With this trial, using pacritinib treatment before allo-SCT, the issue of improvement of SCT
      outcome will be investigated.
    
  