
    
      The ductus arteriosus varies in length, diameter and morphology. The duct closure occurs in
      two stages: the first one or functional closure; the second or anatomical closure. This
      condition is associated with other heart diseases, which modify the natural history and
      require individualized treatment. Treatment varies from conservative, pharmacological or
      surgical treatment, and there are many controversies regarding the treatment decision. And
      aims of the closure, is to decrease the likelihood of irreversible pulmonary vascular
      disease, reduce associated morbidity and mortality. The role of prostaglandin E2 is the
      permeability of the conduit, by which is indicated the use of cyclooxygenase inhibitors for
      closure (indomethacin and ibuprofen). In various research studies many factors associated
      with failure of pharmacological treatment (gestational age, antenatal indomethacin less than
      48 hours before delivery, use of high frequency ventilation) are reported, therefore, there
      is an alternative treatment which is surgical closure. In the pharmacological treatment of
      ductus arteriosus persistent it should be individualized according to gestational age,
      respiratory condition and size of the newborn. With early drug treatment can achieve closure
      of patent ductus arteriosus in up to 90% of cases, while the late treatment between 50-65%.
      However, it is reported that after treatment with indomethacin, reopening occurs, two doses
      are recommended more after the first, in addition to its side effects, contraindications and
      complications. As well, ibuprofen contraindications. So the closure of the ductus arteriosus
      persistent may be performed by hemodynamics and surgical closure (standard left thoracotomy
      or thoracoscopic technique). There are specific indications for surgical treatment (no
      response to two cycles of medical treatment in newborns with less than 1000 gr weight in
      which I fail one indomethacin, absolute contraindications to it, with significant hemodynamic
      repercussions. With surgical treatment before the third week of life minimizing morbidity. it
      is reported by many authors that complications are rare and mortality is associated with
      other complications of prematurity. So Surgical treatment is considered as an alternative
      because of its low incidence of complications, mortality and lower cost, plus a total
      occlusion between 94-100% Because of this, the treatment of patent ductus arteriosus in
      preterm infants, ranging from conservative treatment, medical or surgical, and currently
      there is much controversy in the treatment decision.

      This study aims to determine the efficacy and safety of surgical versus pharmacological
      treatment for the permanent closure of the patent ductus arteriosus in preterm infants.

      Methods: Is open label randomized controlled the clinical trial with: 1) experimental group
      assigned to surgical treatment; 2) control group assigned to pharmacological treatment, for
      closure of patent ductus arteriosus.
    
  