
    
      This pre- post-intervention study will take place in Colombia, South America in 2 cities:
      Medellin (2 sites and Cartagena 1 site). The main objective is to determine the proportion of
      contraceptive usage by women who have just had a baby, before and after the introduction of
      specialized contraceptive counseling into maternity care and availability of the most
      effective contraceptive methods:

      Group 1 (Standard of care) participants will be asked about intention for contraception usage
      upon hospital discharge after maternity care.

      Group 2 (Intervention) participants will receive standardized contraceptive counseling and
      immediate access to the method of choice, including long acting reversible contraception
      (LARC) and other locally available methods. LARC methods available in Colombia include the
      copper-T intrauterine device (IUD) and Jadelle® implant, both of which are safe for usage in
      postpartum women.

      Both groups will undergo follow- up via phone at 6-8 weeks, and 6 and 12 months postpartum to
      determine contraceptive continuation, repeat pregnancy, and to track any complications with
      the usage of LARC, including infection and contraceptive failure. For subjects with an IUD,
      an additional visit would take place at 8-10 days to determine need for IUD string trimming
      and visualization of strings.

      The intervention will include introduction of specialized standardized contraceptive
      counseling to occur during inpatient maternity care and immediate postpartum availability of
      LARC methods. Currently, contraceptive counseling is left to the postpartum primary care
      setting and obstetric providers are not trained for immediate IUD placement. LARC devices are
      not typically available in the inpatient setting. Providers and staff of all levels will be
      trained in standardized contraceptive counseling methods. Obstetric providers will be trained
      in immediate postplacental IUD insertion. Staff nurses and providers will have access to
      company-sponsored implant insertion training programs.

      The proportion of participants using LARC methods after implementation of the intervention
      will be compared to the proportion choosing LARC prior to the intervention. Additionally, the
      outcomes of women choosing non-LARC methods will be compared to those choosing LARC methods.

      The study has received funding by the Colombian grant agency, Colciencias. Regulatory
      oversight has previously been granted by the University of Antioquia's (Medellin, Colombia)
      Institutional Review Board. Research operations are managed by the local Colombian
      organization, NACER, with support of research design and methods, statistical analysis, and
      medical expertise and trainings provided by clinicians from OHSU. Day to day research
      operations will be managed by research coordinators at each of the three maternity care
      hospital sites with support and monitoring by NACER and by OHSU clinicians.

      The role of OHSU clinicians will be to provide research infrastructure and clinical support
      via remote communications, to provide initial training of trainers, to provide monitoring of
      recruitment and counseling methods, to help in the creation and monitor quality of data
      collection forms, and to perform statistical analyses. OHSU will not participate in
      recruitment of participants or in clinical procedures. We do not plan to be present at any
      research sites in person, though may perform monitoring visits if funds are available.
    
  