
    
      Primary objective:

      • To investigate the effects of 30 days use of supplement therapy of probiotic VSL#3 on
      painful symptoms of OLP at the end of the therapy (30-days endpoint) and 30 days after the
      last dose (60-days endpoint).

      Secondary objective:

        1. To investigate the effects of 30 days use of supplement therapy of probiotic VSL#3 on
           OLP disease activity.

        2. To investigate the effect of 30 days use of supplement therapy of probiotic VSL#3 on
           quality of life.

        3. To investigate acceptability of the intervention and potential adverse effects. and for
           the mechanistic study, whether :

             -  The use of VSL#3 is associated with metagenomics changes in saliva.

             -  The use of VSL#3 is associated with changes in the serum expression profile of
                pro-inflammatory cytokines.

      A randomized, double blinded, placebo-controlled trial study on individuals with OLP.

      Patients with painful ulcerative biopsy-confirmed OLP attending the Oral Medicine clinics of
      the UCLH ( University college of London hospital) Eastman Hospital and meeting the inclusion
      criteria of the study will be given information about the trial and invited to participate.

      30 individuals who consent will be recruited and randomised in two groups: group A (15
      participants) will receive the VSL#3 and group B (15 participants) will receive a placebo. A
      centralised computer-generated randomization list provided by an independent third party will
      be used to conceal allocation of patients to the treatments. The list will be sent to the
      drug manufacturer who will label the VSL#3 or placebo with relevant study participant code,
      which will come in the same identical plain-packages to ensure blinding (neither the
      participants nor the investigator will be aware of the sachets content). The study
      statistician will also be blinded to the allocation. Patients will be allowed to use best
      standard therapy during the study.

      To demonstrate the research hypotheses, Investigators will record oral painful symptoms,
      disease activity, and quality of life in participants before, at 15 and 30 days from
      treatment start, and 30 days (day 60) after the last VSL#3 supplement intake.

      60 days + 15 days 21 months Single-site 30 participants

      Inclusion Criteria:

        1. Biopsy-proven diagnosis of OLP as per WHO histological criteria* with no evidence of
           epithelial dysplasia or malignancy.

        2. Presence of painful oral symptoms associated to OLP, with minimum severity of pain being
           3 or more, on a 0-10 numeric pain rating scale at screening and confirmed at
           recruitment/start of the intervention.

        3. Age >18 years and willing to participate into the study.

        4. Receiving no therapy or receiving best standard topical therapy (typically topical
           corticosteroids or immunosuppressant) with the exclusion of systemic corticosteroids or
           systemic immunosuppressant.

             -  I. R. H. Kramer, R. B. Lucas, J. J. Pindborg, and L. H. Sobin, "Definition of
                leukoplakia and related lesions: an aid to studies on oral precancer," Oral Surgery
                Oral Medicine and Oral Pathology, vol. 46, no. 4, pp. 518-539, 1978

      Exclusion Criteria

        1. The use of systemic antibiotics, retinoid, corticosteroids or immunosuppressant within
           four weeks prior to enrolment in the study.

        2. Pregnancy* or receiving IVF treatment.

        3. Individuals with known history of systemic disorders affecting the immune system (e.g.,
           connective tissue disorders, cancer, etc.)

        4. Active cancer or cancer in remission undergoing maintenance with chemotherapy or
           immunomodulatory agents.

        5. Evidence of oral epithelial dysplasia or malignancy on previous biopsy.

             -  Evidence of negative pregnancy test at screening / randomization visit (strip urine
                test) in women of child-bearing age in which the possibility of being pregnant
                cannot be otherwise excluded.
    
  