
    
      Patients will be identified during GI clinic visits or procedure visits with Dr. Nicholas
      Shaheen or his colleagues at UNC. Patients may also be identified by research personnel
      during review of the endoscopy schedule and medical records. If eligible, interested
      participants will be provided with a consent form during their clinic or procedure visit.
      Enrolled subjects will be assigned a unique identification (ID) number for data collection.

      Patients will be recruited by Dr. Nicholas Shaheen and his colleagues or by other study
      personnel prior to their routine care endoscopy at UNC. An investigator, study coordinator,
      or other personnel trained in the protocol and referenced in the IRB application will obtain
      consent during the patient's visit in the GI clinic or prior to an upper endoscopy. Potential
      subjects will have an opportunity to carefully review the consent form, the details of the
      study will be reviewed verbally, and all questions will be answered to the satisfaction of
      the patient. Only English-speaking adults with the ability to consent will be eligible for
      enrollment in this study. After the subject signs the consent, a copy of the signed consent
      will be provided to the subject and the coordinator will collect demographic and historical
      information from the patient pertaining to illnesses, medication and other relevant
      information. The consent process will be documented in the subject's research file.

      After obtaining informed consent, blood will be obtained and subjects will proceed with their
      routine care upper endoscopy. The endoscopist, as per routine practice, will note findings in
      the procedure report and photograph or record video to confirm and document key findings, as
      well as take biopsies as indicated for routine care. During the procedure up to 10 research
      biopsies will be collected as part of this study. Research biopsies will be collected in
      addition to routine care biopsies and will be obtained with a standardized biopsy protocol
      (below). The total number of research biopsies may vary based on presence/absence of
      nodularity but will not exceed 10 research-specific biopsies. This number of esophageal
      biopsies is within the standard of care for biopsying the esophagus.

      Biopsies for clinical care are taken prior to any consideration of research biopsies.
      Research biopsies are taken only if the additional biopsies do not significantly increase the
      patient's risk or interfere with routine care procedures. The research biopsy protocol may be
      modified by the physician performing the procedure if necessary.

      In addition to research blood and biopsies, up to 4 cytology brushings for research purposes
      may also be obtained during the procedure.

      Specimens collected for this research study will include:

        -  1 10mL red tube and 1 8.5mL yellow tube for serum, plasma, and buffy collection

        -  Up to 10 research-specific biopsies obtained from the esophagus during the routine care
           esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD).

             -  Four biopsies will be taken from the midpoint of the current Barrett's Esophagus
                (BE) (or midpoint of previous Barrett's Esophagus (BE) if the patient has already
                received ablation for previous Barrett's Esophagus (BE)),

             -  Two biopsies from normal squamous epithelium, and

             -  One biopsy from each area of esophageal nodularity seen during the procedure

        -  Pathology slides from routine care biopsies taken during the procedure as well as
           retrospective pathology slides from routine care biopsies taken prior to enrollment on
           the study.

        -  Up to 4 cytology brushes during the procedure

      Biopsies will be immediately frozen on liquid nitrogen then transferred to the -80
      biorepository freezer for long term storage. Blood will be immediately processed and
      transferred to the -80 biorepository freezer for long-term storage.

      The translational pathology lab (TPL) maintains formalin fixed paraffin embedded (FFPE)
      blocks from biopsies taken for routine care. Slides will be cut from these blocks for this
      study. Slide requests for this research study will not exhaust the archived tissue and will
      leave a substantial amount of the formalin fixed paraffin embedded (FFPE) block for potential
      future clinical use.

      If subjects return for additional esophagogastroduodenoscopies (EGDs) as part of routine
      care, then all study procedures will be repeated as part of this registry as detailed below.

      For subjects receiving routine care surveillance esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) for current
      or previous Barrett's Esophagus (BE) or current or previous esophageal cancer (ECA):
      Specimens and data will be collected at each routine care surveillance EGD as part of this
      study.

      For subjects receiving routine care treatment EGD for current BE/ECA: Specimens and data will
      be collected at the initial treatment EGD, but not during subsequent treatment EGDs. Once
      treatment is complete and BE or ECA is clear, this group will begin surveillance EGDs as part
      of routine care for their condition. Specimens and data will be collected during subsequent
      follow-up surveillance EGDs after treatment is complete.
    
  