
    
      Orthostatic hypotension (OH) refers to a drop in blood pressure as a result of sitting up or
      standing up (moving against gravity). OH has been defined as a decrease in systolic (≥20
      mmHg) or diastolic (≥10 mmHg) blood pressure upon transition from lying down to an upright
      position regardless of the presence or absence of overt symptoms (dizziness, lightheadedness,
      blurred vision, loss of consciousness).

      OH is quite common after a spinal cord injury (SCI), especially with more severe injuries
      above the T6 level. OH can significantly interfere with activities of daily living and it can
      also interfere with participation during inpatient rehabilitation. Nearly 75% of acute SCI
      subjects were found to have OH and ~60% reported symptoms of OH during physical therapy
      activities, which limited almost 50% of the treatment sessions. Developments in
      rehabilitation technology have culminated in a device, a robotic tilt-stepper (RTS), e.g.,
      known as the Erigo (Hocoma). In an RTS, the robot moves the legs through a pre-selected range
      of motion at different speeds to limit blood pooling during verticalization. This can be
      augmented by patterned functional electrical stimulation (FES), e.g., the ErigoPro.

      The proof-of-principle study by the developers of the Erigo showed that passive leg movements
      can stabilize hemodynamic responses in healthy subjects who exhibited near-syncope when
      placed at 75-deg. for 30 min. Two earlier studies that examined the effect of passive leg
      movements on hemodynamic responses in healthy subjects used only one movement speed. Two
      other studies in chronic SCI (which compared the hemodynamic effects of passive leg movements
      alone or in combination with FES during a tilt-table verticalization) also used only one
      movement speed. Chi et al. showed no difference in vital signs between application of passive
      leg movements, FES, or the combination thereof in comparison to baseline.

      Based on the literature review, it appears that no previous study has systematically examined
      the effects of different speeds of robotic leg movements on hemodynamic responses, which is
      the simplest and most user-friendly way to use RTS in a busy clinical setting. Moreover, no
      study recruited the most relevant target population, that is, persons with a subacute SCI who
      often develop OH when moved from lying down to a sitting or standing position. Therefore, it
      is the intent of this study to determine whether the speed of leg movement during progressive
      movement towards an upright position has a meaningful impact on a subjects blood pressure and
      onset of OH.

      To test this hypothesis, healthy subjects and subjects with SCI will be recruited to
      participate in a one time training session with the ErigoPro. The study will occur in the SCI
      floor of a large rehab center. The sit-up test will be performed to assess if transitioning
      from supine to sitting position provokes symptoms/signs of OH. All prescribed medication will
      be noted and allowed as to not interfere with regular care and to reflect a real clinical
      practice. Each subject will then be transferred to the Erigo and secured to the device. Once
      secured to the device, the trial will be initiated and the subject will remain in supine for
      a resting period of approximately 5 minutes (to allow the subjects cardiovascular system to
      reach steady state) followed by another 2 minutes with their hemodynamic values continuously
      monitored by a beat-to-beat monitoring device (the Finapres Nova) which will aid in
      establishment of baseline hemodynamic thresholds. The assigned cadence (either 0, 40, or 80
      steps per minute) will be initiated and the subject will then be progressed through angles of
      elevation including 0, 25, 50, and 75 degrees, spending approximately 2 minutes in each
      position with hemodynamic responses continuously monitored. If the subject demonstrates any
      signs/symptoms of OH or their blood pressure falls below or exceeds the established
      thresholds for safety or any other significant issues arise, they will be immediately
      returned to the supine position (0 degrees), the assigned cadence discontinued, and that
      portion of the trial terminated. If the subject demonstrates a return to baseline hemodynamic
      values within 5 - 10 minutes and they agree to continuation of the trial, they will be
      progressed to the next assigned speed. Should they not return to baseline values, the medical
      team will be contacted and the attending physician consulted. Any signs noted by the
      investigator or symptoms reported by the patient will be recorded and should a portion of the
      trial be terminated, the cause will be investigated to determine if it was truly due to OH or
      another issue. If the subject achieves 75 degrees for 2 minutes with no significant issues,
      they will be returned to supine followed by the next assigned speed being tested in the same
      fashion as the previously tested assigned speed.
    
  