
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the safety and feasibility of combining PXD101 (belinostat) with 13-cis-retinoic
      acid [13-cRA] (isotretinoin) in patients with advanced solid tumor malignancies.

      II. To define the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of PXD101 when administered in combination
      with 13-cRA and to describe the toxicities at each dose studied.

      III. To evaluate the pharmacokinetics of PXD101 and 13-cRA when given in combination.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To demonstrate upregulation of retinoic acid receptor-beta (RARβ) and retinoic X-receptor
      (RXR) expression in tumor tissues after treatment with PXD101 and 13-cRA.

      II. To measure apoptosis in tumor biopsies after treatment. III. To assess the change in gene
      expression after exposure to PXD101 and 13-cRA.

      IV. To document any clinical activity of the combination of PXD101 and 13-cRA.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study of belinostat.

      Patients receive belinostat intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on days 1-5 and isotretinoin
      orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-14. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of PXD101 until the maximum tolerated dose
      (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6
      patients experience dose-limiting toxicity during the first course of therapy.

      Once the MTD is determined, an expanded cohort of 10 patients are enrolled and treated at the
      MTD. These patients also undergo blood collection periodically during treatment for
      pharmacokinetic studies.

      All patients undergo blood collection, buccal scrapings, and tumor biopsies periodically for
      biomarker, pharmacodynamic, gene expression, and laboratory studies.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for >= 8 weeks.
    
  