
    
      Shoulder impingement accounts for 44 to 65% of shoulder complaints during physician visits.
      Shoulder impingement has been classified into two main categories: structural and functional.
      The structural impingement can be caused by narrowing of the subacromial space resulting from
      a reduction in the space due to bony growth or soft-tissue inflammation. The functional
      impingement or superior migration of the humeral head can be caused by weakness and/or muscle
      imbalance. It is possible that some subacromial impingement results from a combination of
      both structural and functional factors. Subacromial impingement occurs when the structures in
      the SAS (rotator cuff, biceps tendon long head, and subacromial bursa) become compressed and
      inflamed under the coracoacromial ligament. The suprasinatus tendon in particular is at
      highest risk for irritation and subsequent injury because it is the most likely to contact
      the acromion when the humerus is abducted to 90° and internally rotated 45°.

      The clinical impairment is not always the same and varies from a painful shoulder with
      correct range of motion to a pseudoparalysis shoulder. The first treatment of this
      subacromial impingement is always non surgical and consists in relative resting, painkillers
      and/or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAD) and physiotherapy. The aim of this
      treatment is to relieve pain and to restore the mobility and a good function of the shoulder.

      There is no consensus about the physiotherapy protocol for the treatment of the shoulder
      impingement. In France, the most used physiotherapy protocol uses the strengthening of the
      muscles which stabilize the scapula (rhomboide muscles, trapezius and serratus anterior) and
      which lower the humerus (pectoralis major, latissimus dorsi and teres major). The aim of this
      approach is to augment the subacromial space in order to decrease the inflammation of the
      rotator cuff tendons and the associated pain. A technique of Dynamic Humeral Centering (DHC)
      uses a new method of glenohumeral centering in closed kinetic chain has been described ("3C
      Concept" for Centering in a Closed Chain). Dynamic humeral centring (DHC) is a modality of
      physiotherapy that aims to prevent subacromial impingement of rotator cuff tendons. In order
      to simplify and to improve its reliability, a special device called Scapuleo® has been
      developed. The aim of this device is to help the physiotherapist to realize simultaneously a
      subacromial decompression, a specific strengthening of the rotator cuff muscles and an
      optimal activation of the lower trapezius and the anterior serratus.

      Our hypothesis was that the DHC was not inferior to the conventional physiotherapy protocol
      for the medical treatment of the subacromial impingement.

      We proposed a prospective and randomized study. All the patients treated in our department
      for simple tendinopathy of the rotator cuff or partial thickness tear were included in this
      study after signed consent. The physiotherapy protocol consisted in 20 sessions of either
      "Conventional program" (Control group) or "Dynamic Humeral Centering" (Study group). The
      clinical evaluation included the range of motion measurement, Constant Score, Quick-DASH and
      Oxford Shoulder Score at 3 months and 6 months. Patients were blinded to the study
      hypothesis. The assessor of all outcomes was blinded to the interventions.

      The rhythm of the physiotherapy sessions was the same in both groups (3 sessions per week for
      3 weeks, 2 sessions per week for 3 weeks and 1 session per week for 5 weeks). All patients
      received passive mobilization of the shoulder without pain and muscle stretching. Each
      physiotherapy session lasted 30 minutes and included massage or hot physiotherapy in case of
      VAS (visual analogic scale) of pain superior to 6/10.
    
  