
    
      Quetiapine is frequently used to treat psychosis in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD)
      and other dementias. These patients commonly have sleep disturbances that include nighttime
      awakenings with confused, agitated behaviors. These awakenings impose a great challenge for
      caregivers, especially family caregivers whose own sleep is disrupted as a result of the
      patient's awakenings. Sleep disturbance can lead to nursing home placement3 and may add to
      cognitive impairment of patients.

      There is no medication proven to be safe and effective in the treatment of sleep disorders in
      patients with dementia. Antipsychotic medications are often prescribed at bedtime in the
      hopes that they will aid sleep and reduce agitation and psychosis associated with these
      awakenings. Sleep disturbance is more common in AD patients with moderate to severe disease,
      and these patients are more likely to have psychosis and to be recruited from long-term care
      facilities. We recently conducted the only multicenter clinical trial of a drug for sleep
      disturbance in AD. The study, completed under the auspices of the NIA's Alzheimer's Disease
      Cooperative Study, investigated melatonin as a sedative-hypnotic agent for AD patients. We
      found melatonin to be of no benefit on objective measures, although there were positive
      trends in the data and a significant improvement on subjective measures (caregiver ratings of
      patients' sleep) in one of the melatonin groups relative to placebo. No other large trial in
      AD subjects has been reported in the literature for drugs with potential benefit for AD
      patients with sleep disturbances. There are several reasons why this population needs to be
      specifically studied. Patients with AD tend to have highly fragmented sleep, with many
      nocturnal awakenings. They have significant daytime sleepiness that might affect daytime
      cognitive function and behavior. These patients tend to be older, with sensitivity to drug
      side effects.

      People with neurodegenerative diseases such as AD may respond differently to CNS-active
      medications. Finally, this population represents a large and growing cohort of patients that
      deserve individual study of their unique problems.
    
  