
    
      Scientific background and rationale Alzheimer dementia (AD) is the most common cause of
      progressive cognitive deterioration that alters memory and learning to such a degree that it
      heavily interferes with daily living. Functional autonomy loss is a key feature of AD, as it
      follows a slow degradation process in cognitive function and in the ability to perform
      instrumental activities of daily living (IADL), such as managing finance, food preparation or
      using a dish washer. Normally, learning occurs in an unstructured manner, which consists of
      guessing and the occurrence of errors during acquisition (Trial and Error, TE). However,
      there is abundant evidence that reducing errors during learning (Errorless Learning, EL) or
      increasing the time period between recall attempts (Modeling with Spaced Retrieval, MR) allow
      even moderate and severe Alzheimer Dementia (AD) patients to (re)learn instrumental
      activities of daily living (IADL) such as using a new route, an agenda or a cassette/radio
      player. While these findings are encouraging, we still do not fully understand the memory
      mechanisms underlying different learning techniques that are crucial in improving IADL tasks
      (re)learning and remembering in AD patients. Because acetyl cholinesterase inhibitors or
      memantine may be active moderators of intervention targeting memory improvement, complex
      intervention using behavioral enrichment training should explore any drug treatment by
      behavioral intervention interaction effects.

      Description of the project methodology

      This study focuses on the relationship between learning techniques, IADL and memory
      processes, in a threefold way:

        1. it will determine which of the of the three learning techniques (EL, SR, TE) will
           improve most the (re)learning of instrumental skills in different dementia stages using
           a randomized controlled trial;

        2. it will explain the role of implicit and explicit memory mechanisms in the (re)learning
           of IADL tasks.; and

        3. it will explore the possible drug treatment by behavioral intervention interaction
           effects of the three learning techniques.

             -  Primary outcome :

      Is the (re)learning effectiveness (physical performance) of each procedure and the overall
      maintain of the autonomy. All intervention are individualized training. The learning
      procedure comparison will allow us to assess the (re) learning capacities of IADL tasks in AD
      patients according to severity stages from mild to moderately severe.

      • Secondary outcome : Assessing the role of the implicit memory processes over the explicit
      memory processes in the (re)learning of IADL tasks. Overall effects of the intervention over
      the patient's autonomy, cognitive functioning, behavioral disturbances, quality of life and
      careers burden.

      Settings: Nursing Homes, Day Care centers, Memory Clinics Locations: Nijmegen, The
      Netherlands and Nice and Bordeaux agglomerations, France 3 different interventions given in
      individual sessions at participant's facility.

      Each intervention is a 6-week training with a post assessment at 4-week follow-up. Each
      participant will receive one of the 3 interventions for 2 hours twice a week in individual
      sessions.

      Errorless learning(EL) refers to the use of feedforward instruction (i.e., how to do) before
      actions to prevent learners from making mistakes.

      Modeling with Spaced Retrieval (MR) techniques refers to the modeling of the steps and the
      increasing time interval between the completion of the task and the rehearsal of the targeted
      information by the patient.

      Trial and Error (TE) refers to the regular unstructured learning and is considered as control
      condition.

      A standardized 1-week training has been developed in French and Dutch to train French and
      Dutch therapists at each learning techniques.
    
  