
    
      RESEARCH METHODOLOGY / EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN

      Open, monocentric, controlled (group of healthy control subjects) study.

      Population: 2 groups:

      Group A "Alzheimer group": patients with mild to severe stages of Alzheimer's disease:
      subgroup A1 "Alzheimer group hospitalized at the Paul Spillmann Centre (Centre Paul
      Spillmann, CPS)" (CHU de Nancy, France); subgroup A2 "Alzheimer group monitored at the
      Resource and Research Memory Centre (Centre Mémoire de Ressources et de Recherche, CMRR)"
      (CHU de Nancy, France) Group B "healthy control group": healthy volunteers

      SPECIFIC ASSESSMENT PROCEDURES

      TASKS SPECIFIC TO THE STUDY: MATERIALS

      Interview methodology: The interrelationships between garden, art, cognition and behavior
      will be assessed. The endpoints of these dimensions will be achieved by an analysis of
      subject-psychologist interactions via interviews in the garden (in-context) and in
      out-of-context mnemonic interviews. These interviews will be recorded and transcribed
      verbatim. The interest of juxtaposing these two interview situations, in a comparative
      analysis of interactional production, is to be able to access different cognitive skills in
      order to analyze these skills. All of the data will be extracted through the quantitative
      analysis of discursive productions stemming from Interlocutory Logic (Trognon and Batt, 2007,
      2010, 2011). The investigators analyses will consist, on the one hand, of exploring the
      public production of private thoughts of the subject (cognition and emotions) and secondly,
      to modelize interactive behaviors. The interlocutory space will be both referential and
      modal. All in all, the investigators will observe and analyze the eventual discursive
      productions of the subject in reference to the "art, memory and life" garden, whether they
      are related to the subject's experiences in the garden (in-context), to the narrative
      situation in recounting his or her experience in the garden (out-of-context) or to the
      spontaneous use of the garden for subjects in group A1. The implemented approach will have a
      strong ecological perspective.

      Interlocutory logic is an analysis method developed in the INTERPSY laboratory . This
      pragmatic-dialogic method analyzes discourse in situations of interaction. This analytical
      process is aimed at expliciting the basic components of communication, interlocutory
      management and socio-cognitive-discursive events occurring in conversations.

      For subjects in Group A:

      Mood assessment: Cornell Scale for Depression in Dementia (CSDD, Cornell, 1988), translated
      into French.

      For subjects in Group A and in Group B

        -  Assessment of emotional events: Apathy Scale: Marin's Apathy Evaluation Scale (AES)

        -  Questionnaire on artistic and cultural activities (ACA) pertaining to all artistic and
           cultural activities that the subject appreciates and/or is engaged in or has engaged in.

        -  Assessment of general esthetic preferences: "General Esthetic Preference" (GEP) tool

        -  Designed along the lines of those used by Kawabata and Zeki and by Halpern et al. for
           their respective studies (Kawabata and Zeki, 2010; Halpern et al., 2008).

        -  Materials: photographs representing works of art - paintings and sculptures - belonging
           to three styles: figurative, stylized or abstract, each representing categories - living
           or non-living.

        -  Task to be performed by the subject: for each photograph presented, the subject's task
           is to express an esthetic judgment using a visual analogue scale. After collecting the
           subject's esthetic judgment, his or her esthetic emotions will be assessed through two
           propositional questions.

        -  Objective: Document the feelings relative to the person's preference for a certain
           artistic style.

      Interview-discovery and interview-knowledge of the garden (in-context) (30 min per
      interview): During the walk-through, the subject, accompanied by the psychologist, will
      observe the entire garden and its artistic elements. The subject will be queried through a
      discussion aimed at promoting the expressing of immediate reactions on the artistic
      dimensions. The analytical approach will enable to assess:

        -  the esthetic preferences of the artistic elements integrated in the garden

        -  the mnemonic and emotional processes (nature and frequency) that are mobilized during
           the contemplation of the elements of the garden, whether vegetation or artistic.

        -  the expressions of well-being and curiosity prompted by the works of art

        -  the mnemonic processes referring to temporality and space

      Out-of-context assessments (90 min per assessment):

        -  Mnemonic interview (about 30 min): in a closed office blinded to the outside, the
           psychologist invites the subject to recall what he or she has experienced in the garden.
           In other words, the subject is asked to narrate an experience outside of its context. In
           this situation, the context must be formalized verbally which leads to the mobilization
           of cognitive skills other than those mobilized in the first in-context situation.

        -  General esthetic preferences (GEP tool): This assessment will reveal the perseverance
           for certain esthetic preferences or, conversely, the detachment relative to certain
           styles or categories addressed prior to the first walk in the garden.

        -  Mnemonic aspects of artistic elements " MémoArtZ " (MAZ) tool:

        -  Task to be performed by the subject: view photographs representing the various works of
           art discovered in the garden, inserted amidst distractive elements.

        -  Instructions: "Show me the photograph that represents an item you saw in the garden".

        -  Aim: the analysis will enable to objectify potential encoded memory recalls referring to
           the artistic elements of the garden.

        -  The mnemonic processes regarding temporality and space will also be brought to light
           through exchanges initiated by open questions, particularly around the theme of the
           current season of the year. The investigators will observe whether the fact of having
           been in the garden allows the subject to change and readjust his or her eventually
           inadequate response given at the MMSE (context aid).

        -  Mood assessment (CSDD) for subjects in group A only

        -  Assessment of emotional events (AES) for subjects in groups A and B.

      ASSESSMENT SCHEDULE SPECIFIC TO THE RESEARCH

      Group A " Alzheimer Group "

      Subgroup A1 " Alzheimer group hospitalized at the Paul Spillmann Centre "

      Inclusion visit With the investigator/physician

        -  Explanation of the objective and conduct of the research

        -  Upon participation consent: provision of the information document and of the consent
           form and signing of the latter

        -  Informing of the trusted person or primary caregiver (with provision of an information
           document)

        -  If patient consent: Informing of the attending physician

        -  Validation of inclusion and non-inclusion criteria

      With the psychologist: T0:

        -  CSDD and AES scales

        -  ACA questionnaire

        -  GEP assessment

      Visit 1 (as soon as possible after the inclusion visit)

      Takes place in 2 stages on the same day:

        -  T1: Interview-discovery of the garden (in-context)

        -  T1+: Out-of-context assessment (mnemonic interview, GEP, MAZ, MMSE, CSDD, AES)

      Spontaneous use of the garden

      Visit 2 (after a three-day period of spontaneous use of the garden, consecutive or not, or
      from the 4th day onward within a maximum delay of 10 days after visit 1)

        -  T2: Interview-knowledge of the garden (in-context)

        -  T2+: out-of-context interview (mnemonic interview, GEP, MAZ, MMSE, CSDD, AES)

      Subgroup A2 "Alzheimer group monitored at the Resource and Research Memory Centre (CMRR) "

      At the CMRR with the investigator/physician:

        -  Verification of inclusion and non-inclusion criteria in light of medical records

        -  Upon participation consent: provision of the information document and the consent form

        -  Informing of the trusted person or primary caregiver (with provision of an information
           document)

        -  If patient consent: treating physician will be informed

        -  Scheduling of an appointment at the CPS

      Visit 1 (over a single day, at the CPS)

      Inclusion work-up with the investigator/physician of the CPS:

        -  Presentation of the study and careful reading of the information document

        -  Upon participation consent: signing of the consent form

        -  The person of trust or primary caregiver will be informed (an information document will
           be delivered)

        -  If patient consent: Informing of the attending physician

        -  Validation of inclusion and non-inclusion criteria

      With the psychologist:

      - T0: CSDD and AES scales ACA questionnaire GEP assessment

        -  T1: Interview-discovery of the garden (in-context)

        -  T1+: Out-of-context assessment (mnemonic interview, GEP, MAZ, MMSE, CSDD, AES)

      Visit 2 (without use of the garden) within a maximum delay of 10 days after visit 1

        -  T2: Interview-knowledge of the garden (in-context)

        -  T2+: out-of-context interview (mnemonic interview, GEP, MAZ, MMSE, CSDD, AES)

      Group B: " healthy control group "

      Visit 1 (over a single day, at the CPS)

      With the investigator/physician: inclusion work-up:

        -  Presentation of the study and careful reading of the information document

        -  Upon participation consent: signing of the consent form

        -  Validation of inclusion and non-inclusion criteria

      With the psychologist:

      -T0: Neuropsychological assessment (90 min): neuropsychological tests used in routine
      clinical practice CSDD and AES scale ACA questionnaire GEP assessment

        -  T1: Interview-discovery of the garden (in-context)

        -  T1+: out-of-context assessment (mnemonic interview, GEP, MAZ, MMSE, CSDD, AES)

      Visit 2 (without use of the garden) within a maximum delay of 10 days after visit 1

        -  T2: Interview-knowledge of the garden (in-context)

        -  T2+: out-of-context interview (mnemonic interview, GEP, MAZ, MMSE, CSDD, AES) TOTAL
           NUMBER OF PARTICIPANTS Taking into account situations leading to permanent study
           discontinuations, 60 subjects will be included: 40 patients (group A) and 20 control
           subjects (group B)

      DURATION OF THE STUDY Duration of inclusion period: 3 years Duration of participation:
      maximum 8 weeks for the patients (including the follow-up period); 11 days for control
      subjects Total duration time: 38 months (including analysis period and presentation of data)

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS The descriptive analysis will be performed by computing frequencies for
      categorical variables and mean and standard deviation or median and extreme values for
      continuous variables. The analysis will include a comparison of the different time periods of
      the study. Between-group comparison of frequencies (sick patients versus healthy subjects or
      paired series at different study times) will be performed by a Fisher Chi2 test or McNemar
      test, comparison of means by a nonparametric test or a paired t-test for paired series
      according to the conditions of application of the tests. The alpha risk is set at 5% for all
      analyses. An a posteriori power calculation will be performed retrospectively for all
      statistical tests. The analysis will be carried out using the SAS version V9.3 software
      package.
    
  