
    
      Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the leading cause of death globally. The majority of CVD is
      explained by conventional risk factors including cigarette smoking, abnormal lipids, high
      blood pressure, obesity, diabetes, and health behaviours including dietary intake, physical
      activity, and psychosocial stressors. Genetic factors contribute to the development of these
      risk factors, and directly to CVD through other novel pathways. Since the advent of high
      throughput chip-based genotyping, more than 30 genetic variants have been found to be
      associated with myocardial infarction. The most robust genetic variant which has been
      consistently associated with myocardial infarction and other forms of arterial disease is the
      9p21 variant. This genetic variant located on Chromosome 9 is common in the population, with
      50% of people carrying one copy of the risk allele, and an additional 25% of the population
      carrying two copies of the risk allele. Compared with those with no copies of the risk
      allele, the risk of myocardial infarction with one copy of the risk allele is 15-20% higher,
      and the increased risk among carriers of 2 risk alleles is 20-40%. To date the exact
      mechanism by which the 9p21 variant increases the risk of myocardial infarction is unknown,
      although some data suggests that other genes and pathways associated with cell proliferation
      and inflammation are involved. Recently we made the observation that among carriers of the
      9p21 variant, the risk of MI may be "turned off" if individuals consumed a diet high in
      fruits and vegetables. However the "mechanism" underlying this interaction is unknown. We
      seek to discover how a "Prudent" (i.e. anti-inflammatory) diet interacts with the 9p21 risk
      allele(s) to alter the risk of myocardial infarction.

      We postulate that a "Prudent" diet (i.e. a diet high in fruits, vegetables, whole grains,
      non-processed foods) in comparison to a "Western" or "inflammatory diet" (eg, a typical North
      American diet high in saturated fats and processed foods) will differentially alter the gene
      expression (measured by RNA) of the 9p21 locus, change the epigenetic marks in this region,
      and alter several inflammatory markers suspected to mediate the effect of 9p21 on CVD risk
      (eg, hs-CRP, IF-alpha21, IFN-γ , interleukin 1-alpha, interleukin 1-beta, and interleukin 6)
      among people with one or two copies of the risk allele compared to people without the risk
      allele.

      The proposed study offers an unique approach to studying dietary relationships with endpoints
      believed to be influenced by 9p21 gene variants. Rather than testing nutritional supplements,
      our results will be generalizable to the setting of most dietary counseling practices, which
      aim to alter dietary patterns, not specific nutrients. This trial will help us to unravel the
      basis for gene-diet interactions and gain a greater understanding of how inflammation is
      linked to the development of atherosclerosis, CVD, and possibly some cancers.
    
  