
    
      Acute appendicitis is the most common cause of abdominal pain in emergency departments and
      appendectomy is the most common emergency abdominal surgery. The lifetime risk of acute
      appendicitis in males is 8.6% and 6.7% in females.In Finland according to Stakes data there
      were 6 377 appendectomies (3242 in males, 3135 in females, median age 35 years) performed in
      2010 with a total number of days in hospital care was 16 111 days and the mean length of
      hospital stay was three days.

      Although acute appendicitis is the most common reason for surgical emergency department
      visit, its diagnosis still remains challenging. The clinical diagnosis has previously been
      based on patient history, physical examination and laboratory findings as well as the
      clinical surgical diagnosis. Several scoring systems have been created to aid in the
      diagnosis of acute appendicitis18-20, but the accuracy of clinical diagnosis without
      preoperative imaging is about 76 - 80 % for combined patient groups of males and females.

      As acute appendicitis has historically been thought to always progress to perforation
      requiring emergency appendectomy, high negative appendectomy rates even up to 40 % in some
      patient populations have been previously accepted as good surgical practice. For the last two
      decades, the use of dedicated imaging in acute abdomen in general and also in acute
      appendicitis has led to improved diagnostic accuracy.

      Based on large epidemiological studies, it is now known that complicated (perforated) and
      uncomplicated (non-perforated) appendicitis have followed different epidemiological trends.
      These unassociated epidemiologic trends suggest different pathophysiology for the two form of
      appendicitis. The differential diagnosis is essential as patients with an uncomplicated acute
      appendicitis may not require surgical intervention and might experience even spontaneous
      resolution without perforation. The majority (approximately 80 %) of acute appendicitis cases
      are of uncomplicated nature.

      Complicated acute appendicitis defined as a finding of a perforation, appendicolith, abscess
      or a suspicion of a tumor, requires emergency appendectomy with the exception of cases with
      abscess as they are often managed conservatively.

      Appendicolith is a calcified fecal concretion in the appendix resulting in internal luminal
      obstruction and it is the most common form of complicated acute appendicitis. In the first
      randomized study by Vons et al. comparing operative treatment and antibiotic therapy using CT
      as a diagnostic inclusion criterion, the presence of an appendicolith in preoperative CT scan
      was the only factor that significantly increased the risk of complicated appendicitis and it
      was also the only factor associated with the failure of antibiotic therapy for acute
      appendicitis. Indeed, if Vons et al had excluded the patients with an appendicolith from
      their analysis, no significant difference in the incidence of post-intervention peritonitis
      between the treatment groups would have been noticed in their study.

      CT imaging is the primary imaging modality and the golden standard in the diagnosis of acute
      appendicitis as it establishes the diagnosis with almost perfect diagnostic accuracy. The
      advantages of CT imaging are high accuracy, availability, ease of performance and
      interpretation, and that it is rarely affected by bowel gas, severe abdominal pain or extreme
      body habitus. The main disadvantage of CT is exposure to radiation.

      The increased use of preoperative CT imaging has been evaluated thoroughly by evaluating its
      impact on the negative appendectomy rate reducing the number of unnecessary appendectomies.
      In 2010, a mandatory imaging guideline for suspected acute appendicitis was implemented in
      the Netherlands. After implementation the negative appendectomy rate dropped significantly
      from 23 % to 6 % (p<0.001) reducing the surgical complication rate from 20% to 14 % and
      resulting in average cost-per-patient decrease by 594€.

      The favorable diagnostic performance of CT imaging has encouraged optimization of the
      protocol to minimize exposure to radiation through the development of low-dose CT protocols.
      Low-dose protocols balance with as low as reasonably achievable-principle while maintaining
      diagnostic accuracy. However, low-dose protocols with intravenous contrast are still not
      implemented in routine clinical practice. These protocols require more advanced optimization
      and validation because of the wider need for contrast enhanced assessment. Kim et al showed
      that contrast enhanced low-dose CT (median radiation dose 116 mmGy in dose-length product)
      was not inferior to standard-dose contrast enhanced CT (median radiation dose 521 mmGy), with
      negative appendectomy rates of 3.5% and 3.2% respectively and no statistical significance in
      appendiceal perforation rates or patients requiring additional imaging.

      The investigators have performed a prospective observational study (OPTICAP trial,
      NCT02533869, Ethical committee of Turku University Hospital approval) in order to optimize a
      low-dose CT scan for both diagnosing acute appendicitis and to differentiate uncomplicated
      acute appendicitis from a complicated acute appendicitis. In this study, phantom imaging with
      15 different imaging protocols were performed aiming to minimize radiation with optimal
      diagnostic accuracy. The phantom protocols were assessed by blinded evaluation of two
      gastrointestinal radiologists and the two best performing protocols were chosen for the
      clinical phase. The clinical evaluation included performing both of these imaging protocols
      for patients with suspected uncomplicated acute appendicitis evaluated by a senior digestive
      surgeon. All of the enrolled patients underwent laparoscopic appendectomy to evaluate the
      sensitivity and specificity of the imaging protocols. The two most optimal imaging protocol
      were selected for use in the APPAC III trial; one low-dose CT protocol for patients with BMI>
      30 and one optimised standard CT for patients with BMI exceeding 30.

      For over a century appendectomy has been the standard treatment for all patients with acute
      appendicitis. However, the results of our APPAC trial have now shown that the majority (73%)
      of patients with uncomplicated acute appendicitis were successfully treated with antibiotics
      alone. We also showed that none of the patients treated initially with antibiotics and later
      undergoing appendectomy had major complications or increased morbidity defining antibiotic
      therapy as a safe first-line treatment. Patients with a complicated acute appendicitis
      require emergency appendectomy and early identification of these patients is of vital
      importance. Laparoscopic appendectomy has become the golden standard for appendectomy
      providing lower morbidity and faster recovery compared with open appendectomy. For patients
      with uncomplicated acute appendicitis, the time has come to evaluate abandoning routine
      appendectomy and evaluating the optimal use of antibiotic therapy.

      Emergency appendectomy was first advocated because of the very high mortality of perforated
      appendicitis combined with the assumption of the natural course of acute appendicitis
      evolving always to perforated disease. This was first reported in 1886 by Reginald Fitz, who
      initially originated the term appendicitis and identified appendix as a cause for right lower
      quadrant infections. Fitz also noted that one-third of patients in a large autopsy series
      from the pre-appendectomy era had evidence of prior appendiceal inflammation suggesting
      spontaneous resolution of acute appendicitis.

      Acute appendicitis is similar to acute diverticulitis ("left-sided appendicitis") and this
      similarity has been shown in epidemiological studies suggesting a common underlying
      pathogenesis. There is one multicenter randomized trial, one population-based study, one
      case-control study and one prospective observational study that have shown no benefit of
      antibiotic therapy in uncomplicated acute diverticulitis. The reported complication rates in
      these studies is low (approximately 2 %) and even outpatient management without antibiotics
      in acute uncomplicated diverticulitis has been shown to be feasible, well-functioning and
      safe. The APPAC III trial will first recruit 3-5 pilot patients in order to finalise the
      hospital pharmacy procedures in practice.

      The aim of the APPAC III study is to compare antibiotic therapy with placebo in the treatment
      of uncomplicated acute appendicitis to evaluate the role of antibiotic therapy in the
      resolution of acute uncomplicated appendicitis. The study hypothesis is that antibiotic
      therapy is necessary in the treatment of acute uncomplicated and that antibiotic therapy is
      superior to spontaneous resolution (placebo) with the primary endpoint evaluated at ten days
      after the intervention.

      Sample size calculations were based on one-sided Pearson's χ2 -test for two proportions.
      Sample size was calculated from an estimated success rate of 94% during the hospitalization
      in antibiotic group 7. A decrease of 15 percentage points in success rate is considered
      clinically important difference leading to estimated 79% success rate in placebo group. We
      estimated that to detect a 15 percentage points difference (antibiotics - placebo) between
      groups with a power of 0.8 (1-β) and one-sided significance level (α) of 0.05 64 patients per
      group is needed. Before the trial initiation, 3-5 pilot patients will be recruited in order
      to finalize the hospital pharmacy procedures and drug delivery in clinical practice. Based on
      the pilot study enrollment speed and the recognized challenges in conducting trial, in
      real-life emergency setting we need to take into account the anticipated enrolment delays to
      assure the completion of this trial within reasonable time. These challenges consisting of
      emergency surgery patient enrolment dependent on hospital pharmacy services available only
      during standard working hours, the requirement for senior surgeon enrolment and the
      discrepancy between the admission hours of appendicitis patients and hospital pharmacy
      working hours mandated us to create three scenarios for study power analysis and the number
      of patients to be enrolled.

      In scenario A, a decrease of 15 percentage points in success rate is considered clinically
      important difference leading to estimated 79% success rate in placebo group. We estimated
      that to detect a 15-percentage points difference (antibiotics - placebo) between groups 64
      patients per group is needed. With an estimated dropout rate of 10% total of 142 patients, 71
      patients per group will be enrolled in the study. In scenario B, clinically important
      difference is 20 percentage points, estimated success rate in placebo group is 74% and to
      detect this difference 41 patients per group is needed. With an estimated dropout rate of 10%
      total of 92 patients, 46 patients per group will be enrolled in the study. In scenario C,
      clinically important difference is 25 percentage points, estimated success rate in placebo
      group is 69% and to detect this difference 29 patients per group is needed. With an estimated
      dropout rate of 10% total of 64 patients, 32 patients per group will be enrolled in the
      study. Targeted minimum sample size per study hospital will be 10 patients. One-sided test
      will be used as our hypothesis is that antibiotic treatment is more effective treatment than
      placebo. Sample size calculations were performed using Power procedure in SAS System for
      Windows, Version 9.4 (SAS Institute Inc., Cary, NC).

      On April 1st, 2019, a study committee consisting of the outside safety monitoring committee
      and the core research group will assess which one of these scenarios is most feasible based
      on patient enrolment with plan A being the target scenario. Active recruitment at this point
      will be continued until a decision is made on the clinically realistic enrolment scenario.
      The date of evaluation is set exactly one year after the last study hospital has initiated
      enrolment.
    
  