
    
      Comprehensive surgical staging for endometrial carcinoma(EC) is an indisputable staging and
      prognostic tool. The staging procedure includes total hysterectomy, bilateral
      salpingo-oophorectomy, and lymphadenectomy, omental biopsy if necessary. Since lymph node
      metastasis is one of the most important risk factors of prognosis. The dissection of lymph
      nodes has been used for staging, prognostic information, and to determine the need for
      adjuvant therapy. The approach to lymph node evaluation in women with EC is still a subject
      of debate. Practice varies across different institutions or surgeons. In general, the options
      for management of retroperitoneal lymph nodes include no lymph node dissection (LND),
      systematic LND only if the risk of lymph node metastasis exceeds a certain threshold, or
      routine sentinel LND following lymphatic mapping. lymphadenectomy is significantly associated
      with longer operating time, higher surgical costs, greater rate of infection, as well as the
      occurrence of lymphocysts and lymphedema, moreover, there is lack of evidence of a
      therapeutic benefit of LND, less invasive techniques have emerged as possible alternatives.
      The technique for lymphatic mapping and sentinel lymph node dissection (SLND) in EC has been
      refined and found a low false-negative rate for detection of positive lymph nodes. The 2018
      National Comprehensive cancer Network (NCCN) guideline of uterus cancer states SLN mapping
      can be considered for the surgical staging of apparent uterine-confined malignancy when there
      is no metastasis demonstrated by imaging studies or no obvious extrauterine disease at
      exploration. It indicates low-risk patients could avoid those side effects of the systematic
      Lymph node dissection. Whether high-risk patients (grade 3, deep myometrial invasion,
      non-endometrioid endometrial cancer, and Cervical invasion) can be benefited from this
      technique? This prospective cohort study is designed to To evaluate the efficacy of sentinel
      lymph node biopsy technique in patients with high-risk endometrial carcinoma. Surgery should
      be performed within a maximum of 4 weeks from the patient's first consultation.
    
  