
    
      The type of AML being studied in this clinical trial is known as FMS-like tyrosine kinase 3
      (FLT3)-internal tandem duplication (ITD) positive AML. This type of AML has an alteration (or
      mutation) in genes, which may associated with high risk of relapse after conventional
      chemotherapy and hence an extremely poor clinical outcome.

      FLT3 inhibitors including sorafenib are effective in inducing remission. However, their
      effects are only transient. There is an unmet clinic need to enhance their effectiveness,
      hence clinical application.

      This is a Phase II single-arm open-labeled study. A total of 40 eligible patients with
      consent will be recruited, including 20 patients with newly diagnosed and 20 with R/R
      FLT3-ITD AML.

      For newly diagnosed patients, diagnostic bone marrow (BM) and/or peripheral blood (PB) will
      be evaluated by next generation sequencing (NGS) based on myeloid panel that comprises 54
      myeloid genes as well as their in vitro response to sorafenib and omacetaxine mepesuccinate
      (OM) based on an in-house platform that was established in our laboratory. FLT3-ITD allelic
      burden will also be evaluated.

      For R/R patients, FLT3-ITD status and allelic burden will be confirmed before treatment. Both
      groups of patients will receive sorafenib 400 mg twice daily continuously and OM 1.5 mg/m2
      daily for 7 days every 28 days until progression or allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell
      transplantation (HSCT). Thereafter, patients will be followed up and information about
      disease status and survival will be collected. BM examination will be performed on day 28 to
      document morphological response and FLT3-ITD allelic burden.

      At leukemia progression, BM and/or PB samples will be collected and their in vitro response
      to sorafenib and OM examined. The tyrosine kinase domain (TKD) of FLT3 will also be sequenced
      and FLT3-ITD allelic burden will be evaluated.
    
  