
    
      HIV is a virus that can lead to AIDS, a disease that breaks down the immune system and allows
      for entry of life-threatening secondary infections. HIV is transmitted through the exchange
      of bodily fluids, primarily through sexual intercourse. Using ART treatments, people with HIV
      have been able to delay HIV replication and immune system deterioration and to improve
      quality of life. Data from the Strategies for Management of Antiretroviral Therapy (SMART)
      study indicate that episodic use of ART is associated with a higher risk of CVD than is
      continuous use of ART. The reasons behind this increased risk of CVD in the presence of HIV
      are not well understood. This study will determine mechanisms underlying the increased CVD
      risk among people infected with HIV and, specifically, in those who receive episodic ART.

      This ancillary study to SMART will use relevant data and specimens from three subsamples of
      SMART participants and key subgroups. The three subsamples include participants randomly
      assigned to episodic or continuous ART, participants who had no previous use of ART prior to
      study entry or had ceased ART within 6 months prior to study entry, and participants who had
      experienced a CVD event with two matched controls for each case. The subgroups will include
      episodic and continuous ART participants who were taking either a protease inhibitor (PI) or
      non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI) at study entry.

      This current study will use previously collected SMART data. Researchers will use data on
      CD4+ count and HIV-RNA levels from a prebaseline study visit and follow-up study visits that
      occurred at Months 1 and 2, then every 2 months for Year 1, and every 4 months thereafter
      during the SMART study. In addition, this study will use baseline and yearly data provided by
      SMART participants on CVD risk factors and treatment, including use of drug treatments for
      high blood pressure, diabetes history, cholesterol levels, smoking history, white blood cell
      count, and height and weight measurements. Last, using plasma specimens that were collected
      at baseline, the Month 1 follow-up, and the final follow-up, researchers will compare changes
      in lipoprotein particle size and numbers, as measured by nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR)
      spectroscopy, and changes in inflammatory and coagulation markers.
    
  