
    
      Fibromyalgia is a chronic pain disorder associated with widespread pain that dramatically
      impacts patients' quality of life. Its exact cause has not yet been identified, however,
      recent studies indicate that fibromyalgia is associated with a significant imbalance of the
      connectivity within brain networks associated with pain, decreased functional connectivity in
      the descending pain-modulating system, and increased activity in the pain matrix related to
      central sensitization. It has been suggested that treatments that stimulate or induce
      coherent neuronal activity, and synchronize dysregulated brain circuitry, have significant
      benefits in improving pain management and enhancing patients' quality of life.

      An example of a non-invasive treatment that is thought to indirectly stimulate neuronal
      coherence is Rhythmic Sensory Stimulation (RSS) in gamma frequencies. RSS stimulates the
      mechanoreceptors in the body using gamma-frequency sounds (e.g., 40 Hz) by means of speakers
      in a chair. Previous research demonstrates significantly improved pain management in several
      pain conditions (e.g., rheumatoid arthritis, low-back pain, sports injuries); however, little
      is known about the effect of RSS with gamma-frequency sound stimulation on fibromyalgia. The
      use of RSS to treat fibromyalgia was first explored very recently and findings indicate that
      this treatment could be effective for individuals with fibromyalgia given that
      gamma-frequency sound stimulation indirectly stimulates neuronal coherence.

      Aim: The present study aims to examine the effects of gamma frequency rhythmic sensory
      stimulation on fibromyalgia symptoms. Treatment effectiveness will be assessed by examining
      whether sensory stimulation will produce clinically meaningful changes in fibromyalgia
      symptom severity and whether treatment response will differ between the two treatment
      parameters.

      Intervention: Fifty patients with a formal diagnosis of fibromyalgia were randomly assigned
      to two test groups. One group received vibrotactile stimulation from a continuous sine wave
      single-frequency stimulation (40 Hz) for 30 minutes, five days per week, over five weeks,
      concomitant with usual care. The second group completed the same treatment protocol but
      received different stimulation consisting of random and intermittent complex wave gamma-range
      vibrotactile stimulation. Measures of pain severity, fibromyalgia symptoms, sleep quality,
      and depression will be compared before and after treatment between the two groups.

      The results of the present study will help to better understand the effectiveness of RSS for
      treatment of chronic pain disorders, such as fibromyalgia, and contribute to the development
      of future studies to investigate the mechanisms underlying clinical responses to rhythmic
      sensory stimulation.
    
  