
    
      Introduction: Measurement of blood flow in cervical and cerebral arteries is important not
      only for accurate diagnosis of neurovascular diseases but also for refinement of the
      indication of invasive treatment. Quantitative MR angiography (qMRA) with NOVA flow analysis
      system and duplex sonography (DS; duplex sonography of cervical arteries and transcranial
      color-coded duplex sonography) are non-invasive diagnostics methods which could be used for
      measurement of blood flow in cervical and intracranial arteries.

      Aim: The aim of the study is to assess the correlation of blood flow measurement in cervical
      and intracranial arteries between qMRA and DS in common clinical practice. The secondary aims
      are to assess the inter-investigator and intra-investigator correlations of both qMRA and DS
      in blood flow measurement.

      Methods: A total of 21 subjects indicated to qMRA or DS for suspicion of cervical or
      intracranial vascular pathology will be included.

      Inclusion criteria: male or female; age 25 - 70 years; signed informed consent. Exclusion
      criteria: contraindication to magnetic resonance; uncontrolled involuntary movements; other
      condition preventing long-term quiet lying.

      All patients will undergo qMRA and DS of the cervical and intracranial arteries within 2
      hours. The NOVA flow analysis system will calculate blood flow in individual segments. In DS,
      angle corrected blood flow velocities (peak systolic velocity - PSV, end-diastolic velocity -
      EDV, mean velocity - Vmean) will be measured in individual segments with measurement of
      arterial in the B-Mode or Color Mode with automatic calculation of blood flow.

      The blood flow will be assessed in the following arterial segments: bilateral common carotid
      artery (CCA), internal carotid artery in proximal part distally to carotid bulb (ICA) and in
      distal carotid siphon (ICA-siphon), external carotid artery (ECA), vertebral artery in V2
      (V2-VA) and V4 (V4-VA) segments, middle cerebral artery (MCA), anterior cerebral artery in
      pre-communicant (ACA1) and post-communicant (ACA2) part, posterior cerebral artery in
      pre-communicant (PCA1) and post-communicant (PCA2) part and basilar artery (BA) the cerebral
      artery.

      At least 2 patients will undergo qMRA and DS performed by the same investigators twice in the
      time interval of 2 - 10 days and DS will be performed in all patients by 2 sonographers using
      2 different machines for assessment of inter-investigator and intra-investigator reliability.

      All investigators will be blinded to the diagnosis and measurement performed using other
      diagnostics method.

      In all patients will be collecting following data: blood pressure, weight, height, age,
      gender, time of examination Statistics: Correlations between measurements will be evaluated
      using Spearman's correlation coefficient or kappa coefficient and inter-class correlation
      coefficient (ICC).
    
  