
    
      Late Life Depression (LLD) is a prevalent, disabling, and at times lethal condition for which
      currently available treatments are often ineffective. No prior study has comprehensively
      examined dopamine-dependent behaviors (i.e., reward processing, cognition, motor function) in
      LLD, and none has integrated positron emission tomography (PET), multimodal magnetic
      resonance imaging (MRI), neuropsychological evaluation, and mobility assessments. Should
      cognitive and motor slowing result in altered effort-based decision making as researchers
      hypothesize, treatment development may shift from addressing mood and hedonic responses
      toward facilitating cognition and movement, reducing the effort cost of voluntary behavior,
      and promoting behavioral activation.

      This study at Vanderbilt University Medical Center (VUMC) will enroll 60 evaluable elderly
      depressed outpatients with evidence of dopaminergic dysfunction, characterized as either
      slowed processing speed or slowed gait speed. To disentangle depression effects from
      age-related changes, 30 never-depressed elders also will complete baseline evaluation.
      Assessments include PET imaging of receptor density, neuromelanin-sensitive MRI (NM-MRI)
      measurement of nigrostriatal status, task-based MRI focused on effort-based decision making
      and reward processing, and comprehensive psychiatric, neurocognitive, and physical
      performance evaluation. Depressed participants then will be randomized to levodopa (L-DOPA)
      or placebo for 3 weeks, followed by repeat multimodal MRI and cognitive/behavioral
      assessments. In a cross-over phase, participants will receive the opposite intervention for
      an additional 3 weeks followed by clinical and cognitive assessments only. This mechanistic
      probe allows us to examine the contributions and interrelationships of dopamine-dependent
      processes in LLD and evaluate the responsivity of dopamine systems in LLD to pharmacological
      stimulation.

      To maximize ability to detect drug effects, researchers will combine data gathered at VUMC
      with data gathered in a comparable sample enrolled at Columbia University. The sample
      enrolled at Columbia University will complete overlapping but not identical baseline
      assessments, including different PET imaging. Columbia University will complete a similar
      crossover trial of L-DOPA.

      AIM 1: To characterize dopaminergic dysfunction in LLD at molecular, circuit, and behavioral
      levels.

      Hyp 1: Compared to age- and gender-matched controls on baseline functional MRI (fMRI), LLD
      participants will be less willing to expend effort for rewards and exhibit lower prefrontal
      cortex and striatal activation on the Effort Expenditure for Rewards Task (EEfRT). Hyp 2:
      Across all participants, lower midbrain & striatal [18F]-fallypride binding, and lower NM-MRI
      signal in the substantia nigra, pars compacta will predict lower performance across cognitive
      domains: Positive Valence (impaired willingness to expend effort, decreased neural
      activations on the EEfRT), Cognitive (slowed processing speed and executive dysfunction), and
      Sensorimotor (slowed gait speed). Hyp 3: Across all participants, slowed processing and gait
      speed likewise will predict lower willingness to expend effort on the EEfRT.

      AIM 2: To examine responsivity of dopamine circuits in LLD to stimulation with L-DOPA.

      Hyp 1: Compared to placebo, L-DOPA will result in greater normalization of neural activations
      and improved behavioral performance in Positive Valence, Cognitive, and Sensorimotor domains.
      Hyp 2: Baseline PET and NM-MRI measures will moderate L-DOPA effects. The greatest
      improvements will be observed in those with the lowest baseline [18F]-fallypride binding, and
      NM-MRI signal.

      Exploratory Aims: 1) To investigate associations of baseline proinflammatory markers with
      dopaminergic function across molecular, circuit, cognitive and behavioral levels of analysis.
      2) To evaluate the durability of L-DOPA effects on cognitive domains in the crossover phase.
    
  