
    
      It has been reported that subjects with cardiovascular diseases (CVD) have higher incidence
      of cancers compared with general population. Because of the genetic and traditional
      commonalities between the underlying causes of CVD and cancers, the investigators
      hypothesized that shared molecular mechanism play a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of CVD
      including heart failure (HF) and cancers.

      MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small, single-stranded non-coding RNA sequences of about 18-22
      nucleotides that interact with specific target messenger RNAs. They are known to be involved
      in the various processes including development, homeostasis, cell differentiation,
      proliferation, apoptosis and various diseases by modulating post-transcriptional and
      translational processes. Some of miRNAs have been reported to be involved in the pathogenesis
      of cancers. Cell free DNAs (cfDNA) is extracellular nucleic acids found in cell-free plasma
      in humans. Elevated level of cfDNA was reported in patients with cancer and CVD. 16S
      ribosomal RNA (rRNA) genes are distinct in microbiota, which can be utilized to quantify the
      bacterial DNA in the systemic circulation. 16S rRNA genes are also shown to be elevated in
      patients with CVD. These findings imply the possibility that translocated microbiota might
      play pivotal roles in the pathogenesis of CVD and cancers. The quantity and composition of
      gut microbiota have been shown to be altered in various diseases including obesity, diabetes
      mellitus, hypertension and CVD. The previous findings from fecal transplantation experiments,
      which showed the disease phenotype was transferred from one to another subject (animal or
      human), strongly suggest the possibility that microbiota play some pathogenic roles in those
      diseases.

      To address this hypothesis, the investigators are going to cross-sectionally explore the
      expression pattern of miRNA and cfDNA and the composition of gut microbiota extensively in
      patients with or without atherosclerotic CVD (ACVD), non-ischemic HF (NIHF), and cancers. The
      investigators will recruit the participants from the patients who regularly visit the
      outpatient clinic in Sakakibara Heart Institute or The Cancer Institute Hospital of Japanese
      Foundation of Cancer Research. The investigators will recruit the patients without ACVD or
      NIHF and with/without cancers (Group 1/2), those with ACVD and with/without cancers (Group
      3/4), and those with NIHF and with/without cancers (Group 5/6). Their peripheral blood will
      be drawn and stools will be collected. miRNA in exosome will be extracted from plasma and
      explored by miRNA microarray. cfDNA pattern will be extensively explored by microarray. By
      comparing the expression pattern of miRNA and cfDNA, and the composition of gut microbiota by
      16s rRNA gene shotgun analysis, the investigators will be seeking to find the molecular
      mechanisms shared by those diseases.
    
  