
    
      Allergic rhinitis (AR) is a clinical picture resulting from one or more allergen
      sensitivities. Seasonal AR develops due to grass, tree and grass pollen. Prennial AR develops
      due to house dust mite, cockroaches, mold and pets.The prevalence of allergic rhinitis in
      children ranges from 19.3-50.8%. AR affects school performance, sleep patterns and quality of
      life in children.Children spend most of their lives in the home environment, and many studies
      have shown that AR is associated with the home environment in children. Control measures
      should be taken in patients' homes to prevent and reduce the symptoms of allergic rhinitis in
      children. Awareness and education should be provided to families and children about the
      importance of these measures.

      This study is a pretest-posttest, parelel group, randomized controlled study study to examine
      the effect of nursing intervention to regulate the home environment on symptom control and
      quality of life in children with allergic rhinitis.

      sample of the study; The effect size was intended to be medium effect size due to the absence
      of a similar randomized controlled study to determine the quality of life in children with
      allergic rhinitis. In the study, the number of samples to be included in the study with 0.7
      medium effect size, power 80%, alpha reliability level 95%, 26 experiments and 26 controls
      were calculated as 52 children and their mothers. Considering the 20% loss that may occur in
      the study, it was decided to include 62 children and their mothers in the study group.

      Randomized appointments were made in the appointment of 62 children and mothers who were
      followed up with the diagnosis of allergic rhinitis, who included the criteria for inclusion
      and exclusion, and who volunteered to participate in the study. Stratified randomization
      method was used in this study. Stratified randomization method was used in this study. The
      gender of the children (girls and boys), the age of the children (6-9 years, 10-12 years) and
      the level of mother education (primary education, high school, university) were determined as
      prognastic factors for stratification. Randomization was performed in a total of 62
      participants, 31 experimental and 31 control groups.

      Study Group Inclusion Criteria The child is diagnosed with allergic rhinitis, 6-12 age group
      children and their mothers, The child's sensitivity to at least one of Dermatophagoides
      pteronyssinus and/or dermatophagoides farinae according to the skin prick test. Although
      sensitive to at least one of the house dust mites Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus and / or
      Dermatophagoides farinae according to the child's skin pric test; The child has mold allergy
      according to the skin prick test, The child is allergic to cockroaches according to the skin
      prick test, The child has any of the cat and dog allergies according to the skin prick test,
      The child and his mother live in the city center Volunteering to participate in the research
      Data Collection Tools; "Mother and Family, Child and Disease, Home Environment Information
      Form", "Home Environment Assessment Form", "Quality of Life Questionnaire for 6-12 Years Old
      Children with Allergy in Nose and Eyes (pediatric rinitis quality of life questionnaire
      PRQLQ)", "Symptom Diary","Humidity and Temperature Measurement "Diary" will be used.

      Number, percentage, average and standard deviation will be used in the evaluation of the
      descriptive data obtained from the research; Significance will be evaluated within 95%
      confidence interval, p <0.05 will be taken. For the implementation of the study, permission
      was obtained from the ethics committee of Necmettin Erbakan University Meram Medical Faculty,
      Non-Drug and Medical Device Research Ethics Committee, and work permit was obtained from
      Necmettin Erbakan University Meram Medical Faculty Hospital Chief Physician. Patients
      included in the study sample will be informed before the study that the purpose of the study
      and participation in the study is in line with the principle of volunteering and "Informing
      and Consent of Volunteers Consent Form" will be signed.

      implementation of the research The nursing attempt to organize the home environment for the
      experimental group will take 4 months. During this period, two home visits and two telephone
      calls will be made. During the first home visit, training will be organized to regulate the
      home environment, as well as a heat-moisture meter and anti-allergic duvet cover set.

      There will be two home visits to the control group. During the first home visit, a
      heat-humidity meter device will be given. Data collection forms will be applied at the
      beginning and end of the study.training will be organized at the end of the study.
    
  