
    
      40 subjects with DM2 will be recruited, randomised into two arms. The surgical arm will be
      subjected to RYGB. The medical arm will be treated maximally utilising the best means
      available and following internationally available protocol/guidelines. The study population
      will be subjected to a set of tests which is over and above the standard tests for similar
      groups of patients undergoing standard care (details below). Some test samples will be
      bio-banked. Treatment end points and follow up protocol will be the same for each treatment
      arm. The International Diabetic Federation (IDF) in 2011 recommended that bariatric surgery
      should be considered an alternative treatment option for those Asian DM2 subjects with BMI of
      27 or above. Data for the effectiveness of Bariatric Surgery for those DM subjects with lower
      BMI is not as well established as those with higher BMI. There is scant good quality data,
      especially from Asian subjects. As their treatment is totally funded by the research project,
      subjects on the non surgical treatment arm will benefit from the more intense management of
      their disease with no restriction due to cost. The surgical arm will also be fully funded by
      the research project. They will be exposed to the standard risks associated with this type of
      surgery. Subjects in both arms will have to provide more blood and other samples than usual
      and has to follow visits protocol as close as possible. RYGB is a major surgical procedure,
      with significant potential complications; during the process of surgery and afterwards, both
      short and long term. Procedure related mortality is about 0.3%. Major complications that may
      require surgical intervention includes: anastomotic leakage about 3-4%, bleeding 3%,
      infection 3%, venous thrombo-embolism 1%. Some of these complications will require prolong
      hospitalisation. After surgery, loose stool, dumping syndrome, anastomotic ulcers can occur
      in less than 3%.Life long dietary supplement will be required. Longer term post surgical
      complications include intestinal obstruction due to adhesions or internal hernia, about 2%,
      further surgery may be needed. This risk is lifelong. Nutritional deficiencies, especially if
      not compliant with regular supplement intake, may occur. Drug allergies can occur; from
      simple rash to life threatening anaphylactic reaction. Blood taking can cause bruising, pain
      at the puncture site and sometimes fainting.
    
  