
    
      Hypothesis:

      Gut dysbiosis plays a significant causal role in chronic pouchitis. Modulating the gut
      microbiota using FMT with stool from a normal function pouch patient has a clinical effect by
      inducing clinical remission in patients with chronic pouchitis.

      Objective of the study:

      The aim of the trial is to investigate if transplantation (FMT) of faeces from a patient with
      a normally functioning pouch can induce clinical remission in patients with chronic
      pouchitis.

      Study design:

      The project is designed as a single-center, open-label, treatment study.

      Methods:

      Faecal microbiota transplantation is performed with faeces from a donor with a normally
      functioning pouch. Potential donors are recruited from the Department of Gastrointestinal
      Surgery, Aalborg University Hospital, Denmark. They are screened for a various of infectious
      diseases by serum analysis (haematology, inflammation, liver and kidney function, HIV,
      Hepatitis, Cytomegalovirus, Epstein Barr virus and HbA1c) and faeces analysis (calprotectin,
      Clostridium difficile (PCR), enteric pathogenic bacteria and antibiotic-resistant bacteria,
      parasites, cysts, and viruses). Furthermore, the potential donors will complete an extensive
      questionnaire regarding general health, risk factors and medical history, before they can be
      included as faecal donors in the project. The screening procedure is based on recommendation
      from the European FMT Working Group.

      The transplantation is performed by enemas, which contain faeces from the faecal donor.

      Initial before the treatment with FMT, the patient will be invited for serum analysis (CRP,
      leukocytes) and faecal analysis (calprotectin, C.difficile, enteric pathogenic bacteria),
      followed by a pouchoscopy with collection of biopsies. Materials from serum- and faecal
      analysis and biopsies will be stored for later analysis purpose. The patient will further
      complete questionnaires concerning symptoms and quality of life. The stage of disease will be
      evaluated based on the acknowledged questionnaire for pouchitis called Pouchitis Disease
      Activity Index (PDAI) score.

      The treatment begins after all the initial examinations, and the patient will be treated
      during one month. The treatment consists of daily enema infusion, which contain faeces from
      the faecal donor. During the treatment, the patient will daily record symptoms related to
      pouchitis (diarrhea, abdominal pain, bleeding per rectum, fever, general discomfort) and
      possible adverse effects to the treatment.

      At the end of treatment, the patient will meet to a follow-up examination including serum
      analysis (CRP, leukocytes) and faecal analysis (calprotectin), pouchoscopy incl. biopsies,
      and the questionnaires applied before the treatment. Materials from serum- and faecal
      analysis and biopsies will be stored for later analysis.

      The patient will be followed up after additional 1,3, 6 and 12 months to evaluate the long
      term effect of the transplantation. The consumption of antibiotics during the first year will
      be recorded. In case of lacking effect of faecal microbiota transplantation, the patient is
      offered standard antibiotic treatment for pouchitis, and will leave the study.

      Faecal samples and biopsies collected in the study will be analyzed for the composition of
      the microbiota.
    
  