
    
      More than 1.8 million new cases of colorectal cancer and 881,000 deaths are expected
      worldwide in 2018, accounting for about one in 10 cancers, according to the Global Cancer
      Statistics Report 2018.The incidence of colorectal cancer ranks the third in the world and
      the mortality ranks the second in the world. The incidence and mortality of colorectal cancer
      have increased in China in the past decade.The incidence of colorectal cancer is associated
      with dietary patterns, obesity and lifestyle.

      The latest national cancer statistics, "Analysis of Malignant Tumor Epidemiology in China in
      2015", showed that the incidence and mortality of colorectal cancer ranked third and fifth in
      China, respectively. The incidence and mortality of colorectal cancer were both higher in
      urban areas than in rural areas, and that of males was higher than that of females.In 2010,
      the incidence of colorectal cancer in China was 26.70/100,000 in urban areas and
      15.01/100,000 in rural areas, which was 1.78 times higher than that in rural areas.The top
      five cities of incidence in China are Shenzhen, Xiamen, Tonghua of Jilin, Guangzhou and
      Yueyanglou District of Hunan, while the bottom five cities are Hai 'an County of Jiangsu,
      Tengzhou City of Shandong, Lianshui County of Jiangsu, Tong 'an District of Xiamen and
      Taixing City of Jiangsu.The 2010 survey of colorectal cancer in China showed that the
      incidence of colorectal cancer was low in the age group below 50 years old, and began to rise
      rapidly in the age group above 50 years old, reached the maximum in the age group above 70
      years old, and decreased after 80 years old.

      For advanced colorectal cancer, with systemic chemotherapy and local radiotherapy,
      synchronous or sequential radiation and chemotherapy treatment lack of specificity, at the
      same time of killing tumor cells and normal cells to produce damage effect to human body, and
      the traditional cytotoxic chemotherapy drugs to further improve the resistance of malignant
      tumor clinical curative effect of the space is very limited, therefore, strong specificity,
      side effects of relatively small tumor molecular targeted therapy gradually became the three
      conventional surgery, radiotherapy and chemotherapy treatment method of the fourth
      model.Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) is a clear target for treatment of advanced
      colorectal cancer.Immunotherapy has been a hot topic in recent years.In the field of
      colorectal cancer, studies on MSI-H population have been carried out successively since ASCO
      in 2015.However, the MSI-H population accounts for only 5% of patients with advanced
      colorectal cancer and 12-15% of total colorectal cancer, and the benefit population is very
      limited.

      Clinical studies confirming the third-line treatment of MCRC with cetuximab include Bond,
      NCICCO.17, etc.The primary objective of the NCICCO.17 study was to investigate the efficacy
      of cetuximab in patients with advanced colorectal cancer who failed chemotherapy and ceased
      to receive chemotherapy. It has been confirmed that compared with the best supportive
      treatment, cetuximab can prolong the survival period of patients and delay the deterioration
      of quality of life, which is manifested in delaying the deterioration of overall condition
      and physical function, and has obvious advantages in improving symptoms, highlighting the
      role of cetuximab in third-line treatment. Cetuximab was approved for second-line treatment
      of advanced colorectal cancer in the United States and Europe in 2004.Cetuximab combined with
      irinotecan is the standard second-line treatment for MCRC with oxaliplatin failure. This
      study included the European BOND study, the MABEL study, the Latin American LABEL study, and
      the Australian ELSIE study. All patients were tested for EGFR and irinotecan failed. The
      results showed that the response rate (ORR), disease control rate (DCR), progression-free
      survival time (PFS) and overall survival time (OS) were similar among different populations,
      indicating that Cetuximab improved ORR and PFS.Thus, the position of Cetuximab in the
      second-line treatment of mCRC was consolidated. On September 18, 2019, China's National
      Medical Products Administration (SFDA) officially approved cetuximab for the first-line
      treatment of RAS wild-type metastatic colorectal cancer based on the Tailor trial. The Tailor
      trial compared the efficacy and safety of first-line treatment with cetuximab combined with
      FOLFOX-4 (5-FU/LV+ oxaliplatin) versus FOLFOX-4 without cetuximab in patients with RAS
      wild-type metastatic colorectal cancer (MCRC).The primary endpoint was progression-free
      survival, and secondary endpoints included overall survival, overall response rate, and
      safety and tolerability. Research into the group of 393 RAS wild-type metastatic colorectal
      cancer (mCRC) patients with cetuximab combined FOLFOX4 compared with using FOLFOX alone - 4,
      significantly improve the patient's primary end point, in addition, the secondary endpoint
      has improved significantly, and well tolerated treatment, no unexpected adverse reaction,
      good safety and tolerability.

      Based on KEYNOTE-016, KEYNOTE-164, and KEYNOTE-028, Pembrolizumab was approved for line 1 and
      above treatment in patients with MSI-H/ DMMR colorectal cancer, with an ORR of 36%. The
      CheckMate -142 study was a multi-cohort, phase II study in which Nivolumab was shown to be
      effective monotherapy in patients with line 2 or higher mSI-H /dMMR colorectal cancer. Phase
      Ib/II trials of Pembrolizumab in combination with cetuximab for RAS wild-type, EGFR
      monoclonal antibody primary treatment of advanced or metastatic colorectal cancer confirmed
      that the two-agent combination was well tolerated. The most common AEs were cutaneous
      toxicity, hymenopagnesemia, vomiting, and fatigue, and no new AEs occurred.Preliminary
      results show synergistic effect. PD-1 monotherapy has been approved for the treatment of
      mSI-H /dMMR patients with colorectal cancer. The approved PD-1 mAb includes Nivolumab and
      Pembrolizumab.Cetuximab combined with chemotherapy is the standard treatment for RAS
      wild-type (RAS-WT) colorectal cancer. Phase II clinical trials of Avelumab (PD-L1) in
      combination with cetuximab and chemotherapy for primary RAS/BRAF wild-type, MSI, or MSS
      colorectal cancer are ongoing;A phase Ib/II study of Pembrolizumab in combination with
      cetuximab in patients with RAS-WT metastatic colorectal cancer of line 2 and above is also
      ongoing. In some small trials, PD-1 monoclonal antibody combined with Regorafenib showed
      initial efficacy in patients with MSS type advanced colorectal cancer. EGFR signaling pathway
      blocker combined with PD-1 antibody, a new treatment mode, is of great significance to enrich
      the content of immunotherapy for patients with colorectal cancer, improve the survival
      prognosis of patients, and search for new efficacy predictors.

      In conclusion, this study, on the one hand, is expected to confirm that RAS and RAF wild-type
      advanced colorectal cancer and MSS type can benefit from Sintilimab combined with Regorafenib
      treatment, and at the same time, observe the effective rate of this regimen in the mutant
      group, so as to provide reference for clinical selection.
    
  