
    
      This is an outpatient, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study to evaluate the
      effectiveness of 2 dosages of topiramate (50 and 100 milligrams/day) compared with placebo in
      the prevention of migraine attacks in children 12 to 17 years of age. The study is composed
      of 3 phases: pretreatment, double-blind treatment for 4 months (16 weeks), and posttreatment.
      During the study, patients will maintain headache and medication records to document the
      following: occurrence and duration of headaches; severity of headache pain; whether or not
      the headache is pulsating or aggravated by physical activity; associated symptoms, such as
      nausea, vomiting, photophobia, phonophobia, abdominal pain; and medication taken to relieve
      headache pain or symptoms. Assessment of efficacy include the percent reduction in the
      frequency of monthly migraine attacks over the last 12 weeks of the double-blind treatment
      phase compared with prospective BL period. In addition, the percent reduction in (a) average
      monthly migraine days, (b) average monthly headache days, and (c) monthly migraine rate, over
      the last 12 weeks of the double-blind treatment phase compared with the pretreatment phase
      will be assessed. Safety assessments include the incidence of adverse events, measurement of
      vital signs (pulse, blood pressure, oral temperature), results of pregnancy tests, physical
      and neurologic examinations, clinical laboratory tests (hematology, biochemistry, and
      urinalysis), and monitoring for visual or ocular disturbances, heat intolerance, renal or
      urinary disturbance, depression and rash. The study hypothesis is that the percent reduction
      in frequency of monthly (28-day) migraine attacks (using the 48-hour rule) from the
      prospective baseline period (pretreatment phase) to the last 12 weeks of the double-blind
      phase will be significantly better for the topiramate groups than for the placebo group.
      Topiramate tablets (25 milligrams) or placebo, beginning at 25mg once daily (Week 1),
      increasing to twice daily total of 50mg or 100mg (Week 4). Maximum dosage of topiramate (or
      placebo) continues for next 12 weeks. Dosage may be reduced once at investigator's
      discretion.
    
  