
    
      In the completed Phase 1 part of the study, eligible subjects were enrolled using a standard
      3 + 3 design to identify the MTD (i.e., the highest dose for which fewer than 33% of subjects
      experienced a dose-limiting toxicity [DLT]) of combination study treatment. All dose levels
      in Phase 1 included intravenous (IV) PLD (40 mg/m^2) in combination with subcutaneous (SC)
      motolimod (2.0 or 2.5 mg/m^2), using a starting dose of 3 mg/kg of IV durvalumab given every
      2 weeks (Q2W) or 1500 mg of IV durvalumab given every 4 weeks (Q4W). All subjects in a cohort
      had their safety data reviewed for DLTs before proceeding with cohort expansion.

      After completion of Phase 1 and determination of the durvalumab MTD to be carried forward
      into Phase 2, availability of data from another study (NCT01666444) indicated a lack of
      additive efficacy when motolimod was administered with PLD compared with PLD alone. As such,
      motolimod dosing was discontinued for all subjects in Study LUD2014-001 after completion of
      Phase 1. Subjects who had initiated treatment may have continued to receive PLD and
      durvalumab at their respective dose levels but must have discontinued motolimod. Thus, in the
      fully-accrued but ongoing Phase 2 portion of the study, subjects received only PLD (40
      mg/m^2) in combination with durvalumab at the MTD determined in Phase 1 (1500 mg every 4
      weeks [Q4W]).

      Subjects are treated in the Core Study for an initial 12 cycles (28 days each) according to
      their treatment assignment. Durvalumab treatment may be extended for subjects who complete
      the Core Study with stable disease or better and upon agreement among the subject, Sponsor,
      and Investigator; extended durvalumab monotherapy may continue until confirmed disease
      progression, unacceptable toxicity, withdrawal of consent, or other discontinuation criteria
      are met.

      Subjects are followed on study for 90 days after the last drug administration and off study
      every 3 months for 3 years from the date of the first dose of study treatment.

      Accrual is complete in all cohorts; subjects remain on durvalumab treatment and follow-up in
      Phase 2.
    
  