
    
      This is an open-label, pilot study of intravitreally administered ranibizumab in subjects
      undergoing pars plana vitrectomy (PPV) to repair tractional retinal detachment secondary to
      proliferative diabetic retinopathy, exudative serous retinal detachment, macular hole or
      neovascular glaucoma.

      Consented, enrolled subjects will be eligible to receive a single open-label intravitreal
      injection of 0.5 mg ranibizumab administered prior to undergoing PPV if in the Retinal
      Specialists opinion there could be a benefit to the disease or procedure from ranibizumab
      therapy.

      The proposed study will analyze aqueous humor and vitreous samples drawn at the same time
      during vitrectomy to evaluate the levels of growth factors, cytokines and chemokines from
      patients undergoing planned pars plana vitrectomy as part of their retinal care. For patients
      receiving ranibizumab, serum samples will also be collected to assess PK. Patients will be
      split into three groups based on diagnosis: Group 1: (ranibizumab) proliferative diabetic
      retinopathy (tractional retinal detachment), macular degeneration with exudative or
      tractional retinal detachment, macular hole or neovascular glaucoma. Group 1 may receive one
      injection of intravitreal ranibizumab 0.5mg prior to vitrectomy. The injection will be
      administered at least 1-14 days prior to vitrectomy. Group 2 will serve as the control group
      and will not receive intravitreal ranibizumab prior to surgery.

      Aqueous humor, vitreous and serum samples will be obtained to measure and compare growth
      factor, cytokine, chemokine levels and ranibizumab levels (if received). Undiluted core
      vitreous biopsies will be taken at the start of victrectomy. Aproximately 1 mL of undiluted
      vitreous fluid will be obtained with a closed infusion line and by manual aspiration with
      cutting on through the vitrectomy probe into a 2.5 mL syringe connected along the aspiration
      line. The sample will be frozen immediately and stored at -80°C.

      Approximately 100 microliters of aqueous humor will be collected prior to the start of
      vitrectomy through anterior chamber paracentesis in the peripheral clear cornea using a 27
      gauge needle on a tuberculin microsyringe from the central papillary area. Aqueous is
      transferred to a vial and placed in liquid nitrogen upon removal from the anterior chamber.
      Aqueous humor samples are immediately frozen at -80°C within 2 hours of collection until
      transferred to outside laboratories for further analysis.

      Serum samples will be obtained from patients in Group 1 at baseline (Day 0) prior to
      treatment with intravitreal ranibizumab and on the day of surgery prior to the start of
      vitrectomy. Serum samples will be processed according to Genentech standard operating
      procedures and samples will be frozen immediately at -80C until analysis is ready to begin.
    
  