
    
      Acromegaly is a rare disease, caused by a growth hormone (GH)-secreting adenoma and in even
      more seldom instances (about 1%) due to excessive growth hormone-releasing hormone (GHRH)
      secretion, usually by a carcinoid tumor of the lung or gastrointestinal tract. The incidence
      of acromegaly is about 3-4 per 1 million per year and the prevalence is 60-70 per 1 million,
      without geographical or sex differences. Clinical features of acromegaly include acral
      enlargement, prognathism, jaw malocclusion, arthropathy, carpal tunnel syndrome,
      hyperhydrosis, sleep apnea, and visceromegaly.

      Transsphenoidal neurosurgery, allowing selective removal of the pituitary adenoma, is the
      current first treatment for acromegaly in the majority of patients. Its effects on GH and
      insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I) secretion are rapid and operations have a low morbidity
      and very low mortality. However, surgery for macroadenomas causing acromegaly has a much
      lower surgical success rate than that for microadenomas. In experienced hands, microadenomas
      can be expected to be cured in around 90%, whereas with macroadenomas the figure is around
      50%. This is particularly the case with tumours that extend into the cavernous sinus where
      surgical success is < 50%. Medical treatment of acromegaly with somatostatin analogs (SSAs)
      can lead to normalized GH and IGF-I levels and relief of symptoms. SSA treatment may cause
      shrinkage of GH-secreting pituitary adenomas. Theoretically, this could improve the
      likelihood of a radical resection, particularly in macroadenomas. Furthermore, it has been
      suggested that SSA treatment softens the tumor parenchyma and thereby facilitates tumor
      removal. Finally, it has been reported that SSA pretreatment leads to a shortening of
      postoperative hospital stay.

      Previous studies addressing preoperative SSA treatment and subsequent surgical cure rates are
      conflicting, reporting a benefit, or no difference between groups. And most reported studies
      were rather small and were made in retrospect, we conducted a prospective, randomized study
      to investigate whether 4-month preoperative lanreotide treatment would improve the surgical
      cure rate of newly diagnosed acromegalic patients with macroadenomas. We also aimed to
      investigate whether there were differences in the incidence of surgical complications, and
      duration of neurosurgical hospital stay.
    
  