
    
      Domestic violence and abuse (DVA) is threatening behavior, violence or abuse (psychological,
      physical, sexual, financial or emotional) used by one person to control the other. Life time
      prevalence of DVA is 28% for women and 18% for men, although severity and consequences of
      abuse are less for men (1). Over and above damage to physical and reproductive health DVA has
      long-term detrimental effects on mental health for women consulting in primary care (2, 3). A
      meta-analysis of studies measuring the relationship between DVA and mental disorders reported
      increased risk for depression, anxiety, psychosomatic disorders, posttraumatic stress
      disorder (PTSD), alcohol abuse, and suicidal behavior (4). Kernic et al (5) have established
      that cessation of DVA among survivors is associated with decreased prevalence of depression;
      whereas Anderson and Sounders (6) have found that some women out of the abusive relationship
      may have greater psychological difficulties than those who are still in it. However the
      mechanisms through which DVA causes mental disease are very poorly understood. Similar to
      other stressors, DVA activates the biological stress system, of which the principal component
      is the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, which produces cortisol. Chronic activation
      of this system can result in dendritic retraction and hippocampal loss of function (7, 8).
      The results of existing cross-sectional studies testing the impact of DVA on women's HPA axis
      functioning are contradictory. Pico-Alfonso et al (9) have reported an increase in cortisol
      levels, whilst Seedat et al (10) have established reduction in cortisol levels in DVA
      subjects compared to controls. This disparity may relate to differential development of PTSD
      and/or depression within DVA-exposed samples (11). Currently, there is a hypothesis that DVA
      survivors may be characterized by alterations in the HPA axis (12) and that further
      longitudinal studies are needed to identify specific stress system disturbances in this group
      (1, 13). The aim of the study is to increase understanding of the role of
      hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis activity in DVA impact on women's mental health.

      Study objectives:

        -  To evaluate the profiles of the awakening response of cortisol, the diurnal variation
           and the mean salivary cortisol concentration in women with experience of DVA and in
           non-abused controls

        -  To estimate whether cortisol secretion is associated with type, severity, duration and
           cessation of DVA

        -  To investigate whether cortisol acts as mediator between DVA and mental health state

        -  To examine whether there is any distinction in cortisol levels between those women
           exposed to both childhood abuse and DVA and those experienced only the latter

        -  To explore whether cortisol secretion differs between women, living in a domestic
           violence refuge/safe house and those still living in the community (after adjustment for
           confounding effects of abuse severity and continuing contact with abuser).

      This 6-month study will consist of 3 measurements every 3 months. Each assessment will last
      approximately 30-45 minutes and will include:

        1. Numerous standardized self-administered psychological questionnaires

        2. Weight and height measurement

        3. Self-completion of 3 saliva samples using Salivette tubes:

             1. evening sample - at bedtime

             2. awakening sample - in the morning immediately upon wakening

             3. post-awakening sample - 30 mins after awakening sample

      Tubes with saliva will be returned by post or by researcher to an accredited laboratory for
      cortisol assay. The analysis also simultaneously measures cortisone a breakdown product of
      cortisol. This measurement is used to confirm the integrity of the sample.
    
  