
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the safety and activity of neoadjuvant and adjuvant cetuximab, leucovorin
           calcium, oxaliplatin, and fluorouracil with vs without bevacizumab in patients with
           resectable liver metastases secondary to colorectal cancer.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label, randomized, multicenter study. Patient are stratified
      according to participating center and planned liver resection (major [≥ 3 segments] vs minor
      [< 3 segments]). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours and oxaliplatin IV over 2
           hours on day 1 and fluorouracil IV over 46 hours (FOLFOX) beginning on day 1. Patients
           also receive cetuximab IV over 1-2 hours on days 1 and 8. Treatment repeats every 14
           days for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Between 3-5 weeks after completion of FOLFOX and cetuximab, patients undergo liver resection.
      Beginning between 4-8 weeks after surgery, patients receive another 6 courses of FOLFOX and
      cetuximab as in neoadjuvant therapy.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive FOLFOX and cetuximab as in arm I and bevacizumab IV over 30-90
           minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 14 days for 6 courses* in the absence of
           disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      NOTE: *Patients do not receive bevacizumab during course 6

      Between 3-5 weeks after completion of FOLFOX, cetuximab, and bevacizumab, patients undergo
      liver resection. Beginning between 4-8 weeks after surgery, patients receive another 6
      courses of FOLFOX, cetuximab, and bevacizumab as in neoadjuvant therapy.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years and
      then every 6 months for at least 3 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 100 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  