
    
      Introduction: Nutritional intervention for weight loss is one of the treatment options for
      obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) in patients with excess body adiposity. However, the effects of
      moderate energy restriction, recommended by current guidelines for the treatment of obesity,
      on OSA are not yet known. Objective: To evaluate the effects of moderate energy restriction
      on the body adiposity; severity of OSA; blood pressure; sympathetic activity; oxidative
      stress; inflammatory biomarkers; metabolic profile and endothelial function in obese patients
      with OSA. Methods: A 16-week randomized clinical trial, involving 21 subjects with obesity
      (grade I or II), aged 20-55 years and presenting an apnea/hipopnea index (AHI) > 5 events/h.
      Participants were randomized into 2 groups: 11 in the energy restriction group (ERG) and 10
      in the control group (CG). The ERG was instructed to follow an energy-restricted diet (-800
      kcal/day) and the CG was advised not to change their food intake. At the beginning and at the
      end of the study, participants underwent evaluation of: OSA with the equipment Watch- PAT200®
      including the determination of the following parameters of OSA severity: AHI, minimum O2
      saturation, number of O2 desaturations >4%; body adiposity (weight, %body fat and
      circumferences of waist, hip and neck); blood pressure (BP); sympathetic nervous system
      activity (plasma levels of catecholamines); inflammatory biomarkers (c-reactive protein and
      adiponectin); oxidative stress (malondialdehyde); metabolism of glucose (glucose, insulin and
      HOMA-IR) and lipids (total cholesterol and fractions and triglycerides); and endothelial
      function (index of reactive hyperemia evaluated by Endo - PAT 2000® and cellular adhesion
      molecules). The statistical analysis was performed with the software STATA v. 10. The level
      of statistical significance was p < 0.05.
    
  