
    
      The usual consent process for MyCode proceeds as follows: each day, trained MyCode consenters
      receive a list of patients who are eligible to be approached about MyCode and are scheduled
      to be seen that day in certain clinics in Geisinger's two-state catchment area. (Any
      Geisinger patient is eligible who has not previously enrolled in, or declined to enroll in,
      MyCode.) When an eligible patient arrives at the clinic, the consenter approaches them,
      confirms their identity, and then asks them if they would like to hear about MyCode. If they
      decline, the consenter thanks the patient for their time and the encounter is over. If the
      patient agrees, the consenter goes through a script that the MyCode team has developed from
      the written consent form that highlights the most important aspects of MyCode, including
      return of actionable results to participants and their primary care physicians, genetic
      privacy, and data sharing for research purposes. At the end of the script, the consenter
      invites and answers questions from the patient. Next, the consenter hands the patient the
      7-page written consent form and asks if they would like a few minutes to review it. Finally,
      the consenter asks the patient whether they wish to enroll in MyCode or not and records their
      answer-Yes, No, or Thinking (i.e., the patient needs more time to consider)-into the
      patient's electronic health record.

      In the present trial, patients are randomized at the individual level to receive either this
      usual consent or eConsent via iPad app. During the pilot phase of this trial, 11 Research
      Assistants (RAs) were trained on both MyCode consenting and on this trial's protocol. As per
      usual care, the RAs receive a daily list of MyCode-eligible patients scheduled to appear in
      clinic. And, as per usual care, the RAs approach the patient, confirm their identity, and ask
      if they wish to learn about MyCode. Those who do are then randomized to the usual care
      (paper) or eConsent (iPad) arm of the trial, according to whether the current time, as
      indicated by digital stopwatches, ends in an even or odd number. In the paper arm, the
      consent process proceeds as usual, with only two minor changes: 1) the RA uses the stopwatch
      to time the duration of the consent encounter (beginning from the moment they are randomized
      to the paper arm and ending when either the consent process is interrupted-e.g., because the
      patient is called back to the examination room-or when the consent process terminates with an
      enrollment decision (Yes, No, or Thinking); and 2) the RA uses a tracking sheet to record
      MyCode response rate (i.e., patients approached who did not want to hear about MyCode) and
      study attrition (e.g., consent process was interrupted). In the iPad arm, the RA hands the
      patient the iPad and explains that the interactive app will tell them all about MyCode.
      Patients reluctant to use an iPad are encouraged once to try, with the RA showing them that
      all that is involved is tapping, but patients who continue to resist are switched to the
      paper arm and this is noted on the tracking sheet. In the iPad arm, the RA also records
      whether the patient asks the RA any questions about MyCode and, as with the paper arm, when a
      patient declines to hear about MyCode and when the consent process is interrupted.

      In both arms, patients are then asked to complete a survey, which serves as the primary
      source of data for the study. The survey is administered on paper in the paper arm and on
      iPad (via the Qualtrics platform) in the iPad arm. The eConsent app generates a random study
      ID number that is sent to Qualtrics, where the user's click behavior during the consent
      process (e.g., time spent on each screen and in total, whether the user clicked "learn more"
      on each page, (in)correct answers to teach-back questions) is anonymously combined with their
      survey responses. Survey questions are closed-end (true/false, multiple choice, Likert scale)
      and based on the Quality of Informed Consent and All of Us participant-provided information
      surveys.

      This study is designed to be powered at 99% to detect an effect of modest size (half a point
      on the comprehension quiz), requiring 526 participants. Very high levels of power (here, 95%
      or 99%)-as opposed to the more standard benchmark power level of 80%-are desirable in tests
      of non-inferiority so that investigators can be as certain as possible that an inference of
      "no effect" is not a Type II error. In the very unlikely event that data collection proceeds
      much more slowly than it has in the pilot, the study retains 95% power to detect a one-half
      question effect with only 372 participants.
    
  