
    
      Early Childhood Caries (ECC) is the most common chronic disease among children. American
      Indian (AI) children are 4 times more likely to have untreated dental decay than white
      children. This is a four year parallel group randomized clinical trial evaluating the impact
      of a bundled best practices oral health intervention on early childhood caries in American
      Indian children as indicated by the number of decayed, missing and/or filled primary tooth
      surfaces (dmfs). The intervention is delivered during pregnancy and through child age 24-36
      months. The bundled best practices include motivational interviewing with mothers and
      fluoride varnish applied to the child's teeth. The oral health intervention also includes
      Tribe-specific individual, social and health needs identified in an earlier formative
      assessment. The oral health intervention group (n=175 mother-child dyads) will be compared to
      a group (n=175 mother-child dyads) receiving a standard prenatal/postnatal healthy lifestyle
      intervention. This comparison Healthy Lifestyle intervention is designed to improve
      maternal/child health knowledge and also includes Tribe-specific individual, social and
      health needs identified in an earlier formative assessment. Children in both groups receive
      some fluoride varnish. All study treatments will be delivered by Community Health
      Representatives from two Tribal communities in the Western U.S. Children and caregivers will
      be followed until up to 3 years of age. The primary outcome measure is the average number of
      decayed, missing and/or filled primary tooth surfaces (dmfs) at the last follow up (24 months
      for the late enrollment cohort; 30-36 months of age for the early enrollment cohort).
      Secondary outcomes include 1) the average number of decayed, missing and/or filled primary
      teeth (dmft) at the last follow up; survey based measures of 2) oral health knowledge; 3)
      oral health behavior; 4) attitudes towards oral health care; and 5) knowledge of maternal
      health and child development (e.g., pregnancy related nutrition; breastfeeding; prenatal
      health).
    
  