
    
      Coronary artery bifurcation lesion is a common lesion subset in PCI accounting for 15-20% of
      the total number of interventions. Treatment of coronary artery bifurcation lesions
      represents a challenging area in interventional cardiology. When compared with
      non-bifurcation interventions, bifurcation interventions have a lower rate of procedural
      success, higher procedural costs, longer hospitalization and a higher clinical and
      angiographic restenosis. Factors contributing to this adverse outcome include limitations of
      angiography in assessment of side-branch (SB) disease severity and the lack of established
      angiographic predictors of SB patency and lumen compromise. Better understanding of the
      underlying plaque morphology and plaque composition may facilitate more effective treatment
      of bifurcation lesions.

      Intravascular imaging has provided new understanding of mechanisms associated with SB
      compromise following bifurcation PCI. Plaque shift has been traditionally considered as the
      principal mechanism for side-branch compromise after main vessel intervention. Rotational
      atherectomy(RA) has been advocated for the treatment of bifurcation lesions, since it can
      effectively remove plaque with minimal injury to adjacent normal arterial segments and
      potentially reduce plaque shifting, the "snow plow" effect. Intravascular ultrasound (IVUS)
      has been used for guidance in bifurcation lesions, aiding the visualization of plaque
      morphology at the main vessel and the side-branches and helping the selection of stent size
      and length as well as the selection of stenting strategy. However, due to the low spatial
      resolution of IVUS, all attempts for three-dimensional visualization have only focused on
      visualization of the luminal contour and not on the vessel morphology or the vessel-stent
      interaction. Optical coherence tomography (OCT) has ~10 times higher resolution than IVUS,
      which allows precise evaluation of the microstructure of the vessel wall including lipid
      pool, fibrous cap, calcification, and thrombus. OCT has been shown to constitute a valuable
      tool for PCI guidance and also the utility of three-dimensional (3D) renderings for assessing
      the mechanism of side-branch compromise following intervention in bifurcation lesions. The
      recent development of OCT with online 3D reconstruction allows the operator to obtain a 3D
      visualization of the lesion and may provide a unique tool for guidance during complex
      bifurcation PCI and potentially improve stenting results. 3D OCT has been used to visualize
      jailed side branches after implantation of bioresorbable scaffolds in the main branch and
      develop a new classification system based on the number of SB compartments. In addition, its
      potential clinical application in guiding the rewiring of the distal compartment of the SB
      ostium (jailed with stent struts after MB stenting) to minimize the risk of floating struts
      was demonstrated It is important to note that while OCT, 3D-OCT, and 3D-QCA (such as that
      used in the ORBID trial) are imaging modalities that can be used to answer important research
      questions, their wide-spread adoption in daily clinical practice has been very limited.
      Intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) is used more frequently as part of a PCI guidance strategy in
      daily clinical practice.

      Fractional flow reserve (FFR) is a pressure-derived, lesion specific index used to determine
      the functional significance of coronary artery stenosis. Several studies showed that FFR is a
      safe and feasible method to assess the significance of an ostial SB stenosis after
      provisional stenting. Quantitative coronary angiography (QCA) has been shown to be unreliable
      in assessing the functional significance of SB after stent implantation in MV (the area under
      the curve 0.64, 41.5% sensitivity and 83.1% specificity) suggesting that treatment decisions
      for jailed SB should not be based on angiographic findings alone. A recent report
      demonstrated a better ability of post-PCI 3D-OCT to predict the functional significance for
      SB ostial lesions caused by a jailed SB outcome.

      A previous study (ORBID) of 30 patients was done at Mount Sinai Hospital and aimed to
      identify the predictors of side branch (SB) ostial stenosis developed after provisional
      stenting of the main vessel (MV) using Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT). The study Showed
      that High lipid content of the MV lesion and a contralateral location of lipid in the
      bifurcation area may contribute to SBOS after provisional stenting.

      The objective of this study is to analyze the incidence of SB compromise after provisional
      main vessel stenting in calcified bifurcation lesions of CAD patients, determine the
      incidence and OCT predictors of functionally significant SB stenosis defined as FFR ≤ 0.8 and
      to compare the FFR values with 3D-OCT measurements of jailed SB ostium after MV stenting.

      Stable CAD patients with bifurcation lesions in whom provisional stenting strategy is
      planned, who have moderate or severe calcification in the main vessel lesion identified by
      angiography, SB stenosis 30-70% and SB reference diameter > 2mm will be enrolled in the
      study.

      Moderate calcification will be defined as radiopaque density observed only during the cardiac
      cycle and typically involving only one side of the vascular wall, and severe calcification
      will be defined as radiopaque density noted without cardiac motion prior to contrast
      injection and involving both sides of the arterial wall. After completion of diagnostic
      angiogram and confirmation of subject eligibility, subjects will be randomly assigned to
      Rotational Atherectomy (RA) or Cutting Balloon Angioplasty (CBA)/Percutaneous Transluminal
      Coronary Angioplasty (PTCA) group in a 1:1 fashion.

      Patients in both groups will undergo PCI with stent implantation according to current
      standards of care. Lesion preparation including lesion pre-dilation, scoring or sculpting
      balloon angioplasty, and use of atherectomy and protection devices will be performed at the
      operator's discretion, followed by MV stenting. The operator will also decide in both groups
      about the length and size of the implanted stent. Procedural optimization, such as
      post-dilation or additional stent implantation will be performed based only on the
      angiographic findings, according to the discretion of the operator.
    
  