
    
      Study population. Patients ages 7-18 undergoing minor surgical procedures at Lucile Packard
      Children's Hospital will be recruited. Minor surgical procedures include hormone implant
      placement/removal/exchange, cecostomy tube exchange, incision and drainage of superficial
      soft tissue abscesses excluding the perineum and buttock, excision of benign masses <2cm on
      the extremity (e.g. sebaceous cyst, pilomatricoma, lipoma, etc), and foreign body removal
      from superficial wounds. Exclusion criteria include those with significant cognitive
      impairment, history of motion sickness, history of seizures, Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) <15,
      currently taking anxiety medication or narcotics, facial trauma, clinically unstable or
      require urgent/emergent intubation, claustrophobia, and visual or auditory impairment. The
      investigators aim to enroll at least 200 patients into the study.

      Intervention. Research coordinators will recruit patients and their families prior to their
      schedule procedures. Informed consent and assent will be obtained from participants and their
      caregivers when a patient is a minor. Demographic information will be collected from all
      participants. Patients will complete pre-procedural survey for pain and anxiety. Parents will
      complete a survey that documents their perception of their child's anxiety level. Patients
      will be randomly assigned to a treatment arm.

      Patients assigned to the general anesthesia arm will have a child life specialist in the
      pre-procedural period per hospital routine. Anesthesia will be administered at the discretion
      of the anesthesiologist. Once the procedure is completed, the patient will recover and be
      monitored in the post-anesthesia care unit (PACU) per hospital guidelines.

      Patients assigned to the virtual reality arm will be instructed on how to use the handheld
      system. A trained research coordinator or child life specialist will be with the patient
      during the procedure to help with any issues that may arise. They will document any
      interfering behaviors during the procedure. After the procedure, the patient will be
      monitored in the PACU per hospital guidelines.

      All patients will complete the post-procedural survey for pain and anxiety. Patients, parents
      and the surgeon will also complete satisfaction surveys.
    
  