
    
      The prevalence of kidney stone disease in the United States is increasing. Concurrently, an
      increase in calcium phosphate stone composition is also being observed. Recurrence of kidney
      stone disease has been reported as high as 50% at five years. Citrate supplementation is
      widely considered as one of the primary medical cornerstones to decrease kidney stone
      recurrence. Urinary citrate is a potent inhibitor of calcium stone formation by binding ionic
      urinary calcium as well as direct inhibition of calcium oxalate formation. Additionally,
      increased citrate, an alkali, raises urine pH which alters the solubility of certain stone
      types including uric acid and cystine stones. Potassium citrate supplementation is the
      primary proven approach to increasing urinary citrate and is a well-established preventive
      option in stone disease. However, medication treatment can cause epigastric discomfort,
      frequent large bowel movements and add to the patient's prescription financial burden.
      Dietary education including lemonade therapy provides natural dietary sources of citrate and
      may be an alternative to pharmacologic therapy without the associated gastrointestinal
      symptoms or costs.

      The utility of citrate supplementation has not been previously evaluated prospectively in the
      calcium phosphate stone former. Calcium phosphate stone formation occurs in a more alkaline
      urine environment. It has been postulated that citrate supplementation could promote calcium
      phosphate stone occurrence due to its ability to raise urine pH despite the inhibitory
      effects of increasing urinary citrate. However, this finding has not been observed in limited
      retrospective studies. The purpose of this investigation is to prospectively evaluate the
      benefit of citrate supplementation either through potassium citrate treatment with dietary
      education vs. dietary education alone to reduce stone recurrence in calcium phosphate stone
      formers with risk factors.
    
  