
    
      This is a 2-arm, prospective, randomized (2:1 ratio), open-label, multi-centre, phase II
      study conducted in patients affected by unresectable, locally advanced or metastatic
      urothelial cancer receiving niraparib plus best supportive care versus best supportive care
      as maintenance therapy after a first-line platinum-based chemotherapy.

      The primary objective of the trial is to evaluate the efficacy of niraparib plus Best
      Supportive Care (BSC) vs. BSC alone, as maintenance treatment, in terms of prolongation of
      progression-free survival (PFS), in patients with locally advanced or metastatic urothelial
      cancer that obtained disease control (objective response or stable disease) with first-line
      platinum-based chemotherapy.

      Poly-adenosine diphosphate ribose polymerase (PARP) inhibitors sensitivity is based on the
      presence of truncating and missense mutations in genes associated with the homologous
      recombination pathways. In The Cancer Genome Atlas dataset approximately 34% of bladder
      urothelial carcinoma harbored these mutations. Furthermore, in this study we plan to select a
      population potentially sensible to niraparib, by enrolling patients responding to platinum,
      indeed we know that there is a cross-sensitivity and a cross-resistance between platinum
      drugs and PARP inhibitors in urothelial carcinoma.

      PFS is commonly adopted as primary endpoint in randomized phase II trials. Randomized design
      for phase II trials has been increasingly adopted in recent years, to allow a formal
      comparison between experimental and standard treatment. This should lead to a better
      interpretation of the results obtained with the experimental treatment, that are in most
      cases difficult to interpret in the absence of controls.

      The sample size of the study is calculated with "relaxed" statistical criteria. The study
      design will verify if the experimental treatment (Niraparib) is promising enough to warrant a
      phase 3 trial for efficacy compared to observation.

      A total of 65 PFS events are needed to provide 80% power to detect an hazard ratio (HR) of
      0.57 (1.75), corresponding to a median increase in progression-free survival from 4 to 7
      months, with one-tailed alpha 0.1.

      With an accrual duration of 24 months, and additional 6 months of follow up after the
      completion of recruitment, 77 patient need to be randomized (26 assigned to control arm and
      51 assigned to experimental arm) to obtain the 65 events needed.

      Sample size of the phase II trial is too small to plan a formal analysis of interaction of
      treatment efficacy with type of response at first line treatment (i.e. objective response vs.
      stable disease). However, type of response to first line treatment will be among
      stratification factor for randomization, so the 2 treatment groups will be balanced.
      Exploratory subgroup analysis of treatment efficacy in patient who have obtained objective
      response with first line and in patients who have obtained stable disease with first line
      will be performed.
    
  