
    
      Our study is investigating the metabolic response to playing competitive non-violent and
      competitive violent video games. Our primary hypothesis is that the metabolic response in the
      violent game group will differ from the other two groups, due to activation of the stress
      response.

      We are using an experimental approach, whereby 72 young men are randomised to one of three
      groups: watching TV, playing the non-violent video game 'FIFA2013', or playing the violent
      video game 'Call of Duty'. All participants must already have some experience playing the two
      games, so that whichever group they are assigned to, they can comply with the protocol.

      Participants arrive after an overnight fast, and are given a standardised breakfast (a
      muffin, approx 300 kcal, and a glass of water). After measurements of weight, height and
      waist girth, they then are assigned to one of the three groups, and allowed to familiarise
      themselves with the games console or TV. Baseline data on blood pressure (in triplicate,
      Accutor digital monitor), heart rate (Polar monitor) and appetite/mood (visual analogue
      scale) are collected, along with a saliva sample for measurement of the 'stress' hormone,
      cortisol, as well as satiety hormones sich as leptin and ghrelin. We will collect these data
      again at 4 time-points during the one hour game-playing session, by pausing the game or TV
      for 4 minutes at 15, 30, 45 and 60 minutes after the session starts.

      At the end of the study, we allow the participants half an hour of rest, during which they
      can choose from a variety of sweet or savoury snacks or fruit, and several drinks.

      We will compare the data from the three groups, to test whether changes in blood pressure,
      heart rate, appetite/mood and salivary hormones, as well as snack consumption, are greater in
      the group playing the violent game.
    
  