
    
      In the United States, 12% of adults suffer from migraines. Migraines are categorized as
      episodic or chronic (CM). CM is less common than episodic, with a prevalence of 2%, but far
      more debilitating, with three times the annual per capita cost, putting the total U.S. direct
      and indirect cost estimate of CM at $15.5 billion dollars per year. Compared to patients with
      episodic migraine, those with CM have a lower quality of life (QoL) and higher utilization of
      primary and emergency care. CM has only two prophylactic pharmacologic treatment options with
      efficacy demonstrated through randomized, placebo-controlled trials. One is Topiramate, whose
      side effects, including fatigue, dizziness, mood changes and suicidal ideation, can
      compromise patients' QoL and adherence rate to this treatment, which has been estimated as
      under 25%. The other is onabotulinumtoxinA, whose side effects, including neck pain, eyelid
      ptosis and worsening headaches, are reported in over 25% of users. Due to these high
      frequency, debilitating side effects, ¬there is an urgent need to develop effective CM
      treatments with low side-effect profiles.

      Osteopathic manipulative treatment (OMT) has been reported to improve episodic and CM
      symptoms without major side effects. Improvements with OMT include decreased Headache Impact
      Test (HIT-6) scores, fewer headache days per month and decreased medication use. While
      promising, these studies have significant limitations, such as small sample sizes and high
      risk of bias. Further, even higher quality OMT studies rely on the treating physician to
      select from among several OMT treatment techniques, rather than using a standardized
      treatment procedure. Together, these limitations led the most recent literature assessment to
      conclude that, "more study is needed before manipulative therapies can be confidently
      recommended to prevent and treat headaches." To overcome these limitations, OMT studies for
      the treatment of CM should apply rigorous methods, including standardized treatment
      procedures.

      The investigators have developed a standardized OMT procedure to treat CM. The procedure is
      repeated every two weeks over a ten week period. Over the past five years it has been
      successfully used to treat 50 patients with CM in a single family physician's practice. Among
      the treated patients, 40 reported improved symptoms, and none reported adverse side effects.
      However, the procedure has not been formally evaluated using rigorous research methods.

      The specific objectives of this pilot study are to evaluate the feasibility and acceptability
      of the standardized OMT procedure for CM, and gather preliminary data on its potential
      efficacy when implemented in a primary care setting. The central hypothesis is that the
      standardized myofascial release OMT procedure will improve symptoms of CM as measured by
      improvement in HIT-6, Migraine Disability Assessment (MIDAS), Migraine-Specific
      Quality-of-Life Questionnaire (MSQ), and self-reported and electronic health record (EHR)
      medication usage and healthcare utilization. This hypothesis is supported by the
      investigators' anecdotal clinical success using this approach. The specific aims of this
      study are:

      Aim 1: Assess the feasibility of systematically identifying and treating patients with the
      standardized OMT procedure within the Penn State Health medical system. Feasibility will be
      measured by the investigators' ability to identify and enroll CM patients in this study. The
      investigators will enroll 20-40 adult patients with CM who do not have common confounders.
      This data will inform the recruitment strategy of a future randomized clinical trial (RCT).

      Aim 2: Assess the acceptability of the standardized OMT procedure. Acceptability will be
      measured by patient-reported satisfaction and perceived benefit, completion rate and adverse
      events or side-effects. This data will inform the sample size calculation of a future RCT.

      Aim 3: Assess the preliminary effectiveness of the standardized OMT procedure. Efficacy will
      be measured by improvement in HIT-6, MIDAS, and MSQ scores; patient-reported headache
      frequency, medication usage, and healthcare utilization surveys; and medication and
      healthcare utilization documented in the EHR. This data will provide estimates of effect size
      to better inform the sample size calculation of a future RCT.
    
  