
    
      Cognitive behavioral therapy, consisting of exposure and response prevention and cognitive
      restructuring, is still one of the most effective treatments for obsessive compulsive
      disorder. However, some patients do not fully benefit from the treatment. This condition
      results in more search for novel approaches that can contribute to effectiveness of standard
      treatments. In this regard, the use of technology-based methods in recent researches is
      noteworthy. Cognitive bias modification (CBM) is one of these current efforts of
      technology-based methods. CBM involves computerized tasks designed to modify some cognitive
      biases such as attention and interpretation associated with psychopathology, particularly
      anxiety disorders. Researches have generally demonstrated that cognitive bias modification
      can be effective way to alter cognitive biases and to reduce anxiety symptoms. In recent
      years, there have been also some studies to investigate the potential effects of cognitive
      bias modification for obsessive compulsive disorder.The results of both CBM-Interpretation
      (CBM-I) and CBM-Attention (CBM-A) studies have shown that it is an effective and promising
      method in reducing cognitive biases in obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD). Although these
      studies are highly informative, they do not provide information about the causal role one
      bias has during the operation of another. In recent years, there has been a growing consensus
      that both biases arise from the same system, thereby, it is possible that modifying the
      system to alter one bias (e.g., attention), will also impact on the presence of the other
      bias.). In line with this notion, there are a couple of studies to test the effect of
      Combined Cognitive Bias Modification (CBM-C) which is combination of both CBM-A and CBM-I in
      intervention programs. The results of these studies are generally very positive. Although it
      is well established that attention bias and interpretation bias each have a key role in the
      development and maintenance of OCD, only one bias is targeted in CBM studies of OCD.
      Considering that a "combined cognitive bias" may contribute to the maintenance of several
      disorders, in order to try to maximise the potential clinical impact, the present research
      aims at exploring whether the combination of the CBM-A and CBM-I procedures would be more
      effective in reducing cognitive biases and OC symptoms than either alone. It is expected that
      internet-delivered CBM-C (iCBM-C) will result in superior treatment outcomes as indexed by
      internet-delivered CBM-I intervention only (iCBM-I), internet-delivered CBM-A intervention
      only (iCBM-A), and wait-list control (WLC).
    
  