
    
      Rationale: Distal radius fracture (DRF) is a common injury that may lead to prolonged
      function restrictions, decreased range of motion, reduced grip strength and pain. These
      symptoms may be caused by physical changes due to the injury and/or by the 4-6 weeks
      immobilization that is part of the conservative treatment. However, it might also be that
      neural changes during the immobilization play an important role. Such changes might be
      prevented by motor imagery training during the immobilization period. So, when neural changes
      are prevented, this may lead to a better functional outcome.

      Objective: The objective is to improve the functional outcome in distal radius fracture
      patients, specified as an increase in function, dexterity, grip strength, range of motion,
      and decrease of pain.

      Study design: Parallel group randomized controlled trial, with a post-test only control group
      design. Patients in the experimental group perform motor imagery training during the
      immobilization period, in addition to the regular treatment. Patients in the control group
      receive regular treatment.

      Study population: Female DRF-patients who are conservatively treated by a cast, aged 45-75
      years. The fracture must be a low energy trauma caused by a fall. Patients with a score
      higher than 72 on the Vividness of Motor Imagery Questionnaire (VMIQ) are excluded, as well
      as patients with co-morbidities that might influence the wrist function, or motor
      imagery-ability, and patients with no understanding of Dutch language. The patients are
      randomly allocated to the experimental or control group by restricted randomization to ensure
      equal group sizes.

      Intervention: Motor imagery training during the immobilization period).

      Main study parameters/endpoints: The main study parameter is function. Secondary study
      parameters are dexterity, range of motion, grip strength, and pain.
    
  