
    
      Patients received one session of EPI technique per week over 4 weeks (or over 6 weeks when
      pain persisted) associated with a home program consisting of eccentric exercise (EccEx) and
      stretching, initiated 24 hours after each session. The EccEx and stretching program was
      taught by a physiotherapist in the first session and monitored in subsequent sessions. At
      discharge, patients were instructed to perform only EccEx once daily for the first 6 weeks of
      the follow-up period.

      The EPI technique was performed under ultrasound-guidance on the clinically relevant area (or
      areas of maximum tenderness to palpation and with ultrasonographic degenerative tendon
      changes) using an intensity of 4-6 milliampere (mA) during 3 seconds, approximately 3 times.
      The investigators used the EPI machine (Cesmar Electromedicina S.L., Barcelona, Spain) and a
      GE Logiq E Portable Ultrasound Machine with GE Linear probe 12L-RS (5-13 mhz) (GE Healthcare,
      Wisconsin, EEUU). During the EPI technique, the patient was placed in a supine position, with
      the affected elbow placed in a position of 90째 flexion and maximum pronation. The elbow was
      sterilized and the sonographic transducer, enclosed in a sterile cover over sterile applied
      gel, was placed at the lateral epicondyle (first approach) and over the humeroradial joint
      between the head of the radius and the capitulum of the humerus (second approach), where it
      remained throughout the procedure. A common target area was the deep surface of the common
      extensor tendon (origin of the ECRB [extensor carpi radialis brevis] and the EDC [extensor
      digitorum communis]) (first approach) and the deep surface of the ECRB, over the capsule and
      the lateral ulnar collateral ligament (second approach). A 0.3 x 25mm. (1 inch) needle was
      inserted at a 30째 to 45째 angle to the skin in the direction of the lateral epicondyle (first
      approach) and at a 80째 angle to the skin, with the needle tip directed towards the
      humeroradial joint (second approach). In the first approach the needle was advanced parallel
      to the longitudinal plane of the tendon (in-plane approach); whereas in the second approach
      the needle was advanced along the short plane of the humeroradial joint (out-of-plane
      approach). Real-time ultrasonographic imaging provided guidance for both procedures. Once the
      needle reached the target tissue, readjustments of the needle position were made in order to
      ensure a correct stimulation. The generation of the galvanic current creates a white image
      (hyperechoic) as a result of the liberation of hydrogen gas due to the electrolysis. Oral
      paracetamol was used when necessary for the purpose of pain relief only.

      The eccentric exercise program consisted of three series of up to 10 repetitions of eccentric
      work, repeated twice daily (morning and afternoon), under maximum load (initially with one
      kilogram) in an optimal and functional pain-free range. From maximum wrist extension and
      radial deviation, rapid wrist flexion movement were performed, followed by a 2-second hold of
      the final position. In between series patients were given a rest period of 2-3 minutes. This
      formula was used for the duration of the physiotherapy program. The concentric contraction
      phase for returning to the starting position was nullified with the help of the other hand.

      The stretching program consisted of a stretching exercise for the epicondylar muscles
      consisting in three series of 7 repetitions twice a day (morning and afternoon), performed in
      a sitting position with a flexed wrist and fingers, ulnar deviation and elbow extension
      reaching the stretch limit without bounces, and held for 45 seconds, with a 30-second rest
      between repetitions.
    
  