
    
      Principle objective To assess the impact of optimal injection technique education, tailored
      learning prescription and use of BD Micro-FineTM Ultra 4mm x 32G pen needle upon total daily
      dose of insulin consumption in patients with or without clinically detectable
      lipohypertrophy. To assess the cost of intervention vs. direct savings with a view to use of
      the data in needle reimbursement discussions with the Belgian health care authorities.

      Secondary objective

      To assess the impact of the intervention on other parameters of glucose control (including
      HbA1c, unexplained hypoglycaemia and glycaemic variability). To calculate direct and indirect
      savings associated with better glucose control.

      Tertiary objective

      To assess the impact of the intervention (especially eLearning) on patients' injection
      technique self-care knowledge and behaviors, including correct site rotation, non-injection
      into lipohypertrophy and needle reuse patterns. To calculate direct and indirect savings
      associated with better educational approaches and behavioral changes.

      Audit Targets and Standards The sample size targeted will be 190 completed patient records.
      Each center will be asked to contribute between 20-50 subjects. Optimal injection technique
      and optimal needle length selection are based on Belgian guidelines on Injection, which are
      based on recently published FITTER worldwide recommendations. A study day will be held for
      participant nurses to review the protocol and audit forms, and for refresher training in
      lipohypertrophy detection.

      Endpoints Total Daily Dose (TDD) of insulin HbA1c (as mmol/mol) Unexplained hypoglycaemic
      episodes (defined in Entry/Exit Forms) Severe hypoglycaemia (requiring the intervention of a
      third party) Glycaemic variability (defined in Entry/Exit Forms) Rotation of injection sites
      with spacing apart of punctures by at least 1 cm Reuse of needles

      Presence of lipohypertrophy Injections into lipohypertrophic lesions Injection technique
      practices Adherence to proposed best practice intervention recommendations Data with cost
      implications (resource usage, hypoglycaemic events) Self-care injection technique knowledge
      and behaviours Qualitative and quantitative BD and MeTM patient user experience Clinician
      education, training and information inputs required support behaviour modification and
      adherence to treatment Quality of Life assessment Unplanned Interventions: ER, Ambulance,
      Hospital Admission, Critical Cared admission
    
  