
    
      With 50 000 new cases per year, breast cancer is the most common cancer in women in France.
      About a quarter of breast cancers occurs before menopause and 7% before the age of 40 years.
      Due to the increased incidence of breast cancer in young women and declining age of first
      pregnancy, it is not unusual to have patient desiring pregnancy after treatment of a breast
      cancer. Among these women, the use of adjuvant therapy (chemotherapy, hormone therapy,
      chemical castration) is common. Adjuvant or neoadjuvant chemotherapy resulted in
      significantly lower recurrence rates and increase the survival of these patients, but these
      treatments could have more or less long-term consequences, including in ovarian function.
      Ovarian consequences of these therapeutic must also be explained to young patients. But it
      seems that this information is often inadequate or poorly understood, and then patients
      deplore to be faced with secondary infertility.

      The rates of patients with spontaneous pregnancies reported after breast cancer is between 3
      and 7%, particularly because of these treatments.

      Therefore, it is essential to anticipate this problem by proposing the use of fertility
      preservation techniques for these young patients prior to any gonadotoxic treatment.

      PRESAGE study offers to patients fewer than 40, to preserve their fertility before
      neoadjuvant or adjuvant chemotherapy for invasive breast cancer.

      The aim of this study is to evaluate the feasibility of ovarian stimulation emergency order
      not to delay the start of treatment. This stimulation combined gonadotropin and tamoxifen
      followed by an oocyte retrieval. The patient may receive an oocyte vitrification and / or
      embryonic.

      This procedure is already done in many countries, and by some French teams, by combining
      tamoxifen or letrozole to the classic gonadotropin stimulation.
    
  