
    
      The FR-2 study is designed as a phase II, open label, single arm study in patients with
      microsatellite stable (MSS) stages II-IV rectal cancer, to assess the activity of PD-L1
      inhibition with durvalumab (MEDI4736) monotherapy after standard chemo-radiotherapy
      (chemoRT). The study's primary aim is to determine the safety and efficacy of durvalumab
      immediately following chemoRT in patients undergoing subsequent surgery with stage II-IV
      rectal cancer.

      One dose of durvalumab will be given every 2 weeks for four total doses beginning within 3-7
      days of completing chemoRT. Surgery for all patients must occur within 8-12 weeks of the
      final dose of RT. Adjuvant chemotherapy after surgical recovery is at the discretion of the
      treating physician.

      During a safety run-in, the first 6 patients will be closely followed for 30 days after last
      dose of durvalumab without further accrual of patients. Patients will receive durvalumab
      (750mg IV infusion once every 2 weeks) for 4 total doses. No other concurrent anti-neoplastic
      medications or treatments aside from standard supportive care will be allowed during the
      durvalumab treatment phase.

      The safety run-in portion of the study will proceed to full enrollment at the proposed study
      therapy dose, (750 mg IV infusion every 2 weeks), if one or less dose-limiting toxicity (DLT)
      or significant safety concern attributable to durvalumab is identified during the observation
      period of the first 6 patients. If there are two or more DLTs, accrual to the study will stop
      with reassessment of the protocol.

      A total of 47 patients will be enrolled in this study for a sample size of 41 surgically
      evaluable patients.

      Required tissue and blood samples will be collected at specific time points and submitted for
      correlative science studies. Optional tumor and blood samples will be collected from
      consenting patients upon disease recurrence or progression.
    
  