
    
      Weaning from mechanical ventilation is the process of gradual ventilatory support reduction
      to the patient subjected to mechanical ventilation for more than 24 hours. Determining the
      correct time to extubate mechanically ventilated patients is a crucial issue in the critical
      care practice.

      Spontaneous breathing trial (SBT) is recommended to predict weaning outcome. However, 13% to
      26% of patients who are extubated following a successful SBT need to be reintubated within 48
      hours.

      Traditional indicators, such as respiratory rate (RR), minute ventilation, tidal volume (VT),
      and the rapid shallow breathing index (RSBI), can reflect patients' integral conditions, but
      none has shown great prognostic accuracy for weaning failure.

      Although there are several causes of weaning failure, cardiac function deterioration during
      the weaning process combined with acute pulmonary edema is considered the leading cause of
      weaning failure. The transition from positive to negative thoracic pressure increases venous
      return and left ventricular afterload, decreases left ventricular compliance and may induce
      cardiac ischemia. All of these factors tend to increase ventricular filling pressures and may
      consequently lead to weaning-induced pulmonary edema. The efficacy of echocardiography for
      predicting weaning failure has been reported, however there is debate over the predictive
      value of echocardiography in this setting continues due to differences in weaning technique
      and outcome evaluation.

      The diaphragm is the principal respiratory muscle. With an excursion of 1 to 2 cm, it
      provides nearly 75% of the resting pulmonary ventilation, while during the forced breathing,
      its amplitude is up to 7 to 11 cm. However, the diaphragm is vulnerable to damage from
      hypotension, hypoxia, and sepsis, which are very common in critically ill patients. While in
      surgical patients, diaphragm dysfunction is often caused by acute insults such as trauma or
      surgical procedures. In addition, mechanical ventilation itself can decrease the force of the
      diaphragm and induce diaphragmatic dysfunction, named as ventilator-induced diaphragmatic
      dysfunction. Many studies have shown that Diaphragm dysfunction is responsible for a number
      of pulmonary complications, including atelectasis and pneumonia, which are risk factors for
      extubation failure. and might lead to weaning failure and long-term mechanical ventilation.

      Some studies have reported that diaphragmatic excursion (DE) or and diaphragmatic thickening
      fraction (DTF) could predict extubation failure.

      Although transthoracic echocardiography and diaphragm ultrasound have been confirmed in
      independently assessing extubation outcomes, few studies have shown their different roles in
      the weaning process until now.
    
  