
    
      Specific challenges: In Pakistan rates of depression particularly in women are high, as well
      as other risks to the growth and development of young children and child mortality. Numerous
      studies provide compelling evidence that maternal depression not only affects mothers but is
      also associated with long term emotional, cognitive and behavioural problems in children.
      Depressed mothers are unable to provide primary care necessary for growth of their children
      during the first 3-years of life, a critical period for child development. Disability due to
      depressive symptoms (such as fatigue, poor concentration, loss of interest) is likely to
      affect child-care abilities directly, while impaired social functioning is likely to have
      indirect consequences through lack of support in childcare. Disturbances in mother-infant
      relationship in depressed mothers negatively influence the child's development. There is now
      evidence from some low income countries that effectively delivered participatory group
      interventions are cost effective intervention for improving maternal and child health. The
      Community-Based participatory Intervention LTP Plus has been designed to address maternal
      depression and a parenting program of child psychosocial development through mother-infant
      play providing stimulation, and support for exploration and autonomy for the infant.The
      proposed study will test the efficacy of an innovative affordable intervention program that
      can be used by non-specialists, including mothers and lay health workers with minimal
      training in low resource countries such as Pakistan.

      Project Impact: LTP Plus is proposed as a low cost intervention to improve maternal mental
      and physical health, reduce infant and children under five years' morbidity and mortality,
      and promote healthy child development. Learning Through Play (LTP) Plus is a low-literacy,
      sustainable program intended to provide parents with information on the healthy growth and
      development of their young children. The LTP research-based activities enhance children's
      development while simultaneously promoting attachment security through building parents'
      ability to read and be sensitive to their children's cues and through active involvement in
      their children's development. Plus the Thinking Healthy Program (THP) which adopts 'here and
      now' problem-solving approach, THP uses cognitive behavior therapy (CBT) techniques of active
      listening, changing negative thinking, and collaboration with the family.
    
  