
    
      Diabetes-related distress, the negative emotional impact of living with diabetes (DM), is a
      powerful predictor of psychosocial functioning, treatment adherence, and glycemic control.
      Practice guidelines and consensus statements call for innovative approaches to address
      DM-related distress. Despite availability of self-management and psychosocial interventions
      to reduce DM related distress, these interventions are underutilized due to constraints in
      time, finances, motivation, and resource-awareness. Interventions that leverage traditional
      medical care and community-based health promotion programs (e.g., DM self-management
      education (DSME) programs) may enhance the ability of Veterans with DM to engage with a broad
      and accessible range of resources. Ensuring that Veterans with DM receive adequate self-care
      support requires interventions that (1) attend to both medical care and diabetes-related
      distress and (2) improve Veterans' access and engagement with DSME and traditional
      medical/mental care. Integrating VA and community health services and DSME resources is
      innovative and affords great opportunities to enhance Veteran outcomes and build VA community
      partnerships. Engagement of Veterans and community organizations in developing and delivering
      care responds to the 2016 HSR&D high-priority domain of Health Care Systems Change and aligns
      with the 2017 VA Under Secretary's priorities of Greater Choice (offering community and VA
      resources), Efficiency (community and VA coordination), and Timeliness (telephone delivery).

      This community-VA partnership and three-month Veteran peer coaching intervention (iNSPiRED)
      aims to enhance psychological well-being and diabetes self-management behavior in Veterans
      with DM by facilitating access to and use of healthcare and health promotion resources. The
      intervention focuses on reducing cognitive and practical barriers to use of services by
      engaging Veteran peers as coaches and navigators, and by encouraging engagement in health
      promotion and healthcare services in the VA and the greater community. A secondary goal,
      integral to the main goal, is to strengthen and integrate VHA partnerships with
      community-based organizations and Veteran Support Organizations (VSO's).

      This is a single-blind, parallel group randomized trial of a 3-month peer navigation
      intervention for Veterans with DM and elevated levels of DM-related distress. The
      investigators will recruit Veterans with DM-related distress through existing help-seeking
      channels within and outside of the VA in partnership with community agencies, VSO's, and the
      Houston VAMC. Eligible Veterans will be assigned at random to the iNSPiRED intervention (peer
      navigation and coaching) versus usual care (written resource materials and encouragement to
      continue follow-up with healthcare providers). Consistent with the focus on the overall
      emotional impact of DM, the PRIMARY OUTCOME is DM-related distress (DM Distress Scale). In
      previous studies the DDS has shown strong relationships with psychological symptoms,
      self-management behaviors, and objective measures of glycemic control. SECONDARY OUTCOMES
      include anxiety symptoms (Generalized Anxiety Disorder Scale), depression symptoms (Patient
      Health Questionnaire-8), DM self-management behaviors (DM Self-Management Scale), and
      self-reported use and new use of VA or community resources. In addition to participant-level
      outcomes, the investigators will also assess STAKEHOLDER OUTCOMES through a mixed methods
      process evaluation. The objective will be to measure the impact of stakeholder engagement
      activities on development and sustainability of VA-community partnerships, trust and
      communication, and capacity building. Assessment of primary and secondary endpoints will
      occur at baseline, post-intervention, and at 6 months.

      If this project meets intended goals, the investigators will partner with VHA Office of
      Community Engagement and VHA Specialty Care to implement the intervention for DM and other
      chronic diseases.
    
  