
    
      Colostrum is the milk that is first produced by a mother after giving birth. It plays a key
      role in the normal early development of mammals by providing substances that are important
      for nutrition, immunological defence and healthy growth and development. Research has shown
      that the immunoglobulins, antimicrobial peptides and growth factors in dairy colostrum and
      early season milk from cows are nearly identical to human. After puberty our bodies begin the
      aging process, and gradually produce less immune and growth factors that resist disease and
      heal tissue. Colostrum is a natural source of these life-enhancing components. Research shows
      that colostrum supports immune function and can help use fat for fuel and optimise cellular
      reproduction. Colostrum is receiving an increasing amount of interest in the healthcare
      community because of the potential benefits it can offer to a variety of patient groups by
      boosting the body's immune response, encouraging growth and repair in the gut, stabilising
      gut microflora and supporting better nutritional absorption and muscle growth.

      Diabetes is a chronic condition associated with significant morbidity and mortality
      predominantly from associated chronic diseases. Currently within the UK approximately 5% of
      NHS spend is in relation to type 2 diabetes alone. Within Wales, approximately £256 million
      is spent on the care of these patients. Estimates suggest that people with type 2 diabetes
      have the disease for approximately 10 years before diagnosis, during which complications
      become well established including dyslipidaemia and hypertension. Additionally, many of these
      people are overweight or obese before they develop diabetes. The prevalence of type 2
      diabetes continues to increase despite recent advances in our understanding of the basic
      physiology of glucose control. There is a clear association between inflammation, insulin
      resistance and type 2 diabetes. We aim to target inflammation levels seen in those with
      impaired glucose homeostasis such as impaired fasting glucose (IFG) and impaired glucose
      tolerance (IGT), collectively called pre-diabetes.

      The focus of the work will be to investigate the effects of dairy colostrum as a food
      supplement on inflammatory processes and the potential role that it could play in the
      prevention of pre-diabetes developing into type 2 diabetes.
    
  