
    
      The overall aim of this proposal is to investigate the potential short and long term
      effectiveness of a cognitive training program Goal-Oriented Attentional Self-regulation
      (GOALS) that targets executive control functions in Veterans with co-morbid posttraumatic
      stress disorder (PTSD), history of mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI), and cognitive
      difficulties. Both PTSD and a history of mild TBI are prevalent in Veterans from the
      Operation Enduring Freedom (OEF) and Operation Iraqi Freedom (OIF) conflicts, with reported
      rates for each disorder ranging from 14 - 22%. Both PTSD and TBI have been associated with
      cognitive dysfunction which may lead to functional impairment and poor community
      reintegration. PTSD can be highly debilitating not only due to emotional dysregulation, but
      also due to deficits in the cognitive control processes.

      Goal-Oriented Attentional Self-Regulation (GOALS) is a therapist administered cognitive
      rehabilitation training that targets executive control functions of applied mindfulness-based
      attention regulation and goal management, and links them to participant-defined real-life
      goals. In a prior study with individuals with chronic brain injury, this training has
      improved cognitive performance in areas of complex attention / executive function, memory,
      complex functional task performance, and daily functioning. Furthermore, functional MRI
      results after training indicated significantly enhanced modulation of neural processing in
      extrastriate cortex and changes in prefrontal cortex. Preliminary results from a recently
      completed study with Veterans with a history of chronic TBI also support improvements post
      GOALS on neuropsychological measures of attention and executive function, performance on
      complex 'real-life' tasks, and self-report measures of functional performance. Furthermore,
      participants also showed improvement on the emotional regulation self-report measures. These
      findings suggest that improving cognitive control may also improve functioning in other
      domains such as emotional regulation and functional performance in daily life.

      In a randomized, controlled intervention study design, 42 Veterans with a diagnosis of PTSD,
      history of mTBI and residual cognitive difficulties will participate in experimental (GOALS),
      and/or active comparison (Brain Health Education - EDU) interventions matched for time and
      intensity. Participants will be randomized to start with either 5 weeks of GOALS or EDU
      training. Those who begin with EDU will cross-over to GOALS, while those begin with GOALS
      will have 5 weeks of self-driven practice only. Both groups will participate in pre and post
      intervention measurements at baseline, weeks 5 and 10. Long-term follow-up will be at 6
      months. Pre- and post-intervention measurements will include performance on untrained:
      neuro-cognitive tests assessing targeted and non-targeted cognitive domains, complex
      functional task performance in low structure 'real-world' setting, and self-report measures
      of emotional regulation and daily functioning.
    
  