
    
      The main objective of phase I dose finding studies is to identify the recommended phase II
      dose. The primary endpoint is the dose limiting toxicity (DLT) which is generally measured
      using the NCI common toxicity criteria (NCI-CTCAE) graded scale. This scale, developed for
      the investigation of cytotoxic chemotherapy administered in a limited number of cycles
      including rest period, is well adapted to identify the drug effect on organ dysfunction and
      life threatening events. However it may be less relevant to reflect the patient's feeling
      regarding the tolerability of the treatment under study resulting in over or under estimation
      of these toxicities.

      Moreover, targeted therapies and more specifically the ones administered orally are given
      over long periods often with continuous schedules. Moderate toxic side effects lasting over a
      long period are usually not considered as DLT. The health related quality of life of patients
      as well as other patient reported outcome including symptom scale in addition to usual NCI
      CTCAE scale could be a relevant variable to detect intolerable treatments. It has not been
      studied prospectively to date in phase I trials.

      A prospective cohort of 250 patients with solid tumours included in phase I clinical trials
      of targeted agents will be enrolled. Patients will be treated with MTA in mono therapy or in
      association with chemotherapy or other targeted agents in 4 large phase I centers.

      Patients from trials investigating chemotherapy alone will not be included.

      Patients included in a phase I trial will be requested to fill in

        -  a questionnaire of health related quality of life (the EORTC PAL 15 questionnaire)

        -  a questionnaire of symptoms (MDASI)

        -  a questionnaire on symptoms specific of MTA at baseline and at each cycle of treatment
           and 6 weeks after the end of treatment.

      The sponsor of the therapeutic phase I trials will be informed that the present research is
      running and that it will not interfere with their investigational protocol. Each phase I
      center has the latitude to propose or not the health-related quality of life research to
      patients included in a given phase I trial.
    
  