
    
      Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is a neuromuscular disease characterized by degeneration of
      motor neurons and progressive muscle atrophy. The disease is one of the most common genetic
      causes of infant death. The gene responsible for SMA, survival motor neuron (SMN), exists in
      humans as two nearly identical copies (SMN1 and SMN2). Only deletion or mutation(s) of the
      telomeric copy of the gene (SMN1) causes the disease. The SMN protein has been known to
      function in assembly of the RNA splicing complex, however, the mechanism(s) by which
      SMN-deficiency causes cell death in SMA are not clear. The long-term goal is to understand
      the mechanism(s) of motor neuron death in SMA and develop a means of prevention. SMN protein
      has been reported to have some survival promoting functions in cultured cells. Preliminary
      studies show that skin fibroblasts from SMA patients are more sensitive to certain death
      promoting stimuli than control fibroblasts. The investigators hypothesize that the SMN
      protein is directly involved in cell survival and that loss of this survival function of SMA
      results in motor neuron death in SMA. The investigators will use fibroblasts from SMA
      patients, fibroblasts from controls without SMA, motor neuron-like cell lines (such as
      NSC-34) and rodent primary motor neuron cultures as model systems to test our hypothesis. The
      investigators will determine the effect of expression of SMN protein in regulating cell death
      of SMA fibroblasts. The investigators will further investigate the role of SMN in neuronal
      cell survival. Finally, the investigators will determine biological pathway(s) of
      SMN-mediated cell protection. Results from the proposed studies will provide insight into the
      mechanism(s) by which SMN protects cells from death and how a decrease in SMN function leads
      to the SMA phenotype. Ultimately, the obtained information could lead to develop therapeutic
      strategies for SMA.
    
  