
    
      Effective antiretroviral therapy has significantly improved and prolonged the lives of
      HIV-infected persons. However, antiretroviral use has also been associated with a diverse
      array of "unnatural" metabolic complications and other adverse medical conditions. These
      problems, together with subsequent longer survival, have increased patients' risk for
      developing renal, hepatic, cardiovascular, neurological, rheumatologic, and other end-organ
      diseases, and cancers. Longer survival is also increasing the pool of HIV-infected persons
      capable of transmitting the virus, which could accelerate the pace of the U.S. epidemic;
      however, the ability of physicians caring for HIV-infected persons to incorporate prevention
      into their clinical practices and the effectiveness of this intervention have not been
      extensively evaluated.

      The goals of the Study to Understand the Natural History of HIV and AIDS ("SUN" Study) are:

        -  to monitor the incidence of metabolic and other medical complications related to the
           treatment of HIV infection and attendant prolonged survival,

        -  to identify risk factors associated with the development of these metabolic and other
           medical complications,

        -  to monitor the contribution of these complications and other conditions to the morbidity
           and mortality of HIV infection, and

        -  to evaluate the efficacy of a structured program of prevention activities, which are
           integrated into the routine medical care of HIV patients to reduce HIV transmission.

      The SUN Study is designed to enroll and follow for 5 or more years a cohort of up to 1,000
      HIV-infected adults at HIV specialty care centers in four U.S. cities: Denver, Minneapolis,
      Providence, and St. Louis. Data will be gathered through longitudinal real-time chart review,
      biannual physical examination (e.g., body mass index [BMI], blood pressure), repeated
      non-invasive imaging (e.g., dual energy x-ray absortiometry [DEXA] scanning, carotid
      ultrasonography) and regularly scheduled laboratory testing (e.g., serum lipids, pap smears,
      and urinary microalbumin). Data collection and quality control will be managed by Cerner
      Corporation. After sufficient enrollment, (circa 200 persons per site) a structured
      prevention program to reduce HIV transmission will be introduced. The impact of this
      intervention will be evaluated both subjectively (e.g., self-reported change in behavior on
      an audio computer-assisted self-interviewing [ACASI] questionnaire) and objectively (e.g.,
      change in sexually transmitted disease [STD] incidence).

      Outcomes include determination of the incidence of therapy-related metabolic complications
      and other adverse conditions associated with longer survival, identification of risk factors
      for these complications and conditions, and reduction in both reported and objective measures
      of risky sexual behavior.
    
  