
    
      Background Cognitive frailty is the simultaneous presence of both physical frailty and
      cognitive impairment, excluding concurrent dementia. This condition confers a greater risk of
      incident cognitive impairment and decline, dementia, falls and disabilities compared to
      either condition alone. Current definitions of co-existent frailty and cognitive impairment
      exist, including the International Academy on Nutrition and Aging (IANA) and the
      International Association of Gerontology and Geriatrics (IAGG) consensus for cognitive
      frailty. There is also an analogous construct known as the motoric cognitive risk syndrome
      (MCR) associating slow gait speed and subjective cognitive impairment (SCI). Current
      operational criteria identify individuals later in the trajectory of frailty and cognitive
      decline, which may be too late for effective interventions. We propose to define a new and
      early condition in the spectrum of Cognitive frailty known as "cognitive-prefrailty", which
      is a combination of prefrailty stage and SCI.

      Overall objective This study aims to: 1) Examine and compare the prevalence of
      cognitive-prefrailty, cognitive frailty and motoric cognitive risk syndrome (MCR) syndromes
      in participants of the Canadian Longitudinal Study of Aging (CLSA) using the (tracking and
      comprehensive) baseline assessment, 2) Examine the association of cognitive-prefrailty,
      cognitive frailty and MCR syndromes with incident adverse health events using the information
      collected during the first CLSA 18-month follow-up, 3) Compare the criteria performances
      (i.e., sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value (PPV), negative predictive value
      (NPV), area under receiver operating characteristic curve, positive and negative likelihood
      ratio (LR)) for incident adverse health events of the cognitive-prefrailty, cognitive frailty
      and MCR syndromes.

      Methods This study will use the database of the CLSA, which is population-based observational
      and prospective cohort study that assesses and follows the health condition of the Canadian
      population. All items of cognitive-prefrailty, cognitive frailty and MCR syndromes have been
      collected during the baseline assessment in the tracking and the comprehensive assessments.
      In addition, all information needed to determine incident adverse health events including
      falls and related injuries, depression, functional decline, motoric cognitive risk syndrome,
      cognitive decline and dementia has been also collected during the first 18-month follow-up
      period.

      Anticipated results Prefrailty is an intermediate and potentially reversible stage between
      robust and frailty that occur upstream in the continuum of frailty and hence constitute more
      suitable targets for screening and early intervention in older adults.
    
  