
    
      This study will be a prospective, longitudinal, observational, single-center, exploratory,
      natural history study to collect samples and data that will enable prospective explorations
      of the interaction between environmental exposures and disease progression over time in
      moderate-severe atopic asthmatics with persistent disease, and facilitate the formation of
      mechanistic hypotheses. Environmental and body microbiome samples will be collected and
      stored from participants for future correlation to effects on asthma symptoms and control.

      Samples of blood, urine, DNA, saliva, sputum, stool, and household dust will be collected
      from approximately 200 participants, as well as quality of life information using asthma
      symptom questionnaires and, if consented, through the use of home devices. Additionally,
      samples will be collected from the airways of participants enrolled in the bronchoscopy
      sub-study. The samples and survey information collected may be used to explore the
      microbiological and genetic influences of atopic asthma. Data from the analyses of these
      samples and survey responses may be evaluated in the context of the environmental exposures,
      clinical outcomes (symptoms, exacerbations, and quality of life), and response to therapy.

      Male and female participants aged 18 to 60 years old with moderate-severe, symptomatic atopic
      asthma will be enrolled. Participants will be excluded from enrollment if they have a history
      of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, cystic fibrosis, non-cystic fibrosis
      bronchiectasis, pulmonary fibrosis, pulmonary hypertension, emphysema, sarcoidosis, or
      unstable angina. Additionally, participants will be excluded if they have DVT, pulmonary
      embolism, class III - IV congestive heart failure, or a malignancy under treatment. Current
      smokers, and individuals who are allergic to methacholine will not be eligible to enroll.
      Women who are not pregnant or breastfeeding are preferred, however if a woman is found to be
      pregnant or breastfeeding at the screening or baseline visit (and has a good chance of being
      eligible), they may continue their participation in the study but will be excluded from
      participation in the methacholine challenge and bronchoscopy sub-study. Participants will be
      enrolled for five years and will receive standard of care asthma therapy as indicated. After
      the initial screening and baseline visits, participants will return for visits semi-annually
      and for sick visits as needed. Volunteers participating in the bronchoscopy sub-study will
      have an additional single visit after completing the baseline visit.

      This cohort of 200 participants will form the basis for future asthma study recruitment, and
      analysis of collected samples and data. Further expansion of the study beyond five years and
      200 participants will be desirable if logistically possible.
    
  