
    
      Hypothermia (HT) has been recognized as a significant contributor to perinatal morbidity and
      mortality. Newborns are at risk of developing HT, as their temperature regulation is limited
      and HT remains a problem in developing countries with poor health care resources, as
      sub-optimal care for newborns increases the risk of HT. In a longitudinal combined hospital
      and community study of nearly 3,000 births in Guinea-Bissau we found 8% with HT <34,5째C and
      that HT within 12 hours of birth is associated with an excess mortality that exists beyond
      the neonatal period and probably exerts its effects to at least two months of age. The study
      indicates that the contribution of HT on infant mortality might be higher than presently
      estimated. In order to meet the fourth goal of The Millennium Developmental Goals, which
      commits the international community to reducing the mortality in children aged younger then 5
      years by two-thirds between 1990 and 2015, a reduction in neonatal mortality rate is
      essential. Reducing the prevalence of HT might contribute to this. The purpose of the
      proposed study is to identify risk factors for HT in an in-hospital setting in Guinea-Bissau,
      and to investigate whether continuous temperature-monitoring enabling early detection of HT
      and treatment can prevent HT <34,5째C.

      The randomised clinical trail will be carried out at the Maternity ward of the National Sim찾o
      Mendes hospital in Bissau, Guinea Bissau, West Africa. Newborns will be randomised to either
      standard temperature measurement within the first 12 hours of birth or to continuous
      temperature monitoring by means of a thermospot, a liquid crystal thermometer shaped as a
      small small smiley, which changes colour from a green smiling face to black, when the
      temperature falls below 35.5째C enabling early detection of HT. As it is well known that
      drying, wrapping and physical contact can improve thermal balance of the newborn, a general
      intervention aimed at all newborns to prevent HT including changes in existing routines
      during delivery and immediate perinatal care according to the WHO guidelines will be
      introduced. All children will benefit from this general intervention. Prior to the
      intervention study a course in basic neonatology will be held in order to raise awareness of
      hypothermia among the staff at the maternity. A project assistant will visit all included
      children in order to follow up on morbidity and mortality.
    
  