
    
      This information provided relates to Stage 1B. Stage 1A does not involve participants. Stage
      2 will be conducted by the Royal Osteoporosis Society. Participants will not be invited via
      NHS (National Health Service) organisations and no identifiable information will be
      collected.

      Participants are only involved in Stage 1B of the study, which consists of qualitative
      interviews only. Participants will be drawn from several different areas of healthcare, in
      order to ensure a best range of relevant patients', clinicians', commissioners', service
      managers' and researchers' experiences. Patient participants will be identified as
      potentially eligible by their healthcare providers, either via their GP (General
      Practitioner) surgery or secondary care clinician.

      Patients will receive a Study Information Pack via the post, containing an Invitation
      (Patient) Letter from their GP or responsible secondary care doctor, a Participant (Patient)
      Information Sheet, a reply slip and a freepost envelope with the Research Team's return
      address. This information pack will also include the Research Team's contact details in order
      that potential participants have an opportunity to ask questions before indicating an
      interest in taking part in the study. Patients may also contact the Research Team to express
      interest by response to a Patient Information Poster in certain service areas, and they will
      be supplied with the same Study Information Pack. Patients who return a reply slip will be
      contacted by a member of the Research Team to arrange a convenient time and location in which
      to obtain written informed consent and undertake the semi-structured interview, which is
      likely to be immediately after written consent is obtained.

      Non-patient participants will be identified as potentially eligible via their General
      Practice Managers or via snowball sampling from their Service Lead in secondary care
      services. They will be provided with an Invitation (Clinician) Letter/Email and Participant
      (Clinician) Information Sheet. The information pack will also include the Research Team's
      contact details in order that potential participants have an opportunity to ask questions
      before indicating an interest in taking part in the study. If they indicate to the Research
      Team they would like to participate in the study, a member of the Research Team will contact
      the participant to obtain written informed consent, before arranging a convenient time and
      location to undertake the semi-structured interview, which may be immediately after written
      consent is obtained.

      The semi-structured interviews will be conducted face-to-face or by telephone and are
      expected to take 40-50 minutes to complete. Face-to-face interviews will be conducted in a
      private setting either within the site of treatment or at their home in the case of a patient
      participant, or within the place of work for non-patient participants.

      The interview guide will be developed iteratively throughout the study to cover issues as
      identified from the scoping review of published studies assessing experiences of
      bisphosphonate regimens, as well as wider experiences of service quality and delivery. This
      will include questions around patient factors (such as values and health beliefs), service
      factors (location, accessibility, assurance, and empathy), relational factors (provider
      patient relations) and medication factors (dosing complexity, frequency, side effects).
      Clinician interviews will also include barriers to maintain a service around alternative
      bisphosphonates regimens, as well as changes in service over time.

      Interviews will be undertaken by qualitative researchers (employed by University of
      Nottingham). Interviews will be audio-recorded and then transcribed by Clayton Research
      Support, a Nottingham University Hospitals and University of Nottingham approved
      transcription service.

      There is no intervention involved in this study. Once the interview is completed, a
      participant's involvement in the study is ended. There is no further follow-up.

      Thematic analysis of interview data will be conducted. This will involve familiarisation,
      identification of a framework, and interpretation, paying particular attention to themes
      clustered around service variables. The analysis will involve a preliminary phase of more
      general qualitative data analysis (close reading of transcripts, open coding, identification
      of themes). Analysis will be undertaken in the first instance by the Research Fellow
      alongside and overseen by the Stage 1B Lead. Emerging themes (with all identifying
      information removed) will be discussed at appropriate intervals with the wider study
      management group. The approach will allow for both a-priori and emergent codes to be
      identified. NVivo software will be used to develop an appropriate coding strategy and
      framework.

      Due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the need for a contingency recruitment plan, Non-substantial
      Amendment 02 was submitted and approved on 15th May 2020 to facilitate patient recruitment
      from the Royal Osteoporosis Society members via newsletter article, allowing interviews to be
      conducted by telephone rather than face-to-face at a specific location.
    
  