
    
      The Chronic Kidney Disease Engagement System is currently in place for 1700 adults receiving
      care from Empire Physicians Medical Group (EPMG), an Independent Practice Association located
      in Palm Desert, California. The system monitors routine clinical laboratory test results and
      send messages to patients and providers when action is indicated, such as when tests are
      overdue or results require extra clinical attention. Patients receive first class letters
      directing them to call their provider. Providers receive fax or electronic messages directing
      them to reach out to the patient to arrange follow-up care. It has been used for over three
      years and appears to have improved adherence to Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD) treatment
      guidelines by influencing both patient and provider actions. EPMG wishes to restrict the
      service to those patients with advanced CKD and discontinue it for CKD stages 1-3. The
      investigators propose implementing this new policy in a randomized fashion with one half of
      the current early stage patients continuing to receive the service while the other half will
      no longer receive messages. The investigators will monitor laboratory results and health care
      utilization for both groups to determine what effect, if any, discontinuation has on quality
      of care.

      Human subjects will either continue to receive letters from the service when their tests are
      overdue or require additional clinical attention, or will no longer receive the service. All
      subjects will continue to receive care from their providers. The main outcomes include the
      frequency of recommended tests for CKD, the level of those tests, and utilization of health
      care services as indicated by claims data provided by EPMG. No additional data collection
      will occur beyond that which has been routinely done for clinical care. The study will
      continue for 36 months.
    
  