
    
      This research protocol is designed to perform neuropsychological testing and fMRI scanning in
      patients with brain metastases that are to undergo either WBRT or SRS treatment at Thomas
      Jefferson University Hospital. Eligible patients will be referred through the department of
      Neurosurgery and Radiation-oncology. The patients will complete the informed consent for both
      the pre- and post-treatment (4 month after WBRT or SRS is completed) fMRI scanning and pre-
      and post-treatment (4 and 12 months after WBRT or SRS is completed) neuropsychological
      testing sessions and be told that participation in either the fMRI scans and the
      neuropsychological testing is voluntary. Patients will also be told that the data will be
      collected for observational research purposes only and will not directly affect their
      clinical care. Patients and their insurers will not be additionally billed as a consequence
      of this study aside from the clinical billing that is consistent with current clinical
      practice.

      The fMRI study will be added on to the pre-existing treatment planning and follow up MRI scan
      that would be obtained out of clinical necessity without the study.

      In order to be able to identify and distinguish normal versus abnormal brain activity
      patterns associated with the various fMRI tasks and resting state imaging procedures that are
      part of this study, it will be necessary to scan a subset of healthy (age, education, gender
      matched) normal controls on the various cognitive and behavioral tasks. This is the only way
      to determine the validity of the tasks used in terms of their activation properties and the
      normal brain areas involved in the task. Specifically, the healthy age matched controls are
      critical for this study as there is no other way to validate the fMRI findings with the
      hippocampal and executive function activations tasks. Normal matched controls are needed for
      proper analysis of both the neurocognitive and the neuroimaging data. For the neurocognitive
      data, the normal control data are needed to construct the Reliable Change Index (RCI)
      referenced below in the Statistics Section. Also, a comparison to normal is important for
      estimating the magnitude of any change observed in the patients, to determine if it has
      clinical relevance. For the neuroimaging data, the normal controls are needed to provide a
      reference or comparison point to quantify the degree to which the brain-imaging map (referred
      to as a Statistical Parametric Map, SPM) at each point in time (baseline, post-treatment)
      deviates from normal. By comparing the patient groups to normals, fMRI activation related to
      ancillary or idiosyncratic factors during the scan cancel out, leaving only the activation
      directly related to the cognitive task. Also, determining the presence of new, atypical brain
      activation sites, lost activation sites, or deactivations, can only be achieved by have a
      normal SPM brain map for comparison. This applies equally for the task-driven fMRI and the
      resting state functional connectivity data.

      To analyze within-subject analyses with the neuroimaging data, we will examine the
      neuroimaging data on a within-subject but that will not be the primary quantitative approach
      to the imaging data, as such within-subject comparisons can be prone to methodologic
      problems. There is a phenomenon known in the neuroimaging literature as "double dipping"
      which concerns the ability to distinguish real versus random variation over time. Double
      dipping refers to the use of test findings at one point in time to constrain or bias the data
      outcomes and changes registered at a second point in time. More concretely, differences seen
      in the imaging data may reflect changes in the error, artifactual activations, not change in
      true-task related activation. To avoid this problem we operationalize change by comparing
      each patient's imaging data with an index of their deviation from healthy normals at each
      point in time (pre-surgery/baseline, and post-surgery). This procedure provides a systematic
      means of quantifying and then comparing the typicality of both pre and postsurgical
      neurocognitive activations and network organization, a procedure that alleviates concern
      about "double dipping". This "double dipping" phenomenon and the remedy we propose applies
      equally for the task-driven fMRI, the resting state functional connectivity data, and the DTI
      data.

      In essence, the methodology proposed minimizes reliance on random, session-specific
      fluctuations as part of the reference or comparison point for determining change. Our method
      quantifies the deviation of our patients from normal, examining the relative difference in
      those deviations as our index of change. In so doing, we avoid the use of our pre-treatment
      neuroimaging results as the template for comparing and determining change, minimizing
      concerns of double dipping.

      There is no risk associated with the scanning procedure so long as there is no metal in the
      body. The study of normal volunteers also allows for determination of the stability of the
      activation findings over time; this allows for verification of the reliability of the fMRI
      tasks and other procedures over time. Without an understanding of the potential normal change
      that can occur in brain activation and structure over time, it is impossible to determine if
      a pathologic change has occurred. This group of normal subjects will be studied in advance in
      order to validate the fMRI tasks. Furthermore, normal control subjects will be yoked or
      linked to matched patients and return for additional scanning sessions at the same time
      points as their matched patient.
    
  