
    
      Introduction : The theory of a bipolar organization of language was revised in the light of
      neuroimaging results and language seems to be processed in a large scale cognitive network.
      The organization and function of this neural network may be modified by several factors
      including gender and age. There is some controversy about sex differences in language
      according to behavioural and neuroimaging studies :

        -  a small but significant difference favouring females was observed for language
           abilities.

        -  a greater bi hemispheric functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI)activation was
           described in females during language tasks, but Frost et al found no differences during
           a language comprehension task according to gender.

      Age differences were mainly studied in childhood, but no consistent functional imaging data
      on aging are available.

      Objective : To study the influence of gender and age on cortical fMRI activations during a
      silent semantic task.

      Subjects : 48 right-handed native French-speaking subjects were included in 4 groups of 12
      according to age and gender : young female (YF), Young Male (YM), Old Female (OF), and Old
      Male (OM). Old subjects had no Alzheimer's disease or other dementia according to their MMS
      score (> 26) and NINCDS-ADRDA criteria.

      Method :

        -  fMRI : Data were collected on a 1.5 T General Electric Signa MR scanner. Functional
           images covered the whole brain and were scanned using a single-shot echoplanar imaging
           sequence (FOV : 24 cm ¡thickness : 5 mm - 64 x 64 matrix - TE : 60 ms ¡ TR : 3s ¡ flip
           angle : 90°). The paradigm followed a box car design and 3 periods of activation (30 s
           duration) alternated with 3 periods of fixation (30s duration). During the active
           condition subjects had to mentally generate words corresponding to the semantic category
           (animals, furniture, or fruit) displayed through MR-compatible special goggles.During
           the control condition, they were requested to concentrate on their breathing. Data were
           analyzed using the FSFAST package. MR data were motion corrected using AFNI and then
           smoothed with a FWHM of 5 mm. The voxel intensities were rescaled such that the in-brain
           grand mean was 1000 for all subjects. The hemodynamic response was modeled as a gamma
           function (delay : 2.25 s - dispersion :1.25 s). The offset and linear drift in the BOLD
           signal were removed by estimating those components simultaneously with the amplitude of
           the hemodynamic response. A t-test was then performed on the amplitude of the
           hemodynamic response to determine which voxels had significant paradigm-related
           activity.

        -  anatomical MR : Results were displayed on the inflated cortical surface for each
           subject. A group analysis was performed using a surface coordinate system and random
           model effect and General linear model using age and gender as regressors.
    
  