
    
      Hypothesis: Based on the limited data available, the investigators expect to find that there
      will be less improvement in OAB symptoms in women undergoing POP surgery with TVT than those
      undergoing POP surgery alone.

      Primary Aim: To determine what effect the addition of a TVT will have on OAB symptoms in
      women undergoing surgical repair of pelvic organ prolapse using validated questionnaires.

      Secondary Aims: To compare postoperative complications between those undergoing prolapse
      surgery alone and those undergoing prolapse surgery and TVT. Lastly the investigators would
      like to evaluate comorbidities and potential association to the degree of OAB symptoms

      Methods:

      Potential eligible subjects will be recruited using information provided by urogynecology
      staff and by reviewing the upcoming OR schedule. After subjects have been identified, the
      surgeon will be contacted to confirm whether or not their patient can be contacted by the
      research team. Only after permission has been communicated from the surgeon to the research
      team will the team approach the patient about potential participation.

      After the patient is consented to participate she will be asked to fill out a PFDI-20
      questionnaire. This is a validated questionnaire divided into 3 sections relating to prolapse
      symptoms, bowel symptoms and urinary symptoms, respectively. It is based on a 5 point scale-
      0 for no, and then in terms of how bothersome symptoms are 2- not at all, 3- somewhat, 4-
      moderately, 5- quite a bit. A higher score indicates greater degree of bother. Focus will be
      on the UDI-6 section, pertaining to urinary symptoms.

      The questions that will determine inclusion or exclusion of the patients are questions 15 and
      16: "Do you usually experience frequent urination" and "Do you usually experience urine
      leakage associated with a feeling of urgency; that is, a strong sensation of needing to go to
      the bathroom?" Those who respond negatively to these questions will be excluded and those who
      respond affirmatively to both questions will be included.

      The patients with OAB symptoms will be asked to fill out the OAB-q short form validated
      questionnaire which includes a 6-item symptoms bother scale (OAB-q ss) and a 13-item HRQL
      scale (OAB-q HRQL). This should be completed pre-operatively and then again 6 weeks, 6 months
      and 12 months post-operatively.

      Interventions: No interventions will be made. This is an observational study.

      Outcomes Primary: The primary outcome will be measured using pre- and post-operative
      validated questionnaires (PFDI-20, OAB-q short form). The primary study endpoint will be the
      Overactive Bladder Questionnaire Symptom Severity (OAB-q ss) change score 6 weeks after
      surgery. The change score is the score pre-operatively minus the score post-operatively. A
      positive score indicates lesser symptoms severity after surgery. The investigators will
      define a significant improvement to be a change score on the OAB-q ss≥10 based on previous
      work that determined that the minimally important difference in the OAB-q ss is 10 or higher.

      Secondary: The secondary study endpoints will be the OAB-q HRQL change score and the UDI-6
      change score calculated using the same method above.
    
  