
    
      The treatment of chronic heart failure is currently based on the use of ACE (Angiotensin
      Converting Enzyme) inhibitors and beta-blockers. Although this therapy is universally
      accepted up to 10-20% of patients may be intolerant. Moreover, the majority of patients are
      not treated with the doses that have been shown to be effective in controlled clinical
      trials. Although it is possible that even low doses of neurohumoral inhibitors are still
      effective than placebo, a greater benefit can be obtained at maximum doses. Therefore, it is
      generally recommended that these agents are used at recommended doses found to be effective
      in controlled studies. There are many reasons for the lack of prescription neurohumoral
      inhibitors and their use in non-optimal doses. These include both an inadequate clinical
      management, and low tolerance to drugs. As far as beta-blockers, their poor tolerability has
      at least two main causes: 1) the effects not related to heart failure (eg, bradycardia,
      AtrioVentricular (AV) block, bronchial asthma), 2) the acute negative inotropic effects,
      which can cause a further deterioration of hemodynamic parameters.

      The primary objective of the analysis is to demonstrate that cardiac resynchronization
      therapy (CRT) may allow titration of beta-blockers (carvedilol or bisoprolol) until the
      optimal dosage, or at least to the effective dose, in patients with heart failure treated to
      maximal doses of beta-blockers and with the indications for CRT according to current
      international guidelines.

      The secondary objective is to evaluate the effectiveness of remote monitoring with a
      telemedicine system to facilitate the automatic titration of beta-blockers in comparison with
      the standard approach, which consists of periodic outpatient visits. The strategy adopted
      will depend on the availability of remote monitoring systems and standard clinical practice
      of each participating center.

      In addition, we will evaluate the clinical response to CRT, depending on the optimal or
      sub-optimal dosage of beta-blockers.
    
  