
    
      In 2010, 7.6 million children under the age of five died worldwide, mainly from preventable
      and treatable conditions (Liu et al., 2012). Notably, the burden of under-five mortality
      varies dramatically by country. The majority of child deaths are seen in Africa (3.6 million)
      and southeast Asia (2.1 million deaths), compared to 0.16 million and 0.28 million under-five
      deaths in Europe and the Americas, respectively (Liu et al., 2012). In Kenya, over 120,000
      under-5 deaths were estimated in 2010 and approximately 35% of these deaths occurred in the
      neonatal period.

      A thorough understanding of the etiology of child mortality is necessary to guide research
      efforts aimed at tackling this important global health problem. Importantly, in 2010, the
      causes of only 2.7% (0.205 million) of all deaths in children under the age of five were
      medically certified (Liu et al., 2012), highlighting the need to gather data on the causes of
      mortality.

      Prospective longitudinal birth cohort studies present an opportunity to examine temporal
      relationships between early-life exposures (i.e. prenatal, pregnancy, and early postnatal
      exposures) and multiple health and non-health related outcomes including mortality,
      morbidity, and socioeconomic circumstances. It is well documented that exposures that occur
      early in life, including genetic, environmental, socioeconomic, and lifestyle factors, may
      have long-lasting effects on growth, development, and health outcomes throughout an
      individual's entire life course (Lynch & Smith, 2005). Thus, data on exposures during
      pregnancy and early childhood are valuable and may provide clues to the etiology of long-term
      outcomes.

      Additional value can be gained through cross-cohort collaborations and comparisons (Larsen et
      al., 2013)(Paternoster et al., 2012)(Brion et al., 2011). Notably, by pooling data from
      multiple cohort studies, causal inferences can be made with greater confidence. For example,
      if a similar relationship is observed across multiple populations, each with their own
      distinct set of confounding variables, it is less likely that the observed association is
      being driven by confounders. Similarly, cross-cohort comparisons enable researchers to
      investigate patterns associated with health, social, and economic outcomes in distinct
      regions of the world. These types of analyses may provide valuable insight into the
      underlying causes of global health inequalities.

      The objective of this study is to implement a longitudinal prospective birth cohort study in
      Kenya to obtain extensive information on early-life exposures and health and non-health
      related outcomes in the first year of life.
    
  