
    
      The study was carried out on patients attending outpatient clinic in Pediatric and Dental
      Public Health department- Faculty of Oral and Dental Medicine Cairo University- Egypt.

      **Sample size: On searching, no previous studies were conducted using neither conventional
      bonding nor antibacterial bonding in indirect pulp treatment in young permanent teeth, so
      sample size will be measured by estimation rather than calculation.

      So, all patients attended outpatient clinic in Pediatric and Dental Public Health department-
      Faculty of Oral and Dental Medicine Cairo University- Egypt, In the period from 1/8/2015 -
      31/10/2015 were enrolled for this study if they compatible with eligibility criteria.

      **Clinical Procedures:

      I. Diagnosis:

      Full personal, medical and dental history,clinical and radiographic examination.

      II. Allocation concealment:

      Selected envelopes will be opened in the first visit to allocate the patients to their
      treatment groups .

      III.Intervention:

      A- Experimental Group: Indirect pulp capping with Antibacterial Two-Step Bonding System:

        1. Local anesthesia.

        2. Isolation of tooth with rubber dam.

        3. Opening of the cavity and the removal of undermined enamel using high speed hand-piece
           with copious air/water spray and round burs.

        4. Caries at the lateral walls of the cavity and at the dentin-enamel junction is
           completely removed with excavators or low speed round burs.

        5. Partial removal of carious dentin (only soft disorganized dentin is removed) on the pulp
           wall.

        6. Washing the cavity with distilled water and dryness with triple airway syringe and
           sterile cotton.

        7. Apply antibacterial light-cure, self-etching bonding agent (Clearfil SE Protect, Kuraray
           America, Inc.)

        8. Light-cured bulk fill composite (x-tra fil, VOCO) will be used as final tooth
           restoration.

        9. Postoperative digital radiograph will be taken as a base line.

      B- Comparative Group: Indirect pulp capping with Conventional Two-Step Bonding System Same as
      that of the experimental group EXCEPT steps number 5 as conventional light-cure, self-etching
      bonding agent (Clearfil SE Bond, Kuraray America, Inc.) will be applied into cavity according
      to manufacturer's instruction.

      IV. Follow up and postoperative instructions:

      - Patients will be recalled 48 hours after the treatment then at 2, 9 months
    
  