
    
      Rationale: Antimicrobials are an indispensable part of modern medicine. However, optimal
      prescription of these agents is becoming increasingly challenging because of the growing
      complexity of guidelines, and constantly changing epidemiology of infectious pathogens.
      Moreover, due to local variations in the prevalence of certain pathogens and antimicrobial
      resistance (AMR), antimicrobial choices need to be tailored to local epidemiology.
      Improvement of antimicrobial use, in particular prevention of overuse and suboptimal use of
      antimicrobials, through antimicrobial stewardship (AMS) programs is increasingly regarded as
      indispensable, both to optimize therapy for the individual patients as well as to reduce
      emergence and spread of AMR. With the widespread use of electronic health records (EHR) and
      handheld electronic devices in hospitals, informatics-based AMS interventions hold great
      promise as tools to improve antimicrobial prescribing. However, they are still
      underdeveloped, understudied and underutilized.

      Objective: The study aims to adapt and evaluate the "AB-assistant", a smartphone based
      digital stewardship application that is customizable to local guidelines by local antibiotic
      stewards and therefore has the potential to be used worldwide, including in low- and
      middle-income countries.

      Study design: The existing North American Spectrum app (SpectrumMD; Canada) will be adjusted
      and translated for the European market. During a usability study physicians will use the app
      for two weeks followed by individual interviews to determine facilitators and barriers of app
      use. Based on the results of these interviews the app will be adjusted if necessary. After
      adaptation and usability testing, thereafter the AB-assistant app will be evaluated in an
      international, multicentre, randomized clinical trial involving centres in 3 countries in
      different settings with appropriate antimicrobial use as a primary outcome. In a stepped
      wedge cluster randomized trial, wards will be randomised after stratification for specialty.
      At baseline a 2-week measurement period will be done, followed by the introduction of the
      intervention to 6 wards (in 3 hospitals) with a 4-week interval with 6 inclusion periods.
      This cycle will be repeated with the inclusion of all new intervention wards. We include the
      36 wards in total during the 6 inclusion phases and at the end of the inclusion time we allow
      use of the app by everyone, also wards not included in the study.
    
  