
    
      -  This is a dose escalation study of gemcitabine with a fixed dose of cisplatin

        -  Patients will undergo cytoreductive surgery, which entails the removal of the inner and
           outer lining of the lung (pleurectomy/decortication) with or without the lung itself
           (extrapleural pneumonectomy), including the lining overlying the pericardium and
           diaphragm. Resection of the pericardium and diaphragm are occasionally necessary to
           remove all visable tumor. This surgery is part of standard care for malignant pleural
           mesothelioma.

        -  After surgery, a one hour lavage with heated cisplatin and or gemcitabine will be
           administered to the hemithorax (and abdominal regions if the diaphragm is no longer
           present).

        -  Patients will remain hospitalized until they have recovered from surgery (usually 7-14
           days).

        -  Patients will return to the hospital during the first month after their surgery to be
           evaluated by the medical staff.

        -  Dose escalation: 1) Three patients will be treated at the first dose level of
           gemcitabine. Labs will be monitored on a weekly basis, including a CBC, Chem-7, and
           LFT's. In the absence of developing dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) among the first 3
           patients treated, dosages can be escalated. DLT will be defined as any grade 3 or higher
           renal toxicity, thrombocytopenia or other grade 3 toxicity not related to surgery 2) If
           none of these 3 patients have any toxicity, we will proceed to the next level of
           gemcitabine. 3) If DLT occurs in 1 of 3 patients at a given dose level, then 3
           additional patients are added at that dose (for a total of 6 at this level)If no DLT
           occurs, we will proceed to the next level of gemcitabine. If DLT occurs in another
           patient, this dose is considered the maximum tolerated dose (MTD). 4) At any dose, 3
           cases of DLT lead to discontinuation of recruitment at that dose and enrollment of 3
           additional patients at a lower dose.
    
  