
    
      PROCEDURE:

        1. Referral: Potential participants will be identified by a healthcare professional from
           their current care team and asked whether they would like to participate in the study.
           Potential participants will be provided with the participant information sheet and asked
           to consent if they would like their details to be referred onto the principal
           investigator.

           1.1 Arrange appointment: The principal investigator will telephone the potential
           participant to arrange an appointment to discuss their involvement in the research and
           gain consent. The consent form will be sent out to the participant (email or posted,
           depending on preference of participant).

        2. Consent and eligibility [Virtual appointment]: The principal investigator will go
           through the participant information sheet with the participant and answer any questions
           they have about the study. The researcher will check they are eligible to take part in
           the study. If the participant is happy to be involved, they will be asked to sign the
           consent form and return it back to the researcher (either by email or posting back).

        3. Initial assessment [Virtual appointment]: Through discussion with the participant, the
           researcher will gather relevant information to help identify their assistive technology
           needs. This will include information about their medical history and social context,
           likes and dislikes, current and any previous solutions used and challenges they faces in
           daily living. For each challenge identified, participants will be asked to score 1-5
           about how important the challenge is to them and how difficult it is. This is for the
           Individually Prioritised Problem Assessment (IPPA) base-line measure. The researcher
           will complete the Client Service Receipt Inventory base-line measure with the
           participant to capture demographic information, information on heathcare services
           accessed in the previous 3 months and medication being taken.

        4. Follow-up appointments, approximately 3-5 [Predominantly virtually, with face-to-face
           only if required]: In subsequent appointments the participant will meet with the
           researcher to discuss design ideas, provide feedback and agree on design changes for the
           devices(s) provided by the researcher to the participant. The participant will be asked
           to describe what they like/dislike about the current design and what changes they would
           make. The researcher may show design prototypes over video call to demonstrate how a
           device will work and to help facilitate gathering feedback.

           Following the appointment, the researcher will make design alterations, manufacture
           designs and post prototypes out for the participant to try. Appointments will be 2-3
           weeks apart.

        5. Device issue: Once the design has been refined to a level the participant and researcher
           are happy with, a final solution will be manufactured. The device will be sent out to
           the participant and the researcher will meet virtually with the participant to provide
           any necessary training and instructions for safe usage of the device.

        6. Outcome measures [Virtually, same appointment as above]: The researcher will explain and
           go through the three different questionnaires being used as outcome measures for the
           study. The participant will be asked to score 1-5 the difficulty they now find the
           previously identified challenges (from initial assessment). For the two other measures,
           QUEST and PIADS [explained below], the researcher will either email or post out the
           questionnaires to the participant, preference of participant. Participants will be asked
           to complete and send back (email/post) once completed. Participants will be invited to
           complete the first of the semi-structured interviews with the researcher to obtain
           feedback on the co-design process and the device provided. Prior to beginning the
           interview, participants will be reminded it will be audio-recorded. If required, an
           additional appointment can be arranged to help the participant complete the
           questionnaires.

        7. Three month follow-up feedback [Virtual appointment]: Participants will be invited to
           again complete and return the two questionnaires, QUEST and PIADS, to the researcher.
           Participants will complete the follow-up CSRI with the researcher. Participants will
           also be invited to undertake the second semi-structured interview to obtain feedback on
           the long-term use of device provided. Prior to beginning the interview, participants
           will be reminded it will be audio recorded Upon completion of the interview the
           participants involvement in the study will finish. Participants will be advised to
           contact the Rehabilitation Engineering Unit with any issues with their devices or
           further queriers about the research.

      SETTING:

      Due to COVID-19 pandemic, where possible the majority of appointments with occur virtually
      using a video consultation programme called Attend Anywhere. This will include assessing
      eligibility and gaining consent, initial assessment, follow-up appointments and the
      semi-structured interviews. Information on how to access an appointment through this will be
      provided to participants when they are invited to their first appointment.

      Between appointments, the researcher will contact participants using telephone or email to
      arrange subsequent appointments. During the study, any devices for the participant to trial
      will be posted out to them. Training and/or instructions will be provided on how to use the
      device prior to it being sent out.
    
  