
    
      1. Introduction:

           During the last decade, 34 countries that have set the objective of freeing themselves
           from malaria, have obtained remarkable success in reducing the burden of the disease to
           very low levels that could represent a starting point to elimination programs leading to
           complete elimination. This remarkable success led several other countries to develop
           malaria elimination programs supported by the Global Malaria Action Plan of the Roll
           Back Malaria Partnership: "For a malaria-free world" which has for objective to
           eliminate malaria in at least 35 endemic countries by 2030. However, the transition from
           a strategy of malaria control toward a program centered on elimination has not yet been
           documented. PATH collaborates with the PNLP and regional and district health authorities
           to produce evidence that allows to make decisions on a model of reduction of malaria
           transmission in health posts. To that effect, a set of strategies will be put in place
           and evaluated to efficiently identify and eliminate malaria infections. Thus, zones
           freed from the disease will be documented. In Senegal, the epidemiological profile of
           malaria presents the conditions for disease elimination in the North and North-central
           areas of the country. Since 2012, the National Malaria control program, with support
           from PATH, has the objective of reducing Plasmodium falciparum transmission in several
           geographical areas of Saint-Louis, Matam and Louga regions.

        2. Goal and Objective:

           The goal of the proposed work is to contribute to the national effort of malaria
           pre-elimination in Senegal, in line with the National Malaria control program's
           2014-2018 strategic framework.

           The main objective is to strengthen the implementation of malaria case investigation in
           Linguère, Ranérou and Kanel districts, to evaluate operational aspects of scaling up the
           strategy and to evaluate the impact on malaria transmission to guide evidence-based
           decision-making.

        3. Sites:

           The work will be conducted in six health posts in the regions of Matam (Kanel and
           Ranérou districts) and Louga (Linguère district), that have been chosen on the basis of
           the malaria incidence rate, the wide differences of transmission between villages in the
           health post catchment areas, their proximity and the availability of historical data
           from before 2014. Malaria elimination strategies were already implemented in the same
           health posts in 2015, thus this protocol aims to strengthen these activities. Seven
           health posts with similar characteristics were chosen as controls.

        4. Study design A quasi-experimental study design will be used to evaluate the impact of
           the intervention. The incidence of malaria cases and the prevalence of parasitemia will
           be compared before and after the intervention and between the intervention and the
           control areas (difference-in-differences). Cross-sectional surveys will be conducted to
           estimate the parasitemia prevalence with RDT at the beginning and at the end of the high
           transmission season in intervention and in control areas.

        5. Methodology Systematic malaria case investigation will be performed in all villages of
           the 6 intervention health posts. All malaria cases passively detected in a health post
           or in the community and confirmed with a positive rapid diagnostic test (RDT) will be
           considered an index case and will be investigated. A team (field worker and community
           health worker (DSDOM)) will visit the household of the index case and the 5 closest
           households (in a 100 m radius) and will test by RDT all the individuals living in the
           households. Any households with at least one positive RDT (including the index case)
           will receive a systematic focal drug administration (FDA) treatment with
           dihydro-artemisinin-piperaquine (DHA-PQ)

        6. Duration:

      The study is scheduled to last one year.(July 2015-June 2016).
    
  