
    
      Purpose: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the clinical success and/ or failure of
      resin-bonded composite coronal build-up retained by macro-retentive grooves for restoring
      mutilated primary maxillary incisors after 36 months.

      Design: Forty two primary incisors out of 14 children, aged 2-5years, treated in a private
      pediatric dental practice under general anesthesia and presented for follow-up after 6, 12,
      18, 24 and 36 months included in the study. The parameters recorded at the baseline and at
      the follow-up intervals were: retention, colour match, the number and location of the decayed
      surfaces (recurrent caries), chipping /fracture of the restoration and loss of restoration
      (failure).

      Materials and Methods: A total of (14) pediatric patients aged from 2-5 years presented with
      mutilated primary anterior teeth due to caries or trauma and treated comprehensively under
      general anesthesia from June 2016 to June 2017 were enrolled in this study. A total of (42)
      decayed or traumatized primary anterior teeth were treated with composite coronal build-up
      based on the micromechanical adhesive procedure of composite resin in addition to macro
      mechanical retentive grooves created on the lateral sides of the cervical one third of the
      roots of treated teeth. The patients returned at the end of 6, 12, 18, 24 and 36 months and
      received clinical examinations. Another dentist (co-author) who did not attend the treatment
      evaluated the strip crowns clinically by modified United States Public Health Service (USPHS)
      criteria. The USPHS system is primarily for posterior teeth, so a new system was developed
      for anterior teeth. The definitions and criteria for the rating system are detailed in Table
      (1). Briefly, it was a photographic examination including an evaluation of the color, shape,
      and integrity of the strip crown.

      All patients were recalled, and restorations were evaluated for anatomic form, surface
      texture, recurrent caries, color match and retention in accordance with Ryge's Direct (US
      Public Health Service) evaluation criteria at baseline (immediately postoperative), and
      intervals of 6, 12, 24, and 36 months.

      The crown was considered to be clinically successful, if the surface appeared smooth, the
      colour remained good or acceptable, without chipping/ fracture or recurrent caries at
      tooth/restoration interface and there is no loss of the restoration.

      Data are analyzed using percentages, frequencies and cumulative frequencies. The Z-test will
      be used for comparison between failure rates of the two types of failures (Failure due to
      trauma & failure of bonding), significance level is set at P< 0·05. The Chi squared test will
      be used for association between the number of affected surfaces and the total failures. The
      level of significance (P-value) is set at P< 0·05.
    
  