
    
      The etiology of Rheumatoid arthritis is complex, it is established that the gene
      environmental interaction plays critical roles in the pathology of Rheumatoid arthritis, in
      addition to smoking, lifestyle, and hormones.

      The lesion is mainly concentrated in the synovial tissue, cartilage, and bone. Inflammation
      is the primary cause of joint deformation and limited joint mobility in Rheumatoid arthritis
      patients. As the disease progresses, the risk of bone damage and cartilage destruction
      increases, leading to substantial disability.

      The activity of the disease in Rheumatoid arthritis patients is assessed by clinical
      examination, laboratory tests and radio graphic assessment. Laboratory assessment of
      Rheumatoid arthritis activity is done routinely by measuring acute phase reactants such as an
      erythrocyte sedimentation rate and C-reactive protein, which are elevated in active
      Rheumatoid arthritis patients.

      Albumin is the major plasma protein and its determination is used for the prognostic
      assessment of several diseases. It is a routine marker reflecting both nutritional status and
      systemic inflammation, and the synthesis of albumin can be suppressed by systematic
      inflammation and malnutrition.

      It was reported that the level of albumin was decreased in Rheumatoid arthritis patients.
      This low concentration of albumin in Rheumatoid arthritis patients may owing to excessive
      albumin consumption caused by inflammatory substances.

      Red blood cell distribution width is a parameter that reflects the heterogeneity of
      erythrocyte volume, expressed as the coefficient of variation of red blood cell volume. It is
      mainly used to differentiate types of anemia. However, some studies have shown that an
      elevated Red blood cell distribution was positively correlated with the level of
      inflammation.

      Red blood cell distribution was increased in patients with Rheumatoid arthritis, which was
      associated with inflammation, suggesting that Red blood cell distribution may be a potential
      auxiliary marker for indicating inflammation process in Rheumatoid arthritis conveniently.

      In subjects with articular pain, Red blood cell distribution interpretation is a useful tool
      in clinical practice to distinguish between articular inflammatory and non-inflammatory joint
      diseases, as with C-reactive protein. Red blood cell distribution seems to be a surrogate
      marker of the inflammatory process.
    
  