
    
      Depression is a devastating illness that is estimated to affect 12% to 17% of the population
      at some point during the lifetime of an individual. Despite the availability of a wide range
      of antidepressant drugs, 30% to 40% of patients with major depression fail to respond to
      first-line antidepressant (e.g., selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs)) treatment,
      despite adequate dosage, duration, and compliance. Thus there is a clear need to develop
      novel and improved therapeutics for major depression. Current pathophysiological theories
      regarding the neurobiology of depression include alterations in intracellular signaling
      cascades, and impairments of cellular plasticity and resilience. There is recent evidence
      suggesting that promoting growth factors such as brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) may
      provide a mechanism for the treatment of depression. New information indicating modulation of
      glutamate receptors in the actions of antidepressant treatments suggests a novel approach to
      develop a new class of antidepressants. Studies have shown that the biarylpropylsulfonamide
      AMPA (2-amino-3-(5-methyl-3-oxo-1,2-oxazol-4-yl) propanoic acid) receptor potentiators
      (LY392098 and LY451616) have antidepressant effects in animal models of depression. Several
      studies have demonstrated that AMPA receptor activation can increase expression of BDNF both
      in vitro and in vivo. Thus, one possible new approach for the treatment of depression is to
      use an AMPA receptor potentiator.

      In this study we propose to compare the ampakine receptor potentiator Org 24448 to placebo
      for the treatment of Major Depression. Inpatients and outpatients (primarily outpatients),
      ages 21 to 70, with a diagnosis of Major Depression (without psychotic features), will be
      randomized to double-blind treatment to either Org 24448 or placebo for a period of 8 weeks.
      Acute efficacy will be determined by demonstrating a greater response rate using specified
      criteria. Approximately 90 patients with acute major depression will be enrolled in the study
      in order to reach the goal of randomizing 70 patients in the controlled trial.
    
  