
    
      The question is whether the pre-operative routine preoperative echographic evaluation would
      allow the correction or optimization of any comorbiditie, and / or lead to the modification
      of the anesthetic management of the patients. Feasibility studies have recently focused on
      the issue of ultrasound targeted at the patient's bedside. Thus, echocardiography data may
      have implications for anesthetic but also surgical management.

      With the advent of ultraportable ultrasound machines, the limit to routine preoperative
      bedside use of the ultrasound tool appears to be resolved. The use of point-of-care
      ultrasounds has proven useful in the management of critical patients in emergency and
      intensive care units and is recommended in many countries.

      Tthe investigators first want to assess the preoperative assessment of elderly and fragile
      patients admitted urgently for hip surgery. The investigators are setting up a multicenter
      observational questionnaire for consecutive patients. An electronic questionnaire is
      distributed via SurveyMonkey to various university hospitals, general hospitals and private
      institutions in France. The objective of this study is to evaluate the preoperative
      management of these patients: Clinical, biological evaluation, and analyze the current daily
      practice regarding the place of POC ultrasound preoperatively; the second question is to know
      if the choice of the anesthesia technique results from the patient's assessment.

      The investigators hope to have a reliable survey of current practices on a group of 500
      consecutive patients and then to determine with greater accuracy the first expected real
      hypothesis for a future prospective randomized multicenter study evaluating the use and
      impact of preoperative ultrasound assessment versus a control group for perioperative
      management, complications and outcome of patients undergoing hip fracture.
    
  