
    
      Study Population To be included in the study, the subjects must be 22 years of age or older
      and in good general health. They must have at least one nonrestorable more indicated for
      extraction and immediate or delayed implant placement. Subjects who are unable to undergo
      oral surgery procedures, smokers, and women who are (or become) pregnant (or are
      breastfeeding) will be excluded from this study. Additionally, subjects with bone infections
      or compromised health that may affect the ability of the patients' tissues to heal (e.g.,
      uncontrolled diabetes, bisphosphonate use, current glucocorticoid use) will not be included
      in this clinical study.

      15 implants in each group are necessary to provide 90% power with a type I error of 0.05.
      Each subject will be randomly assigned into one of two treatment groups:

      Test Group (n=15):

      The test group will receive immediate molar implant placement in fresh extraction socket with
      nonocclusal loading immediate provisionalization (Straumann BLX 6.5mm).

      Control Group (n=15):

      The control group will receive delayed molar implant placement at least 12 weeks post molar
      extraction with nonocclusal loading immediate provisionalization (Straumann BLX 5.0mm).

      Subject Recruitment Methods and Privacy:

      Subjects who seek implant treatment in University of Kentucky, College of Dentistry clinics.
      Implant clinics is referral base clinic. Once a subject is referred to extract a
      nonrestorable molar tooth and be replaced with an implant, potential subjects will be
      informed with the study. If subjects decide to be part of the study, informed consent will be
      signed prior to screening visit.

      Informed Consent Process:

      The research study will be conducted at the facilities of University of Kentucky, College of
      Dentistry after approval by the Institutional Review Board. All members of the research team
      received training in human subject protection. After each patient has been given verbal and
      written information describing the nature of the study, informed consent will be obtained
      before he or she can enter the study. A copy of the consent form will be given to the patient
      and another retained by the investigator. Patients will not be screened until an informed
      consent has been obtained.
    
  