
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      The primary objectives are to assess if there is an increase in the apparent diffusion
      coefficient (ADC) in the human brain during sleep when compared to the awake state and to
      determine if they vary across brain regions. Secondary outcomes are to assess inter subject
      variability in the differences in ADC between awake and sleep. We will also run exploratory
      analysis to determine if ADC changes with sleep are associated with subjective perception of
      rested sleep and to assess if there are differences in T1 in CSF between the scan taken prior
      to falling asleep and those taken shortly after waking up.

      STUDY POPULATION:

      Healthy adults. Males and females will be included.

      DESIGN:

      Observational study with a technical phase and two research phases.

        -  The technical phase (discontinued) will recruit controls in order to define best MR
           parameters and pulse sequence to be used for optimal ADC signal detection for which we
           request permission to recruit up to 20 healthy volunteers. Technical Developmental
           Phase: Each participant will have a set of MRI scans at the following two times of day:
           the 1st between 11:00 AM and 1:00 PM (noon) and the second between 6:00 PM and 8:00 PM
           (evening).

        -  Research Phase I (complete testing in 10 healthy controls to assess effects on
           wake/sleep states on whole brain ADC) and research Phase II (complete testing in a total
           of 30 subjects to assess if there are regional differences) and to address the main and
           secondary outcomes proposed above. Only if we show that ADC significantly changes during
           sleep compared to awake state will we proceed to phase II. For phases I and II, the
           participants will spend 3 night in the clinical center and will undergo two MRI scan
           sessions following two fo the night stays to quantify brain ADC; once while awake
           (following a night of sleep) and the other while asleep (following a night of sleep
           deprivation). Scans for both days will be performed in the morning (between 9-12 PM).
           Electrocardiogram (ECG) will be recorded during all MRI scanning procedures to monitor
           sleep. For the first of the three nights we will simultaneously record the
           electroencephalogram (EEG) and ECG on the participants while they sleep which will allow
           us to correlate the ECG to their EEG signal, which is the gold standard for measuring
           sleep.

      OUTCOME PARAMETERS:

      ADCs and ECG will be measured at each time point for each study participant (pertinent to
      research phase only).
    
  