
    
      Below, each of the treatment arms is described in detail.

      Med-South Weight Loss Program

      Most weight loss programs offer weekly one-on-one or group counseling sessions for 16-20
      weeks. The Med-South Weight Loss Program is different and is given in 3 phases. The program
      begins with Phase I, a 4-month lifestyle phase that focuses on the "basics" of healthy eating
      rather than weight loss. Over the next 8 months in Phase II, we focus on weight loss,
      followed by a year-long (Phase III) phase to help maintain weight loss. In Phase I, the main
      counseling sessions happen at monthly visits, to which check-in phone calls are added. In
      Phase II, the main counseling sessions will occur weekly for 6-8 weeks, depending on
      participants' progress. There are also check in phone calls-the number will vary based on
      progress. During Phase III, there are 2 main visits and follow-up phone calls. More details
      about these visits are in the table below.

      Some of the counseling visits will be face-to-face with the counselor and some by phone. Only
      one member of a family may join this study, but other family members are invited to take part
      in face-to-face and phone counseling sessions. (As of June 2020, due to COVID-19 only one
      other family member or friend may come with you to in-person visits.) Of the 14 core
      counseling sessions), the face-to-face format will be required for only 5 (the 1st session of
      each Phase, after 2 months of the weight loss program, and approximately 1/2 through the year
      long maintenance phase). (As of June 2020, due to COVID-19, only these visits will be in
      person. All the others will be by phone or videoconferencing, until further notice based on
      updated COVID-19 guidelines.) During face-to-face sessions, the participant and the counselor
      will sit side-by-side and use a web-based program or the paper format to review educational
      materials, select dietary goals, and list first steps to reach these goals. (As of June 2020,
      due to COVID-19, counselor and participant will sit more than 6 feet apart and a large wall
      mounted monitor will be used to review study materials. This protocol will be followed until
      further notice based on updated COVID-19 guidelines.) If the phone format is used for major
      counseling sessions, the participant may view the educational content online or use the paper
      version. The program also includes brief telephone calls to check on progress towards goals
      selected at previous sessions and provide support for lifestyle change. The number of phone
      calls will depend on the participant meeting his/her personal weight loss goals in Phase II
      or keeping the weight off in Phase III. Detail for each Phase is given below.

      Phase I

        -  8 total contacts

             -  4 core sessions: the first must be in-person; choice of in-person or phone for all
                others

             -  4 follow-up phone calls

        -  Core session = 45-60 min.

        -  Follow-up call = 15 min.

        -  total time: 4 - 5 hours

      Phase II

        -  14 core sessions: the first and third must be in-person; choice of in-person or phone
           for all others.

        -  6-12 follow-up phone calls

        -  Core session (In-person) = 45-60 min.

        -  Core session (phone) = 30-45 min.

        -  Follow-up call = 20-30 min. Total time 8.7 - 14 hours (core) 4.7 - 9.5 hours (Follow-up)

      Phase III

        -  2 core sessions (both in-person)

        -  12-24 follow-up phone calls (1-2 per month)

        -  Core session (In-person) = 45-60 min.

        -  Follow-up call = 15-20 min. Total time 1.25 - 2 hours (Core) 3 - 8 hours (Follow-up)

           2-Year Program TOTAL 44 - 60 Contacts -- 21.7 - 38.5 hours

      WW™ Weight Loss Program

      Those randomized to WW™ will have access to both the Workshop and Digital components of the
      WW™ program for 2 years. WW offers in-person coaching and community-based learning through
      weekly Workshops at WW Studios.The Workshop component allows for attending weekly group
      meeting at a WW™ studio (local WW™ office). (As of June 2020, due to COVID-19, the workshop
      component will be available in a virtual videoconferencing [Zoom™] format until further
      notice based on updated COVID-19 guidelines.)

      The Digital component can be accessed using the WW™ website or the smart phone App. The
      digital tools available thought the WW Digital program include food tracking (either manually
      or with bar code scanning), progress charts, lifestyle coaching with 24/7 chat with a WW
      Coach, ability to track activity (manually or by syncing a fitness tracking device),
      incentives for behavior change (WellnessWins), recipes, and even local restaurant
      recommendations using GPS. Those in the WW group will also have access to Connect, WW's
      members-only digital community.

      The WW™ program uses "SmartPoints" assigned to foods based on energy content and nutritional
      value, allocating a certain number of points to users daily based on their starting weight,
      weight loss goals, age and sex. Participants will receive a personalized SmartPoints budget
      made up of Daily SmartPoints, plus some extra Weekly SmartPoints for those days when a
      cushion is needed.
    
  