
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the safety of the antioxidant-deficient diet (ADD) in controlling cachexia in
           patients with oropharyngeal cancer receiving chemoradiotherapy.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the safety of the ADD as measured by quality of life, peripheral DNA damage,
           and change in body weight.

        -  Determine the effectiveness of the ADD on tumor growth and surrogate markers of tumor
           growth.

        -  Determine whether the ADD is effective in improving the tumor cachexia syndrome in these
           patients.

        -  Determine whether there is a serum metabolomic signature for the ADD.

      OUTLINE: This a prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. Patients are
      randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients consume a standard diet 3 times a day for 8 weeks.

        -  Arm II: Patients consume an antioxidant-deficient diet (ADD) 3 times a day for 8 weeks.
           Patients receive replacement vitamins in week 9.

      All patients receive planned chemoradiotherapy in weeks 3-8.

      Quality of life, body composition (by dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry), weight, and resting
      energy expenditure (by indirect calorimetry) are assessed at baseline and at week 8.

      Blood samples are collected at baseline and at 8 weeks. Samples are evaluated for cytokine
      levels; evidence of DNA damage from peripheral blood lymphocytes; and serum signature
      characteristic to ADD by multinuclear MRI spectroscopy. Patients undergo a tumor biopsy in
      week 4 for research studies. Samples are collected and evaluated for generation of reactive
      oxygen species by using antibodies against oxidatively modified DNA and lipids; apoptosis
      using TdT-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling assay and classical morphological criteria; and
      levels of the tumor toxohormones lipid mobilizing factor and proteolysis inducing factor by
      real time-PCR, northern blotting, and western blotting methods.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed once during weeks 9-12.
    
  