
    
      It is common practice to place a drainage tube in the peritoneal cavity after abdominal
      surgery. Although drain application is an important initiative, the severe pain caused during
      the removal process should also be controlled . Pain and discomfort continue to be a problem
      during the removal of surgical silicone drains. In the literature, patients describe silicone
      drain removal as a very painful procedure. Analgesics applied during drain removal are among
      the commonly used methods in the treatment of acute pain . However, the fact that the
      response of the patient to pharmacological treatment is variable and the pain cannot be
      completely controlled with these agents necessitates the use of non-pharmacological methods
      in addition to pharmacological agents in the control of severe pain.

      One of the non-pharmacological methods used in pain control is cold application. Cold
      application reduces the oxygen and nutrient requirement of tissues by slowing down
      metabolism, and eliminates pressure and tension on nerve endings by limiting inflammation,
      spasm and edema; It creates an analgesic effect by slowing or blocking the conduction
      velocity of peripheral nerves. In addition, it increases the release of endogenous opioids by
      stimulating the touch receptors with the gate-control mechanism, thereby reducing pain.

      Aromatherapy using essential oils is now used by many healthcare professionals in the UK,
      Australia, Canada, New Zealand, Germany and Switzerland as a part of patient care to reduce
      pain and stress. When the effects of essential oils used for this purpose are examined; It is
      seen that it accelerates blood and lymph circulation, relieves muscle spasm and has calming
      effects. It is reported that these effects of essential oils are both absorbed from the skin
      and stimulated the sense of smell. In the literature, it is emphasized that some known or
      unknown analgesic components in oils affect the release of substances such as dopamine,
      endorphin, noradrenaline and serotonin in the brain stem, and that they have analgesic
      properties that are said to be formed as a result.

      The physiological and psychological effects of aromatherapy have long been known in
      complementary medicine. Lavender oil has been associated with its mood enhancing and
      analgesic properties in healthy subjects and experimental nociception. This therapy has been
      successfully used in clinical settings to alleviate a wide variety of pain, such as dressing
      change in the intensive care unit, palliative care, for the control of labor pain, and
      chronic pain. There are numerous studies describing the use of this therapy to relieve
      anxiety and improve mood. Limited studies have shown that aromatherapy is beneficial for
      women who give birth and reduces the need for pain medication.

      Considering the potential positive effect of lavender oil on the physiological and
      psychological state of the patient and the positive effect of cold application on the pain
      mechanism, our study was planned to determine the effectiveness of lavender aromatherapy and
      cold application in controlling the pain that occurs during the drain removal process.
    
  