
    
      Research Plan:

      General Design and Methods. The underlying goal of this study is to assess 123-I AV51 SPECT
      imaging as a tool to detect ß-amyloid deposition in the brain of AD research participants and
      age- and gender-matched healthy subjects. All study procedures will be conducted at the
      Institute for Neurodegenerative Disorders (IND) and Molecular NeuroImaging (MNI) in New
      Haven, CT. Approximately 20 patients with Alzheimers disease (AD) and 10 healthy controls
      will be recruited to participate in this study. Healthy controls will be examined to ensure
      that there is no evidence of neurodegenerative changes including cognitive decline. Informed
      consent will be obtained for all. All subjects will undergo a screening evaluation including
      baseline clinical laboratory testing, a baseline physical and neurological evaluation and
      baseline cognitive evaluations. Subjects will be asked to undergo a bolus injection of 123-I
      AV51. Subjects will undergo serial SPECT imaging scans and serial venous plasma sampling for
      measurement of 123-I AV51 in plasma (both protein bound and free) over a period of up to 6
      hours. Subjects may be asked to undergo a second imaging visit between 2 and 6 weeks
      following the initial imaging visit following similar procedures to the initial imaging visit
      to evaluate the reproducibility of the imaging measure using this procedure. The imaging
      analyses will be performed by an image-processing specialist who will remain masked to the
      procedures employed with each imaging acquisition. The primary imaging outcome measure will
      be the brain regional distribution volumes expressed as a brain tissue to plasma ratio of the
      radioligand, 123-I AV51. Time to the peak uptake and amplitude of the peak uptake will be
      evaluated for all brain regions and the results for the AD patients and controls will be
      compared. For those subjects undergoing repeat imaging visits, the data from the initial scan
      will be compared to the second scan to determine which offers the reproducibility of the
      imaging outcome measure.
    
  