
    
      Background: Adherence to antiretroviral therapy (ART) remains problematic. Regular monitoring
      of its barriers is clinically recommended, however, patient-provider communication around
      adherence is often inadequate. Our team thus decided to develop a new electronically
      administered patient-reported outcome measure (PROM) of barriers to ART adherence (the
      I-Score) to facilitate the systematic capture of this data for physician consideration in
      routine HIV care. To prepare for a controlled definitive trial to test the I-Score
      intervention, a pilot study was designed. Its primary objectives are to evaluate patient and
      physician perceptions of the I-Score intervention and its implementation strategy.

      Methods: This one-arm, 6-month study will adopt a mixed method type 3
      implementation-effectiveness hybrid design and be conducted at the Chronic Viral Illness
      Service of the McGill University Health Centre (Montreal, Canada). Five HIV physicians and 30
      of their HIV patients with known or suspected adherence problems will participate. The
      intervention will involve having patients complete the I-Score in the Opal smartphone
      application, before meeting with their physician. Both patient and physician will have access
      to the I-Score results, for consideration during the clinic visits at Times 1, 2 (3 months),
      and 3 (6 months). The implementation strategy will focus on stakeholder involvement,
      education, and training; promoting the intervention's adaptability; and hiring an Application
      Manager to facilitate implementation. Implementation, patient, and service outcomes will be
      collected (Times 1-2-3). The primary outcome is the intervention's acceptability to patients
      and physicians. Qualitative data obtained, in part, through physician focus groups (Times
      2-3) and patient interviews (Times 2-3) will help evaluate the implementation strategy and
      inform any methodological adaptations.

      Discussion: This study will help plan a definitive trial to test the efficacy of the I-Score
      intervention. It will generate needed data on electronic PROM interventions in routine HIV
      care that will help improve understanding of conditions for their successful implementation.
    
  