
    
      The value of precision medicine within clinical care is becoming increasingly more evident.
      Nowhere is this clearer than in the field of oncology. With recognition of the value of
      genetics in clinical care, the National Cancer Centre Singapore (NCCS) established a Cancer
      Genetics Service in 2006. This service performs a valuable function within NCCS by overseeing
      the care of patients found to have hereditary cancer syndromes and providing consultation to
      clinical oncologists on the appropriate, targeted role of genetic testing within cancer care.
      While the Cancer Genetics Service is available to all clinicians within NCCS, with the
      continually growing and evolving understanding of how genetics plays a role in cancer and
      cancer treatment, there are no clear, consistent guidelines on when to request consultation.
      This leads to both over- and underutilization of services with some patients being referred
      who do not require it and others being missed whose care would benefit from the expertise of
      a cancer geneticist.

      In an effort to address these inconsistencies in care, the study team proposes to further
      develop and evaluate the implementation of a Duke-developed precision medicine software
      program, MeTree, within NCCS breast cancer clinics. MeTree is a patient-facing family history
      based risk assessment tool and clinical decision aid that was developed by researchers within
      Duke's Center for Applied Genomics and Precision Medicine (CAGPM). The initial intent of
      MeTree was to assist clinicians in identifying patients at greater than population risk based
      on a number of clinical and family health history (FHH) factors for a range of common
      conditions (including cancer) and provide clinical decision support (CDS) with specific
      recommendations based on common U.S. guidelines for prevention and screening.MeTree has been
      thoroughly tested and validated and is currently being implemented across five U.S.
      healthcare systems by way of a large cooperative grant through NHGRI's IGNITE network.2-7 Dr.
      Orlando is co-PI of this study and Dr. Wu served as a site PI.

      Through the efforts of Drs. Wu and Orlando, among others, a research agreement was recently
      signed between Duke University and the National Heart Center Singapore (NHCS) to allow
      testing of MeTree within a cardiovascular epidemiologic study, the Biobank study
      (MeTree-Biobank pilot). The Biobank study is providing data to the SPECTRA healthy population
      database developed by the SingHealth/Duke-NUS Institute of Precision Medicine (PRISM).
      SPECTRA aims to collect detailed phenotypic and genomic information on 5,000 healthy
      Singaporeans. MeTree will be used to collect detailed FHH on Biobank participants. This
      collaboration is part of a larger partnership between CAGPM and PRISM to further develop
      cross-institution collaborations. Enrollment in the Biobank study is currently underway and
      incorporation of MeTree into the data capture flow started June 2017.

      This proposal leverages the larger collaborative work already started to explore clinically
      meaningful applications of MeTree within SingHealth. While MeTree has been shown to be
      clinically effective within primary care clinics in the U.S., SingHealth's oncologists are
      interested in leveraging MeTree's risk assessment features both to establish a more
      organized, standardized, and systematic process for collecting information to enhance cancer
      management and to maximize the advances in precision medicine for the benefit of cancer
      patients. Therefore, in collaboration with SingHealth oncologist Dr. Ngeow, the principal
      investigators propose to explore, develop, and pilot a prototype MeTree cancer module through
      the following two aims:

      Specific Aim 1: Create a Breast Cancer Clinical Decision Support Module in MeTree Specific
      Aim 2: Validate and Pilot the Breast Cancer Clinical Decision Support Module in a clinical
      setting within SingHealth.

      APPROACH Specific Aim 1: Create a Breast Cancer Clinical Decision Support Module in MeTree.
      The prototype will focus on breast cancer, as a demonstration case, since the prevalence is
      high, the value of risk assessment is established, and MeTree already assesses risk for both
      familial and hereditary forms. To achieve this aim the investigators will work with Dr.
      Joanne Ngeow, head of the Cancer Genetics Service at NCCS, to understand current risk
      assessment practices in the oncology clinics, identify gaps and inefficiencies in meeting
      Singapore's risk assessment guidelines, and adapt MeTree to facilitate uptake of
      guideline-based care. All aspects of risk assessment will be evaluated, from gathering the
      right type of data to understanding the appropriate clinical actions that follow from each
      risk assessment result. The goals will be to: 1) create a MeTree integration plan for both
      patients and providers that will optimize its value, 2) incorporate additional data elements
      and risk algorithms into MeTree as appropriate, 3) generate tailored clinical decision
      support for the patient and their oncologist to facilitate appropriate ordering and
      interpretation of genetic tests. Drs. Wu, Orlando, and Ngeow will work together on all three
      steps, with Dr. Ngeow's expertise in genetics and oncology at SingHealth being critical for
      ensuring the team develops a useful and facile tool that meets the needs of SingHealth
      oncologists.

      Deliverables These efforts will provide a breast cancer clinical decision support module that
      is ready for implementation testing in a breast cancer clinical environment. It will be a
      model upon which additional cancer CDS modules could be built, tested, and implemented.

      Specific Aim 2: Validate and Pilot the Breast Cancer Clinical Decision Support Module in a
      clinical setting within SingHealth. To assess the feasibility and potential clinical utility
      of the Breast Cancer Clinical Decision Support Module, the investigators will perform a
      mixed-methods hybrid type II implementation-effectiveness pilot in the NCCS cancer genetics
      clinic and one additional surgical breast cancer clinic. The results of this 12-week pilot
      will inform both its potential impact on clinical care and how further to optimize it for
      broader clinical integration.
    
  