
    
      Diabetes is a major public health problem in Latino(a)s. There are escalating numbers of
      Latino(a)s diagnosed with diabetes and at disproportionate rates compared to other
      ethnicities. Numerous interventions have been initiated to improve minority healthcare
      including diabetes group visits, which have been valuable in improving education and glycemic
      control. In our group visit investigations, investigators initiated Community Health Workers
      (CHWs)-local community members who serve as culturally-sensitive patient liaisons to the
      healthcare system-as part of the multidisciplinary team. Investigators demonstrated that CHWs
      are vital team members and particularly helpful in identifying medication-access barriers.
      However, CHWs are frontline workers and often left unsupported and poorly supervised.
      Investigators used these data to pioneer the combination of four diabetes interventions in
      our TIME trial (Telehealth-supported, Integrated CHWs, Medication-access, group visit
      Education). The TIME trial showed that individuals randomized to TIME significantly improved
      glycemic control, blood pressure and adherence to American Diabetes Association standards
      compared to usual care. The study also showed that telehealth (mobile health (mHealth) and
      ZOOM video conferencing) was instrumental in supporting CHWs in their work and enhancing
      their communication with patients.

      The COVID-19 pandemic has highlighted the expansive use of telehealth and its ability to
      improve healthcare. It has also underscored the pressing need to improve care for low-income
      minorities. Though diabetes programs are valuable in improving education and clinical
      outcomes, they are often difficult to initiate in low-income settings. Pragmatic
      implementation using telehealth to mentor local clinic teams of providers and CHWs is
      promising to address these barriers. Investigators have pilot data showing the feasibility of
      telementoring a local clinic to initiate TIME that has resulted in improved HbA1c levels but
      it needs to be tested within a larger sample. In the proposed study investigators will
      evaluate this approach in a randomized clinical trial (N=250; intervention=125) of
      low-income, adult Latino(a)s with type 2 diabetes randomized to TIME (intervention) versus
      usual care enhanced with education (EUC). Our research group will provide telementoring to
      local clinic teams to initiate TIME into their clinics. To evaluate efficacy, investigators
      will compare TIME versus EUC clinical changes including HbA1c (primary outcome), blood
      pressure, cholesterol, and body mass index from baseline to 12-months (AIM 1). To compare
      longitudinal data of study arms, investigators will follow these clinical measures until 36
      months (AIM 2). Investigators will also provide TIME program acceptability and evaluation
      data for participants and clinic teams from baseline to 12-months (AIM 3). Investigators
      hypothesize that TIME participants will have superior and more sustainable clinical outcomes
      compared to EUC individuals and that the intervention will have high levels of acceptability
      and evaluation data. Investigators anticipate that the proposed study will provide
      justification of telementoring to initiate TIME and strong evidence to improve the
      longitudinal care of low-income Latino(a)s with diabetes.
    
  