
    
      This study is a single-center, open-label, nonrandomized phase I trial testing the safety and
      efficacy as well as defining the appropriate dose for future studies of Sacituzumab Govitecan
      and Enfortumab for people with metastatic urothelial carcinoma (mUC) progressing on
      platinum-based chemotherapy and PD1/L1 inhibitors

      The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved Enfortumab Vedotin for the treatment
      of metastatic urothelial carcinoma (mUC) (bladder cancer). The FDA has not approved
      Sacituzumab Govitecan for metastatic urothelial carcinoma (mUC) (bladder cancer) but it has
      been approved for other uses. The FDA has approved Sacituzumab Govitecan to treat a type of
      breast cancer at this time. Sacituzumab Govitecan has appeared promising in patients with
      bladder cancer that has spread and works by a different mechanism than Enfortumab Vedotin.
      Therefore, the researchers believe that combining these 2 drugs may control the cancer better
      than each drug does on its own.

      This will be done through testing different combinations and checking for serious side
      effects; if there are no serious side effects a different dose combination will be explored.
      Once the best combination has been determined, the study will look to see how effective (how
      well the drug works) it is in slowing down the growth of metastatic urothelial carcinoma
      (mUC) progressing on platinum-based chemotherapy and PD1/L1 inhibitors and define the most
      appropriate level of the drugs to use for further studies.

      The research study procedures include screening for eligibility, study treatment, and safety
      follow-up visits, in addition to general health status follow-up after study treatment.

      Participants will receive study treatment for as long as they do not have serious side
      effects and their disease does not get worse. However, the duration may vary depending on how
      long the treatment works to control the cancer and how someone's body tolerates the side
      effects.

      Immunomedics, a pharmaceutical company, is supporting this research study by providing
      funding for the research study, tests required for research purposes only, and the study drug
      Sacituzumab Govitecan.

      It is expected that up to 24 people will take part in this research study.
    
  