
    
      Hypothesis:

        1. We hypothesize that brain Glu and GABA levels and/or their ratio involved in ADHD
           pathology

        2. Glu and GABA levels and/or their ratio will be affected by medical treatment in ADHD
           group

        3. Alteration of Glu and GABA and/or their ratios, before and after treatment, will
           correlate with clinical response to treatment

      Primary Objectives:

      To characterize changes in Glu and GABA levels in the ACC of adults with ADHD compared to the
      healthy subjects To characterize Glu and GABA levels in the ACC of adults with ADHD before
      and 1.5 hrs. after stimulant treatment using 1H MRS system.

      Secondary objective:

      To study the correlation between Glu and GABA levels in ADHD patients (before and after
      medical treatment) and clinical symptoms as assessed by ASRS and DSMV and/or NeuroTrax
      Braincare computerized test

      Design and study population:

      This is a prospective observational, open-label, comparative study that is approved by the
      Institutional Review Board (IRB) of Maccabi Healthcare services and the Ethical Committee of
      Tel Aviv University, in collaboration with the Weizmann Institute of Science. Medically
      healthy ADHD adults of ages 18-40 years (N= 35), and matched HCS (N= 25) will be recruited.

      Procedure ADHD Participants will be enrolled from the Maccabi database. Volunteers will be
      enrolled as a Control group

        -  Pre-assessment questionnaires including epidemiologic data, DSMV, and Adult ADHD
           Self-Report Scale (ASRS) will be filled out.

        -  Detailed explanation will be given of the trial objectives, trial methods and risks or
           possible discomfort that may result from an MRI/MRS examination

        -  During screening, subjects will receive information regarding the study, including
           general eligibility criteria, study design, procedures and duration. Subjects will have
           the opportunity to ask questions and will undergo an informed consent procedure.
           Subjects meeting inclusion/exclusion criteria will be enrolled. The participant will
           sign an informed consent form and will receive a copy.

      After screening, participants who meet the inclusion criteria will be invited to the center
      for Computational Neuroimaging at Weizmann Institute of Science to perform the MRS scan.

      ADHD patients will be instructed not to take medication for at least 72 hours prior to their
      arrival and will be asked to bring their medical drug treatment.

      All participants will go through spectroscopic analyses using 1H MRS (at 3 Tesla) Control
      group participants will go through MRS once and complete their study. Adults with ADHD will
      repeat MRS screening, 1.5 hours after taking their medical treatment (Methylphenidate /Mixed
      Amphetamine salts).

      Study population:

      Medically healthy adults diagnosed with ADHD (men and women) ages 18-40 years (N= 35),
      treated with Amphetamines (Mixed Amphetamine salts (Attent) or short-acting methylphenidate
      (Ritalin)) will be enrolled from the Maccabi database. Matched HCS (N= 25) volunteers ages
      18-40 years, who did not report ADHD or any other illness or medical conditions, and who do
      not take chronic medications, will be enrolled from the general population.

      The Adult ADHD Self-Report Scale and DSMV questionnaire will be used to determine ADHD
      symptoms in both groups.
    
  