
    
      The duration of each subject's participation in this study will be approximately 68 weeks (or
      1 year, 16 weeks), comprised of a five study periods (Screening, Baseline, Pre-transplant,
      Transplant, and Post-transplant Follow-up). During the Screening Period (up to 60 days),
      written informed consent (and assent, if applicable) will be obtained and the subject will
      complete other Screening procedures to confirm study eligibility. Once study eligibility is
      confirmed, subjects will enter the Baseline Period (up to 3 days) during which time
      assessments will be performed to establish a pre-transplant baseline. Once baseline
      assessments are complete, the subject will enter the Pre-transplant Period (approximately 6-8
      weeks) during which time mobilization, apheresis, AVR-RD-02 drug product preparation and
      testing for release, and planned conditioning regimen administration will take place. Enzyme
      replacement therapy must be discontinued at least 2 weeks before the scheduled transplant
      day. Following completion of the Pre-transplant Period, the subject will enter the Transplant
      Period (1 day) during which AVR-RD-02 infusion will take place. After AVR-RD-02 infusion, the
      subject will enter the Post-transplant Follow-up Period (approximately 52 weeks), during
      which time periodic safety and efficacy assessments will be performed to assess measures of
      safety, engraftment, and clinical response post-transplant. Post-transplant follow-up will
      occur at the following time points: Week 1 (Days 1 through 7), Week 2 (Days 10 and 14), Week
      4 (Day 28), Week 8 (Day 56), Week 13 (Day 91), Week 26 (Day 182), Week 39 (Day 273), and Week
      52 (Day 364). During the post-transplant period, subjects will not receive ERT unless
      pre-specified clinical criteria, which suggest the need for ERT initiation, are met.

      After study completion, subjects enrolled will continue periodic safety and efficacy
      assessments for approximately 14 years (for a total of 15 years post-transplant follow-up) by
      way of a follow-up study to AVRO-RD-02-201.
    
  