
    
      Platelets are cells that help make the blood clot. A decrease in platelets can cause
      bleeding, which may prevent or delay a patient from receiving chemotherapy. Researchers want
      to find out if AMG 531 can lower the risk and severity of this side effect. AMG 531 is a
      protein that stimulates platelet production.

      If you are eligible to take part in this study, you will be assigned to 1 of 6 dosing
      schedules of study drug. The dose of AMG 531 that you receive will depend on when you are
      enrolled.

      In Cycle 1, all patients will receive chemotherapy by itself. Three (3) weeks later, in Cycle
      2, the same dose of chemotherapy will be given followed by AMG 531. AMG 531 will be given on
      one of 3 schedules. AMG 531 will be given as an injection under the skin on the day after
      chemotherapy and 2 days later; it will be given 5 days before and the day after chemotherapy;
      or it will be given 5 and 3 days before chemotherapy and on the day after chemotherapy and 2
      days later. The schedule you receive will depend on when you enroll on the study. After 2
      cycles of treatment, based on response of the disease and tolerance to the treatment, all
      participants may be able to receive up to 4 more cycles of chemotherapy followed by AMG 531.
      All participants will continue on the same schedule you were receiving before. The dose of
      AMG 531 may be increased at one time point during the study based on the response of the
      platelet counts.

      The number of blood tests drawn (about 3 teaspoons each) will depend on your clinical
      condition. These samples will be taken at least 2 times a week and as often as once a day
      during portions of the study. You will also have blood (about 1 teaspoon) collected for the
      evaluation of anti-AMG 531 antibody status before treatment starts, at the end of Cycles 2
      and 4, and at the end of study.

      You will be taken off the study if your disease gets worse or intolerable side effects occur.
      At the end of the study, you will have a medical history and physical exam, including
      measurement of vital signs. You will also have blood (about 1 teaspoon) drawn for routine
      tests.

      This is an investigational study. AMG 531 is not FDA approved or commercially available. At
      this time, it is being used for research purposes only. Up to 56 patients will take part in
      this study. All will be enrolled at University of Texas (UT)MD Anderson.
    
  