
    
      Scientific background

      Interventions aimed to ameliorate malnutrition are important for elderly health and include
      dietary counseling and discontinuing unnecessary medicines.

      Emailing an alert regarding low BMI was found to improve dietary counseling numbers.

      Correlation between death and HbA1c% is U-shaped, with increased mortality under a 6.5% level
      in patients taking two anti-diabetic medicines. Sending an email alert regarding an
      over-tight control of diabetes was followed by a reduction in mortality.

      Death and cholesterol correlation is also U-shaped, with increased mortality and morbidity
      under 160 mg%. The investigator found no interventional study for this situation.

      Objectives

      To check whether alerting the primary care providers by email, about low values of BMI,
      HbA1c% or cholesterol will affect treatment and improve health indexes of people older than
      75 years.

      Working hypotheses

      During a year, and relative to the control group, intervention emails may result in the
      following:

        -  A decrease in mortality.

        -  An increase in dietary counseling percentage and a decrease in prescribing anti-diabetic
           and cholesterol-lowering medicines.

        -  A decrease in medical expenses and in other morbidity indexes.

      Type of research and methods of data collection

      This randomized controlled trial will be conducted entirely through the existing computer
      system. The participants (patients) will be assigned to the two Arms/Groups "Intervention
      Email" and "Control". It has three separate interventions: a. Alerting about a significant
      drop in BMI. b. Alerting about a low HbA1c% level in patients taking anti-diabetics. c.
      Alerting about a low cholesterol level in patients taking cholesterol-lowering medicines. The
      alerts will be sent to the primary clinicians.

      Method(s) of data analysis

      Differences between intervention groups and control groups will be analyzed using Chi-square
      test (or Fishers' exact test) for categorical variables and using T-test (or Two-sample
      Wilcoxon test) for continuous variables.

      Uniqueness and relevance

      Health service policy regarding signs of malnutrition and excessive medicinal treatment needs
      a relevant scientific knowledge base. Nutritional counseling and revision of medicinal
      treatment may dramatically affect health. This research deals with questions that have no
      commercial interest, but are important to the public.
    
  