
    
      Pseudohypoparathyroidism type 1a (PHP1a) is a disorder that causes many endocrine and
      developmental problems. To date, medical treatment has focused primarily on maintenance of
      normal serum levels of calcium, phosphorous, and thyroid hormone. However, these therapeutic
      interventions do not address the problems of short stature, obesity, and subcutaneous
      ossifications, which for many are a source of considerable morbidity and personal distress.
      These patients require frequent medical care, blood tests, and medication adjustments. PHP1a
      is an inherited condition with an estimated prevalence in the United States of 1:15,000-
      20,000, and the studies that we propose provide an opportunity to improve the quality of life
      in affected patients. We have found that growth hormone (GH) deficiency is common in these
      patients, and our data suggest that GH testing should be part of their routine standard of
      care. We are investigating whether GH treatment can increase final adult height. We are also
      investigating whether GH treatment can reduce weight and improve a variety of metabolic
      disturbances and overall health in both children and adults.

      GH deficiency not only leads to short stature and obesity, but also to osteoporosis,
      hyperlipidemia, depressed cardiac and renal function, as well as an overall lack of energy.
      It is quite possible that treatment of GH-deficient patients with PHP1a could improve any or
      all of the above problems. GH treatment has been FDA approved for use in both children and
      adults with GH deficiency. Therefore, it may be possible to provide improvement in health and
      overall quality of life in these patients.

      Additionally, we completed a study in which we treated children with PHP1a who are not GH
      deficient (i.e., GH sufficient). The rationale is that GH treatment could maximize linear
      growth velocity prior to the premature bone fusion that occurs in this condition and
      potentially improve final adult height. The supply of growth hormone has ended for this
      study, and we are following those participants who were in this study and received the growth
      hormone supply. Some of these patients remain on growth hormone as per clinical care
      secondary to their responses.

      This study also seeks to define the specific neurocognitive and psychosocial disabilities in
      individuals with AHO in order to develop therapies and improve quality of life.
    
  