
    
      The interest for supporting process-outcome psychotherapies has increased in recent years.
      With the aim of finding parsimonious and precise interventions for specific populations under
      particular circumstances, clinical researchers have supported the development of
      principle-driven research. Studies discussed the importance of conducting translational
      research to identify psychotherapy mechanisms of change in order to match those interventions
      with psychological problems maintained by similar variables. In the long term, it is expected
      that process-outcome psychotherapies will reduce the burden produced by the overload of
      psychological interventions that share similar mechanisms of change but have been treated as
      independent therapeutic packages. Likewise, it is anticipated that process-outcome
      psychotherapies will reduce relapse frequency by targeting specific mechanisms of change.
      They would also enhance efficiency since they will reduce the use of therapeutic procedures
      that do not target the most important variables in producing therapeutic change.

      Functional Analytic Psychotherapy (FAP) is a process-outcome psychotherapy that produces
      changes in interpersonal relating behaviors by modifying the contingencies of reinforcement
      of clients' behavior. Reinforcement, as a behavioral mechanism of change, explains the
      increment on the probability of occurrence of the behavior and its maintenance. FAP focuses
      on improving the effectiveness of clients' interpersonal behaviors by providing social
      contingencies of reinforcement to clients' responses within the therapeutic setting. Though
      there are several studies and reports that support the effectiveness of FAP, few studies have
      explored the specific mechanisms of change. Some studies have explored the effects of
      therapists' contingent responding to clients' ineffective behavior. However, they have lacked
      analyses of conditional relationships between clients and therapists' responses. This
      research, therefore, will provide information about the mechanism of change underlying FAP by
      studying the conditional relations of contingencies of reinforcement and clients' behaviors
      in the context of a meaningful therapeutic relationship.

      Method

      Study aims:

        1. To examine the mechanisms of change of Functional Analytic Psychotherapy (FAP) via
           contingent responding to participants' interpersonal difficulties

        2. To determine the effectiveness of FAP on the interpersonal functioning of verbally able
           adults.

        3. To establish the relation between the amount of contingent reinforcement and the changes
           in clients' interpersonal repertoires.

      Variables:

      Dependent. Interpersonal relating difficulties comprise behaviors that interfere with social
      functioning. In Callaghan's words, "[t]hese problems are based on the function of behaviors
      as they impact the client's ability to form effective interpersonal relationships". Lastly,
      interpersonal difficulties are defined based on the effects these produce on the individual's
      the social environment (function). Behavior analysis identifies two types of operant
      functions that characterize classes of behavior: positive reinforcement, a process by which
      behaviors are strengthened following the delivery of a consequence, and negative
      reinforcement, where behaviors are strengthened by the withdrawal of a potentially aversive
      consequence.

      Callaghan developed the Functional Idiographic Assessment Template (FIAT), a functional based
      classification for interpersonal difficulties. The FIAT described repertoires based on the
      antecedent stimulus control and the behavioral patterns (which include the contingency of
      reinforcement). Five functional interpersonal classes will be object of intervention in this
      study: (a) assertion of needs (including social support), (b) bidirectional communication,
      (c) conflict, (d) disclosure and interpersonal closeness (disclosing and seeking intimacy),
      and (e) emotional experience and expression. Problems in the FIAT classes (CRB1s) will be
      modified by altering the contingencies of reinforcement as specified in the description of
      the independent variable, aiming increasing improvements in these functional classes (CRB2s).

      Independent. FAP is a therapeutic procedure based on behavior analytic principles. This
      approach seeks to implement procedures to manipulate the contingencies of reinforcement
      involved in problem and alternative behaviors within the context of a meaningful therapeutic
      relationship in the clinical setting that is functionally equivalent to those out-of-session.

      According to the behavior analytic perspective, there are two main processes (functions of
      behavior) that are targeted to influence individuals' behavior: contingencies of
      reinforcement (process that maintains elevations or increases behavior probability) and
      antecedent stimulus control, which involves a set of conditions under which the responses are
      more likely reinforced. A discriminative stimulus (SD) indicates that reinforcement is
      available, whereas a Delta stimulus (SΔ) signals an extremely low probability for
      reinforcement of behavior. These functional relations are identified using a functional
      behavioral assessment. FAP intends to modify CRBs by utilizing therapists contingent
      responding (TCRB). That is, FAP proposed to implement differential reinforcement (TCRB1) to
      reduce CRB1s and to provide positive reinforcement to enhance CRB2s. Based on the changes
      within the therapeutic setting, clients are prompted to discriminate contexts where those
      repertoires are likely reinforced and generalize those responses to such environments.

      Design:

      A non-concurrent experimental multiple baseline design (MBL) across participants with a
      follow-up phase will be conducted (A/B/Follow-up). Concurrent MBL controls historical factors
      and other threats to internal validity by sequentially introducing the treatment phase. The
      latter requires that the length of the baselines varies between participants. In this study,
      the baselines per each participant will be assigned in this order: three sessions to the
      participant 1, five sessions to the participant, six sessions to participant 3, and seven
      sessions to participant 4.

      Additionally, the MBL allows comparing behavioral data between individuals across different
      or similar conditions, showing whether extraneous variables affect the participants in the
      same manner or not. The between-series comparisons control for historical factors or other
      threats to external and internal validity that might affect individuals in the same study.

      Within the baseline (A), Supportive Listening (SL) will be provided, which has been widely
      utilized in randomized control trials, including the only Randomized Control Trial (RCT)
      conducted in FAP (Maitland & Gaynor, 2016), as a control condition. SL is defined as "a
      psychological treatment in which therapists do not engage in any therapeutic strategies other
      than active listening and offering support, focusing on participants' problems and concerns".
      In this therapy, the therapist reflects on clients' experiences and encourage them to share
      emotional experiences. Therapists are prohibited from giving advice, making interpretations,
      and providing feedback to clients. FAP will be introduced at phase B, where contingent
      reinforcement will be administered for increasing clients' goal behaviors (CRB2) and
      differential reinforcement will be utilized to reduce clients' problem behaviors (CRB1).

      Participants:

      The study will include four participants. Based on the power analysis performed using the
      D_power macro, the study will have a power of .962 (high power). They will be recruited using
      flyers that will be posted on public billboards on University campus (University of Nevada,
      Reno). Third party (or snowball sampling) procedures will be also utilized. Participants will
      be recruited through the Psychological Services Center as well as the Student Counseling
      Center at the University of Nevada, Reno. A flyer with the study and contact instruction
      information will be provided to these sites with the aim that the potential participants
      initiate the contact with the researchers subsequently.

      Up to 20 participants will be recruited and an eligibility assessment will be conducted by
      two doctoral students to determine participants enrollment. Potential participants who report
      interpersonal difficulties and psychological distress will be invited to enroll in the study.
      Interpersonal functioning will be assessed using the Functional Idiographic Assessment
      Template-Questionnaire Short Form (FIAT-Q-SF), and psychological distress will be evaluated
      utilizing the Depression Anxiety Stress Scales (DASS). A clinical interview will be conducted
      to validate participants' interpersonal and psychological functioning. Individuals who report
      current substance abuse disorder as defined by the DSM-5, suicidal plan or past suicidal
      attempts and history of psychotic or bipolar disorder will be excluded and referred to
      another psychological service provider.

      Instruments and Materials:

        1. Functional Idiographic Assessment Template-Questionnaire Short Form (FIAT-Q-SF): to
           identify participants interpersonal functioning outside the therapeutic setting.

        2. Depression Anxiety Stress Scales (DASS): to identify participants psychological distress
           outside the therapeutic setting.

        3. The Functional Analytic Psychotherapy-Intimacy Scale (FAP-IS): to identify participants'
           engagement in a meaningful therapeutic relationship that facilities the action of the
           mechanism of change in FAP.

        4. Working Alliance Inventory-Short Revised (WAI-SF): to identify participants' engagement
           in a meaningful therapeutic relationship that facilities the action of the mechanism of
           change in FAP.

        5. Functional Analytic Psychotherapy Rating Scale (FAPRS): The FAPRS is a coding system
           designed for assessing clinical interactions based on behavior analytic principles. This
           instrument will be employed to evaluate FAP's mechanism of change and therapists'
           adherence to FAP procedures.

        6. Diary Card (Self-report record): to assess participant's interpersonal behaviors outside
           of session. This format includes three columns where participants describe the
           antecedents and consequences of their interpersonal behaviors.

        7. Noldus Observer XT: this software allows coders to observe and code participants and
           therapists' behaviors in-session with the aim of assessing the mechanism of change in
           FAP.

      Procedure:

      During recruitment, potential participants will be invited to attend 1-hr and a half
      eligibility assessment session. Before conducting the eligibility assessment, informed
      consents will be discussed with potential participants according to APA and local IRB
      standards. Upon participants agree on research participation, interpersonal difficulties and
      psychological distress will be evaluated. Results of eligibility will be discussed at the end
      of this session. If a potential participant decides to decline or discontinue his/her
      participation or does not meet criteria for the study, referral options will be provided
      using a referral list of the psychological services center (PSC). Assessments will be
      conducted in the PSC by the therapists in this study.

      Following enrollment, SL and clients' history assessment will be conducted (Baseline). At the
      first three weeks, phase B will be introduced to the first participant at session four and
      the intervention will be sequentially implemented to the other clients as described in the
      design section. FAP will be introduced to modify the functions that maintain the
      interpersonal relating difficulties (nine-weeks per each participant). Finally, a follow-up
      session will take place one month after completion of the intervention phase, and stability
      of behavior changes across time will be measured.

      Data will be collected on a weekly basis. FIAT-Q-SF and DASS will be administered at the
      beginning of the session, to assess participants interpersonal functioning and psychological
      distress out-of-session. WAI-SF and FAP-IS will be administered at the end of therapy and
      place in a sealed box, to prevent responders' bias on the quality of therapeutic
      relationship. Scores from these questionaries' will be entered in an Excel sheet within an
      electronic server encrypted by a blind research assistant. In addition, participants and
      therapists' behaviors within the therapeutic session will be coded by three blind raters with
      the aim of assessing the mechanism of change of FAP and the effects of FAP in interpersonal
      functioning and psychological distress in the session. Video records will be kept safe in an
      electronic file encrypted storage and a password-protected computer.

      For quality assurance, data will be monitored by the principal investigator weekly. The
      principal investigator will review participants case report forms and conduct meetings with
      the therapists to oversee the fidelity of research procedures. Adverse reactions will be
      assessed applying the knowledge the principal investigator has of clinical factors and
      behaviors that predict and indicate adverse psychological reactions. He also has a vast
      knowledge in FAP that allows him to detect negative unexpected effects from implementing this
      intervention. So far, FAP research has not found specific therapeutic factors that would
      trigger an immediate suspension of the research. If so, the principal investigator will
      inform local IRB and the study procedures would be re-evaluated or suspended.

      Data Analysis Plan:

      To examine the mechanisms of change of the FAP via contingent responding to participants'
      interpersonal difficulties (Aim 1), a state-based lag sequential analysis of participants and
      therapist behaviors within session will be conducted. The statistical significance of the
      conditional probabilities will be tested by computing z scores (adjusted residuals). The
      strength of the association between client and therapist's behavior will be examined by the
      Yule's Q statistic and a chi-squared test will be performed to identify a significant
      interdependence within the transitional matrix. In addition, a stack graph will be performed
      to analyze the relationship between the CRBs and the percentage of contingent reinforcement
      in the context of a meaningful relationship (FAP-IS).

      Effectiveness of FAP on interpersonal difficulties of verbally able adults (Aim 2) will be
      examined by conducting descriptive statistics and visual inspection of participants'
      behaviors to compare trends between-subjects. Effect sizes will be determined by calculating
      Hedge's g correction of standardized effect sizes for singles case designs. A non-overlap
      analysis of all pairs (NAP) will be conducted as a complementary assessment of the effect
      sizes of participants' behaviors. In addition, a simulation modelling analysis (SMA) will be
      performed to establish the relation between FAP and changes in interpersonal difficulties.
      SMA is an alternative statistical technique that has an acceptable control of Type-I and
      Type-II errors to analyzed short streams of autocorrelated data, which are typically observed
      in single case designs. This statistical method simulates datasets similar in length and
      autocorrelation to the data at hand. Using a bootstrapping, SMA tests if the relationship
      between the intervention and the dependent variable remains when autocorrelation and data
      length are similar in thousand (~5000) of samples.

      To establish the relation between the amount of contingent reinforcement and the changes in
      clients' interpersonal repertoires in session (Aim 3), the proportion of therapists'
      contingent responses (TCRBs) to CRBs will be calculated. TCRBs' proportion will be plotted
      and a visual analysis of behavioral trends between participants will be conducted.
    
  