
    
      The patient population consists of men ≥18 years of age with adenocarcinoma of the prostate
      with metastatic disease. Patients who have not undergone orchiectomy must have serum
      testosterone levels <50 ng/dL determined within 4 weeks prior to start of study drug, and, if
      applicable, must have discontinued treatment with first or second generation anti-androgens
      as specified in the inclusion criteria.

      During Part 1 of the study, patients will be assigned sequentially to increasing TRC253
      doses. The starting dose of TRC253 is 40 mg once daily, orally. TRC253 doses will be
      escalated in subsequent cohorts after all patients enrolled in a given cohort have completed
      the 28-day dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) evaluation period. Dose escalation in Part 1 will
      follow single-patient dose escalation design until drug-related toxicity occurs. When an
      initial drug-related toxicity occurs or DLT in a single patient the cohort will be expanded
      according to 3+3 design rules. Subsequent dose levels will enroll patients based on 3+3
      design. At the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) or minimum efficacious dose (MED), up to twelve
      patients may be enrolled.

      Part 2 will consist of two cohorts of initially up to 30 patients (Cohort 1) and up to 30
      patients (Cohort 2) to receive TRC253 at the recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D). The objective
      of Part 2 is to gather additional information on the safety, pharmacokinetics (PK) and
      pharmacodynamic (PD) characteristics, and the clinical efficacy of TRC253 in a pre-defined
      population of patients with metastatic castrate-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC). Patients
      enrolled into Part 2 will have received prior treatment with enzalutamide or apalutamide and
      showed characteristics of acquired resistance based on changes in PSA serum levels. Patients
      will be centrally screened for the presence of the AR F876L (androgen receptor F876L)
      mutation from a plasma sample and enrolled into Cohort 1 (AR F876L positive) or Cohort 2 (AR
      F876L negative). Cohort 2 may be expanded if a specific molecular mechanism sensitizing the
      mCRPC to TRC253 therapy can be identified retrospectively. Additional patients may be
      prospectively selected for this specific molecular resistance mechanism and added to Cohort 2
      upon recommendation by the medical monitor and Principal Investigators.
    
  