
    
      Recently, a direct link between intestinal microbiota, dietary phosphatidylcholine, and
      promotion of cardiovascular disease has been elegantly demonstrated. In this study, broad
      spectrum antibiotics were employed to disrupt the intestinal microbiota, and metabolomic
      analysis identified 3 metabolites of phosphatidylcholine, including TMAO, linked to
      atherosclerosis. However, the impact of intestinal dysbiosis on the heart and its
      susceptibility to injury from ischemia/reperfusion has not been known until now.

      Novel work has demonstrated a mechanistic link between changes in the intestinal microbiota
      and severity of myocardial infarction. Treatment of Dahl S rats with the commercially
      available probiotic bacterium Lactobacillus plantarum 299v, and a non-absorbed antibiotic
      vancomycin to alter abundance of multiple microbiota reduced circulating leptin levels,
      reduced myocardial infarct size, and improved recovery of post-ischemic mechanical function.
      Pretreatment with leptin abolished cardioprotection by the probiotic and the antibiotic.

      These findings also show the reach of the intestinal microbiota extends far beyond local
      effects to remote organ systems such as the heart and provide support for the metabolomic
      studies to be conducted in Specific Aim 2. The prior discovery of a relationship between
      intestinal microbiota, their metabolites and myocardial infarction provides opportunities for
      novel therapeutic approaches (probiotics, non-absorbable antibiotics and/or microbial
      metabolites) for the treatment and prevention of cardiovascular disease.

      Prior studies indicate an important role of leptin in signaling between the intestinal
      microbiota and the heart. Supplementation of the diet with active cultures of Lactobacillus
      plantarum 299v leads to significant reductions in fibrinogen and LDL-cholesterol, and leptin
      concentrations in smokers. These clinical studies demonstrate that a probiotic is capable of
      decreasing risk factors for cardiovascular disease. Note that neither leptin nor TMAO levels,
      per se, are recognized cardiovascular risk factor. This is currently an area with enormous
      potential for gaining new mechanistic insight and may lead to a therapeutic product or
      clinical use.

      Impaired endothelial function is recognized as an early and modulating process in the
      pathogenesis of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. Furthermore, it has been shown that
      patients with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus exhibit endothelial dysfunction and that this
      phenotype precedes development of frank hyperglycemia. Endothelial function is easily
      measurable by non-invasive means and endothelial dysfunction measured non-invasively
      independently predicts future cardiovascular risk in patients both with and without
      clinically apparent cardiovascular disease. Conduit vessel endothelial function in humans is
      commonly quantified by measurement of flow-mediated dilation (FMD) in the brachial artery,
      which represents the endothelium-dependent relaxation of a conduit artery - typically the
      brachial artery - due to an increased blood flow. FMD correlates with impaired
      endothelium-dependent relaxation in the coronary arteries and is a commonly recognized
      "barometer" of cardiovascular risk. Taken together, these data suggest brachial FMD is an
      ideal surrogate marker of cardiovascular risk to monitor the effects of Lactobacillus
      plantarum 299v as proposed in this work. Michael Widlansky has extensive experience in the
      use of FMD to measure endothelial function.
    
  