
    
      Surgery remains a main pillar in the treatment of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma
      (HNSCC). The margin status is the main prognostic factor of local tumor control in surgically
      treated HNSCC and will determine the postoperative treatment strategy. A margin of ≤1 mm of
      normal tissue is considered a positive margin and requires either a re-operation or
      postoperative chemoradiation with a combination of cisplatin and 5-FU, which substantially
      increases morbidity. Margins wider than 1 mm but less than 5 mm require re-operation, or, if
      that is not possible, post-operative radiotherapy without the concomitant use of
      chemotherapy. Currently, no technology is available in the operating room, which reliably
      supports tumor excision in terms of margin status. In fact, surgeons can only combine pre-
      operative imaging data with tactile and visual information during surgery for assessing tumor
      margins with limited accuracy. With the introduction of molecular imaging techniques using
      near infrared (NIR) fluorescent optical contrast agents coupled to targeted compounds, new
      avenues have opened up for intra-operative assessment of tumor margins. Tracers are based on
      antibodies directed against Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor-A, i.e.
      bevacizumab-IRDye800CW, in patients with breast cancer or against Epidermal Growth Factor
      Receptor, i.e. cetuximab-IRDye800CW, in patients with HNSCC. First trials have shown that
      systemic administration of these compounds is safe and tumor specific. These findings
      prompted us to design this innovative application in a clinical trial for the intraoperative
      assessment of tumor margins during surgical treatment of HNSCC using cetuximab-IRDye800CW.
      The study is subsidized by the Dutch Cancer Foundation.

      Objectives The main purpose is to establish the intraoperative use of cetuximab-IRDye800CW as
      a reliable marker for residual tumor in resection margins after surgical removal of HNSCC.
      The objective is to establish the positive predictive value of cetuximab-IRDye800CW
      fluorescence as a marker for a tumor positive resection margin.

      Study design The study is designed as a phase 1-2, single center prospective cross sectional
      diagnostic study in patients with HNSCC that require surgical excision. First, a dose finding
      study will be performed in 9 patients using 10, 25 and 50 mg of cetuximab-IRDye800CW with
      three patients per dose cohort. In the first and only performed study at the University of
      Alabama (UAB) using cetuximab-IRDye800CW in the visualization of HNSCC, the dose found to be
      optimal was 25mg/m2. We therefore think that a sufficient dose will be found within the
      proposed range. The most optimal dose from the three studied doses will be used in the second
      part of the study which will include a cohort of 70 patients. The choice of
      cetuximab-IRDye800CW dose will be a balance between the lowest dose vs. a clinically usable
      tumor to background ration (TBR) on the fluorescence images.

      During the second phase of the study tumor margins will be studied in a cohort of 70 patients
      to determine the positive predictive value of optical imaging to identify positive margins.
      Based on historical data retrieved from our HNSCC database at UMCG we anticipate in a cohort
      of 70 patients at least 14 (20%) margin-positive patients and a 90% EGFR overexpression rate.
      We anticipate a sensitivity of 90% of the cetuximab-IRDye800CW conjugate based on the EGFR
      overexpression rate, which we will be able to measure with sufficient precision ( 95%CI of
      60-96%).

      Study population Patients eligible for inclusion should suffer from a squamous cell carcinoma
      in the head and neck region (HNSCC) of which the head and neck tumor board of the UMCG has
      advised to be treated by surgical removal.

      Patient related study procedures Tracer administration: patients will visit the hospital four
      days prior to the planned surgery of their HNSCC. The cetuximab-IRDye800CW will be injected
      by slow infusion and patients will be monitored for potential side effects. The dose will be
      either 10, 25 or 50 mg of cetuximab-IRDye800CW which is less or equal to 10% of the dose of
      cetuximab when used for curative treatment of HNSCC (usually 400mg/m2 loading dose and
      250mg/m2 maintenance dose).

      Pre-operative fluorescence imaging, spectroscopy and assessment of tracer
      concentration/stability Only during phase 1, patient will undergo pre-operative imaging and
      spectroscopy measurement one day prior to surgery. Furthermore, 6 blood samples will be drawn
      and tissue will be collected at different time point during the study for assessment of
      tracer concentration/stability.

      Intraoperative fluorescence imaging and spectroscopy Study aims: The aim is to identify
      squamous cell carcinoma as fluorescent spots in the margin of a tumor resection specimen or
      in the wound bed in the patient.

      Parameters: Fluorescence imaging and spectroscopy: Fluorescence images will provide an
      overview of where cetuximab-IRDye800CW fluorescence is located in the resection specimen and
      the wound bed in the patients. The intra operative camera is very sensitive for
      cetuximab-IRDye800CW fluorescence. One drawback is that on the fluorescence image the exact
      depth from which the fluorescence signal is generated cannot be established. Furthermore,
      most likely there will be background fluorescence signals from normal tissue. Therefore,
      confirmation of the fluorescence signal on images requires quantification of the fluorescence
      signal. This can be performed by using a spectroscopy technique (MDSFR spectroscopy) that can
      quantify (in M/m3) specifically IRDye800CW-fluorescence by placing a fiber tip in contact
      with the tissue. This spectroscopy technique has a shallow sampling depth of 1-2 mm. If
      fluorescence is generated from deeper layers, the signal of spectroscopy will be low (only
      background signal from muscle, connective tissue and salivary glands). If the
      IRDye800CW-fluorescence signal is generated from tumor in the resection margin the
      fluorescence signal will be much higher because SCC-tumor cells overexpress EGFR. The
      parameter that will be established is the threshold level at which background
      cetuximab-IRDye800CW spectroscopy signal can be separated from much higher spectroscopy
      signals of cetuximab-IRDye800CW accumulated in tumor.

      Pathology: The tumor specimen will be processed for histology according to the current
      standard used in clinical cancer care. Diagnosis on margins, selected histological features
      necessary for clinical decision making will be provided. Next to this fluorescence images
      will be collected from the tumor specimen and biopsies. Margin width and number of positive
      margins will be noted and correlated to the location of fluorescent locations in the margins.
      From this positive predictive value will be calculated.

      Burden, risks and benefit related to participation Burden - Time investment: Patients need to
      make one extra visit to the UMCG four days before their planned surgery that will take
      approximately 2 hours. Usually patients are admitted one day prior to the planned surgery.
      Therefore the measurements one day before surgery will not require extra time investment
      Burden-extra procedures: 1) Intravenous administration of cetuximab-IRDye800CW. 2)
      Fluorescence images will be taken from the tumor one day prior to surgery in the first cohort
      of nine patients. 3) The estimated time for taking fluorescence images and spectroscopy
      measurements is approximately 30min. Therefore the time under general anesthesia will be
      prolonged. The usual time of surgical procedures for removal of HNSCC ranges from 2 hours to
      15 hours, depending on complexity of the surgical procedure. 4) from the wound bed in the
      patient that exists after tumor excision, biopsies will be taken in the ongoing general
      anesthesia, of spots positive of cetuximab-IRDye800CW as seen on the fluorescence imaging and
      confirmed by spectroscopy.

      Risks: Allergic reactions to cetuximab have been reported but this is considered a low risk.
      No preclinical or clinical study reported higher than grade 2 adverse events. the first study
      with cetuximab-IRDye800CW no serious events were reported in six patients.

      Benefit: Patients will have no benefit from this study directly. Surgery will be planned as
      usual. During surgery, no decisions will be made based on the fluorescence imaging. The
      benefit of this study will be the establishment of usefulness of cetuximab-IRDye800CW during
      surgery to identify margins containing tumors. The results of these types of study will be at
      least beneficial for other patients with cancer in the future. Clinical experience will be
      obtained with fluorescent labeled antibody in intra operative margin assessment during
      surgery of HNSCC.
    
  