
    
      The treatment community will consist of all participants enrolled in one or more of the 3Ts
      Interventions (3Ts-Newborn, 3Ts-Well Baby, 3Ts-Let's Talk!) The 3Ts interventions, the
      educational curricula designed by the TMW Center) were named for the three easy to use
      strategies that are shared with parents to support their child's development: Tune In, Talk
      More, and Take Turns.

      To compare outcomes and evaluate effectiveness of the interventions, a comparison community
      will be selected beginning in 2021. To define the sample of comparison families, the TMW
      Center and CSC will work to find a comparison hospital with similar socioeconomic
      characteristics and child developmental outcomes as the treated community. Then within this
      comparison group, the researchers will define a sample of comparison families who have
      similar individual characteristics as the treated families (based on data shared by CSC and
      baseline data the researchers will collect). They will complete the same surveys as the
      treatment community but will not be offered the interventions.

      The following describes the ideal progression through the full intervention and study
      timeline. However, participants are able to join during any intervention time point (e.g.
      3Ts-Newborn, or the third 3Ts-Well Baby video time point, etc), even if they have not
      completed previous study measures. Whenever a participant engages 3Ts interventions for the
      first time, they will complete the eConsent module prior to receiving any intervention
      content. They will complete only the surveys applicable to the time point of their enrollment
      and beyond, according to the study timeline. Similarly, if they choose to skip certain
      interventions or survey time points, they will still be able to complete the later time
      points. The researchers will not ask participants to complete any missed intervention or
      survey time points or require them to complete any skipped interventions or surveys.
      Participants selected in the comparison group will complete only the activities here labeled
      'Data Collection.'

      Data collection: Baseline These measures will be collected at the parent's first interaction
      with the TMW study, regardless of intervention time point. Following the eConsent,
      participants will be asked to provide contact information and basic demographic information
      (parent name, parent DOB, child DOB). Then participants will be asked to fill out one survey,
      the Survey of Parental Expectations and Knowledge about Language Learning (SPEAK) that assess
      their knowledge and beliefs of child language and cognitive development. The version of the
      SPEAK to be used will depend on the child's age and at which intervention they are completing
      the baseline measures. If the participant's baseline is at the 3Ts-Newborn Intervention, the
      parent will complete SPEAK-20. If done at the start of the 3Ts-Well Baby Intervention,
      participants will complete the Baby SPEAK-10. eConsent and surveys will be collected
      digitally through the secure online platform.

      Intervention 1: 3Ts-Newborn This intervention is completed with parents of newborns in the
      postpartum mother-baby unit in the hospital. Participants will complete the 3Ts-Newborn
      educational intervention as part of Florida's Universal Infant Screen. After completing the
      eConsent module and filling out the demographics survey, parents will complete the SPEAK-20
      survey using the tablet. After this, they will watch the 12 minute education intervention
      video, also on the tablet. Finally, parents will complete the Baby SPEAK-10 survey using the
      tablet.

      Intervention 2: 3Ts-Well Baby The 3Ts-Well Baby Intervention will take place in
      pediatricians' offices during regularly scheduled well child immunization appointments. All
      parents with a child under 7 months of age who are receiving care at participating locations
      will be offered the opportunity to complete a video intervention module at their child's
      appointment from the ages of 1 to 6 months. This intervention will take place entirely on a
      tablet. If a participant did not complete the 3Ts-Newborn intervention, they will complete
      the eConsent module, demographics survey, and the Baby SPEAK-10 survey prior to viewing the
      first educational module. Parents who return for multiple well-child appointments while the
      child is 6 months or younger may complete up to a total of 4 educational video modules, one
      per visit.

      Data collection: 6 months At age six months participants will be asked to fill out the Baby
      SPEAK-10 and PACOTIS surveys, either onsite at their pediatric visit via the tablet provided
      by CSC partners or at home by logging into the TMW Tech Platform. The PACOTIS is a
      self-report measure of the respondent's perceived impact on their child's development.
      Participants in the treatment community will have access to the surveys upon completion of
      the fourth 3Ts-Well Baby Intervention Video, while participants in the comparison group will
      receive a notification from the TMW Tech Platform that it is time to complete the surveys.
      These surveys will take approximately 10 minutes to complete.

      Data collection: 9 months At age nine months, all participants will be asked to fill out two
      surveys, the Baby SPEAK-10 and the PACOTIS. All participants will receive a notification from
      the TMW Tech Platform that it is time to complete the surveys. These surveys, which are
      completed through the TMW Tech Platform, will take approximately 10 minutes to complete.

      Intervention 3: 3Ts-Let's Talk! Beginning in 2021, the 3Ts-Let's Talk! intervention will be
      offered to parents who engage in CSC community-based programming at any time their child is
      0-3 years old. Participants need not have completed previous interventions to be part of this
      intervention, and if this is their first interaction with TMW, will complete the eConsent
      module, demographics survey, and SPEAK-10. 3Ts-Let's Talk! will take place at partnering
      community organizations and participants will review educational modules with other parents
      in a group setting.

      Data collection: 12 months Two weeks before the child turns 12 months, participants will be
      receive a notification from the TMW Tech Platform that it is time to complete their next
      surveys. They will be asked to complete the Baby SPEAK - 10 and the StimQ-Reading Subscale.
      The StimQ is a parent report measuring parental verbal responsivity and involvement in their
      child's development.

      Two weeks after the child turns 12 months, participants will receive another notification
      from the TMW Tech Platform asking them to complete a second set of surveys, consisting of the
      MacArthur-Bates Communicative Development Inventories: Short Form Level 1 (MCDI I-SF) and the
      PACOTIS. The MCDI I-SF is a parent report assessing children's vocabulary comprehension and
      production, appropriate for children 8-18 months. These surveys, which are again completed
      through the TMW Tech Platform, will take approximately 10 minutes to complete.

      Data collection: 24 months Two weeks before the child turns 24 months, participants will
      receive a notification from the TMW Tech Platform that it is time to complete their next
      surveys. They will be asked to complete the SPEAK-10 and the StimQ-Reading Subscale. These
      surveys, which are completed through the TMW Tech Platform, will take approximately 10
      minutes to complete.

      Two weeks after the child turns 24 months, participants will receive another notification
      from the TMW Tech Platform asking them to complete a second set of surveys, consisting of the
      MacArthur-Bates Communicative Development Inventories: Short Form Level 2 (MCDI II-SF) and
      the PACOTIS. The MCDI II-SF is an extension of the MCDI-I-SF and is appropriate for ages
      16-30 months. These surveys, which are completed through the TMW Tech Platform, will take
      approximately 10 minutes to complete.

      Data collection: 36 months Two weeks before the child turns 36 months, participants will
      receive a notification from the TMW Tech Platform that it is time to complete their next
      surveys. They will be asked to complete the SPEAK-10 and the StimQ-Reading Subscale. These
      surveys, which are completed through the TMW Tech Platform, will take approximately 10
      minutes to complete.

      Two weeks after the child turns 36 months, parents will receive another notification from the
      TMW Tech Platform asking them to complete a second set of surveys, consisting of the
      MacArthur-Bates Communicative Development Inventories: Short Form Level 2 (MCDI II-SF) and
      the PACOTIS. Spanish speaking participants will not complete the MCDI II-SF at 36 months,
      because the Spanish version does not go beyond 30 months, while an extension to 37 months has
      recently been developed in in English. These surveys, which are completed through the TMW
      Tech Platform, will take approximately 10 minutes to complete.

      Between study activities, participants will receive text messages to the phone number they
      provide. These text messages will be content nudges to remind participants of ways they can
      use the strategies learned throughout the interventions in their day to day life. For
      example, "remember to use the 3Ts to build baby's brain while driving to school!"

      Participants will also have online access to additional educational videos and resources.
      These resources are optional and parents can view as many or as few as they wish throughout
      the course of the study.
    
  