
    
      According to the plan moderator, after the patient agrees and signs the test consent form,
      the patients will be randomly divided into two groups. The screening execution time of this
      patient is expected to be 2 weeks. After randomization into two groups, the first group was
      given low potassium content vegetables for 2 weeks, and the serum potassium level was
      recorded during routine blood tests in the hemodialysis; then the normal potassium content
      vegetables was given after 2 weeks of washing time. After 2 weeks of normal potassium content
      vegetables, the serum potassium level was recorded during routine blood tests in the
      hemodialysis, and the test was terminated. The second group was given normal potassium
      content vegetables for 2 weeks, and the serum potassium level was recorded during routine
      blood tests in the hemodialysis; after 2 weeks of washing time, the low potassium content of
      the vegetables was given for 2 weeks. The serum potassium level was c, and the test was
      terminated. Compare the potassium concentration of blood in hemodialysis patients using low
      potassium vegetables with normal potassium content vegetables.

      Routine blood test observed in this trial - including blood counts (white blood cells, red
      blood cells, platelet count, hemoglobin, hematocrit), blood biochemical tests (including urea
      nitrogen, creatinine, liver function, albumin, total protein, uric acid, electrolytes)
      (sodium, potassium, calcium, phosphorus, magnesium, iron), iron storage protein, fasting
      blood glucose, blood fat, parathyroid hormone concentration, dialysis parameters (artificial
      kidney, weekly dialysis times, dialysis hours, dialysate concentration, dialysis volume) ,
      dialysate temperature), and the patient's blood pressure changes and arrhythmia occurred
      statistical analysis. Outpatient hemodialysis patients' medical records have been coordinated
      with the hospital electronic data, data obtained from electronic medical records to obtain
      patients with hypokalemia drugs or hypertension drug use records, dialysis records. All the
      information obtained will be linked to ensure patient privacy.

      During the trial, if the patient has hospitalization for arrhythmia caused by hypokalemia,
      the record will be withdrawn from the trial and then withdrawn from the clinical trial and
      excluded from the statistical analysis.
    
  