
    
      By 2030, older adults (≥65 years) will comprise approximately 20% (~72 million) of the United
      States (US) population. Currently in the US, over 70% of older adults have hypertension, and
      approximately 30% of healthy US older adults experience a fall annually. Therefore,
      preventing and treating high blood pressure (BP) and improving balance to reduce falling are
      priorities for healthy aging. Tai Chi is a low impact, social, and enjoyable form of exercise
      that is particularly suitable for older adults. In addition, BP and balance are the two most
      studied health outcomes of Tai Chi. Of note, Tai Chi varies considerably in terms of the
      styles (e.g., Yang), forms (e.g., cloud hands), and combinations of breathing techniques,
      mental relaxation, and movement principles. However, Tai Chi is rarely tailored for the
      health outcomes being targeted in research studies. Therefore, it is still unclear if
      healthcare professionals should recommend or design specific types of Tai Chi practice based
      on the health outcomes being targeted to maximize the benefits.

      Investigators compared two different Tai Chi interventions, one tailored for reductions in BP
      (PRESSURE) and the other for improvements in balance (BALANCE) for their resultant health
      benefits among community dwelling older adults. Investigators hypothesized that PRESSURE
      would elicit statistically significantly greater BP reductions compared to BALANCE;
      meanwhile, BALANCE would elicit statistically significantly greater improvements in balance
      measures than PRESSURE.

      All participants participated in three research visits. Visit1, and Visit 2 before, and Visit
      3 after the 12-week Tai Chi exercise intervention or control group assignments. During Visit
      1, investigators: 1) measured resting BP and completed the screening checklist; 2)
      administered questionnaires assessing life style habits (i.e., the Paffenbarger Physical
      Activity Questionnaire, the Block Rapid Food Screener, the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index),
      mental health (i.e., the Perceived Stress Scale Short Form, the Geriatric Anxiety Inventory);
      and 3) gave participants accelerometers to wear at home for 96 consecutive hours to measure
      habitual physical activity levels. Between Visits 1 and 2, investigators: 1) obtained medical
      clearance for all participants; and 2) perform the randomization of participants. During
      Visit 2, investigators assessed balance function (i.e., the Single Leg Stance Test, the Timed
      Up and Go Test, the Four Square Step Test, the Postural Stability Test, the Limits of
      Stability Test, the Modified Clinical Test of Sensory Interaction and Balance Test); BP; and
      functional fitness (i.e., the Hand Grip Test, the 30-Second Sit-to-Stand Test, the Chair
      Sit-and-Reach Test, the 10-Meter Walk Test). During the 12-week Tai Chi exercise intervention
      or control group assignments, participants assigned to BALANCE and PRESSURE groups were asked
      to attend Tai Chi exercise sessions for 3 sessions/week 60 minutes/session. Participants
      assigned to the control group did attend Tai Chi exercise sessions and were asked to maintain
      their regular level of physical activity. During Visit 3, investigators administered all
      measurements completed in Visit 2, and questionnaires administered in Visit 1.
    
  