
    
      The specific aims of the intervention are: (1) To increase the knowledge of primary care
      providers as it pertains to current guidelines and communication strategies about colorectal
      cancer screening (CRCS); (2) To assist offices design a colorectal cancer screening policy,
      (3) To assist offices adopt a colorectal cancer reminder system and (4) To increase the
      screening rates of CRC screening. A secondary aim of this project is to synthesize
      information about the strengths and weaknesses of the toolbox from the primary care
      physician's (PCP) point of view to aid in future development of an interactive, web-based
      version of the Toolbox. Our hypothesis is that the practices that implement the toolbox will
      have a higher rate of colorectal cancer screening than the control group and physician
      knowledge about CRCS will be increased.

      Two of the three sites will be randomly chosen by a number generator to be the intervention
      sites using the toolbox; the third will be used as a control site. Primary care providers
      will be defined as Family Practice physicians, General Internists, Nurse Practitioners, and
      Physician Assistants. Each site has on average of 5-12 providers.

      Measurements of baseline rates of CRCS will be assessed by HIPAA compliant chart review for
      participating providers in the practice by our research coordinator. A list of qualifying
      patients will be generated by our billing department based on time seen, and billing code.
      These charts will then be randomly pulled and reviewed by our research coordinator to
      determine the percentage of eligible subjects who were screened for colorectal cancer (CRC)
      at each site. A total of 300 charts will be reviewed, broken down into 150 charts pre
      intervention and 150 charts post intervention. The post intervention chart review will be
      done at 1 year so that the patients can complete CRCS. The chart review will be done per site
      (i.e. no link between the individual providers and the patient will be made.) Also the sites
      will be de-identified so that there is no physician, or group of physicians who are held up
      to scrutiny.

      CRC screening will be considered complete if one of the following was done: (1) Fecal occult
      blood test (FOBT) in the past year, (2) flexible sigmoidoscopy in the past 5 years, (3) FOBT
      in the past year and flexible sigmoidoscopy in the past five years (4) double contrast barium
      enema in the past five years, or (5) colonoscopy in the past 10 years. This will serve as a
      baseline-screening rate for each practice. Recordable data will be as follows: Sex, Race,
      Age, Site, Did provider recommend CRCS?, Did the subject follow through with recommendation?,
      If so, what was the chosen screening modality?, Does the subject have a family history of a
      1st or 2nd degree relative with CRC?, Does the subject have a family history of a 1st or 2nd
      degree relative with adenomatous polyps? For the providers in the intervention group, they
      will be asked to attend a lunchtime lecture given by the PI on CRCS. They will also be asked
      to do a 20 question pre and post intervention questionnaire and a pre and post intervention
      health care provider survey. They will also be provided with brochures from the American
      Cancer Society. The providers in the control group will only complete the survey and the
      questionnaire.
    
  