
    
      Patients with atrial fibrillation (AF) have a poorer quality of life and have elevated rates
      of anxiety. Higher anxiety and somatization has been associated with more severe AF symptoms.
      Increased anxiety symptoms have also been associated with increased medical visits for AF
      management. Some studies show that anxiety may increase the risk of AF recurrence following
      medical intervention, including increasing AF recurrence after circumferential pulmonary vein
      ablation. Growing evidence suggests a pressing need to treat anxiety and improve quality of
      life among AF patients, yet few data exist about how to accomplish this. Mindfulness-based
      behavioral treatments offer promise in this regard.

      Interoceptive Exposure (IE) is an evidence-based cognitive behavioral intervention to address
      intolerance of anxiety-related physical sensations, commonly seen in panic disorder and other
      anxiety disorders. It involves systematically and repeatedly inducing feared physical
      sensations to promote increased tolerance and reduced distress associated with these
      symptoms.

      Mindfulness is defined as paying attention to the present moment in an open and nonjudgmental
      way. Mindfulness-based behavioral interventions have been successfully applied in various
      psychiatric and medical patient populations, including cardiac patients. Two meta-analyses
      suggest that mindfulness-based interventions are moderately effective for reducing distress
      related to physical or psychosomatic illnesses.

      The investigators of this study hypothesize that a mindfulness and IE intervention will
      decrease anxiety, AF symptoms and AF recurrence, and will improve quality of life among
      patients with AF.

      This is a pilot, prospective trial of a mindfulness and IE intervention in patients with AF.
      The mindfulness and IE intervention will be delivered in four to five, manualized, individual
      sessions.
    
  