
    
      Our goal is to determine the functional brain networks that define and distinguish two
      induced states of sustained attention -- hypnosis and mindfulness -- that may be of
      substantial relevance to medicine.

      Defining the neural underpinnings of these states would have broad implications for
      understanding how cognitive states emerge from functional networks, how they affect
      peripheral autonomic nervous system activity, and how their therapeutic efficacy can be
      optimized.

      We propose a functional MRI study using resting state methodology to study 20-40 subjects
      from each of the four following groups:

        1. Highly hypnotizable subjects

        2. Minimally hypnotizable subjects

        3. Experienced mindfulness meditators

        4. Novice mindfulness meditators. The ability to be hypnotized is a stable and measurable
           trait that can be pre-screened and quantified. Dr. Spiegel will select subjects
           according to their ability to be hypnotized prior to the MRI visit (see ?recruiting?
           below). We will seek greatest contrast between groups by enrolling those with the
           highest (8-10) and lowest (0-2) scores on the Hypnotic Induction Profile. The presence
           of a poorly hypnotizable group allows for a control condition of those who have
           undergone an identical induction routine without achieving hypnotic trance. Similarly,
           novice meditators will serve as a control for the group experienced in mindfulness
           meditation.

      Prior studies have shown differences in both brain activation and grey matter volume
      associated with longer practice of meditation (> 4 years) compared with novice meditators. As
      such, experienced meditators will be defined as those with a regular meditation practice of
      four years or longer. Novice meditators will be new practitioners who are interested in
      mindfulness meditation practice, and who completed a one-hour meditation training during the
      week before their study participation.
    
  