
    
      Sports-related traumatic brain injury (sTBI) is common in competitive sports and recreational
      activities, with 1.6 to 3.8 million reported annually in the U.S. Children, adolescents and
      young adults are at the highest risk for sustaining mild TBI. There is scarce high-level
      prospective, objective evidence indicating that any recent helmet design can prevent sTBI.
      While helmets were developed for, and are effective in, preventing skull fractures and
      intracranial hematomas, it is unclear if they afford protection against forces inside the
      cranium.

      This study will investigate the relationship between potential changes in brain structure and
      function pre and post season compared to helmet make and model and head impact exposure in
      high school and college athletes playing a collision sport such as football. The use of
      helmets/headgear during such a high-risk sport will allow for collision measurement devices
      to be affixed to the athlete under the helmet and will not affect play or fit of equipment.
      By the nature of the sport selected, it is likely this study will primarily include males,
      however if any female meets inclusion criteria on the team selected, the participant will be
      included in this investigation. All participants will be outfitted with an accelerometer
      which will measure the magnitude of every impact to the head sustained by the athlete.
      Effectiveness of the helmet model will be determined via differences in longitudinal brain
      imaging and functional testing following competitive football participation. A subset of
      athletes who report a diagnosed concussion will also receive additional brain neuroanatomical
      and neurophysiological testing within a week following the diagnosed concussive event. The
      investigators will also enroll a group of athletes involved in a non-contact sport (such as
      cross country) to act as controls.
    
  