
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the safety of neoadjuvant and adjuvant sargramostim (GM-CSF) and adjuvant
           chemotherapy in patients with resectable stage II or III colon cancer.

        -  Determine the efficacy, in terms of enhanced tumor-associated macrophage response, of
           this regimen in these patients.

      Secondary

        -  Determine overall survival and time to progression in patients treated with this
           regimen.

      OUTLINE:

        -  Neoadjuvant therapy and surgery: Patients receive sargramostim (GM-CSF) subcutaneously
           (SC) once daily beginning between days -16 and -12 and continuing until day -1. Patients
           undergo surgical resection on day 0. Patients with stage I or IV disease are removed
           from the study. All other patients proceed to adjuvant chemotherapy or observation.

        -  Adjuvant chemotherapy or observation: Patients with high-risk stage II or any stage III
           disease are assigned to group 1 or 2. Patients with low-risk stage II disease are
           assigned to group 3.

             -  Group 1 (adjuvant therapy for high-risk stage II disease): Patients receive
                leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours and fluorouracil IV on days 1, 8, 15, 22, 29 and
                36. Patients also receive GM-CSF SC once daily on days 50-54. Treatment repeats
                every 56 days for up to 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or
                unacceptable toxicity.

             -  Group 2 (adjuvant therapy for stage III disease): Patients receive adjuvant
                chemotherapy and GM-CSF as in group 1. Alternatively, patients may receive
                oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours and leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours on day 1 and
                fluorouracil IV over 46 hours beginning on day 1. These patients also receive
                GM-CSF SC once daily on days 10-14 of every fourth course. Treatment repeats every
                14 days for up to 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
                toxicity.

             -  Group 3 (low-risk stage II disease): Patients undergo observation only every 3
                months.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for survival.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 50 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  