
    
      Pulmonary embolism (PE) is a worldwide health problem, with an estimated incidence of up to
      69 cases per 100,000 persons annually. In the U.S., 101,000 patients were hospitalized with a
      primary diagnosis of PE in 2002, resulting in direct medical costs of $720 million. There is
      growing evidence that outpatient treatment with low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH) is an
      effective and safe option for up to 50% of patients with non-massive PE. Despite this
      evidence, outpatient treatment of PE is uncommon because (1) explicit criteria that identify
      patients who are at low-risk of adverse medical outcomes have not been available, and (2)
      randomized trials demonstrating the effectiveness and safety of outpatient treatment have not
      been performed. We developed a clinical prognostic model that accurately identifies patients
      with PE who are at low-risk for short-term mortality, symptomatic recurrent venous
      thromboembolism (VTE), and major bleeding. This model provides clinicians an easily applied,
      explicit risk stratification tool for patients with PE, addressing a key barrier to
      outpatient treatment. The broad objective of this clinical trial is to address the other
      major barrier to outpatient treatment of low-risk patients with non-massive PE, the
      effectiveness and safety of outpatient management. We will randomize low-risk patients
      (identified using our prognostic model) with PE from hospital emergency departments to
      receive outpatient or inpatient treatment with LMWH for ≥5 days, followed by oral
      anticoagulation. The specific aims of the project are to compare (1) the frequency of
      recurrent VTE, (2) the frequency of major bleeding and all-cause mortality, and (3) medical
      resource utilization and patient satisfaction with care among patients randomized to receive
      outpatient or inpatient treatment with LMWH. The primary study outcome will be the rate of
      symptomatic recurrent VTE at 3 months after randomization. The secondary outcomes will be the
      rate of major bleeding and all-cause mortality. The ancillary outcomes will be medical
      resource utilization and patient satisfaction with care. The hypotheses guiding this trial
      are that outpatient treatment with LMWH is as effective and safe as inpatient treatment with
      LMWH, and is also associated with reduced medical resource utilization and increase patient
      satisfaction with care. This study is innovative because it translates a validated prognostic
      model into clinical practice and represents the first direct comparison of outpatient versus
      inpatient treatment of low-risk patients with PE. Successful completion of this project will
      provide a strong scientific basis for treating low-risk patients with PE in the outpatient
      setting. Outpatient management of low-risk patients with PE is likely to improve quality and
      efficiency of care by reducing resource utilization and increasing patient satisfaction with
      care. Our findings will have importance to physicians, hospitals, and policy-makers who are
      committed to optimizing patient safety and providing high-quality, cost-effective care.
    
  