
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Asthma is a leading cause of childhood illness that disproportionately affects minority
      children. The causes of higher hospitalization and death rates among minority children with
      asthma are not understood. It is commonly assumed that barriers related to poverty underlie
      this public health issue. Two proposed causes of this increased morbidity and mortality are
      problems associated with effective asthma self-management and difficulties in establishing
      and maintaining continuity of medical care.

      The study was part of a demonstration and education initiative "Interventions for Control of
      Asthma Among Black and Hispanic Children" which was released by the NHLBI in June 1989.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      A school-based asthma self-management program was developed to promote children's
      self-management skills within predominately minority schools. A community-based asthma health
      worker program was developed to assist minority families in establishing and maintaining
      asthma health care within the community. It was hypothesized that the most effective control
      of asthma would be achieved with the combination of these two interventions. Twenty
      elementary schools each in inner-city Baltimore, Maryland and inner-city Washington D.C.
      served as study sites. Asthmatic children grades 1-5 were identified by school records and
      parent surveys. After obtaining consent, schools were randomly assigned to one of four
      intervention groups: 1) a control/minimal intervention, 2) a school-based asthma education
      program, 3) a community-based asthma health worker program, and 4) a combined intervention
      that included both the school-based education program and the community-based health worker
      program. The duration of both the school program and the Community health worker program was
      twelve months. Baseline measures were collected after obtaining consent and prior to school
      randomization. Followup measures were collected from children and families at 6, 12, 18, and
      24 months. Data were collected on hospitalization, emergency or urgent care, acute episodes,
      health care utilization, medications, school absences, academic performance, self-esteem,
      self and family asthma management, and family coping.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  