
    
      A large number of veterans suffer from distress-based conditions, such as anxiety and
      depression, putting them at risk of experiencing persistent pain and prolonged opioid use
      following surgery. Preventing these problems (our long term goal) for the thousands of
      veterans who undergo surgery each year can have a dramatic impact on quality of life and
      productivity, including positive effects on mood, daily activities, sleep, cognitive
      functions, social life and decreased risk of suicide (1, 2). In addition to these benefits
      for individual veterans, prevention of these problems can significantly reduce the estimated
      billions of dollars associated with veterans' utilization of the healthcare system as well as
      costs associated with lost work productivity, including unemployment and disability benefits
      (3).

      Building on strong and consistent evidence showing that high anxiety and depression put
      veterans at risk for persistent pain and prolonged opioid use following surgery (4, 5), this
      proposal tests the feasibility and preliminary efficacy of implementing a 1-day training
      session with Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT) in veterans identified to be at-risk
      prior to surgery. ACT has been shown to significantly lower distress and disability in
      patients with chronic pain (6-8) and is particularly valuable intervention for the 80% of
      veterans who experience some level of psychological distress prior to surgery (9) and the 50%
      of veterans who report they experience pain on a regular basis (10, 11). Current practice
      does not include psychological interventions specifically aimed at addressing distress-based
      conditions prior to surgery. This study is a necessary first step in evaluating the efficacy
      of this novel intervention during a critical juncture in care to benefit veterans and prevent
      the devastating consequences of persistent pain and prolonged opioid use following surgery.

      This project is based on our interdisciplinary team's research on psychological factors
      predicting persistent pain after total knee replacement (12) and the effect of ACT on
      depression and pain in depressed migraine sufferers (13). The design of this 1-day workshop
      was developed based on feedback given by patients who received ACT during co-I Dindo's
      preliminary study. The rationale for this research is that, once we determine the feasibility
      and preliminary efficacy of incorporating this 1-day workshop into treatment as usual (TAU)
      to preoperatively target distress-based risk conditions, findings from this study will be
      used to inform the design and implementation of a larger, well controlled, randomized
      clinical trial that will evaluate the efficacy of ACT plus TAU (ACT + TAU) for at-risk
      veterans. The following specific aims will be achieved:

        -  Aim #1: The primary aim of this pilot study is to determine the feasibility of
           successfully delivering a 1-day ACT intervention with at-risk veterans prior to surgery
           and an individualized "booster" session after surgery. The following aspects of the
           intervention will be assessed: 1) the number of at-risk veterans who are willing and
           able to receive the ACT workshops and individual "booster" sessions; 2) veteran
           identification of barriers and facilitators to receiving the ACT intervention and
           utilizing the skills taught; 3) trainer identification of barriers and facilitators to
           providing the ACT intervention with at-risk veterans before and after surgery; and 4)
           veteran and trainer suggestions about ways to improve the intervention. These aspects
           will be assessed primarily through guided open-ended interviews after the ACT workshop
           and 3 months postoperatively.

        -  Aim #2: To determine if a 1-day preoperative ACT workshop with an individualized
           "booster" session postoperatively reduces the length and/or amount of pain and opioid
           use following surgery when compared to treatment as usual (TAU). Participants will be
           randomized to ACT + TAU or TAU and record pain and opioid use daily after surgery.

        -  Aim #3: A secondary, exploratory aim is to determine the usability and utility of the
           Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) modules for assessing
           pain and associated symptoms in veterans. We will compare modules to the Brief Pain
           Inventory (Pain Interference), the State/Trait Anxiety Inventory (Anxiety), and the
           Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ)-9 (Depression).

      This project has the potential to infuse what is known about effective treatment of chronic
      pain into the acute care environment to benefit veterans and improve surgical outcomes. It
      incorporates an interdisciplinary approach to the care of veterans that attends to the
      psychology of pain.
    
  