
    
      Metastatic or locally advanced clear cell renal carcinomas (RCC) are treated with targeted
      therapies (inhibitors of tyrosine kinases) and immune check-points inhibitors.

      In first line many combos are tested. Association of TKI-PD L1-inhibitor is one option.
      Axitinib-Pembrolizumab showed very high response rate and progression free survival compared
      to Sunitinib but immunotherapies have a specific adverse event profile. Actually, there is no
      standardized follow-up for this type of treatment.

      It is important to develop new strategies that reduce the resources used while improving the
      performance of this surveillance for the benefit of patients, to improve the comfort of
      patients, to improve the compliance and to optimise the dose of treatment received, in a
      course of care reworked by maintaining a continuous contact not demanding.

      In collaboration with the Scientific Research National Center, the theory of chaos and its
      derivatives was applied to cancer and a web-application was developed on these concepts to
      remotely analyze the dynamics of the symptoms felt by the patient and early detect a
      recurrence or a complication of his cancer. Clinical symptoms are self-assessed by patients
      once a week, transcribed on their smartphone or computer through the Internet application.
      Relevant clinical events are detected using data processing algorithms, combining the
      dynamics of the various reported symptoms. In this case, an alert message is sent to the
      health care team. The referring oncologist is thus warned early. He can then make a telephone
      call to the patient about the reality of the medical alert and summon him for a check-up or
      any other complementary examination.

      Applied to lung cancer, this application is a tried-and-tested solution with a phase III
      clinical trial. The main criteria was overall survival. The monitoring of these patients with
      the web-application and with a number of scanners reduced by 50% compared to the reference
      arm, made it possible to diagnose relapses earlier, to treat them under better conditions
      and, above all, to improve statistically significant overall survival (a gain in overall
      survival of 26% at 1 year (in patients intending to treat): 49% in the standard arm versus
      75% in the experimental arm: p = 0.0025. This profit persists with 2 years of decline (a
      median gain in overall survival of 7.6 months, p=0.0312).

      This concept was confirmed in the NCT0578006 study published by Basch et al. Basch used a
      similar application during chemotherapy treatment in 766 cancer patients. The web-application
      has improved overall survival by 5 months (Hazard ratio: 0.83).

      This web-application provided a statistical improvement in the quality of life for lung
      cancer, access to new therapeutic lines (74% versus 33%, p <0.001) and optimally with
      treatments delivered at therapeutic doses (in 76% versus 34%) and faster access to supportive
      care for a clear improvement in the general condition of patients (77 versus 33%, p <0.001).
      The key for these patients who experienced many treatment toxicities was to use a better
      method of active follow-up.

      A real-time survey of quality of life of Renal Cell Cancer patients receiving
      Axitinib/Pembrolizumab is an objective that has never been evaluated. This study will allow
      to generate data in patients who were not included in the phase III study (KEYNOTE 426):
      Performance Status =2, with central nervous system metastasis and with renal insufficiency.
      Personalized monitoring of these patients with the web-application KidneyPRO is even more
      relevant because the aim would be to quickly provide care adapted to adverse events,
      supportive care in case of loss of activity…

      The web-application KidneyPRO investigated has been developed for this purpose.
    
  