
    
      Rationale: Esophageal cancer represents the fifth most common tumor of cancers of the
      digestive system in Spain, between the ten most common cancers and the sixth leading cause of
      cancer death in the world. Among the standard modalities for treatment with curative
      intention, surgery is available, in combination with neoadjuvant (pre-surgery) and/or
      adjuvant (post-surgery) chemotherapy and radiation therapy. Esophageal surgery is crucial to
      improve overall survival in patients with esophageal cancer.

      Surgical treatment is based on esophageal resection and reconstruction of digestive transit,
      as well as a correct lymphadenectomy. One of the techniques used is Ivor Lewis transthoracic
      esophagectomy. Classically, thoracic approach has been done by open approach (thoracotomy),
      with minimally invasive (laparoscopy) abdominal approach, a reality in our centre and in most
      European centres.

      Postoperative comorbidity, specially respiratory complications, occur approximately in half
      of patients with esophagectomy with thoracotomy (open approach). Although current clinical
      trials have reported advantages over minimally invasive esophagectomy (MI), at the time, most
      esophageal surgery is performed by open approach. More studies are needed to clarify the role
      of minimally invasive esophagectomy in esophageal cancer, so as to provide evidence about the
      comorbidity and effectiveness of surgical robot-assisted technique.

      If our hypothesis is proved correct, robot-assisted thoracic approach will result in a lower
      percentage of respiratory and overall postoperative complications, lower blood loss, shorter
      hospital stay, but with at least similar oncologic outcomes and better postoperative quality
      of life compared with the open transthoracic esophagectomy (current standard).

      Objective: Evaluate the benefits, risks and cost-efficiency of Robot-assisted thoracic
      approach as a better approach to open transthoracic Ivor Lewis esophagectomy as treatment for
      esophageal cancer.

      Study design: This is an investigator-initiated and investigator-driven monocentre randomized
      controlled parallel-group, phase IV, superiority trial.

      Study populations: Patients (age ≥ 18) with histologically proven surgical resectable
      (cT1-4a, N0-3, M0) adenocarcinoma, squamous cell carcinoma, undifferentiated esophageal
      carcinoma or carcinomas of the esophagogastric junction (EGJ) (Siewert I or II) candidate to
      Ivor Lewis Esophagectomy.

      Intervention:108 patients will be randomly allocated to either A) Robot-assisted thoracic
      approach or B) Open transthoracic esophagectomy, in Ivor Lewis technique. In both groups the
      abdominal approach will be performed by laparoscopy (minimally invasive).

      Patients will receive the following interventions:

      Group A. Robot-assisted thoracic approach in Ivor Lewis esophagectomy. Group B. Open
      transthoracic approach (thoracotomy) in Ivor Lewis esophagectomy.

      Both surgical techniques are used in our usual clinical practice of the General and Digestive
      Surgery Department of the Bellvitge University Hospital (HUB).

      Main study parameters/endpoints: Primary outcome is the percentage of respiratory and overall
      complications as stated by the modified Clavien-Dindo classification (MCDC).

      Secondary outcomes are individual components of the primary endpoint (major and minor
      complications), (in hospital) mortality, R0 resections, oncologic outcomes, postoperative
      recovery, cost-effectiveness and quality of life.

      Follow-up:84±3 days after hospital discharge.

      NOTE: The project consists of a clinical trial and an extension study to assess the
      free-survival of 3 and 5 years from surgery.
    
  