
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the improvement or stabilization of weight in elderly or poor performance status
           patients with unresectable non-small cell lung cancer treated with docetaxel with or
           without infliximab (infliximab treatment discontinued effective 10/05/05).

        -  Compare appetite and functional status in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the toxicity of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare the augmentation or maintenance of lean tissue in patients treated with these
           regimens.

        -  Compare the response rates and time to disease progression in patients treated with
           these regimens.

        -  Compare the survival of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Determine whether the tumor necrosis factor-alpha polymorphisms in the -308 and -238
           regions predict which cancer patients will experience loss of appetite and weight and
           which patients might potentially benefit from infliximab (infliximab treatment
           discontinued effective 10/05/05).

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study. Patients
      are stratified according to weight loss within the past 6 months (0% vs more than 0% to less
      than 5% vs at least 5%), number of prior chemotherapy regimens (0 vs 1 vs more than 1),
      gender, and GBU prognostic index (good vs bad vs unsure).

        -  Part A (non-randomized, single-center portion of study): Five patients receive
           infliximab IV (infliximab treatment discontinued effective 10/05/05) over 2 hours once
           weekly on weeks 1, 3, and 5 of the first course and once weekly on weeks 1 and 5 of all
           subsequent courses and docetaxel IV over 1 hour (immediately after completion of
           infliximab infusion [infliximab treatment discontinued effective 10/05/05]) once weekly
           on weeks 1-6 of each course. Treatment repeats every 8 weeks for 2-3 courses in the
           absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      If none of the 5 patients experiences any grade 4 or 5 toxicity directly attributable to
      infliximab (infliximab treatment discontinued effective 10/05/05), additional patients are
      accrued for part B of the study.

        -  Part B (randomized, multicenter portion of study): Patients are randomized to 1 of 2
           treatment arms.

             -  Arm I (infliximab treatment discontinued effective 10/05/05): Patients receive
                infliximab and docetaxel as in part A.

             -  Arm II: Patients receive docetaxel as in part A and placebo IV over 2 hours
                according to the infliximab schedule in part A (infliximab treatment discontinued
                effective 10/05/05).

      Treatment in both arms repeats as in part A.

      Quality of life, fatigue, appetite/anorexia, cachexia, and weight are assessed at baseline,
      weekly on weeks 1-8, and then monthly for the remainder of study treatment.

      Patients are followed every 6 months for 5 years.
    
  