
    
      This project aims to evaluate the effect of a therapy called whole body vibration (WBV) on
      muscle function and joint biomechanics in children and adolescents suffering from juvenile
      idiopathic arthritis (JIA).

      JIA is the most common chronic form of arthritis in children and affects at least 1 in 1000
      Canadian children and youth. Current data suggests that a large number of children suffering
      from JIA will encounter permanent joint damage, to which direct effects of inflammation are
      an important contributor. Nevertheless, recent research has also shown that impaired muscle
      function and a subsequent alteration of joint loading might by itself induce joint damage.
      Fifty percent of JIA patients have significant impairments of muscle function and this is
      often present in patients who do not have active arthritis anymore. In addition to optimum
      medical treatment of the disease, it is therefore important to improve muscle function in
      order to protect the joints.

      WBV therapy might be an interesting technique to achieve this in JIA patients. It is able to
      improve muscle function very efficiently with relatively short training times and at the same
      time confers loads to the lower limbs which are only 30% of body weight. The WBV device
      consists of a plate going up and down along a fulcrum at a high frequency. The patient stands
      on the WBV device and the vibration will induce muscle stretch reflexes producing muscle
      contractions. These muscle contractions are similar to muscle activity during exercise and
      are not perceived as painful or unpleasant. The technique has been used in children with
      several conditions impairing muscle function.

      The primary question to be investigated in the proposed study is whether WBV therapy will
      significantly improve muscle function in JIA patients. In addition, the effect of an
      improvement in muscle function on gait and the loading of individual joints at the lower
      extremity will be examined. Finally the effect of WBV therapy on quality of life will be
      assessed.

      We propose conducting a controlled trial investigation. This implies, that one group of study
      participants, called the intervention group, will do the WBV therapy, whereas a second group,
      called the control group, will just follow their daily habitual activities. All participants
      will have an initial assessment of muscle function, electrical muscle activity and joint
      biomechanics by completely painless measurement techniques at the Children's Hospital of
      Eastern Ontario (CHEO) and a nearby Human Motion Biomechanics lab at the University of
      Ottawa. In addition, an MRI of the lower legs without contrast media will be done to confirm
      the absence of joint effusions as well as bone or muscle edema. Quality of life will be
      assessed by a standard questionnaire that has been validated in JIA. Subsequently, study
      participants in the intervention group as well as their parents will be introduced to the
      therapy during two separate sessions at the CHEO. They will then take a WBV device home and
      perform 6 minutes of training on 5 days a week for 3 months. Each month, they will return to
      CHEO for assessment of muscle function and demonstration of training technique. At the end of
      the 3 month period, both intervention and control group patients will repeat the initial set
      of assessments including MRI. After another 3 month period, all participants will return for
      a final assessment of muscle function and joint biomechanics but not MRI to document
      persistence of any change observed.
    
  