
    
      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of the injectable drug
      cabotegravir (CAB LA), for pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) in HIV-uninfected cisgender men
      and transgender women who have sex with men (MSM and TGW).

      This study will enroll HIV-uninfected MSM and TGW at risk for acquiring HIV infection.
      Participants will be followed for a total of 4 years.

      This study will take place in three steps. Participants will be randomly assigned to one of
      two arms:

      Arm A:

      Step 1: Participants will receive daily oral CAB tablets and daily oral TDF/FTC placebo
      tablets for 5 weeks.

      Step 2: Participants will receive an intramuscular (IM) injection of CAB LA at two time
      points 4 weeks apart and every 8 weeks thereafter and daily oral TDF/FTC placebo tablets to
      Week 153.

      Arm B:

      Step 1: Participants will receive daily oral TDF/FTC tablets and daily oral CAB placebo
      tablets for 5 weeks.

      Step 2: Participants will receive daily oral TDF/FTC tablets and an IM injection of placebo
      at two time points 4 weeks apart and every 8 weeks thereafter to Week 153.

      In Step 3, all participants (Arms A and B) will receive daily oral TDF/FTC tablets starting
      at Week 153 (last day of Step 2)/Day 0 (first day of Step 3) and continue for 48 weeks.

      Participants will attend up to 47 study visits throughout the study. Visits may include
      physical examinations, blood collection, urine collection, an electrocardiogram (ECG), and
      rectal swab collection. Some participants may have a bone mineral density-energy x-ray
      absorptimetry (DXA) scan at select visits.

      All participants will be transitioned to locally available HIV prevention services, including
      services for PrEP, if available, at the end of their participation in the study.

      HPTN 083-01 is a sub-study of HPTN 083. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety,
      tolerability, and acceptability of CAB LA for the prevention of HIV among adolescent males.
      Participants will receive oral CAB for 5 weeks, followed by 29 weeks on CAB LA, then
      quarterly visits for 48 weeks after final injection. All participants who have received at
      least one injection will be followed for 48 weeks after their last injection. Total study
      duration per participant will be approximately 21 months.

      HPTN 083-02 is a qualitative sub-study of participants enrolled in HPTN 083. The purpose of
      this study is to explore potential barriers, facilitators, and potentially modifiable issues
      related to adherence to clinic visits in the context of injectable PrEP; to learn about
      preferences and decision making regarding the use of oral versus injectable PrEP, or other
      biomedical prevention products; and to gather explanatory qualitative data regarding
      participants' experiences in HPTN 083 to better interpret study results and guide next
      prevention strategies. Participants in this sub-study will complete one individual
      semi-structured qualitative interview.
    
  