
    
      The intervention group will perform the training program while the control group will receive
      usual hospital care. As the study will be conducted in the same ward and due to the possible
      effect of subjects in the control group seeing subjects in the intervention group performing
      physical activity in addition to normal hospital care and because the service team itself may
      intervene involuntarily in the control group through increased activity, randomization will
      take place in a time dependent manner. Patients admitted for the first 12 weeks will be
      assigned to the control group. After these twelve weeks there will be a 3-week break and in
      the next 12 weeks (week 16 to 27) the admitted patients will be assigned to the intervention
      group. During the 3-week break, all members of the clinic staff will receive training on the
      intervention program.

      All testing (at admission and discharge) will be performed in the same setting (Centro
      Hospitalar do Porto, Porto, Portugal) and by the same investigators.

      Participants will include elderly people aged 65 years or older recruited from patients
      admitted into one of the three medical wards of the Centro Hospitalar do Porto (Porto,
      Portugal). Due to the length of the study it is possible a patient will be readmitted after
      participating in either the control or experimental group. To avoid this confounding
      variable, a study participant who is readmitted to the hospital during the course of the
      study will not be included in the study population a second time.

      All clinical information will be obtained through direct observation of patients and
      consultation of medical records.

      Interventions Usual care group (control) Participants assigned to the control group will
      receive usual hospital care, which includes physical rehabilitation when needed.

      Intervention group (training) The intervention will consist of an twice daily walking
      training, plus privileging trips to the toilet by walking (with support devices or with
      support from people) and all daytime meals seated (not in bed). Attending of the particular
      and unexplored characteristics of the proposed intervention, namely the use of the toilet and
      meals, the proposed intervention extends throughout the 24 hours of the day, seven days a
      week. Therefore, it is an intervention that requires the alignment of the whole care team in
      its execution. The duration and quality of the training, planned for weeks 13 to 15, will be
      crucial to ensure the involvement of the whole team and the success of this study. We will
      re-organize the daily work of this particular service in order to focus nursing care on
      promoting independence in self-care.

      Walk training will consist of walking as far as possible with or without assistance for 20
      minutes. All training sessions will be individually monitored with a record of training
      completed compiled.
    
  