
    
      Friedreich's Ataxia (FRDA) is a hereditary, progressive neurodegenerative disorder caused by
      mutations in the gene encoding frataxin. The mutation results in a severe reduction in levels
      of the mitochondrial protein, frataxin. A decline in frataxin levels and its associated
      consequences is believed to be the primary cause of symptoms in FRDA patients. The clinical
      symptoms of FRDA include progressive gait and limb ataxia, dysarthria, diabetes mellitus and
      hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. First symptoms usually appear between the age of 5 and 15 years.
      As the disease progresses the patient becomes confined to a wheel chair and at later stages
      the patients become increasingly incapacitated. There is currently no effective treatment for
      FRDA.

      The naturally occurring hormone, erythropoietin (EPO), is able to protect various neuronal
      tissues from ischemic injury. Recombinant human erythropoietin (EPO) increases frataxin
      expression in lymphocytes from patients with FRDA. Also, EPO treatment of FRDA patients
      resulted in a favourable outcome compared to baseline as assessed by the levels of frataxin
      and biomarkers of oxidative stress. In a pilot study with EPO in FRDA patients, the treatment
      was well tolerated apart from the expected haematological (haematopoietic) side effects. Lu
      AA24493 (CEPO) is a modified (carbamylated) version of EPO, which is neuroprotective but
      without the haematopoietic side effects. Lu AA24493 is being developed for treatment of
      patients with FRDA.

      Although the target for the non-haematological effects of Lu AA24493 (and EPO) is currently
      unknown, Lu AA24493 (CEPO) can protect cells and tissue from various types of injuries.
      Furthermore, in vitro Lu AA24493 (CEPO) increases the frataxin levels in lymphocytes from
      FRDA patients as well as from control patients. This study aims to evaluate the safety of 2
      weeks treatment (6 doses, 3 doses per week) of CEPO in patients with FRDA and to explore
      efficacy by using neurological rating scales and by exploring levels of frataxin and
      biomarkers of oxidative stress.
    
  