
    
      The low-flow vascular malformations include venous and lymphatic malformations. These
      malformations are made of dilated dysplastic vessels in which the circulation is lowed down,
      which can lead to phenomena of thrombosis, hemorrhage, with sometimes a repercussion on the
      general coagulation. The malformation often affects the skin and can extend deep to the
      muscles and bone, as well as to deep organs. It presents by swelling sometimes voluminous and
      often painful. Children with low-flow malformations and their families have difficulty living
      with their illness and have an impact on their quality of life (QOL).

      These difficulties seem relative to :

        -  the lack of knowledge of the disease by doctors and the general public - medical
           difficulties directly related to the disease and its evolution: pain, deformation,
           biological anomaly, chronicity, lack of effective treatment

        -  psychological difficulties related to the visible and unesthetic appearance of the
           lesions

        -  excluding certain social activities The difficulties experienced by patients with
           slow-flow malformations and their family, as well as the impact on their QOL, have never
           been studied. Although QOL appears to be the best reflection of the severity of a
           chronic condition, there is no QOL questionnaire that is appropriate for the slow-flow
           malformations of the child or adult.

      The aim of the study is to develope a specific life quality test for children between 11 to
      15 years old.

      These data will be used in a second time to build and validate a scale of quality of life
      specific slow-flow malformations of the child aged 11 to 15 years old. The study is build in
      3 parts:

      Focus group: collect the dimension of the lived experience and the perceptions of the
      children with slow-flow malformations as well as their needs and their expectations

      Validation of the life quality test: the data obtained during focus group will be used to
      develop the scale of life quality specific to the child aged 11 to 15 years suffering to
      low-flow malformations. In a second time to validate the scale, this life quality test will
      be send to patients.
    
  