
    
      Heart failure (HF) is a continuously growing public health problem. Presently, almost 40
      million people are affected by heart failure worldwide. According to World Health
      Organization (WHO), cardiovascular diseases are number one cause of deaths globally . In
      developed countries, the prevalence of heart failure is approximately 1-2% of the adult
      population. In Egypt, the prevalence of HF with preserved ejection fraction represents about
      34.2 % while heart failure with reduced ejection fraction represents 65.8 % of total heart
      failure cases .

      A broad range of cardiac diseases, inherited disorders, and systematic diseases can result in
      heart failure. The situation is even more complex, as heart failure can have mixed
      etiologies. Heart failure itself represents a ﬁnal common pathway in response to genetic
      and/or environmental inﬂuences. A clear genetic identification can positively influence
      patient treatment and, thereby, improve prognosis. Besides, understanding the pathogenesis of
      genetically induced heart failure at it molecular level may lead to the development of
      specific individual heart failure therapies in the future.

      The human heart uses large amounts of amino acids (AAs) as regulators of both myocardium
      protein turnover and energy metabolism, but uses few AAs as substrates for direct energy
      production .The heart's reliance on AAs increases during heart failure because of high
      myocardium anabolic activity and cardiomyocyte energy shortage. Anabolic activity of the
      ventricle wall is induced by both high levels of ventricular pressure and a myocardial
      substrate shift from fatty acid oxidation (FAOX) to glucose oxidation (GLUOX).

      Various mechanisms may potentially be operating during CHF to impair arterial AAs, including
      inadequate protein-energy intake, body AA overconsumption, particularly in hyper metabolic
      states, increased remodeling activity of the heart and lung and ﬁnally, the development of
      pathogenic gut ﬂora. Understanding arterial AA levels could be useful to understand whether
      heart anabolic activity and remaining heart capacity of energy production are being
      threatened by low AA s and furthermore may allow us to correct altered AAs through diet
      and/or supplementation of speciﬁc free AAs.

      A reduction in essential AAs in CHF subjects, shows the disease severity-related decline of
      arterial levels of those non-essential (and essential methionine) AAs with the greatest
      impact on myocardium energetics, anti-oxidative capacity and myocardial protein remodeling.

      Calcium cycling protein and heart failure Ca2+-dependent signaling is highly regulated in
      cardiomyocytes and determines the force of cardiac muscle contraction. Ca2+ cycling refers to
      the release and reuptake of intracellular Ca2+ that drives muscle contraction and relaxation
      in failing hearts. Ca2+ cycling is profoundly altered, resulting in impaired contractility
      and fatal cardiac arrhythmias. The key defects in Ca2+ cycling occur at the level of the
      sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR), a Ca2+ storage organelle in muscle. Defects in the regulation of
      Ca2+ cycling proteins including the ryanodine receptor 2 (RyR2) a cardiac Ca2+ release
      channel macromolecular complexes and the sarcoplasmic/endoplasmic reticulum Ca2+ ATPase2a
      (SERCA2a) contribute to heart failure.

      Phosphorylation of the cardiac ryanodine receptor (RyR2) phospho-site S2808 has hallmark of
      heart failure (HF) and a critical mediator of the physiological fight or flight response of
      the heart. In support of this hypothesis, mice unable to undergo phosphorylation at
      RyR2-S2808 (S2808A) were significantly protected against HF and displayed a blunted response
      to adrenergic stimulation.
    
  