
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the event-free survival and survival of patients treated for inflammatory
      (Stage IIIb) and responsive stage IV breast cancer with BUMELTT and PBSC support and low dose
      immunotherapy with IL2 and GM-CSF.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      II. To determine the toxicity of a combination of low-dose IL-2 and GM-CSF in patients
      following HDC with BUMELTT and PBSC support.

      OUTLINE:

      PREPARATIVE REGIMEN: Patients receive busulfan orally (PO) once every 6 hours on days -8, -7,
      and -6; melphalan IV over 30 minutes on days -5 and -4; and thiotepa IV over 2 hours on days
      -3 and -2.

      TRANSPLANTATION: Patients undergo autologous peripheral blood stem cell infusion on day 0.

      POST-TRANSPLANT THERAPY: All patients receive tamoxifen citrate* PO once daily beginning
      prior to aldesleukin (IL-2) and sargramostim (GM-CSF) therapy and continuing for 5 years or
      until relapse (estrogen receptor [ER]- or progesterone receptor [PR]-positive patients) OR
      until completion of IL-2/GM-CSF therapy (ER-negative or PR-negative patients). Eligible
      patients receive IL-2 subcutaneously (SC) daily and GM-CSF SC 3 times weekly for 12 weeks
      beginning 30-100 days after transplantation. Patients may receive radiotherapy after
      completion of IL-2/GM-CSF treatment if no prior radiotherapy was given before
      transplantation.

      *Stage IV patients not receiving IL-2/GM-CSF therapy who received tamoxifen citrate as part
      of adjuvant therapy and subsequently failed, receive oral anastrozole once daily for 5 years
      or until progression instead of tamoxifen.

      [*For postmenopausal patients, the choice and duration of hormonal therapy given in addition
      to or an alternative to tamoxifen therapy will be at the physician's discretion]

      Patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then
      annually thereafter.
    
  