
    
      Obstructive Sleep Apnea (OSA) is the intermittent cessation of breathing during sleep due to
      the collapse of the pharyngeal airway. As reported in the April 2004 Journal of the American
      Medical Association, it is estimated that 59 million people in the United States suffer OSA
      symptoms. OSA is typically diagnosed through an overnight sleep study (polysomnogram or PSG)
      in a sleep laboratory or a portable monitoring system. The American Academy of Sleep
      Medicine's (AASM) recommended treatment for patients with OSA is Continuous Positive Airway
      Pressure (CPAP), which is a life-long therapy that requires subjects to wear a nasal or
      facial mask connected to a portable airflow generator while sleeping. CPAP therapy is
      intended to treat OSA by preventing collapse of the upper airway during sleep with the use of
      positive pressure. Compliance with CPAP therapy may be a problem as fewer than 50% of
      patients using CPAP have been considered "regular" users due to a variety of factors such as
      claustrophobia, nasal stuffiness, social factors, and inconvenience.

      The Pillar® Palatal Implant System is currently commercially available in the United States,
      Europe, and other countries to treat habitual snoring and mild to moderate OSA. It is a
      minimally invasive, well-tolerated procedure that reduces the flexibility of the soft palate
      and increases its stiffness, which reduces snoring and may limit the palate's ability to
      collapse into the airway during sleep contributing to clinical episodes of OSA.

      The Pillar system consists of a delivery system and an implant. The delivery system is
      comprised of a disposable handle and needle assembly that allows for positioning and
      placement of the implants within the soft palate. The 18mm x 2mm implant is a cylindrical
      shaped segment of braided polyester filaments that is intended for permanent implantation
      into the soft palate. The needle of the delivery system is inserted into the soft palate,
      near the hard palate junction. A sliding thumb switch is retracted to deploy the implant. The
      first implant is placed midline and two additional implants are placed, one on each side
      approximately 2mm from the midline implant, for a total of three implants.

      An antiseptic rinse is recommended pre-procedure and an appropriate broad-spectrum antibiotic
      should be given both pre and post-procedurally. Local anesthesia is used in all patients.
      Pain medication is suggested to manage discomfort in the immediate post-operative period.

      While the Pillar procedure can be effective in the treatment of mild to moderate OSA, its
      effect in combination with CPAP treatment has never been studied. In this study, the
      treatment of OSA using the Pillar procedure in combination with standard CPAP treatment vs.
      sham procedure in combination with standard CPAP treatment will be investigated. All subjects
      will be asked to continue their normal use of CPAP treatment during the study. The study will
      evaluate whether or not the Pillar implants allow less therapeutic pressure to be used in
      treating the OSA and if less pressure translates to increased usage.
    
  