
    
      In this study , mechanically ventilated preterm infants with birthweight ≤1250 g will screen
      for eligibility. Infants with major congenital malformations, neuromuscular disease and lack
      of parental consent were excluded. Enrolled infants will randomize into two study groups
      (NIPPV group and BIPAP group) following the decision to extubate by using sealed opaque
      envelopes. Extubation criteria are; loaded with caffeine according to standard clinical
      protocol, satisfactory blood gases (pH of more than 7.25), mean airway pressure of 7 cm water
      or less, fractional inspired oxygen concentration of 35 % or less and good respiratory
      effort.

      Non-invasive respiratory support will deliver using the device of SLE 5000 (Specialised
      Laboratory Equipment, South Croydon, United Kingdom) in NIPPV group and infant flow- deriver
      device (Viasys Corp, Care Fusion, CA) in BIPAP group. The short binasal prongs will use as
      interface. The initial ventilator parameters for NIPPV were: PIP levels set 2 cm H2O above
      the pre-extubation PIP, PEEP: 5 cm H2O, rate the same as was being given before extubation
      and for BiPAP were: lower CPAP levels 4 to 6 cmH2O (maximum 7 cmH2O) and higher CPAP levels 8
      to 9 cmH2O (maximum 10 cmH2O), Thigh 0.5-0.6 second, and a pressure exchange rate of 20-30/
      minute, with the lowest adjusted FiO2 to maintain an oxygen saturation of 90% to 95%.

      Extubation failure was defined as: development of respiratory acidosis (blood gases with pH <
      7.2 and PaCO2> 60 mmHg), or hypoxemia (blood gases with PaO2 < 50 mmHg despite oxygen
      supplementation of 60 percent), or severe apnea requiring mask ventilation.

      Surfactant requirement is goingto evaluate in all infants after NICU admission. Poractant
      alfa was administered if necessary.

      The primary end-point, rate of extubation failure within 96 hours following first extubation,
      will compared between the groups. Short and long-term neonatal outcomes will also evaluate.
    
  