
    
      This study consists of three parts. The first part is to work with a limited number of normal
      individuals and those with known diabetic retinopathy to test a variety of the light
      conditions to find those that appear to be optimal for detecting retinal damage. The second
      part of this study, which is to test the instrument and these conditions with both normal
      subjects and a series of diabetics with varying degrees of severity of diabetic retinopathy.
      This part of the study is intended to determine how sensitive and specific the detection
      method is over the full range of retinal damage that is observed in diabetics. The third part
      of this study is to use the same instrument either with the same testing conditions as used
      for the diabetics or with modifications based on the regional areas of the retina that are
      damaged for other conditions, including (but not limited to) sickle cell retinopathy,
      retinitis pigmentosa, vascular diseases of the retina.

      The risks from this study are minimal. All of the portions of the study that are required for
      the clinical assessment of the participant's retinal health are consistent with the standard
      of care for their condition. For diabetics with no clinically evident retinal damage from
      diabetes, they will receive a regular dilated eye exam and photographs to document the
      appearance of their retina. For those with more severe diabetic changes, special retinal
      photographs and fluorescein angiography (photographs taken in the presence of a dye that is
      injected into an arm vein that allows one to study the detailed changes of the blood vessels
      in the retina) will be done to more accurately assess the degree of diabetic damage.

      The long-term objective of this application is to develop an imaging device for the early
      detection, diagnosis and quantification of the degree of midperipheral retinal ischemia in
      Diabetic Retinopathy (DR). Earlier diagnosis of DR could facilitate intervention at a stage
      that may prevent or lessen permanent damage from the ravages of the disease, in turn,
      improving patient quality of life and reducing lifetime treatment costs. DR is one of the
      more debilitating potential outcomes of diabetes posing a major threat to the quality of life
      of diabetics. Experts believe that DR is the leading cause of blindness in the industrialized
      world in people between the ages of 25 and 74 years old.

      The American Academy of Ophthalmology states that DR is the leading cause of blindness among
      working Americans and currently affects nearly seven million people in the U.S. Early
      detection can help treat DR and salvage about 90 percent of vision loss, but about one-third
      of the diabetic population remains undiagnosed, translating into approximately 5.7 million
      people in the U.S. Delay in the primary diagnosis of diabetes allows diabetic complications
      to progress significantly before detection further increasing the risks associated with the
      disease by making the treatment much more complicated. Diabetes management guidelines
      advocate initiation of therapeutic intervention early in the prognosis of the disease.
      Estimates of diabetics in the U.S. with DR range from 15% to as high as 40%.
    
  