
    
      Colonic bacteria clearly play a major role in the pathogenesis of major complications in
      patients with liver cirrhosis. By producing ammonia and endotoxins they can cause hepatic
      encephalopathy , and their translocation from the gut to the peritoneal cavity is the major
      mechanism for spontaneous bacterial peritonitis. There are also new studies suggesting a
      possible connection between bacterial translocation and bleeding from esophageal varices.
      Some of the therapeutic measures for the treatment and prevention of complications in
      cirrhotic patients, such as antibiotics and lactulose, are partially directed against gut
      bacteria.

      In recent years there is a growing interest in the effect of probiotic bacteria on gut flora
      and prevention of infection. They were found to prevent pediatric infectious diarrhea and
      antibiotic-associated diarrhea- especially those caused by Clostridium difficile.

      The probiotic bacteria, among which the most common are the lactose fermenting Lactobacilli,
      inhibit the growth of pathogenic bacteria by acidifying the gut lumen, competing for
      nutrients, and by producing antimicrobial substances. They adhere to the gut mucosa and by
      that are thought to prevent bacterial translocation from the gut. These effects of probiotics
      raised the idea that they may have a role in the treatment and prevention of cirrhosis
      complications. A recent study examined the effect of probiotics on patients with minimal
      chronic hepatic encephalopathy. Hepatic encephalopathy was reversed in 50% of the patients
      receiving probiotics. These patients also demonstrated a significant reduction of blood
      levels of ammonia, bilirubin and ALT, and of pathologic bacteria in stool cultures. This
      study showed promising results but was carried out on a relatively small population.
      Furthermore, the effect of probiotics on the prevention of hepatic encephalopathy and other
      major complications of cirrhosis has not been studied yet. Therefore, more studies are needed
      to establish the role of probiotics in patients with cirrhosis.
    
  