
    
      Currently, more than 60 million people have been diagnosed with HIV/AIDS worldwide. It is
      estimated that about two-thirds of all HIV infections are among people in Africa. The African
      country of Liberia, in particular, is experiencing an increase in HIV/sexually transmitted
      disease (STD) infections and is in need of improved HIV/STD-related prevention programs. With
      the majority of the new infections occurring among people who are between 15 and 29 years
      old, new HIV/STD prevention programs are needed to educate youth about proper condom use and
      risks associated with sexual behaviors. Previous research has suggested that behavioral
      interventions can reduce adolescents' sexual behaviors that are tied to risk of acquiring
      STDs. The evidenced-based HIV prevention program, Making Proud Choices, is an intervention
      originally designed for community settings in the United States, but is currently being
      adapted in schools of certain sub-Saharan African countries. Adapting this community-based
      curriculum to school-based settings and cultural contexts within Liberia may be effective in
      reducing risky sexual behaviors in Liberian adolescents. This study will compare the
      effectiveness of a school-based HIV/STD prevention program that draws on the curriculum of
      Making Proud Choices versus a general health promotion program in reducing sexual risk
      behaviors of youth attending school in Liberia.

      Participation in this study will involve two phases. Phase 1 will last 8 months and will be
      used to adapt the community-based curriculum of Making Proud Choices to school-based settings
      and contexts within Liberia. Data to guide the integration and cultural adaptation of the
      curriculum will be collected from school administrators, students, health educators, and
      community-based organizations through focus groups, group discussions, and interviews.

      Phase 2 will last about 12 months and will include junior high schools in Liberia.
      Participating schools will be assigned randomly to provide the adapted HIV prevention
      curriculum or a general health promotion curriculum. Before starting course modules, students
      receiving either curriculum will complete questionnaires about their risk-associated sexual
      behaviors and knowledge about condom use and abstinence. Both curriculums will include eight
      1-hour modules delivered weekly over 8 weeks. The HIV prevention curriculum will focus on
      increasing knowledge about preventing HIV, STDs, and pregnancy; improving condom use skills;
      increasing confidence in the ability to negotiate safer sex and to use condoms correctly; and
      lowering the incidence of sexual-risk behavior. The general health promotion curriculum will
      focus on teaching students healthful behaviors, including eating habits, physical activity,
      dental hygiene, and avoidance of cigarette smoking and substance abuse. All participants will
      repeat the initial questionnaires immediately after completing the curriculum and 3, 6, and 9
      months after the curriculum ends.
    
  