
    
      There are 2 phases to this research project: (1) an initial baseline study to confirm the
      blood flow abnormality in Becker muscular dystrophy, and (2) a subsequent brief treatment
      trial. There are also 3 optional study protocols: (A) dose-escalation trial, (B) placebo
      trial, and (C) increased exercise intensity trial.

      The baseline study involves an intake history, physical examination, and phlebotomy for blood
      chemistries and DNA followed by non-invasive forearm blood flow studies (Near Infrared
      Spectroscopy, Doppler Ultrasound) before and after a brief bout of handgrip exercise
      (approximately 3-5 hours to complete). Blood flow studies will be performed with the
      subject's lower body enclosed in an airtight chamber. Blood flow and oxygen delivery to the
      forearm muscles will be measured before and during application of lower body negative
      pressure at rest and during handgrip exercise. Lower body negative pressure simulates the
      blood flow changes that normally occur when a person sits up after lying down.

      The results of the baseline study will determine which patients meet preset eligibility
      criteria to participate in the medication phase of the study. These criteria include (1)
      normal kidney and liver function tests and normal BNP levels (the latter to exclude heart
      failure), and (2) abnormal blood flow responses to handgrip exercise.

      Eligible patients will be asked to repeat the above laboratory procedures on a subsequent
      study day after receiving a single dose of sodium nitrate. Eligible patients will also be
      offered the option to repeat the above laboratory procedures on three subsequent study
      visits, where upon: (A) the dose of sodium nitrate is increased, (B) a placebo is ingested,
      and/or (C) the level of exercise in increased.

      The investigators plan to enroll 20 adult men with Becker muscular dystrophy.
    
  