
    
      1. Study Design:

           Randomized-controlled study of all type 2 DM patients in dialysis to assess the effect
           of two different dialysate glucose concentrations, standard 5.5 mmol/L and high 10
           mmol/L. The study period will be 20 weeks-4 weeks for recruitment, 12 weeks for the
           intervention and 4 weeks of data collection and analysis.

        2. Study Population:

           All patients with diabetes type 2 in the Montreal General Hospital hemodialysis unit,
           will be identified by the Head nurses of dialysis units. The following patients will be
           excluded: anticipated to be transplanted within 6 months, expected death due to
           malignancy or severe infection within 6 months, uncontrolled blood sugars above 20mmol/l
           and unable to give consent due to neurologic reasons.

           Once the head nurse identifies the subject, the potential subject will be approached by
           the research assistant with a consent form.

           All patients will be consented by the research assistant through a written consent form.
           Then the subject will be randomly assigned to the standard or high glucose dialysate
           groups.

        3. Methods

      (i) Baseline Data collection for the standard or high glucose dialysate groups

      The following demographic data will be noted: age, gender, duration of diabetes, duration of
      dialysis, comorbidity using Charlson Comorbidity index, vascular access type (arteriovenous
      fistula or permanent catheter) and cause of renal failure. The routine previous months'
      hemodialysis laboratory tests will be recorded such as complete blood count, serum
      electrolytes, serum glucose, calcium ionized or total, phosphate, parathyroid hormone levels,
      iron saturation, C reactive protein, ferritin, lipids and serum albumin. No additional blood
      tests will be taken. HbA1c values are taken every three months, therefore the intervention
      will be introduced after the HbA1c values have been taken within the month for the subject.
      No additional blood tests will be taken.

      Blood pressure stability during the dialysis treatment will also be recorded defined as the
      differences in the pre and post mean arterial blood pressure will be documented in the last
      three dialysis treatments and their mean will be taken for each subject.

      (ii) Intervention

      After randomization, the subjects randomized to the high glucose group will be flagged in the
      hemodialysis orders, which on all electronic under the Nephrocare program. Similarly the
      standard glucose solution will also be flagged in the orders for the subjects randomized to
      that group.

      (iii) Data collection during the Study

      Both study groups will have a routine glucometer blood sugar test during the last hour of
      dialysis. The number of intradialytic asymptomatic and symptomatic hypoglycemic episodes will
      be recorded for each subject. Outcomes at the end of the 12 weeks of intervention: All
      subjects will have the following recorded:

        1. Routine monthly blood work and the Hemoglobin A1c values

        2. Number of episodes of serum glucose less than or equal to 3 mmol/L using the glucometer
           during dialysis treatments

        3. Blood pressure stability during dialysis (mmHg)

        4. Number of infection events during the 12 weeks will defined according to the Public
           Health Agency of Canada as stated below:
    
  