
    
      The pathogenesis of post-operative excisional haemorrhoidectomy pain is multi-factorial with
      secondary bacterial colonisation, inflammation and anal sphincter spasm/hypertonicity all
      purposed to play a role. Several pharmacological agents have been introduced in the last two
      decades targeting specific parts of the hypothesized pathway of pain pathogenesis showing
      promising improvements.

      Metronidazole is part of the nitroimidazole class of antibiotics and primarily affects
      anaerobic bacteria and protozoa and traditionally has been used in surgical prophylaxis and
      treating anaerobic infections. It has been postulated to decrease pain following EH via two
      mechanisms; first by decreasing secondary bacterial colonisation and hence reducing
      post-operative inflammation; and second via a hitherto poorly understood direct
      anti-inflammatory response. The oral route has been initially investigated but topical
      administration has more recently been mooted for analgesia and theoretically reduces the
      unpleasant systemic side effects of oral administration. Our research group has recently
      completed a systematic review of both oral and topical administration of metronidazole. This
      review showed benefit in reducing postoperative haemorrhoidectomy pain from both routes of
      administration but this far there has been no comparison of the two routes.

      Metronidazole has been proposed to have both anti-bacterial and pleiotropic anti-inflammatory
      properties but its precise mechanism of action is unknown. The increased understanding of
      this novel use of an agent with a known pharmacological profile will generally broaden our
      use of a simple, cheap and widespread agent. The investigators hope research into this drug
      will enable its use beyond that of haemorrhoidectomies, with possible pleiotropic
      applications into other similar operations.

      Given the high prevalence of haemorrhoids in a vital segment of New Zealand's population,
      this research will contribute to improved outcomes for affected patients. Decreasing the
      significant post-operative pain will improve the quality of life for New Zealanders as well
      as affected populations worldwide. Socially and financially, it will enable earlier return to
      normal activity and reduce the burden on visits and readmissions to primary and secondary
      care, respectively.
    
  