
    
      Aim of study: To compare two ways of performing partial hip replacement to see which one
      allows patients to mobilise better and gives patients improved function after surgery. The
      best approach is more likely to allow patients to maintain their independence and return to
      their own homes after their injury.

      Background: When someone breaks their hip they often need a partial hip replacement, also
      known as hemiarthroplasty. To perform this operation surgeons need to cut through some
      muscles to expose the hip joint and perform the partial replacement. Currently, clinical
      guidelines suggest that this operation should be performed using a technique which involves
      cutting muscles and tendons from the side of the hip. This is called the lateral approach.
      Alternatively, a newer, modified technique can be used leaving all the major muscles intact
      and this may cause fewer problems for the patient. There is no research evidence to prove
      which approach is more beneficial. Patients and carers looking for information about this are
      likely to become confused by the many opinions of surgeons speaking about preferred
      techniques. It is therefore important to find out which technique is better for patients,
      based on research rather than opinion.

      Study design: We will randomly allocate patients who agree to be part of the study to have
      one of the two techniques to partial hip replacement. We can then compare the impact of the
      two techniques on how well and fully patients mobilise, the level of pain they experience,
      and the safety of the techniques. We will also contact a number of patients from both
      treatment groups to discuss their experience of the surgery in more detail.

      Patient and public involvement: This study was inspired by patients who said that mobility
      and speed to regaining independence are the most important outcomes after surgery. Patients
      and carers will continue to be involved throughout this study, to ensure that the study
      results are relevant and important to people at risk of breaking their hip.

      Dissemination: We will publish the results of this study widely in scientific and other
      publications accessable to patients and all involved in the treatment of patients with hip
      fractures. We will work with surgeons, carers and patients to ensure all appropriate networks
      are aware of the results and that the outcomes are disseminated in an accessible way so that
      practices can be changed based on the results of this study.
    
  