
    
      Background. Experimental studies have revealed that epigallocatechin-3-galeate (EGCG), a
      biologically active polyphenol extracted and purified from Camellia Sinensis, may prevent
      infection by various kinds of viruses, including coronaviruses. Recent double blind, placebo
      controlled clinical trials, reported up to 75% reduction in the risk of respiratory infection
      by healthcare workers during an outbreak of H1N1 influenza, simultaneously enhancing systemic
      immunity by increasing proliferation of ϒδ T cells (28%) and production of IFN-γ (26%). In
      molecular docking studies against severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2
      (SARS-CoV-2, the causal agent of coronavirus disease 2019 outbreak also known as COVID-19)
      EGCG was identified as a candidate with very high potential for antiviral chemoprophylaxis of
      COVID-19.

      Primary objective: To determine whether Previfenon®, a proprietary formulation of EGCG ≥ 98%
      purity stabilized with selected excipients, may clinically prevent COVID-19, enhance systemic
      immunity, decrease the rate for acute respiratory disease, and reduce the frequency and
      intensity of selected symptoms of COVID-19.

      Secondary objective: To determine safety and tolerability of Previfenon® in terms of liver
      toxicity and frequency of adverse events.

      Design. Multicenter randomized double-blind placebo-controlled trial of healthcare workers in
      treatment by 40 consecutive days as minimum, or a maximum variable time between 60 to 70 days
      during a SARS-CoV-2 outbreak in Latin American hospitals exposed to clinical care, contact,
      or circulation of patients with suspected respiratory acute disease caused by SARS-CoV-2 also
      known as COVID -19.

      Sample size: A minimum effect size of 25% (OR = 0.75) is considered; 5% alpha error; 90%
      power; R = 0.25 for confounders and 20% for loss to follow up. If a conservative event rate
      of 7.5% in the untreated group is considered, the trial will require 524 participants (262
      each group); if the event rate reaches 13.5%, the trial will require 298 participants (149
      each group). It is expected to recruit between 100 to 240 subjects per site.

      Intervention. The treatment group will receive 3 capsules of Previfenon® daily containing 250
      mg of EGCG one every 8 hours. The control group will receive 3 placebo capsules (starch 250
      mg) under the same frequency.

      Outcomes. The primary outcome will be the rate of clinically defined COVID-19 confirmed with
      rt-PCR for SARS-CoV-2 viral RNA. Secondary outcomes will be (1) rate of positive cases for
      IgM or IgG anti-SARS-CoV-2 as measured by a rapid immuno-chromatographic test; (2) rate of
      positive cases for rtPCR for SARS-Cov-2 viral RNA (3) rate of hospitalization for acute
      respiratory disease; (4) total rate of lower or upper acute respiratory disease. Exploratory
      outcomes will be the frequency and intensity of selected symptoms for COVID-19. Safety
      outcomes will be the number of events of major hepatic toxicity accounted by an increment in
      liver enzymes and frequency of adverse events during the treatment.

      Analysis. Comparison of frequencies, means, and proportions for all relevant variables
      between treated group and placebo will be performed. An interim analysis will be conducted
      with the first 366 subjects with at least 20 days of treatment during the outbreak. It will
      be utilized logistic regression to explore the ongoing effect size in a fixed-effect model.
      Disease-free person-days curves over the total follow up period will be analyzed using
      Kaplan-Meier and the total effect size will be computed by Cox proportional hazards multiple
      regression.

      Leading hypothesis: The use of Previfenon® will have a high efficacy in the chemoprophylaxis
      of COVID-19 through multiple complementary mechanisms, which ultimately prevent an efficient
      incubation of the SARS-CoV-2 in the host cells, and simultaneously, enhances systemic
      immunity against the pathogen.
    
  