
    
      Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the third most common cancer in the world. what's more, CRC is
      therefore an important public health concern in China due to its rising incidence and
      prevalence, in addition to the burden of disease. There is robust evidence indicating that
      early detection by screening and removal of cancer precursor lesions offers an effective
      method of reducing colorectal cancer morbidity and mortality. Studies have shown that
      colorectal polyps are considered to be related to colorectal cancer, especially adenoma .The
      primary aim of this study was to identify high risk features of multiple polyps based on
      size, location and histological type. Patient age and gender were also characterized on the
      basis of a contingency analysis of a large series of Chinese patients with colorectal polyps.
      These data provide important information on risk factors associated with multiple polyps,
      which will serve as evidence for an individualized approach to colonoscopy screening
      guidelines in China.

      Similarly, recent years, with the widespread use of gastroscopy, people's health awareness
      and lifestyle changes, more and more people have performed gastroscopy, so a large number of
      patients with gastric polyps can be found in the clinic. Gastric polyps are raised lesions
      that originate in the mucosal layer or submucosa and protrude into the stomach cavity.
      According to their pathological characteristics, they can be divided into two categories:
      mucosal layer and non-mucosal layer.Gastric polyps originating from mucosal layers,
      represented by natural, fundus glandular and adenomatous polyps, are the most common in
      clinical practice, while non-mucosal polyps including gastric stromal tumors and inflammatory
      fibrous polyps are more common in clinical practice. Although the incidence of gastric polyps
      is far less than that of intestinal polyps, some pathological types, especially adenomatous
      polyps, have obvious malignant potential and are recognized as precancerous lesions .

      Therefore, we retrospectively analyzed the records of patients with gastrointestinal polyps
      in our hospital in the past years, and provided epidemiological data to study the factors in
      polyps.
    
  