
    
      Alpha-1 Antitrypsin Deficiency (AATD) is a genetic disorder resulting in a low level of a
      protein called alpha-1 antitrypsin (AAT). This deficiency can cause life-threatening liver
      disease and/or lung disease at various ages. Some patients experience life-threatening liver
      disease in childhood or liver cancer as adults. There is no specific treatment for AAT
      related liver disease. Some patients develop emphysema as young adults, while some patients
      remain healthy throughout their lives. Differences in the environment or in other genes may
      explain such inconsistency in the disease.

      The primary objective of this multi-center study is to assess the natural history of
      individuals with Pi-ZZ AAT deficiency, identify biomarkers for the progression of liver
      disease and construct a database capable of linking cohort data with repository biospecimens.
      The secondary objective is to analyze components of the demographic, social, and family
      history associated with more severe liver disease.

      This study will examine the natural history of liver disease by recording participant's
      family history, medical history, current health, laboratory test results, and medical
      treatment(s). Participants may complete brief research questionnaires about their physical
      and mental health, diet, alcohol intake, and smoke, environmental and occupational (work)
      exposures.

      At least 120 Pi-ZZ AAT deficient adults with no previous history of liver disease,
      moderate-severe liver disease, or post liver transplant, will be enrolled at one of three
      sites. Eligible subjects will participate in one of the following study arms:

        1. Liver Biopsy

        2. Known Severe Liver Disease - subjects not meeting Biopsy Group eligibility due to the
           presence of advanced liver disease

        3. Post Liver Transplant - subjects who have previously undergone a liver transplant

      At the time of enrollment, each participant will be assigned a unique study identification
      (ID) number. All participant information recorded and samples collected for the study will be
      saved by this unique number. All blood, tissue and genetic samples collected will be sent to
      a secured repository for future retrieval and study. The process of coding data and samples
      lessens the chances of a breach in confidentiality.

      The length of study participation, tests and activities performed specifically for research
      will be determined by the enrollment group. Subjects in the Biopsy and Known Severe Liver
      Disease groups participate in the study for 5 years (enrollment and four annual follow-up
      visits). Both groups undergo a physical exam, diagnostic abdominal ultrasound, pulmonary
      function testing and the collection of serum, plasma and blood for routine laboratory and
      genetic testing (Induced Pluripotent Stem Cells (iPS cells), microRNA and DNA). However, only
      the Biopsy Group participants undergo a liver biopsy and FibroScan at enrollment, and again
      in Year 5. The liver tissue samples will help the researchers learn what causes liver disease
      in some patients and how the liver disease progresses.

      Subjects in the Post Liver Transplant group have a single study visit to record their
      history, complete questionnaires and perform pulmonary function testing. In addition, whole
      blood for DNA analysis will be collected from these participants.

      Based on their study arm assignment, participants will receive copies of their diagnostic
      abdominal ultrasound, pulmonary function test, routine laboratory test and liver biopsy
      pathology results, to share with their primary care physician.
    
  