
    
      Neurological correlates of states of mind during meditation have been studied with
      Electroencephalogram (EEG) and functional MRIs for many decades. Meditation practices produce
      distinct EEG brain waveforms, and this may be reflective of the overall subjective
      experiences. Long term meditators using mindfulness have shown gamma activation on EEG
      recordings. Practice of Yoganidra and Sahaja meditation have been reported to show increased
      theta activity. Transcendental Meditation practices have shown alpha waves during meditative
      periods. While most of the meditative practices may appear similar, there may be subtle
      differences that might make them better suited for particular conditions. However, most of
      the studies conducted were small, non-randomized and therefore the outcomes are unclear.

      The investigators wish to conduct a randomized controlled prospective study using
      Heartfulness meditation techniques. Heartfulness meditation practice is a simple heart-based
      meditation practice that has been shown to improve burnout, emotional wellness and sleep. In
      a younger subset of patients, it has also shown to increase the telomere length. However, the
      neurological and physiological correlates of this practice have not been assessed. This study
      will investigate whether using this novel approach of a heart-based meditation program leads
      to measurable changes in the EEG and also whether there is any correlation with the waveforms
      and the depth of meditation. This may provide an explanation from a neurological basis for
      the improvement of certain wellness parameters such as sleep. In addition, meditation
      practices have been shown to have positive benefits on cardiovascular system including heart
      rate variability (HRV). Cardiovascular physiology measured by continuous electrocardiogram
      (EKG) monitoring is a non-invasive way of measuring HRV. In this study, a correlation of the
      EEG and HRV with the subjective depth of meditation experience measured through meditation
      depth questionnaire (MEDEQ) along with baseline anxiety score as measured by generalized
      anxiety disorder scale (GAD-7) will be assessed.

      Primary outcome and Hypotheses:

        1. The primary outcome will be observing a change in EEG pattern of subjects who follow a
           Heartfulness guided meditation as compared to unguided self-relaxation and meditation.

        2. The study team hypothesize that guided Heartfulness meditation will be associated with
           deeper relaxed brain wave patterns - predominantly theta and delta waves - compared to
           beta and alpha waves in unguided self-relaxation and meditation. The investigators
           anticipate that subjects will perceive an increased depth of meditation during a guided
           relaxation session compared to simply closing the eyes for the duration of the study.
           Since participants have no prior meditation experience, the investigators hypothesize
           that the first attempt at meditation is adequate to induce a relaxed state and EEG
           changes.

        3. With regards to EKG changes, the study team hypothesize that there will be a reduction
           in heart rate and increased beat-to-beat variability with guided meditation as compared
           to unguided self-relaxation for the same duration.
    
  