
    
      This is a Phase II multi-center, single-arm, non-blinded study combining androgen deprivation
      therapy (ADT) and pembrolizumab for patients with metastatic or locally recurrent androgen
      receptor-positive salivary gland carcinoma, not amenable to surgery or radiation. Eligible
      patients will include both those with no prior systemic therapy and those who have failed
      prior systemic therapy. Patients who have received previous ADT or immunotherapy will be
      excluded.

      ADT will consist of goserelin acetate every 4 weeks with the first injection given
      approximately 2 weeks prior to the first dose of pembrolizumab. Pembrolizumab 200 mg will be
      given on day 1 of 21-day cycles, starting 2 weeks after initiation of goserelin acetate. Each
      21-day period is considered a treatment cycle with therapy continuing for up to 35 cycles,
      until disease progression, significant toxicity, or patient refusal. Except for fatigue, we
      do not expect overlapping toxicities with pembrolizumab and ADT, thus the starting doses will
      be the FDA-approved doses.

      This study will use a Simon 2-stage phase II trial design. The first stage of the Simon
      2-stage design will have a sample size of nine patients. If at least two patients have an
      objective response by RECIST 1.1 then enrollment will proceed to stage 2 with an additional
      11 patients, to a goal of 20 patients. If less than 4 patients out of 20 respond, then the
      combination treatment will be rejected.

      Patients will be staged with CT of neck, chest, abdomen, and pelvis at baseline and every 12
      weeks while on study. Treatment with both ADT and pembrolizumab will continue until disease
      progression or intolerable side effects.

      Archival tumor biopsy tissue must be available at baseline to evaluate for expression of
      androgen receptor (AR), PD-L1, and tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL). An optional biopsy
      will be performed after 4 doses of pembrolizumab to evaluate immune response to combined
      therapy.

      Blood will be collected at baseline, cycle 1 day 1, cycle 2 day 1 and cycle 3 day 1 to
      evaluate for change in lymphocyte subsets by flow cytometry.
    
  