
    
      Objective:

      The investigators aim to establish proof-of-concept for use of immune checkpoint blockade
      (ICB) as novel neo-adjuvant therapy in (deficient mismatch repair) dMMR and (Polymerase ε
      mutation)POLE-EDM uterine cancer (UC). When ICB proves to be feasible as defined in the
      primary endpoint, a follow-up with a larger multicenter studies to determine clinical
      efficacy, such as postponing standard-of-care surgery or randomized studies to
      standard-of-care.

      Study design:

      The investigators planned a window-of-opportunity study of ICB in primary dMMR UC (n=10) and
      primary POLE-EDM UC (n=10) patients. ICB (pembrolizumab; anti-PD1) will be administered in
      two cycles of 3 weeks between diagnosis and standard-of-care hysterectomy.

      Tumor responses to pembrolizumab will be assessed 3 weeks after the second cycle of
      pembrolizumab by a pathologist (primary endpoint) and MRI (secondary endpoint).After
      treatment with immun checkpoint blockade a hysterectomy will take place (standard-of care).
      Peripheral blood and tumor samples will be used to evaluate immune responses.

      Study population:

      Primary dMMR/ POLE-EDM UC patients of any stage and/or grade who are intended to be treated
      with a hysterectomy recruited from the North-Netherlands oncological region.

      Intervention: Pembrolizumab, 200mg IV Q3W for a total of 2 administrations per patient,
      integrated into standard-of-care protocol prior to surgery. Based on the well-established
      time lines, the interval between diagnosis and standard of care hysterectomy is sufficient to
      treat patients with two cycles of pembrolizumab without interfering with standard of care.

      Main study endpoints:

      The primary endpoint is the response rate of the tumor assessed by pathology in uterine
      cancer patients treated with neo-adjuvant pembrolizumab. The secondary endpoint is the
      objective response rate of the tumor by MRI using RECIST. Exploratory objectives are
      immunogenicity, safety and the value of a pipelle biopsy as a predictor for response.
    
  