
    
      Myositis is a rare autoimmune disease in which the immune system mistakenly attacks the
      patient's own peripheral muscles. This aggression manifests by muscle inflammation and
      necrosis responsible for a motor deficit of varying severity.

      The treatments available today are insufficient and are non-specific. Biological criteria,
      issued from simple blood or muscle tests are missing, and they will help to define the
      activity of the disease and the efficacy of treatments.

      The MASC protocol will include patients with myositis, and investigators will collect
      clinical, radiological, electrophysiological, histological and biological data to be used for
      researches aiming at better understanding this entity. A biobank (muscle biopsy, DNA, serum,
      plasma, PBMCs) will be acquired on this prospective cohort.

      The study itself will be composed of a baseline visit and monthly to yearly follow-up visits
      which will assess:

        -  Clinical examination with an evaluation of the muscle strength and function
           impairment/handicap, including but not limited to:

             -  Manual testing of proximal axial and distal muscles on the five points Medical
                Research Council (MRC) scale

             -  Barré tests and Mingazzini tests, number of stand-up / sitting, leg crossing

        -  Biometry, lab and radiological measurements: muscle enzymes (creatine phosphokinase CPK,
           troponin, C-reactive protein, quantification of autoantibodies, muscle MRI, muscle
           biopsy, thorax tomodensitometry, pulmonary test function

        -  Extra-muscular evaluation: cardiac examination and work-up (echocardiography, cardiac
           MRI and Positron Emission Tomography (PET) scanner, cardiac biopsies), pulmonary
           evaluation, rheumatological and dermatological assessment, history of thromboembolic
           disease and cancer

      Patient activity assessment: evaluation of daily life activity by both patient and physician
      using a Visual Analogue Scale

        -  Quality of life questionnaires

        -  Evaluation of the efficacy and toxicity of specific treatments

      For each patient, the date of last visit or contact will be collected as well as outcomes,
      particularly for the cause of death if relevant.

      Data from the biobank MASC " Muscles DNA/RNA Serum and Cells " will be added to other data.
      The biobank has been fully registered with local authorities and ethical committees
      ("Committee for Personal Protection (CPP)" CPP agreement). It contains peripheral blood
      mononuclear cells (PBMC), serum, DNA and RNA from blood and muscular biopsies collected at
      the diagnosis stage. The database contains immunological and genetical data.

      This prospective study will also aim at:

        -  Identify the differential pathophysiological processes between the different subgroups
           of myositis

        -  Identify prognostic factors, including the different treatment modalities used

        -  Improve physiopathological knowledge (clinico-anatomobiological characteristics and
           identification of other biomarkers through the biobank)

        -  Improve the evaluation of the clinical outcomes/endpoints for future trials

        -  Develop clinical trials for homogeneous subgroups of patients, based on their
           pathophysiology and evaluated on the appropriate endpoints.
    
  