
    
      Part 1 Experimental Procedures: Written or Spoken Paragraph Level Measure o Participants will
      read or listen to 12 paragraph length narrative stories in the following 3 conditions: (a)
      written text only, (b) auditory output only (i.e., synthetic speech - David), or combined
      written text and auditory output. Participants will answer 10 questions regarding the
      information contained in each of the 12 stories. Anticipated time requirements: 1 to 2
      sessions lasting about 60 minutes each.

      Part 2 Experimental Procedures: Repeated Exposures

        -  Independent Training Session Practice

             -  To prepare the participants for independent practice (exposure) to the Synthetic 1
                Condition during home training, the researchers will complete the first Independent
                Training Session with the participant within the clinic environment to verify
                participants understanding of the experimental procedure.

             -  The researchers will provide written instructions with simplified language and
                picture support to remind the participant of the practice instructions.

             -  Independent training sessions will utilize the Test of Silent Reading Efficiency
                and Comprehension (TOSREC) sentences recorded using the Synthetic 1 Voice Condition
                and the Digitized Voice Condition. TOSREC sentences are simple sentences presented
                at 1st, 2nd, and 3rd grade levels. Example sentence include: "A cow is an animal",
                and "Bears go to school". The participants will respond "yes" or "no" to each of 30
                TOSREC sentences presented in a systematically randomized order. "Yes" and "no"
                responses will be recorded using active areas on the iPad created using a computer
                program designed for delivering stimuli (e.g., Blackboard, Canvas). All practice
                will be completed via the computer platform (e.g., Blackboard, Canvas) on the iPad.
                All 30 practice items should be completed in one sitting; however, the participant
                can take a break 5-10 minutes break during practice if needed.

             -  During this first Independent Training Session Practice, the researcher will
                provide the participant with verbal and written instructions regarding how to
                access each item and ensure that the participant understands the task prior to
                independent practice.

        -  Independent Training Sessions

             -  Participants will be given an iPad with Wi-Fi capabilities to use in their home (as
                well as a charger. Alternatively, participants may choose to use their own iPad.

             -  The researchers will instruct each participant to listen to and/or reading 15
                sentences per day per condition (Synthetic 1 and Digitized Sentence presentations).
                The researchers will provide written instructions with simplified language and
                picture support to remind the participant of the practice instructions.

             -  The participants will respond "yes" or "no" to each of the 30 TOSREC sentences
                presented in a systematic randomized order. All 30 practice items should be
                completed in one sitting; however, the participant can take a 5-10 minute preach
                during practice if needed.

             -  Participants will receive feedback about overall percentage performance accuracy at
                the end of each daily session.

             -  All practice will be completed via the computer platform (e.g., Blackboard, CANVAS)
                on the iPad. Participants will practice for a period of two weeks (12 sessions).
                This is expected to take the participants no more than 15 minutes per day. The
                person will be asked to complete the practice up to 6 days per week. The
                participant will decide the days and times of practice as fits his or her schedule.

      Post-Testing Sessions

        -  One Post-Testing Session will occur within 1 week after the last practice session ends.
           It will last about 60 minutes. Post-Testing tasks include responding to 45 yes/no TOSREC
           sentences (15 per 3 conditions), selecting a picture following the 45 Norman Rockwell
           sentence level comprehension task (15 per 3 conditions), and answering questions after
           listening to two QRI stories from one condition (Synthetic 1).

           o Following completion of the procedure above, participants will rate the accuracy and
           ease of comprehension of the sentences from each condition using a 5-point Likert scale.
           These questions appear in Appendix G.

        -  The Maintenance Session will occur about 4 weeks after the last practice session ends.
           It will last approximately 60 minutes. The Maintenance Session tasks include responding
           to 45 yes/no TOSREC sentences (15 per 3 conditions), selecting a picture following the
           Norman Rockwell sentence level comprehension task (15 per 3 conditions), and answering
           questions after listening to two QI stories from one condition (Synthetic 1).
    
  