
    
      Generally, castration therapy has been used indefinitely for prostate cancer patients because
      some tumors seem to grow faster with testosterone present. Researchers want to study the
      effect of testosterone only in patients whose tumors have had a maximum response to
      castration therapy. Researchers want to find out if these patients' disease may be better
      controlled with testosterone replacement therapy.

      Before you can start treatment on this study, you will have "screening tests." These tests
      will help the doctor decide if you are eligible to take part in this study. Your complete
      medical history will be recorded and there will be a review of all medicines you may be
      currently taking. You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs
      (blood pressure, heart rate, temperature, and breathing rate). You will have blood drawn
      (about 4 teaspoons) and urine collected for routine tests. You will have a chest x-ray, an
      electrocardiogram (ECG--a test to measure the electrical activity of the heart), a bone scan,
      and a computed tomography (CT) scan of your abdomen and pelvis. If the study doctor thinks it
      is necessary, you may have an assessment of your mental status. For this assessment, you will
      be asked questions about your attention span, memory, and mood disturbances. It will take
      about 25 minutes to complete.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will begin receiving
      testosterone enanthate replacement therapy every 2 weeks by an injection into a muscle.

      Every 2 weeks, you will go to the clinic for your testosterone injection, and blood (about 2
      teaspoons) will be drawn to check the testosterone level in your blood. This will help the
      study doctor learn what dose you will receive for the next 2 weeks. After your Week 8 visit,
      blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn to check the testosterone level in your blood every 4
      weeks for the rest of your time on this study.

      At the Week 8 and 24 visits, you will have a physical exam, including measurement of your
      vital signs. You will be asked about any side effects you may be experiencing. Your disease
      status will be evaluated to learn its response to treatment. Blood (about 4 teaspoons) will
      be drawn for routine tests, and you will have repeat imaging scans (like the ones you had at
      your screening visit) to evaluate your disease. If the study doctor thinks that your mental
      status should be assessed again, you will have another assessment (at or around Week 24) like
      the one completed during your screening visit.

      You may remain on this study indefinitely unless your disease gets worse or you experience
      any intolerable side effects.

      If your participation ends on this study for any of the above reasons, you will have an
      end-of-study visit. During this visit, you will have blood drawn (about 4 teaspoons) for
      routine testing. You will be asked about any side effects you may be experiencing, and your
      disease response to treatment will be evaluated.

      This is an investigational study. Testosterone enanthate is commercially available.
      Testosterone replacement therapy is not FDA approved for this disease, and in some cases, has
      been disallowed for use in prostate cancer. Up to 40 patients will take part in this study.
      All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  