
    
      This study part is planned to consist of 3 cohorts of Non-Asian subjects (Part 1) and 2
      cohorts of Japanese subjects (Part 2). Part 2 will be initiated no earlier than after
      completion of the last Safety Review Committee (SRC) review in Part 1. Healthy male and/or
      female subjects aged 20 to 60 years will be included in both Parts 1 and 2 of the study.
      Female subjects must be of non-childbearing potential. Study Part 1 is planned to be
      conducted in 24 subjects but may be conducted in up to 40 subjects. Study Part 2 is planned
      to be conducted in 16 subjects but may be conducted in up to 32 subjects.

      Within each cohort of Parts 1 and 2, 6 subjects will be randomized to receive AZD6615 and 2
      subjects will be randomized to receive placebo. Dosing and food intake should be supervised
      and documented by study staff when subjects are in the clinic.

      The study will comprise of:

        -  A Screening Period of maximum 28 days.

        -  A Dosing Session during which subjects will be resident at the Clinical Unit from the
           day before IMP administration (Day -1) until at least 78 hours after Investigational
           medicinal product (IMP) administration; discharged on Day 4.

        -  A Follow-Up Period of 12 weeks that will consist of 6 Follow-Up Visits, for which the
           subjects will return to the Clinical Unit at 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, and 12 weeks post-dose.

      Within each cohort, site personnel remain blinded until the SRC meeting.

      Following review of the data, the SRC may also decide to adjust the following for subsequent
      cohorts:

        -  The time window between the sentinel dose group and the main dose group in Part 1.

        -  The length of the stay at the study site, the timing and number of assessments and/or
           samples.

        -  The length of the follow-up period.

        -  The length of the data collection period for the SRC review.
    
  