
    
      This is a prospective, multicenter, observational study; the investigators will establish
      sensitivity and specificity of CLE ex vivo and in vivo, in the diagnosis of bladder
      carcinoma.

      Eligible patients are diagnosed with a bladder tumor at the outpatient clinic and scheduled
      for transurethral resection of bladder tumor (TURB). In total the investigators want to
      include 60 patients. Yearly approximately 70 patients are diagnosed with primary and
      recurrent bladder carcinoma in the Academic Medical Center (AMC) and will undergo TURB.

      Their Urologist will inform patients diagnosed with a bladder tumor who will be scheduled for
      treatment by means of TURB about the study. Information about the study will be provided both
      orally and in written form.

      CLE images are recorded using a probe-based system (Cellvizio 100 series, Mauna Kea
      Technologies, Paris, France). The probe (Cystoflex UHD-R, Mauna Kea Technologies, Paris,
      France) has an outer diameter of 2.8 mm, a field of view of 240 µm and has a resolution of 1
      µm. Images are collected at a scan rate of 12 frames per second. Using the Cellvizio Viewer
      system, the investigators can observe mucosal microarchitecture with an increased field of
      view through mosaic post processing. This system also enables virtual staining of mucosal
      structures to further enhance tissue contrast.

      A fluorescent contrast agent is needed to obtain CLE images. Fluorescein
      (fluoresceinedisodium, Fresenius Kabi, Zeist, Netherlands), a non-toxic and commonly used
      fluorescent dye will be administered intravesical (300-400 mL 0.1% fluorescein diluted in
      saline) and left indwelling for 5 minutes to stain the extracellular matrix.

      The study consists of three CLE measurements, one in vivo prior to tumor resection, the
      second ex vivo of the resected specimen, and the last measurement is ex vivo after fixating
      the tumor on formaldehyde. In the case of multiple tumors, multiple CLE measurements will be
      done. The measurement per-operatively will add approximately 15 minutes to operating time. In
      the ex vivo set up, additional images will be acquired using Optical Coherence Tomography
      (OCT). During tumor resection, a small chip of normal urothelium will be resected
      additionally to act as control. Resected bladder tissue will be fixed and laminated by the
      pathology department, to correlate to CLE images.
    
  