
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Coronary heart disease is the leading cause of death among United States Blacks, where
      coronary heart disease mortality rates are among the highest in the world. There has been a
      marked decline in coronary heart disease mortality among Blacks in the United States
      including South Carolina since 1968 for reasons not well explained, although hypertension
      control probably has contributed to the decline. In spite of this decline, evidence emerged
      that fatal and non-fatal coronary heart disease rates in Blacks exceeds those of whites.
      Charleston Heart Study data showed that coronary heart disease cumulative survival
      probabilities for Black men were lower than white men during the first 20 years of the 25
      year observation period. A secular trend manifested itself with relatively higher rates in
      Blacks but in any event, there was evidence that coronary disease was a major threat to
      Blacks.

      The Charleston Heart Study was initiated in 1960. Randomly selected Black and white men and
      women 35 years of age and over were examined to obtain details concerning angina, myocardial
      infarction, hypertension, smoking, blood pressure, height, weight, and serum cholesterol
      levels. The total cohort was 2,283 persons. The last screening of the cohort was in 1974-1975
      until the this study which started in 1984.

      Over one half the Blacks in the United States live in the South and the Charleston Heart
      Study offered the opportunity to study disease and disability status of elderly Blacks, in an
      environment that included urban and rural residents.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      In 1984-1985 a 25 year follow-up was conducted on the original Charleston Heart Study cohort.
      The vital status of 98 percent of the 1960 cohort was ascertained. Ninety-three percent of
      the survivors were revisited, interviewed, and measured for blood pressure, weight, and
      height. The interaction of socioeconomic status, type A behavior and John Henry behavior
      scores were tested. All-cause and coronary heart disease mortality were determined.

      In 1987-1988 approximately 1,300 survivors were recalled for measurements of functional and
      cognitive status using the Framingham Functional Disability Questionnaire so that comparisons
      of results from Charleston and Framingham could be made. Measurements were made of blood
      pressure, height, weight, and heart function by auscultation, ECG, and echocardiography.
      Lipoproteins, glucose, and other biochemical parameters were assessed. The biomedical and
      sociodemographic determinants of long-term survival in Black men and women were quantified
      and compared with those of whites. The risk factor significance of Minnesota-coded ECG
      abnormalities in Blacks versus whites were identified and quantified. Familial aggregation of
      risk factors and potential causes of obesity were assessed.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  