
    
      Risks of maternal and neonatal complications, even fetal death, increase with prolonged
      gestation. Recent studies suggest that the risks may start to increase even before 40 weeks
      of gestation, which challenges the current paradigm of induction after 41 weeks. Preliminary
      findings seem to suggest that induction before 40 weeks may actually reduce the risk of
      cesarean delivery. However, induction in women with an unripe cervix has a high risk of
      failed induction and cesarean delivery. Cervical ripening at hospital prior to induction is
      also associated with substantial costs and inconvenience to the woman.

      Vaginal intercourse in late pregnancy has long been known to women to accelerate the onset of
      labor. It is recommended by many physicians and nurses to prevent prolonged pregnancy.
      However, scientific evidence to support this common practice is scarce and inconsistent. We
      propose a prospective observational study to assess the effects of frequent intercourse on
      the timing of delivery in term pregnancies.

      A total of 510 nulliparous women with low risk pregnancies will be recruited during their
      antenatal visit after 36 plus 6 and before 39 plus 0 weeks of gestation at the Naval Medical
      Center San Diego. Subjects who have had infrequent intercourse (less than once per week)
      during the last four weeks before their visit will be asked to abstain from intercourse for
      the duration of pregnancy (or use condoms) (we expect to recruit 255 women in this subgroup).
      Subjects having vaginal intercourse more than once per week during the last four weeks will
      be asked to maintain or increase their frequency of intercourse up to three times a week (we
      expect to recruit 255 women for this subgroup). Women will be asked to record physical
      conditions and vaginal intercourse in a diary until delivery. An ultrasound will assess fetal
      biometry and cervical length and volume. A pelvic exam will calculate Bishop Score. Obstetric
      information will be extracted from medical records after birth. Time to delivery and rate of
      cesarean delivery will be compared between the women without sex and women with frequent sex.
      The effects of intercourse at term on time to delivery and cesarean delivery may have
      important clinical implications.
    
  