
    
      Venous thromboembolism (VTE) is a term to describe blood clots in the legs known as a deep
      vein thrombus (DVT) or lung, known as a pulmonary embolus (PE). It is a common condition,
      which causes many symptoms including leg pain, swelling, chest pain and breathlessness. At
      its most serious, VTE may lead to sudden collapse and death.

      Treating VTE costs the UK National Health Service (NHS) £640 million every year, including
      the long-term complications experienced by nearly a third of patients. VTE treatment usually
      consists of three to six months blood thinning medicine known as an anticoagulant. For most
      patients, a tablet called warfarin is used, which requires regular blood tests to ensure the
      blood is adequately and safely thinned.

      We also know that VTE is particularly common in cancer. In the UK, over 250,000 people are
      diagnosed each year with cancer, of which nearly a fifth will develop VTE. Warfarin is a
      potentially risky treatment in cancer patients because it may increase the risk of bleeding.
      Also, VTE may come back in a fifth of patients who are treated with warfarin.

      Research has shown that a medicine known as low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) is better
      than warfarin at treating VTE in cancer patients and decreases the chance of VTE coming back
      by half. LMWH is given as an injection once a day. Studies have shown that giving the drug as
      an injection is acceptable to patients, as some patients prefer this to the regular blood
      tests they need to have for warfarin monitoring. LMWH is also simpler to use since it does
      not cause problems for patients taking other medicines which is a common problem for patients
      taking warfarin.

      Cancer patients get VTE because the cancer can make the blood sticky and this makes it more
      likely to clot. It is recommended that patients take LMWH for six months only. However, if
      someone still has a cancer after six months of treatment with LMWH, there is still a strong
      chance that the VTE could come back because the cancer causing the blood clots has not gone
      away. This means that these patients might benefit from taking LMWH for longer than six
      months. We do not know though whether this would improve the patients' quality of life, help
      prevent death, or be cost-effective to the NHS.

      To help decide if continuing with LMWH would benefit patients, we need to compare the effects
      of continuing with LMWH for an extra six months with the effects of not continuing LMWH in a
      clinical trial. Because this has not been done before, the first thing we need to do is see
      if it would be possible to carry out a full clinical trial with these patients. In other
      words, will we be able to recruit enough patients, will LMWH be a good treatment for them and
      will it be a reasonable cost?

      To help answer these questions, we propose what is called a feasibility trial. This
      feasibility trial will compare patients who continue to take LMWH for a further six months
      with patients who do not continue to take LMWH. Patients with cancer, and who have been
      taking LMWH for five months for VTE, will be recruited from oncology and haematology
      outpatients departments and from GP practices.

      Patients who are approached to take part in the study will be asked if they would be willing
      to continue with LMWH for a further six months as part of a research study. If they say yes,
      then they will be chosen at random to either receive the LMWH for a further six months
      (intervention group), or to stop LMWH at six months, which is usual care (control group). We
      will follow up patients for six months from recruitment and ask them to complete
      questionnaires at three monthly intervals. These questionnaires will ask about their symptoms
      and quality of life.

      We will interview patients who do not wish to consent to the study to explore their reasons
      why. We will also interview patients who do consent to the study, but who later withdraw from
      the study to explore their experiences and reasons for withdrawal. We will also explore the
      views of clinicians towards continuation of LMWH and how they feel about the trial. Focus
      groups will be held with two groups of clinicians from each care setting. By collecting this
      information, we will be able to explore whether continuing with LMWH is something that is
      acceptable to patients and their health care professionals and if there are any side effects
      with continuing LMWH.

      The research team is made up of experienced researchers from all health care settings (GPs,
      hospital doctors and nurses and health care professionals working in charity organisations).
      They are supported by approved clinical trials units, which are experienced in running large
      studies in all areas. The team members also have links to many national and international
      professional, policy and patient groups, which will be essential to help report the findings
      of this study.
    
  