
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Insulin levels are consistently related to blood pressure, obesity, and blood lipids. Insulin
      level correlation with sodium-lithium countertransport is limited to only one available study
      done in white, normotensive, predominantly normal weight women aged 45-52. The relationship
      between cellular sodium-hydrogen exchange activity and hypertension has been studied in rats
      and in a small study in humans. Correlation of this transport with weight, fasting insulin
      and lipid levels, and sodium-lithium countertransport was not available in 1989.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study was cross-sectional. Subjects were stratified by weight: plus or minus 10 percent
      of desirable weight; 11 to 30 percent over desirable weight; and 30 percent over desirable
      weight; and by diastolic blood pressure: 80; 80-89; 90-99 mmHg. Blood pressure, height,
      weight, waist and hip girth, skinfold, fasting and post-glucose load insulin, glucose,
      lipids, creatinine, maximal rates of red blood cell sodium-lithium countertransport and
      platelet sodium-hydrogen exchange, pH, and calcium concentrations were measured. The strength
      and independence among these continuous variables were measured by Pearson correlations,
      partial correlations, and multiple regressions within each stratum, and if appropriate, over
      all strata. The study examined the hypotheses that: part of the relationship between obesity
      and blood pressure was due to insulin effects and/or lipid effects on ion transport; the
      relationship between ion transport and blood pressure was related to an abnormality of
      sodium-hydrogen exchange, for which the observed increase in sodium-lithium countertransport
      was a marker; increased blood pressure was related to the alteration of intracellular pH
      and/or calcium concentration.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  