
    
      Healthcare providers at four Stanford clinic sites will be the investigators' main
      participants and the study will follow a wait-list control design. The investigators will
      track patient health outcomes.

      The intervention described in this study will only be for the healthcare team. The
      investigators will track both provider outcomes (using self-report survey measures) and
      patient outcomes (using health information already being collected by the clinic). Although
      the investigators will be tracking the outcomes of all physicians at the clinics, only select
      patient outcomes will be included as part of the study.

      The study will begin with the care team filling out baseline self-report surveys online
      and/or in person.

      Prior to delivering the intervention, the clinics will be split, and half of the clinic sites
      will be assigned to be wait-list control clinics, while the other half of sites will receive
      the mindset training.

      The intervention for the care team will be delivered in person by members of the research
      team. The care team will be told that the investigators are assessing the impact of a novel
      training program for providers.The care team will truthfully be informed that the training
      they are receiving is designed to enhance their interactions with patients.

      Questionnaires:

      The care team: Physicians will be asked to fill out an initial brief survey about their
      mindsets about connecting with patients, burnout, job satisfaction, and their efficacy using
      harnessing mindsets in clinical practice. Care team members will then be asked to fill out
      the same survey after receiving their training.

      Charts will be reviewed to assess patient health outcomes. Data from the electronic medical
      record will be used to assess patient health outcomes at all clinics.

      Overview of Expected Outcomes: This training was designed to improve care teams' ability to
      shape patient mindsets in clinical care, and therefore influence patient outcomes in the
      following ways:

        1. Increase adherence to medication, screening, and vaccination recommendations. When care
           teams are better able to instill the mindset that treatment is likely to be beneficial
           and not harmful, patients will be more motivated to adhere to treatment recommendations.
           When care teams are better able to instill the mindset that patients are in good hands
           (e.g. the provider/care team is both warm/"gets them" and competent/"gets it"), patients
           will trust recommendations more and be more likely to follow through with them.

        2. Reduce unnecessary antibiotic use. When care teams are better able to instill the
           mindsets that an illness is manageable and the patient's body is capable, patients will
           be more likely to believe care teams when they say antibiotics are unnecessary (e.g. in
           the case of colds or certain respiratory illnesses), thereby reducing overall antibiotic
           usage.

        3. Improve health outcomes for patients with chronic illness. When care teams are better
           able to instill the mindsets that chronic illness is manageable, that patients' bodies
           are capable, that treatment is likely to be effective, and that they are in good hands,
           patients will be more likely to manage their chronic illness through both medication and
           lifestyle change, which will lead to improved health outcomes for these patients.

      Outcome Computation Plans for Requested Data:

      To assess the impact of the training, we will review patient-level primary care data from
      January 1, 2016-June 1, 2020. Using the data requested, we will compute outcomes for each of
      the three broad categories as follows. We will compare outcomes within each clinic before and
      after the training was implemented, and will also compare outcomes at the two initial
      intervention clinics to outcomes at the two initial-wait list clinics during the time period
      in which two of the clinics had received the training and two had not.

        1. Increase Adherence

           Prescription fills, refills, & discontinuations Refill requests will serve as a proxy
           measure for whether patients are taking their medications as prescribed.

           • Medications of interest:

           Prescriptions fills, refills, & discontinuations for medications for chronic disease
           management medications such as:

           o Antidepressants

           • SSRIs & SNIs

             -  Statins

             -  Hypertension medication

                • Beta blockers

                  -  Ace inhibitors

                  -  Calcium Channel Blockers

                  -  Thiazide diuretics

                  -  All common blood pressure medications

             -  Diabetic medications

                • Variable(s) we will compute:

             -  We will compute the percentage of patients who re-fill new prescriptions.

                  -  Denominator: Patients who have received a new prescription for one of the
                     medications listed above. New prescriptions will be defined as any
                     prescription not previously given in the past year (we will exclude patients
                     for whom this is their first visit to this provider). Patients who are
                     receiving a different prescription for the same condition will count as new
                     prescriptions.

                  -  Numerator: Patients from the above group who requested a refill request for
                     their eligible prescription within one year after the clinic visit.

             -  If possible, we will also use pharmacy data to assess the number of patients who
                fill the new prescription initially.

             -  If possible, we will also assess the number of patients whose medication is
                discontinued because the patient stopped taking the medication.

           Follow-up lab visit for patients with diabetes Patients with uncontrolled diabetes are
           recommended to have lab work every 3 months, and patients with controlled diabetes are
           recommended to have lab work every 6 months. Completion of such lab visits is an
           indication of adherence.

           • Variables we will compute:

             -  We will compute the percentage of patients with uncontrolled diabetes (defined as
                A1c > 8 or A1c > 9) coming in for lab work follow ups within 5 months after clinic
                visit.

                  -  Denominator: Patients with uncontrolled diabetes

                  -  Numerator: Patients from the above group who come in for lab work within 5
                     months after clinic visit

             -  We will compute the percentage of patients with controlled diabetes (defined as 6.5
                < A1c < 8 or 6.5 < A1c < 9) coming in for lab work follow ups within 12 months
                after clinic visit.

                  -  Denominator: Patients with controlled diabetes

                  -  Numerator: Patients from the above group who come in for lab work within 12
                     months after clinic visit

           Referral adherence When providers refer patients for diagnostic screenings such as
           Colonoscopy, Fit or Mammograms, completion of these referrals is a sign of adherence.

             -  Variables we will compute:

                o We will compute the percentage of patients following through with recommended
                screening referrals.

             -  Denominator: Patients who are referred for Colonoscopy, Fit, or Mammogram.

             -  Numerator: Patients from the above group who completed their screening within 6
                months of order date

           Vaccine adherence Pneummococcol vaccinations are recommended to patients ages 65 and
           older. Completed pneummococcol vaccinations are an indication of patient adherence to
           provider recommendations.

             -  Variables we will compute:

                o We will compute the percentage of patients 65 and older who received the
                pneumococcol vaccination.

             -  Denominator: Patients in the clinic who are 65 and older

             -  Numerator: Patients from the above group who completed the pneumococcol vaccination
                within 6 months of visit

                o We will compute the percentage of patients aged 65-67, who are newly eligible to
                receive the pneumococcol vaccination, who received the pneumococcol vaccination.

             -  Denominator: Patients in the clinic who are between 65 and 67 years of age

             -  Numerator: Patients from the above group who completed the pneumococcol vaccination
                within 6 months of visit

        2. Reduce antibiotic use

           Reduction in antibiotic prescriptions While in most cases we hope to increase adherence
           to medication prescriptions, there are many cases in which antibiotics are unnecessary.
           For example, antibiotics are often unnecessarily prescribed for common colds,
           bronchitis, chest colds, flu, and sore throats. A 2016 CDC report found that an
           estimated 30% of antibiotics prescribed in outpatient settings are unnecessary. In order
           to combat antibiotic resistant bacteria, the CDC set a 2015 goal to reduce inappropriate
           antibiotic use in outpatient settings by 50% by 2020. Thus, reduction in overall
           antibiotic use is a desirable outcome.

           ● Variable(s) we will compute:

             -  We will compute overall antibiotic prescriptions by looking at the number of
                patients prescribed antibiotics at clinic visits.

                  -  Denominator: Number of clinic encounters

                  -  Numerator: Number of antibiotics prescribed

             -  We will compute antibiotic prescriptions for respiratory illness by looking at the
                number of patients with respiratory illnesses prescribed antibiotics at clinic
                visits.

                  -  Denominator: Number of encounters with respiratory illness diagnoses
                     (including bronchitis and cough/congestion)

                  -  Numerator: Number of antibiotics prescribed at the above encounters

        3. Improve health outcomes

           Reduction in patient BMI Reduction in BMI for patients who are overweight is an
           indication of improved health outcomes.

           ● Variable(s) we will compute:

             -  Overall reduction in BMI for patients who are overweight

                ▪ First we will select patients with a BMI > 25

                ▪ Then we will compute change in BMI between visits for these patients.

             -  Reduction in BMI for patients with diabetes

                  -  First we will select patients who have a diagnosis of diabetes and have a BMI
                     > 25

                  -  Then we will compute change in BMI between visits for these patients.

           Reduction in patient blood pressure Reduction in blood pressure for patients with
           hypertension is an indication of improved health outcomes.

             -  Variable(s) we will compute:

                  -  Overall reduction in systolic blood pressure for patients with hypertension ▪
                     First we will select patients with a diagnosis of hypertension ▪ Then we will
                     compute change in blood pressure between visits for the above patients

                  -  Overall reduction in systolic blood pressure for patients with uncontrolled
                     hypertension ▪ First we will select patients with blood pressure > 140/90 ▪
                     Then we will compute change in blood pressure between visits for the above
                     patients

           Reduction in patient A1c levels Improved A1c control for patients with diabetes is an
           indication of improved health outcomes.

           ● Variables we will compute:

             -  Overall reduction in A1c for patients with diabetes

                ▪ First we will select patients with a diagnosis of diabetes

                ▪ Then we will compute change in A1c between visits for the above

             -  Reduction in A1c for patients with uncontrolled diabetes ▪ First we will select
                patients with uncontrolled diabetes (A1c > 8 or A1c > 9) ▪ Then we will compute
                change in A1c between visits for the above patients
    
  