
    
      Photobiomodulation (PBM) describes a kind of light therapy that uses red or near-infrared
      light to stimulate, heal, regenerate, and protect tissue that has either been injured, is
      degenerating, or else is at risk of dying. Human cadaver studies have shown near-infrared
      wavelengths can penetrate 40-50 mm through the scalp and skull. Saltmarche et al. (2017)
      recently reported that 12-weeks of transcranial treatment with a commercially available PBM
      device (i.e., the Vielight "Neuro ") benefits cognitive function in patients with
      mild-to-moderately severe dementia. Specifically, Saltmarche et al. reported improvements on
      the Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE, p< 0.003) and Alzheimer's Disease Assessment
      Scale-cognitive subscale (ADAS-cog, p< 0.03) in 5 dementia patients after 12-weeks of PBM
      treatment.

      The first aim of this trial is to replicate Saltmarche et al' s findings that the effects of
      12-weeks of PBM treatment can improve cognitive function in older adults with dementia.
      Because the Vielight Neuro device targets nodes of the default mode network (DMN), which is
      dysregulated in Alzheimer's disease (AD), the second aim of this pilot study is to
      investigate whether 12 weeks of PBM therapy with the Vielight Neuro device improves DMN
      connectivity in older adults with dementia. Finally, because there is suggestive evidence
      that PBM therapy enhances blood flow, the third aim of the trial is to examine whether
      12-weeks of PBM therapy improves cerebral blood flow (CBF) in older adults with dementia. The
      trial will also explore the effects of PBM treatment on quality of life in older adults with
      dementia and on caregiver burden.

      Ten older adults with dementia (i.e., the primary study participants, PP) and their
      caregivers (CG) will be enrolled in a randomized, wait-list control trial. Five PPs will be
      randomized to the "immediate" PBM treatment group after the baseline psychometric and MRI
      assessments. Five PP will be randomized to a "delayed" PBM treatment group that will not
      receive PBM treatment with the Vielight Neuro device until after the 12 week psychometric and
      MRI assessments.

      Neuroimaging measures will be assessed in all PPs at baseline and week 12. Cognitive function
      and quality of life will be assessed in all PPs at baseline, weeks 6 and 12. Caregivers (CGs)
      will be asked to fill out questionnaires Caregivers (CGs) will be asked to fill out
      questionnaires about caregiver burden, positive aspects of care giving, depressive
      symptomology, and dementia-related behaviors in the PP at baseline, weeks 6 and 12.

      PPs randomized to the "immediate" PBM treatment group will receive PBM with the Vielight
      Neuro device once a day, every other day (e.g., Mon, Wed, Fri) for 12 weeks. PPs randomized
      to the "delayed" PBM treatment group will keep doing their usual activities for 12 weeks.
      After the 12 week psychometric and MRI assessments, PPs randomized to the "delayed" PBM
      treatment group will receive PBM with the Vielight Neuro device once a day, every other day
      (e.g., Mon, Wed, Fri) for 12 weeks. PPs randomized to the "delayed" PBM treatment group will
      undergo additional psychometric assessment at weeks 18 and 24. CGs of PPs randomized to the
      "delayed" PBM treatment group will be asked to fill out additional questionnaires about
      caregiver burden, positive aspects of care giving, depressive symptomology, and
      dementia-related behaviors in the PP at baseline, weeks 18 and 24.
    
  