
    
      With IRB approval and informed consent to participate in the study, patients scheduled for
      elective shoulder arthroscopy will be randomly selected and placed into 1 of 2 groups. Both
      groups will adhere to the surgeon's preoperative protocol of showering the night before with
      instructions to scrub the operative shoulder including the axilla with a chlorhexidine scrub
      brush. Group 1 will be treated "per protocol" and only be given instructions to use
      chlorhexidine. While group 2 will be provided a chlorhexidine scrub brush and a 1.5oz bottle
      of 10% benzoyl peroxide emollient to be applied after using the chlorhexidine scrub. The
      benzoyl peroxide should not be washed off prior to surgery.

      Thirty minutes prior to incision, intravenous antibiotics, cefazolin or clindamycin if
      penicillin intolerant, will be administered per protocol. Dry anaerobic culturettes will be
      taken at the location of the expected posterior portal location before and after the
      application of the chloraprep solution. At the time of surgery both groups will undergo
      preoperative skin preparation, in sterile fashion, with our institutions "standard" protocol
      utilizing ChloraPrep (2% chlorhexidine gluconate and 70% isopropyl alcohol; Enturia, El Paso,
      Texas). In addition, a 3mm full thickness skin punch biopsy will be taken after, application
      of chlorprep. Biopsies will be immediately placed, by the surgeon, in sterile receptacle with
      sterile saline and sent to our microbiology department. The biopsy site will be incorporated
      into the portal incision and will be closed appropriately minimizing the morbidity of
      obtaining the biopsy.

      The culture results will be recorded into a "dummy" account on McLaren's electronic medical
      records program. This account ensures that the costs of the study are not charged to the
      patient as well as blinding the patient and surgeon of the their results. The patient
      correlating information will only be known to Dr. Fine and they will be kept in a password
      protect computer document which will be kept in a off campus protected locked location.

      The Microbiology lab will place the swab specimens in 1 ml of saline, vortex them, and
      inoculate 0.01 mL onto an anaerobic blood agar plate. A chopped meat broth will also be
      inoculated. The punch biopsies will be ground and then inoculated to an anaerobic blood agar
      plate and a chopped meat broth. The anaerobic plates will be incubated in an anaerobic
      chamber at 35°C. The plates and broth will be examined daily for the first 4 days, then on
      days 7, 10 and 14 and any growth screened to determine if P. acnes is present. Results will
      be reported as "no P. acnes isolated" or as "<X>CFU/mL P. acnes" for the swab specimens. No
      colony count can be issued for the biopsies. These will be reported semi-quantitatively as
      rare, few, moderate or many. All plates will be read and counted manually by a laboratory
      technician who is not involved in the study and has been blinded from preoperative prep used.
      If any growth is detected, the sample will be considered positive.
    
  