
    
      Background. People with substance-use disorders may have difficulty guiding their behavior on
      the basis of not-yet-experienced outcomes such as long-term effects of substance use. Use of
      mental inferences about future outcomes can be tested in a relatively simple laboratory task
      called sensory preconditioning.

      Objective. To test whether sensory-preconditioning performance is worse in people with
      opioiduse disorder (OUD) than in healthy, demographically matched controls. To increase
      generalizability, we will examine OUD participants who are in agonist treatment (abstinent or
      not) and OUD participants who are abstinent but not in treatment. We do not have a hypothesis
      about differences between those two groups, but we hypothesize that among agonist-treated OUD
      participants, performance will correlate with degree of abstinence.

      Participant population. We will enroll 3 groups of men and women: (1) history of OUD, but
      abstinent for at least 3 weeks and not in agonist treatment, (2) OUD being treated with an
      agonist (buprenorphine or methadone), (3) no history of a substance-use disorder (except
      nicotine, for matching purposes) and not using any drug for nonmedical purposes.

      Experimental design. Between-groups cross-sectional single-session laboratory study, with
      telephone follow-up at 30 and 60 days.

      Methods. Each participant will participate in a sensory preconditioning task conducted in a
      single session. The task uses food odors delivered via nasal cannula and paired with visual
      cues on a computer screen. There are three phases: (1) Preconditioning, in which 2 pairs of
      visual cues (A+B, C+D) are shown on the computer screen; participants should acquire
      automatic associations between A+B and between C+D. (2) Conditioning, in which participants
      learn associations between the second cue of each pair (B and D) and either a sweet odor
      (B1), a savory odor (B2), or no odor (D); and (3) Probe Test, in which participants predict
      whether a visual cue will be paired with the sweet odor, the savory odor, or no odor, by
      pressing a left, middle, or right button. No odors are actually delivered in the probe test.
      The test of inference guided behavior is the ability to associate visual cues A and C with an
      odor despite their never having been directly paired with an odor. In telephone follow-up at
      30 and 60 days, participants will be asked to report drug use and associated problems since
      the session or follow-up call.

      Primary outcome measures. (1) Value-based outcome inference as measured using responding to
      cues A minus C in the probe test. It is defined as the percentage of trials in which
      behavioral responses indicate a prediction of any odorant (sweet or savory), independent of
      whether this prediction is correct. Responding to cues B minus D will be used as a covariate
      to control for differences in olfactory acuity and non-inference-based task performance.

      Secondary outcome measures. (1) The percentage of trials in which the odor prediction is
      correct. (2) Response latency per cue type. (3) Amplitude and (4) latency of respiratory
      (sniff) responses per cue type. (5) Acquisition (% responding to B minus D in the last run of
      conditioning) during the training portion of the inferencing task. (6) Drug use and
      associated problems at follow-up.
    
  