
    
      In pediatric critical care, it is difficult to discern a patient's intravascular fluid status
      (hypovolemia, hypervolemia, euvolemia). Often, pediatric sepsis patients exhibit profound
      hypovolemia and early aggressive fluid resuscitation has been shown to decrease mortality
      (1,2). Within the first 48 hours of presentation, pediatric patients with sepsis can have
      profound changes in physiology with changes in cardiac function and systemic vascular
      resistance which can make it difficult to discern whether continued fluid resuscitation or
      the addition of vasopressor support is needed (1,2). Similar physiology can also be seen in
      other patients with systemic inflammatory response such as postoperative cardiac patients and
      general pediatric post-surgical patients. While appropriate fluid resuscitation is needed, it
      has been shown that fluid overload does increase mortality (3-5). Clinicians often use
      clinical exam, vital signs, urine output and central venous pressure (CVP) as guides for need
      of fluid resuscitation, but static measures such as central venous pressure, pulmonary wedge
      pressure, and clinical exam have not been shown to be strong predictors of fluid
      responsiveness and cardiac output in patients (6-8). A more accurate way to discern fluid
      status and heart function is through measurement of cardiac output, but in order to calculate
      cardiac output, additional tests such as an echocardiogram is needed or additional invasive
      monitoring using thermodilution such as a continuous cardiac output monitor is needed (7,8).

      In the last 30 years, dynamic changes in arterial pressure during the respiratory cycle have
      been described, where there is a decrease in cardiac preload during time of inspiration of a
      positive pressure breath followed by an increase in cardiac preload during the expiration of
      a positive pressure breath 9,10. Using this change in arterial pressure, information about
      cardiac preload or volume status can be inferred. The most common forms of dynamic pressure
      monitoring that are used are systolic pressure variation and pulse pressure variation.

      Several adult studies have shown that systolic pressure variation (SPV) and pulse pressure
      variation (PPV) more accurately predict fluid response (defined in majority of studies as
      increase stroke volume index or cardiac index/output >15% after receiving a fluid bolus) in
      mechanically ventilated critically ill patients compared to static measures, such as CVP
      (2,10-24). PPV has also been shown to be predictive of fluid responsiveness in many patients
      with many different pathologies including intraoperative patients, postoperative cardiac
      bypass patients, patients in septic shock and patients with acute lung injury requiring lower
      tidal volumes (11,13-15,17-23,25). PPV has also been validated as a helpful and accurate
      guide for fluid responsiveness in clinical scenarios requiring vasopressors (12,26). Lopes et
      al demonstrated not only that PPV accurately predicts fluid response, but by using PPV
      directed fluid resuscitation in the operating room, patients had better postoperative
      outcomes as defined by decreased ventilator time (1 vs 5 days, P<0.05), and decreased length
      of hospital stay (7 vs 17 days, P< 0.1) (22).

      There are very few studies evaluating pulse pressure variation in the pediatric patient
      population and results have been mixed. Similar to the adult studies, these studies evaluated
      dynamic parameters, including SPV and/or PPV, by comparing changes in dynamic parameters to
      changes seen in stroke volume index calculated by continuous cardiac index monitoring or
      echocardiogram. Fluid boluses were given and if the SPV or PPV decreased as the stroke volume
      index increased, then these dynamic parameters were proven to be predictive of fluid
      responsiveness. Some studies showed that PPV or SPV were not reliable predictors of fluid
      responsiveness (27-29). In contrast, a study in infants and neonates undergoing congenital
      heart surgery (ventricular septal defect and atrial septal defect repairs) illustrated that
      PPV was predictive of fluid response both before and after repair of the cardiac lesion (30).
      This study was particularly interesting since PPV was able to predict fluid response in two
      different physiologic states, with and without an intracardiac shunt (30). Two other
      pediatric studies also demonstrated that dynamic parameters were predictive of fluid response
      (31,32). There have been no pediatric studies thus far that have investigated if dynamic
      variable (PPV or SPV) guided fluid resuscitation improves patient outcomes.

      Dynamic pressure monitoring, including PPV and SPV, is considered standard of care within the
      adult anesthesia setting and is currently being used in the adult operating rooms at
      University of North Carolina Hospitals. Most of the monitors within the hospital are equipped
      to measure PPV, including the monitors in the PICU. Several PICU attendings and fellows are
      familiar with PPV and have been using it as an aid in fluid management over the last couple
      of months. The investigator's hope is that with the use of PPV that physicians will be better
      able to gauge a patient's intravascular status and judiciously give fluid leading to
      appropriate fluid management and better patient outcomes in the Pediatric Intensive Care Unit
      (PICU).

      Hypothesis: Using pulse pressure variation will reduce the amount of fluid in the first 48
      hours of acute illness (first 48 hours after placement of arterial line and intubation on
      conventional mechanical ventilation) by 30%. Appropriate fluid management will reduce the
      amount of time on the ventilator, the number of days in the PICU, and time on vasopressors.

      Methods:

      Patient Population and Recruitment: All patients admitted to the pediatric intensive care
      unit will be screened for recruitment for study by pediatric critical care attending or
      fellow. Patients that require standard mechanical ventilation and arterial line will be
      eligible for the study. Study will include 75 patients admitted to the PICU that require an
      arterial line and conventional mechanical ventilation that will be prospectively followed.
      There will be 75 matched, historic patients that will be used for controls. The investigators
      do not expect any difficulty enrolling 75 patients to the study as there were 1069 patients
      admitted to the PICU in the last year (July 2013 to July 2014).

      Study Procedure: Prior to any accrual of patients, all nurses in the PICU and all PICU
      physicians (attendings and fellows) will have formal education and training on use of PPV and
      the study protocol. In addition, all physicians will have consent training. All patients
      admitted to the pediatric intensive care unit who are mechanically ventilated on conventional
      ventilator settings with arterial line will be eligible for the study. Primary investigator
      (during the day) or physician on call in the PICU (during the night) will obtain consent if
      patient is eligible for the study. The bedside physician (co-investigator) will give fluid as
      needed based on standard clinical data (heart rate, central venous pressure if available,
      blood pressure, urine output, physical exam, lactate level) and pulse pressure variation.
      Boluses of 5 cc/kg will be given so as to give fluid incrementally. Pulse pressure variation
      value before fluid bolus and after fluid bolus will be recorded in the electronic medical
      record. Pulse pressure variation will be followed for 48 hours. Pulse pressure variation,
      central venous pressure, total fluid for PICU stay, total fluid during 48 hours while on the
      PPV protocol (cc/kg/day), days mechanically ventilated, hours on vasopressors, any
      echocardiograms, age, weight at admission, daily weights, sex, diagnosis will be recorded in
      the patient's medical record. All data will be collected from patient's record by the primary
      investigator.

      Data Analysis: Continuous baseline variables will have descriptions with means and standard
      deviations, and categorical baseline variables will be described with frequency
      distributions. A two-sided t-test and corresponding confidence interval will be used to
      compare matched historic controls to prospectively recruited test group subjects for total
      amount of fluid in 48 hours (cc/kg/day). Wilcoxon Rank Sum tests for time-to-event data will
      be applied to time on ventilator (days), time in the PICU (days), and time on vasopressors
      (hours), together with Kaplan-Meyer curves for descriptive purposes.
    
  