
    
      Premature birth is a major cause of developmental delay, and cost-effective, replicable
      methods to promote development in preterm children are needed. Despite the success of first
      generation interventions, little is understood about why early intervention does not affect
      all parents and preterms to the same degree.

      This study assessed the efficacy of a three-component intervention (psychoeducational video,
      serial administrations of the Brazelton Neonatal Behavioral Assessment Scale, and
      parent-administered infant massage) that targets preterm infants and their mothers and
      fathers. Outcome measures included infant physical, intellectual, and socioemotional
      development; parental sensitivity; and infant-parent attachment. The project also assessed
      the role of parental state of mind regarding attachment and parental commitment to the
      intervention.

      Participants in this study were urban African American mothers and fathers of preterm, low
      birthweight infants admitted to the neonatal intensive care unit. Fathers were eligible for
      the study if nominated by the child's mother. Participants were randomly assigned to an
      intervention group or a control group. Both groups were comparable with respect to race,
      maternal pregnancy history, education, income, presence/absence of partner, infant
      gestational age, infant small-for-date status, and infant gender.

      The intervention group viewed a videotape about preterm infant abilities. Over the course of
      the study, the intervention group administered infant massage and completed multiple
      administrations of the Brazelton Neonatal Behavioral Assessment Scale with increasing
      parental involvement.

      The intervention began when infants were 32 to 36 weeks post-conceptual age (PCA) and ended
      when infants are 52 to 56 weeks PCA. The efficacy of the intervention and the moderating
      roles of adult attachment and parental commitment to the intervention were evaluated in terms
      of infant physical, mental, motor, and social development, and parental adjustment and
      sensitivity to the infant during the first 2 years.
    
  