
    
      Background and significance Chronic Migraine is not so unusual in pediatric and adolescent
      age and is about 2% of population in adolescent age. The literature of the last decades
      confirmed the need to taking care of these patients susceptible to develop medication
      overuse. There are different pharmacological treatments for migraine in young patients but no
      one of them has specific indication for this category of patients and their efficacy reaches
      30/40% leaving many side effects difficult to manage at this age. The feasibility and the
      effectiveness of behavioral approaches has been already documented in clinical experiences of
      the last decades: these approaches revealed efficacy in long-term studies and with control
      groups and they are totally free of unpleasant effects. Mindfulness practice is one of the
      most recent behavioral approaches that combined with Acceptance Commitment Therapy offer a
      suitable and adequate treatment for adolescent patients. These approaches make patients more
      conscious about their problem and able to learn techniques alternative to medications for
      managing pain.. Mindfulness and other behavioral therapies have done significant results in
      terms of clinical improvement for these patients and they are well accepted with a high
      adherence level. This preliminary study will be performed considering that the Covid-19
      emergency reduced significantly the possibility for patients to follow sessions at the
      hospital and to move among the different Italian regions and the investigators organized a
      program with education and support by mindfulness , delivered by video sessions. According to
      the protocols at the Headache Center of the Besta Institute in Milan Italy, patients of this
      category are followed with a standardized program including: education and support for
      behavioral measures, behavioral sessions, by mindfulness, once per week for 45 minutes for 6
      weeks which usually delivered in groups of 4 - 8 patients. This approach may be particularly
      useful in helping patients to obtain a better outcome. All the above discussed considerations
      are even more relevant in this emergency situation due to the Corona-virus pandemic
      phenomenon in Italy, with its consequences on mobility of patients and clinical practice. In
      order to promote different modalities to respond to the needs of patients suffering from this
      disabling condition during the emergency, exercise-based telemedicine and smartphone
      applications seem very appropriate, as they have been recently tested in the management of
      chronic pain conditions. This preliminary study will be performed considering that the
      Covid-19 emergency reduced significantly the mobility of patients, particularly those living
      in other Italian regions than Lombardy, and in view of providing an effective and somewhat
      innovative treatment program for this class of patients. The proposed treatment intervention
      is based on investigators' experience, and on published reports, but it specifically includes
      a home based program, visits performed as Video calls, and educational and support strategies
      aimed to develop skills to reduce clinical symptoms and to cope with pain by a standardized
      behavioural approach based on mindfulness -

      which will be delivered mainly by telemedicine and smartphone applications . The aim of this
      pilot study is to assess the feasibility and the effectiveness at long-term on relevant
      outcomes of a specific protocol, designed to be appropriate during the emergency situation
      due to COVID-19 epidemic, by an approach that is alternative to current practice,
      particularly as far as reducing face-to-face hospital visits taking advantage of facilities
      offered by new technologies, besides including innovative and emerging treatment choices,
      namely a behavioural approach base on mindfulness
    
  