
    
      During this study, additional tests will be performed on a sample of your original tumor that
      has been stored in your institutions tissue banks. These tests will be performed on tumor
      tissue samples from previous biopsies or surgeries for your cancer. The research done on
      these samples will involve looking at DNA and proteins in your cancer to see if researchers
      can learn more about your type of cancer and understand how this combination of drugs might
      work on your tumor. Testing of this sample will not require you to undergo any additional
      research procedures.

      Approximately 2 tablespoons of blood will be collected for research testing. This testing
      will involve looking at DNA and proteins in your blood to compare them with those seen in
      your cancer. This will be drawn before you begin taking the study drug.

      You may also participate in an optional blood test for the BRCA gene. The BRCA gene test is a
      blood test that uses DNA analysis to see changes in either one of two breast cancer genes,
      known as BRCA1 or BRCA2. After having a BRCA gene test performed, you learn whether you carry
      an inherited BRCA gene mutation. If your blood is tested for the BRCA gene, the results will
      be reported to your study doctor who will share the results with you and provide information
      related to your personal risk of breast cancer. Having a BRCA gene mutation is rare,
      occurring in only about 1 in 1000 people. Inherited BRCA gene mutations are responsible for
      less than 5 to 10 percent of breast cancers and about 10 to 15 percent of ovarian cancers.

      Participants in the dose expansion portion of the study may be asked to have a tumor biopsy
      done. The dose expansion phase for the combination of BKM120 and Olaparib has been
      determined. The combination of BYL719 and Olaparib is currently in the dose escalation phase
      and the dose expansion phase has not been determined. Before and after you begin taking
      BKM120 (or BYL719) and olaparib, your doctor may also ask you to participate in an optional
      study where you would have tumor biopsies done.

      Participation in the tumor biopsy and blood test for the BRCA gene are optional, and whether
      you consent or refuse to undergo these additional tests will not affect your participation in
      the main research study.

      Since the investigators are looking for the highest dose of the study drug that can be
      administered safely without severe or unmanageable side effects in participants that have
      high grade serious ovarian cancer or triple negative breast cancer, not everyone who
      participates in this research study will receive the same dose of the study drug. The dose
      you get will depend on the number of participants who have been enrolled in the study before
      you and how well they have tolerated their doses.

      All drugs are in oral form. If you take part in this research study, you will be given a
      study dosing calendar for each drug for each treatment cycle. Each treatment cycle lasts 4
      weeks. BKM120 or BYL719 should be taken once daily in the morning, one hour after a light
      meal. Olaparib should be taken twice a day continuously, about twelve hours apart. The
      olaparib morning dose should be taken at the same time as BKM120 or BYL719 one hour after a
      light meal. The evening dose can also be taken one hour after a light meal or on an empty
      stomach either 1 hour before or 2 hours after meals. If you vomit either or both medications,
      record this on your diary and do not take another dose that day.

      The investigators will assess your tumor by CT or MRI scan every 8 weeks. During Cycle 1, you
      will come into the clinic every week, and during cycle 2, you will come into clinic every 2
      weeks. For all cycles thereafter, you will come in once every 4 weeks.

      During study visits you will undergo some or all of the following: evaluation of performance
      status, recording of any healthy problems, physical exam including vital signs, list of
      medications taken since last visit, questionnaire to evaluate anxiety and depression, routine
      blood tests, research blood tests, Electrocardiogram and optional biopsy.

      You will remain in this research study as long as you are benefitting from study treatment.
      If you are removed from the research study for any reason you may be followed for up to one
      year.
    
  