
    
      Synopsis

      Title of study

      Treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) with arsenic trioxide (ATO). A phase-IV study
      to assess the effectiveness and toxicity of ATO as well as the kinetics of minimal residual
      disease (MRD) in patients with first and subsequent hematological or molecular relapse of
      APL.

      Study coordination: Priv.-Doz. Dr. Eva Lengfelder

      Protocol committee: German AMLCG and German AML-Intergroup (open for other participating
      groups)

      Study duration: Time of recruitment 3 years, individual follow up scheduled for 3 years

      Objectives of the study

      Primary objectives

      Assessment of:

        1. the rate of hematological remission

        2. the rate of molecular remission

        3. the kinetics of the MRD of PML/RARa during and after ATO

      Secondary objectives

      Assessment of:

        1. the side effects of ATO

        2. percentage of transplantable patients in comparison to the historical results after
           chemotherapy

        3. the overall survival

        4. duration of the hematological and molecular remission

           Study characteristics: Open-label multicenter controlled phase-IV study

           Number of patients: 30 patients

           Inclusion criteria

           * Patients in first or subsequent hematological or molecular relapse of APL

           * Persistence of a positive PCR or no hematological CR after first line therapy

           * No complete hematological remission after first line therapy

           * Age over 18 years

           * No upper age limit

           * Informed consent of the patient

           Exclusion criteria

           * Absolute QTc-interval prolonged over 460 msec before therapy (normal electrolytes, no
           other drugs prolonging the QT-interval )

           * Heart failure NYHA grade III and IV

           * Renal or hepatic failure WHO grade >= III

           * Pneumonia with hypoxemia

           * Uncontrolled sepsis

           * Pregnancy and lactation period

             -  Secondary malignancy, which will have major influence on the prognosis

             -  Expected noncompliance

             -  No informed consent of the patient

           Diagnostic measures:

           Confirmation of relapse by RT-PCR of PML/RARa and by cytogenetics. Follow up PCRs with
           quantitative nested RT-PCR and qualitative REAL-time PCR of PML/RARa.

           Treatment plan

           Induction therapy:

           - 3 cycles of ATO with the aim to induce a hematological or a molecular remission.

           Options for postremission therapy:

           · Allogeneic transplantation (PBSCT) in suitable patients with a related or unrelated
           donor.

           The administration of chemotherapy preceding allogeneic transplantation is stratified
           according to the PCR status after ATO. Chemotherapy (HAM) should be considered in PCR
           positive patients according to the individual situation.

           No chemotherapy is given in PCR negative patients.

           · Autologous PBSCT in patients without a donor qualifying for autologous
           transplantation.

           The intensity of chemotherapy (HAM with either 3 or 1 g/m²) is proposed according to the
           PCR status of PML/RARa (sensitivity 10-4) after ATO and to patient's age.

           · 3 maintenance cycles of ATO. This is followed by HAM in patients with persistence or
           reappearance of a positive PCR.

           Patients not eligible for allogeneic or autologous transplantation, but without
           contraindications against intensive chemotherapy. · 3 maintenance cycles of ATO in
           patients not eligible for allogeneic or autologous transplantation (no suitable donor,
           too old, no stem cells collected, positive stem cell transplant) and with
           contraindications against intensive chemotherapy.

           Monitoring of MRD is mandatory after each ATO cycle and further treatment step. (Details
           of the treatment plan are shown in the overview of the study design, Paragraph 2.2).

           Criteria for evaluation

           The effectiveness of the therapy is assessed by the evaluation of the rate of
           hematological and molecular remission and of the duration of remission according to the
           commonly used definitions.

           The safety of the therapy is assessed by a close study monitoring using the criteria of
           toxicity according to WHO.
    
  