
    
      The menstrual cycle is one of the most important signs of a functioning reproductive system
      in women, but sometimes this cycle is associated with signs and symptoms that cause physical
      and psychological problems for women.

      Considering the high prevalence of PMS among women and the complications of this syndrome on
      work performance, social and interpersonal relationships and family, and its role in limiting
      education, social and economic progress in society, 8 weeks of online yoga exercises given
      online to female students were helpful in reducing PMS symptoms The aim was to evaluate the
      efficacy and effect on inflammation parameters. The study was planned as an interventional,
      single-blind, randomized controlled study. The sample size of this study was calculated based
      on the latest research available on the effect of exercise on PMS (Kamalifard et al.2017). A
      power analysis was performed in student PMS scores between exercise and control groups and to
      expect a difference of 80% strength and α = 0.50 and 30%. 80% power (1 - ß) minimum 18
      students for each group, total 36 students will be included in the sample.

      The researcher will provide brief information about the scope of the research by interviewing
      the students who meet the case selection criteria online. Verbal and written consents of the
      "Informed Consent Form" will be obtained (written consents will be sent to the researcher
      online). Female students who accepted to participate in the study were given the "Data
      Collection Form" (see Annex: 1), "Beck Depression Inventory" (APPENDIX: 2), Visual Pain Scale
      (VAS) (see APPENDIX: 3) and PMS for 3 cycles. Scale (see Annex: 4) will be applied using the
      online data collection method. Students who meet the sample selection criteria will be
      randomly allocated to the intervention and control group by the method of computer-assisted
      randomization (www.randomizer.org). In order to ensure blindness, randomization and random
      distribution of the participants to the groups will be done by a researcher and will not be
      shared with other researchers. and Body Mass Index will be calculated. CRP, Procalcitonin,
      sedimentation, Interleukin (IL) -2, IL-4, IL-6, IL-10, IL-12, and interferon from all
      participants on the day of the highest VAS score (the day when symptoms peak) and the day
      when symptoms were highest. (IFN gamma), TNF alpha and PMS scale will be taken. Students in
      the intervention group will be given a total of 120 minutes out of 40 minutes, and 24
      sessions of yoga for 8 weeks, 3 days a week. The researcher who will make yoga with each
      student will be sent videos on the online platform, including a yoga presentation and a full
      yoga session with the students after a yoga session. The students were asked to do yoga 3
      times a week in accordance with the video and the researcher will be called twice a week to
      get information about the process.
    
  