
    
      STUDY DESIGN: This trial will be conducted as an open-label, fixed dose design for safety of
      Acamprosate in the elderly. Subjects will receive Acamprosate for 12 weeks. The schedule of
      visits will include screening, baseline and three monthly follow-up visits at days 30, 60 and
      90. We will recruit 25 subjects in the total study period of 15 month.

      Regarding the number of subjects, chi-squared analysis of the total number of side effects
      (61%, i.e. 1230 out of 2018 subjects in prior studies) and the possible number of subjects in
      the study with side effects (from 0 to 25), indicates that a significant (alpha=0.05)
      difference from the previously observed rate would occur if less than 11 (p<=0.05) or more
      than 20 (p<=0.025) subjects report side effects. Side effects in 11 to 20 subjects would be
      nonsignificantly different from the previously published rates. Thus 25 subjects are
      sufficient to detect significant deviation in frequency of overall side effects in this
      sample compared to the subjects in prior studies. Total number of side effects was used for
      this calculation because there is no single common or significant side effect that would lend
      itself as an appropriate surrogate for the side effects overall.

      During the course of the study subjects will be supplied with 333mg tablets of Acamprosate
      provided by the Sponsor. The study medication will be administered at a dose of 666mg (=two
      tablets) three times a day for subjects with a creatinine clearance >50. The dose will be
      333mg three times a day for subjects with a creatinine clearance in the range of 30-50.

      Safety will be monitored by subject's report of adverse events at all treatment visits
      throughout both, open label and double blind phases of the Trial. The report of adverse
      events or new symptoms by the subject will be reviewed and summarized. This may also include
      any clinically significant changes in the vital signs (blood pressure and pulse readings,
      weight, temperature), physical examinations, laboratory evaluations (blood chemistry,
      hematology, urinalysis, EKG) and recording of concomitant treatment. A DSMB plan has been set
      up.

      Treatment compliance will be monitored by counts of returned medication, and subjects are to
      be counseled if they do not adhere, or if they are thought to be at risk for not adhering to
      the medication regimen.
    
  