
    
      This is a cluster RCT at up to 50 sites where randomization will occur in a 1:1 ratio at the
      site level (not at the individual patient level). Therefore, up to 25 sites will be
      randomized to the PRO-TECT intervention arm (patient-reporting of symptoms plus access to
      standardized symptom management guideline), and up to 25 sites will be randomized to the
      control arm (usual care delivery plus access to standardized symptom management guideline).
      Specifically:

      PROCEDURES AT ALL SITES (CONTROL SITES AND INTERVENTION SITES):

        -  Site staff (CRA and Nurse Champion required) will attend the site initiation webinar
           with UNC staff, including training for the PRO-Core online data management system and
           orientation to the symptom management guidelines.

        -  At enrollment, all participants will be given a booklet with patient-level symptom
           advice and a link to the content online.

        -  All participants will receive compensation for participation, mailed to them as gift
           cards by UNC.

        -  CRAs will train all participants how to complete outcomes questionnaires for the trial
           using the PRO-Core online system. Participants will be given a choice to complete these
           in clinic or from home online, or if necessary via paper in clinic (with the CRA
           entering the data into PRO-Core). If the patient does not self-complete this
           information, the CRA will contact them to collect the information and then enter it into
           PRO-Core. The outcomes questionnaires will be completed at baseline; and at month 1 (+/-
           2 weeks); and at months 3, 6, 9, and 12/off-study (+/- 4 weeks each), and will be
           available in English, Spanish, or Mandarin Chinese. At each time point, the CRA will
           contact the participant to remind them about the upcoming questionnaire and offer help.

        -  Chart abstraction will be conducted by CRAs at baseline and at off-study for each
           participant, with data entered into the PRO-Core system. Date of death information will
           additionally be abstracted at 18 and 24 months, and possibly later per the UNC study
           team.

        -  CRAs will be asked to complete a feedback survey (entered by the CRA into the PRO-Core
           online system) and may be asked to participate in a brief telephone debriefing and/or
           site visit.

        -  Accrual will be monitored in a weekly teleconference between the UNC team and site CRAs.

      ADDITIONAL PROCEDURES AT INTERVENTION SITES ONLY:

        -  At baseline, CRAs will also train patients to self-report symptoms and physical
           functioning using the PRO-Core system weekly for up to a year, with a choice to do this
           online or via an automated telephone system (patient choice), and a choice of English,
           Spanish, or Mandarin Chinese.

        -  Whenever a concerning symptom is reported, an automated "email alert" notification will
           be sent to the site CRA. The CRA will forward the email alert to the responsible
           clinical nurse (or other covering clinician) and CC the site's Nurse Champion. Within 72
           hours, the CRA will document what action(s), if any, were taken by the nurse in response
           to the alert (entered by the CRA into a form in the PRO-Core system).

        -  A symptom report will be printed/generated by the site CRA whenever the patient has a
           clinic visit, and will be given to the oncologist and nurse caring for the patient.
    
  