
    
      Investigators will enroll and conduct this trial with 3-4 separate cohorts of high schools
      over five years, allowing the logistical load to be evenly distributed throughout the study
      (total 40 schools). Randomization will occur at the school level since Sources of Strength is
      a school-wide intervention. In each cohort, schools will be enrolled as pairs from the same
      regions in New York State or North Dakota, for a total of six pairs per cohort. One school
      from each pair will be randomly assigned to begin training within a few months (Immediate
      Intervention) or to a wait-list to receiving training approximately 2 years later (Wait
      List). By pairing schools from the same region and state, before they are randomly assigned
      to one of the two study conditions, the design reduces the potential for external events
      (e.g., suicide of a local celebrity) biasing students' behaviors or self-reports within one
      of the conditions, which could affect investigators' ability to evaluate intervention impact.

      The active intervention period in each cohort will span approximately 16 months to test the
      impact on the school population of Sources of Strength training and messaging steps over two
      school years, which is the optimal time-period for this intervention. Schools assigned to the
      Wait List Condition will receive training and begin program implementation in the fall of the
      third school year, and investigators will provide those schools with training and technical
      assistance to complete the intervention over 16 months, fully comparable to the early
      intervention schools.

      To assess outcomes of suicide attempts, hypothesized mechanisms of intervention impact
      (coping norms and practices, connections with adults and peers), and mental health and
      behavioral risk factors, investigators will conduct a baseline and 3 repeated surveys of the
      student population in each school using surveys. The investigators have successfully employed
      this strategy previously to test Sources of Strength in 12 high schools in New York and North
      Dakota and attained high rates of participation, commensurate to or higher than other studies
      evaluating screening or other community suicide prevention strategies. Baseline surveys (B)
      will be administered to all students in schools in both conditions before the intervention
      begins in any school. The next survey administrations will occur at the end of the first
      school year (6 months, T1), the beginning of the next school year (12 months, T2), and end of
      the second school year (18 months, T3). Investigators will provide full training and support
      for those cohort 3 control schools to complete their intervention. In addition, social
      network data (close friend nominations, trusted adults named) will be collected across all
      schools to determine network mediators of intervention effects.
    
  