
    
      This study is a prospective, randomized controlled clinical trial, which will adopt the
      central randomized method based on computer system. When a patient signs the informed consent
      form and meets the inclusion criteria of the trial, and there is no exclusion criteria for
      randomization, the researcher fills in the randomization application form, and carries out
      randomization by landing on the randomization website randomization system. The computer
      system will automatically assign the randomization number and the corresponding treatment
      group according to the patient's situation. After obtaining the randomization results, the
      researcher should be in the randomization application form and the original The random number
      was recorded on the case and the patients were treated according to the group (Trial /
      control) assigned by the system.

      The trial was carried out according to the following procedures: (1) signing informed
      consent; (2) case screening; (3) case selection; (4) The baseline OCT imaging was completed
      in the O3 group (including preoperative, intraoperative and postoperative use), and only OCT
      examination was performed in the A3 and A6 groups (not used to guide the optimization of PCI
      operation); (5) Follow up evaluation: ① OCT follow-up was conducted 3 or 6 months after the
      operation, and the imaging results were sent to the medical imaging analysis department for
      qualitative and quantitative evaluation and analysis; ② outpatient or telephone follow-up was
      conducted 1, 3, 6 and 12 months after the operation, and cardiovascular clinical events were
      recorded; The results of optical coherence tomography (OCT) in this study were evaluated by
      medical imaging analysis department. According to the standard procedure, the results of OCT
      imaging after stent implantation, 3 or 6 months after operation and any unexpected results
      are sent to the medical imaging analysis department, and the qualitative and quantitative
      evaluation analysis are completed by experienced image analysts. When the medical imaging
      analysis department evaluates the imaging results, it does not know whether the patients come
      from the experimental group or the control group, that is, they are always in a blind state.
      All calculation results were unblinded at the same time when the main end point data of the
      test were completed.

      The task of data management and statistical analysis of this experiment will be undertaken by
      clinical research center of cardiovascular medicine of the third people's Hospital of Xuzhou
      City, and the statistical professionals will participate in the whole process of research
      design, implementation, data management and analysis and summary of test results. After the
      completion of the study plan and case report form, a statistical analysis plan will be made
      to complete the statistical analysis report.

      The case report form (CRF) is filled in by the investigator, and each selected case must
      complete the CRF. After the completed case report form is reviewed by the supervisor, the
      first copy is transferred to the data administrator for data entry and management. After the
      first copy is handed over, the contents of the case report form will not be modified. The
      data administrator uses software to compile data entry program for data entry and management.
      In order to ensure the accuracy of the data, two data entry personnel shall independently
      enter and proofread the data in duplicate. For the questions in the case report form, the
      data administrator will send a query to the researcher by generating a question answer form
      (QF, query form), and contact the researcher through the supervisor to answer and return as
      soon as possible; the data administrator will modify, confirm and input the data according to
      the researcher's answers, and can send a QF again if necessary. After the data is reviewed
      and confirmed to be correct, the data management personnel, main researchers, statistical
      analysts, implementers and audit management personnel shall jointly review the data, and
      complete the final definition and judgment of the analysis population, and then the data
      administrator shall lock the database. Generally, the locked database or file cannot be
      changed. After the database is locked, submit it to the statistical analyst for statistical
      analysis.

      During the clinical trial, the investigator of the hospital where the implementer is located
      and the investigator of the third people's Hospital of Xuzhou City will visit the research
      center regularly to ensure that all contents of the research scheme are strictly observed,
      and the original data are checked to ensure that the content of CRF is true, complete and
      correct.

      Definition of adverse event: refers to any medical event, unexpected disease or injury, or
      unfortunate clinical sign that occurs to the subject, user or other personnel during the
      period from the time when the patient agrees to participate in the study to the time when the
      patient no longer participates in the study, whether related to the medical device under
      study or not.

      Severity of adverse events: ① mild: no impact on daily activities; ② moderate: impact on
      daily activities; ③ severe: loss of ability of daily activities.

      Response measures for adverse events: all adverse events occurred during the study must be
      recorded in the adverse event table truthfully. The researchers should give targeted
      treatment and follow-up until the symptoms disappear or stable.

      Serious adverse events: serious adverse events refer to the events that need hospitalization
      treatment, prolong hospitalization time, disability, affect work ability, endanger life or
      death, cause congenital malformation, etc. during the clinical trial. In case of serious
      adverse events during the study, whether related to the trial dose or not, appropriate
      treatment measures must be taken immediately, and at the same time, they shall be reported to
      the administrative departments, implementers and clinical supervisors of the main
      researchers, the ethics committee of the clinical research responsible unit, the provincial
      and Municipal Health and family planning committees, etc. by telephone or fax within 24 hours
      after being informed, and The serious adverse event record form shall be submitted within 24
      hours after learning.

      Statistical analysis method:

      Descriptive analysis: composition ratio is used to describe counting data, mean, standard
      deviation, maximum value and minimum value are used to describe measuring data, mean,
      standard deviation, maximum value, minimum value, median, 25th and 75th quantiles are used to
      describe non normal distribution data.

      Baseline demographic analysis: when the theoretical frequency in the four grid table is less
      than 5, Fisher's exact probability method is used; group t test (two groups) or variance
      analysis (multiple groups) are used for the comparison of normal distribution measurement
      data; Wilcoxon rank sum test is used for the comparison between groups.

      Efficacy analysis: paired t-test was used for comparison in normal distribution measurement
      group, and Wilcoxon rank sum test was used for comparison in non normal distribution
      measurement group. After the homogeneity of variance between the two groups was tested, the
      covariance analysis of adjusted center effect and baseline effect was used, and the least
      mean square of dependent variable, the least mean square of group, and 95% confidence
      interval were given to test the zero hypothesis; the CMH (Cochran mantel Haenszel) χ 2 test
      of adjusted center effect was used for the inter group comparison of count data.

      Safety evaluation: according to the experimental group and the control group, describe the
      number and proportion of normal cases before and after treatment. Adverse events were
      described by the number and incidence of adverse events, and the proportion was tested by χ 2
      test or Fisher exact probability method. At the same time, detailed description of all
      adverse events in each group, the specific performance, degree and the relationship with the
      dosage.

      All statistical analysis will be performed at the bilateral 0.05 significance level. Sas9.13
      statistical software is used for statistical analysis.
    
  