
    
      Investigators propose to conduct a 4-week, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial
      in which NRX-1074 will be intravenously administered twice. Subjects will be 62 stable
      patients ages 18-50 within five years of onset of schizophrenia, treated with any
      antipsychotic except clozapine at an adequate, stable dose for at least 8 weeks. This study
      will be conducted by the Schizophrenia Program of the NYU Langone Medical Center and at the
      Psychiatry Outpatient Clinic of Bellevue Hospital located in New York, NY.

      Upon signing consent, patients will undergo screening procedures to assess eligibility. A
      diagnosis of schizophrenia or schizophreniform disorder will be determined by the Structured
      Clinical Interview for DSM IV (SCID) completed by a research clinician using all available
      clinical data and will be confirmed by consensus diagnosis. A comprehensive medical review
      and physical exam, including routine laboratory tests, will be completed to identify unstable
      medical illness. A urine toxicology screen and, in females, a pregnancy test will also be
      performed. A research assistant will complete the Logical Memory Test portion of the Weschler
      Memory Scale-III (WMS-III).

      Subjects who meet study eligibility criteria will complete the baseline visit which will
      include a one minute infusion of NRX-1074 and the following clinical assessments: Brief
      Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS), Clinical Assessment Interview for Negative Symptoms (CAINS),
      Calgary Depression Scale for Schizophrenia (CDSS), InterSePT Scale for Suicidal Thinking
      (ISST), Clinical Global Impression (CGI), and Systematic Assessment for Treatment Emergent
      Events (SAFTEE). The BPRS, SAFTEE, and ISST will be conducted twice, both before and after
      the infusion. The remaining assessments will be conducted before the infusion. A cognitive
      assessment, the Logical Memory Test of the WMS-III, will also be conducted after the
      infusion.

      Patients will return for a visit one day after their baseline infusion, where the BPRS, ISST,
      CGI, and Logical Memory Test will be conducted. Their next visit will be one week later,
      where they receive their second NRX-1074 infusion, and will be similar in format to the first
      baseline infusion with the exception of CAINS and CDSS. One day after the second infusion,
      patients will be administered the BPRS, CAINS, CDSS, ISST, CGI, and MATRICS Consensus
      Cognitive Battery (MCCB). Patients will then return weekly for three weeks until Day 28.

      The BPRS and ISST will be conducted during the Baseline, Day 1, Day 7, Day 8, Day 14, Day 21,
      and Day 28 visits. The CGI will be administered during Baseline, Day 1, Day 7, Day 8, Day 14,
      and Day 28. The CAINS and CDSS will be administered at Baseline, Day 8, Day 14, and Day 28.
      The SAFTEE will be conducted on Baseline, Day 7, Day 14, Day 21, and Day 28. The Logical
      Memory Test will be administered during Screening Visit 1, Screening Visit 2, Baseline, and
      Day 1. The MATRICS will be conducted on Day 8 and Day 28.

      The primary outcome measure is the change in BPRS total score from Baseline to 24 hours post
      infusion on Day 8. Secondary outcome measures include the positive and negative symptom
      subscales on the BPRS, the CAINS total score, the composite score on the MATRICS 24 hours
      after the second infusion and the Logical Memory Test compared to placebo one hour after the
      first infusion (Baseline).
    
  