
    
      Sixty patients who are admitted to the surgical intensive care unit (ICU) at San Francisco
      General Hospital will be referred to the investigators for enrollment into a prospective,
      unblinded, randomized study of dexmedetomidine. Each patient will be considered by the
      critical care team as a suitable candidate for weaning and extubation based on inclusion/
      exclusion criteria. Pregnant patients will not be enrolled and this will be determined by a
      negative urine or serum pregnancy test from admission. If none is available a pregnancy test
      will be performed prior to enrollment. Patients considered difficult to wean will be based on
      the following criteria:

      Eligible patients will be randomized to either the control arm or the dexmedetomidine arm in
      a 1:1 ratio by using sealed envelopes.

      Patient randomized to the control arm will be extubated per standard hospital protocol. This
      arm of the study will be observational and these patients will be extubated by the attending
      physician for that patient whenever they are hemodynamically stable enough to tolerate
      another weaning trial. The study team will collect the same data points for the control arm
      as in the dexmedetomidine arm. This includes ABGs, heart rate, mean blood pressure,
      respiratory rate and RASS scores (see description below of data points and collection time
      points.) Arterial blood gases will be drawn for the control arm of the study.

      Patients on the dexmedetomidine arm will be started on dexmedetomidine at either 0.5
      mcg/kg/hr or 0.7 mcg/kg/hr 1 hour prior to extubation. The drug calculation was based upon an
      average taken between the patient's measured and predicted body weight. Background sedation
      will be generally facilitated with lorazepam, midazolam or propofol, while analgesia will be
      maintained with either fentanyl or hydromorphine. After starting dexmedetomidine background
      sedation and analgesia will be titrated down and discontinued if possible. Analgesia levels
      also will be reduced if tolerated. Dexmedetomidine will be titrated according to blood
      pressure, RASS and heart rate response and the dose will be lowered only after sedation is
      discontinued or markedly reduced. Aerosolized lidocaine (20 mg) therapy will be initiated
      prior to the weaning trial to prevent excessive coughing in all patients.

      Shortly after the dexmedetomidine infusion is started, PSV will be commenced at 5 cm H2O
      above 5 cm H2O of continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP). Patients will be weaned to CPAP
      and evaluated for extubation.

      1.) Arterial blood gases will be obtained in all patients with an arterial line at three
      points in time: just prior to dexmedetomidine infusion, during the CPAP trial, and
      approximately 30 minutes after extubation.

      3.) Heart rate, mean blood pressure, RASS, and respiratory rate will be collected at fifteen
      minute intervals 1 hour prior to dexmedetomidine infusion, during the 1 hour infusion of
      dexmedetomidine prior to the extubation then 5, 15, 30, 45, 60, 90 and 120 minutes after
      extubation for a total of 4 hours of data collection.
    
  