
    
      It has long been debated that whether to tie off the inferior mesenteric artery (IMA) at its
      origin or just below the origin of the left colic artery (LCA) of the anterior resection of
      the rectum. Thus far, no clear consensus has been achieved, and the level of arterial
      ligation still varies among institutions and patients. In the previous studies, high or low
      ligation takes advantage on both sides. However, there are still some researches that have
      demonstrated no significant difference had been found in the incidence of anastomotic leakage
      and other complications between the high and low ligation groups. Therefore, to provide a
      clear and definite answer to surgeons of how they should deal with the IMA in laparoscopy
      rectal surgery. We plan to explore the impacts of high and low tie in laparoscopic anterior
      rectal resection on postoperative anastomotic leakage and proximal bowel necrosis and
      stenosis, as well as the quality of life and long-term survival by prospective and
      multi-center clinical trial.

      Surgery will be described as follows:

      For low ligation group:

        1. Laparoscopic surgery is performed. Tie the sigmoid artery and superior rectal artery,
           LCA is preserved. Lymphadenectomy to Apical lymph nodes is performed. Strip the
           beginning part of upper rectal artery and the first sigmoid artery. Strip the left colic
           artery until reaching the inferior mesenteric vein (IMV). The abdominal aorta lymph
           nodes need to be cleaned if it's been spotted swollen.

        2. Vascular ligation level: Left colonic artery needs to be preserved, the rectal artery
           and the first sigmoid artery are ligated. Ligate inferior mesenteric artery below left
           colonic artery come across the inferior mesenteric vein level.

      For high ligation groups:

      Laparoscopic surgery is performed. The IMA is ligated and divided at 2 cm. from its origin.
      Dissect the adipose tissue and lymph nodes around IMA. The inferior mesenteric vein (IMV) is
      divided and ligated below the duodenal margin. The abdominal aorta lymph nodes need to be
      cleaned if it's been spotted swollen. For both groups Total Mesolectal Excision (TME) is
      performed according to the principles of Heald.
    
  