
    
      PriMatrix is an acellular fetal bovine dermal matrix that has a wide array of FDA approved
      uses. These uses include partial- and full-thickness wounds, pressure, diabetic, and venous
      ulcers, surgical wounds, trauma wounds, tunneled wounds, and draining wounds. It is a
      sheet-like matrix made up primarily of type I and type III collagen. An increased proportion
      of type III collagen appears to play a key role in healing and regeneration.

      The use of extracellular dermal matrices is a relatively young field, and the exact mechanism
      by which PriMatrix promotes skin regeneration is still unknown. Despite this, PriMatrix has
      demonstrated differences in manufacturing and molecular composition that make it conducive to
      the harsh environments in which it has already been tested. Intraorally, where there is a
      rich vascular bed, this material holds exceeding promise.

      Utilizing this vascularity, autogenous free gingival grafts from the palate have already had
      their efficacy proven as a method of augmenting the keratinized tissue.The need to increase
      the keratinized tissue is based upon the postulation that less mobile, keratinized epithelium
      is more resilient than the non-keratinized oral mucosa. This is especially important in areas
      where recession and attachment loss has already occurred. Without having keratinized gingiva
      apical to the recession area, it has been suggested that there is a greater risk for more
      attachment loss to occur, thus reducing the support for the tooth. In addition, autogenous
      free gingival grafts have demonstrated the phenomenon of "creeping attachment" where a
      portion of the recession actually becomes covered as a result of grafting.

      While autogenous grafting is the gold standard in soft tissue augmentation, the amount of
      tissue that can be taken from the palate is limited, making it difficult to treat patients
      with generalized recession. Furthermore, a secondary surgical site increases the morbidity
      associated with the procedure. The hypothesis of this study is that PriMatrix will be able to
      provide similar results to an autogenous free gingival graft.
    
  