
    
      In this observational study, patients with LARC who are selected for the standard-of-care TNT
      will be enrolled. After obtaining informed consent, a venous blood sample and the archival
      tissue block from the initial diagnostic rectal tumor biopsy will be sent to the Natera
      laboratory for designing patient-specific ctDNA assay, which will be used to measure ctDNA
      levels in the peripheral venous blood samples at various time points coinciding with the
      standard studies to assess tumor response. The blood sample needed for designing the assay
      and measuring the baseline ctDNA level will be obtained within four weeks before neoadjuvant
      chemotherapy begins. Subsequently, for patients undergoing 16 weeks of neoadjuvant
      chemotherapy, blood samples will be obtained for ctDNA level measurement at three time points
      ( after eight weeks/4 cycles of neoadjuvant chemotherapy within +/- 5 days of the magnetic
      resonance imaging (MRI) study, after 16 weeks/8 cycles of neoadjuvant chemotherapy within +/-
      5 days of the MRI study, and one to 14 days before surgery ). For patients who receive eight
      weeks of neoadjuvant chemotherapy, two blood samples will be obtained for subsequent ctDNA
      measurements (after eight weeks/4 cycles of neoadjuvant chemotherapy within +/- 5 days of the
      MRI study, and one to 14 days before surgery). All patients may also choose to undergo
      additional serial ctDNA level measurements for surveillance after the surgery every three to
      four months for two years (optional).

      Tumor response rate assessed by ctDNA (defined as reduction of ctDNA level at least by 90%
      compared to the baseline level) will be compared with the response rate assessed by the
      standard method (proctoscopic examination, pelvic MRI, etc.) to explore if a significant
      correlation exists between these two response assessment methods. If preliminary data support
      the hypothesis that peripheral blood ctDNA can be utilized for tumor response assessment in
      this scenario, a larger study will be conducted to validate this method. Once validated,
      ctDNA measurement can potentially replace expensive, uncomfortable, and time-consuming
      methods of tumor response assessment like MRI.
    
  