
    
      Different studies pointed out the importance of patient information prior, during and after
      orthognathic surgery. It results in better recovery, less postoperative complications and
      improved patient satisfaction. In other words: a higher health care quality. Insufficient or
      omitted information about the procedure, surgical complications and/or postoperative care are
      an important cause of patient dissatisfaction.

      Nowadays, patients receive a large amount of explanations, instructions and advices during
      their admission. Prior to surgery the surgeon will supply information about the procedure,
      sometimes aided by a website or online videos. Additionally the surgeon informs about the
      surgical complications, such as postoperative pain, restricted jaw movements, weight loss,
      swelling, scarring, jaw fixation, absenteeism from work, mood swings, and lip numbness.

      The surgeon also supplies information by leaflets, oral and/or written instructions before
      discharge after surgery. This information however is often bulky, non-specific and
      incomplete. Furthermore, the surgeon knows that memory for medical information is poor and
      inaccurate resulting in nescient patients after returning home. For the surgeon it is a
      challenge to supply the right information at the right time, questioning the effectiveness of
      this conventional approach.

      Some studies already showed that the use of multimedia represents a more effective method for
      patient education in comparison to the conventional approach. Patients prefer information
      through videos, interactive and moving images deriving better informed patients.

      Furthermore, information provided by other patients was seen an added value. Adequate
      medication, dietary, oral hygiene and general advice could prevent complications.

      Therefore, the use of interactive platforms such as a mobile application with phased
      information partition (the right information at the right time) could improve patient
      satisfaction, prevent unplanned consultations and even readmissions.
    
  