
    
      Virologic relapse occurs within 1 to 2 years of antiretroviral therapy in up to 50 percent of
      HIV-infected individuals. The best treatment approach for patients who experience virologic
      rebound while on highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) has not been defined. Current
      guidelines recommend switching to a new treatment regimen shortly after virologic rebound in
      an effort to avoid sequential accumulation of multiple resistance mutations. However, early
      treatment switching has numerous disadvantages: risk of virologic rebound on the new therapy,
      a limited number of drug combinations available to treat such rebounds, and difficulty in
      obtaining early genotypic and phenotypic drug-resistance information to guide treatment
      modification. Delaying a switch to a new antiretroviral regimen has the advantage of
      preserving future treatment options, and HIV levels may remain partially suppressed even
      after drug-resistant mutants emerge. Moreover, several observational studies describe
      maintenance of immunologic and clinical benefits of HAART even after virologic rebound.
      Delayed treatment switches, however, raise concerns about sequential accumulation of drug
      resistance mutations that may diminish the chances of viral resuppression with successive
      HAART regimens, and the long-term immune consequences of virologic rebound on HAART are not
      known. It is therefore important to evaluate the viral and immunologic responses among
      patients randomized to either an early or delayed HAART switch.

      This study enrolls patients who have a viral load of at least 200, but less than 10,000
      copies/ml. The patients are randomized into 2 treatment arms. Arm A (immediate switch)
      patients have genotypic resistance testing at entry. Based on the resistance test results,
      their antiretroviral treatment regimen is modified to a switch treatment regimen. Switch
      treatment initiates no later than Week 4. Arm B (delayed switch) patients continue their
      current antiretroviral regimen and have genotypic resistance testing when their plasma HIV-1
      RNA levels reach 10,000 copies/ml or greater. Based on the resistance test results, their
      antiretroviral treatment regimen is modified to a switch treatment regimen. Switch treatment
      initiates no later than 4 weeks from the date of at least 10,000 copies/ml viral load, or
      from the date of an absolute CD4 count reduced by 20 percent from baseline value. Patients
      who never meet the switch criteria remain on study.

      All patients are followed for a minimum of 48 weeks after entry. No antiretroviral drugs are
      provided by the study.
    
  