
    
      Survival in people with HIV has significantly improved with the use of antiretroviral therapy
      (ART) but HIV+ people now experience an increasing burden of chronic diseases, including
      coronary atherosclerosis and coronary artery disease (CAD). HIV patients manifest an
      increased risk of CAD and its consequences possibly due to interplay of inflammation with
      traditional risk factors (smoking, high cholesterol, and poor diet), some of the latter
      accentuated by ART.

      What the investigators are studying in this program is the function of the coronary arteries
      and in particular the inner lining of the arteries called the endothelium in patients with
      HIV. The endothelium has several important functions; one of them is that under conditions of
      stress it releases a substance called nitric oxide which increases the size of the artery and
      increases blood flow. When it is not functioning normally the artery does not increase as
      much and blood flow does not increase during stress.

      The investigators study coronary artery function with magnetic resonance imaging, or MRI. MRI
      is a method of obtaining images of what is happening inside the body. MRI does not involve
      radiation, x-ray, or injection of contrast. The investigators can measure flow in the artery
      and the dimension of the artery at rest and with a handgrip stress and learn the extent to
      which the artery dilates and flow increases with the stress. The investigators believe that
      inflammation can interfere with normal function and that by decreasing inflammation abnormal
      endothelial function may be improved.

      Colchicine is an anti-inflammatory agent approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
      to treat arthritis and some other conditions. This drug is not approved for use to suppress
      inflammation in patients with coronary artery disease and improve coronary artery endothelial
      function. The FDA is allowing the use of colchicine or a placebo in this research study.

      This study will involve 24 weeks of colchicine or placebo and 3 Magnetic Resonance Imaging
      (MRI) scans of the heart and other study procedures.
    
  