
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the survival of infants with newly diagnosed stage II, III, IV, or IVS
           neuroblastoma with MYCN amplification treated with etoposide, carboplatin,
           cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, and vincristine followed by surgery and busulfan and
           melphalan with autologous peripheral blood stem cell or bone marrow transplantation.

        -  Determine whether there are prognostic criteria that could be used in future therapeutic
           stratification of these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive VP-CARBO chemotherapy comprising etoposide IV over 2 hours and carboplatin
      IV over 1 hour on days 1-3. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 2 courses. Patients then
      receive CADO chemotherapy comprising cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on days 1-5, doxorubicin
      IV over 6 hours on days 4 and 5, and vincristine IV on days 1 and 5. Treatment repeats every
      21 days for 2 courses.

      Patients receive filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously daily for 5 days. Patients undergo
      leukapheresis to collect peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC). Patients who do not mobilize
      sufficient cells undergo bone marrow harvest.

      Patients eligible for surgery undergo surgical resection. Patients with stage IV disease with
      less than complete response of metastatic disease after initial chemotherapy are removed from
      the study.

      Beginning within 2 weeks after surgery, patients receive 1 additional course of VP-CARBO
      chemotherapy followed by 1 additional course of CADO chemotherapy.

      After at least 3 weeks, patients receive high-dose chemotherapy comprising busulfan IV over
      24 hours on days -7 to -3 and melphalan IV on day -2. PBSC or bone marrow are reinfused on
      day 0.

      At least 2 months after the completion of high-dose chemotherapy and bone marrow or PBSC
      transplantation, patients undergo radiotherapy to the primary site, according to preoperative
      imaging studies. Patients are treated with oral tretinoin after megatherapy.

      Patients are followed within 6 months and then annually for 5 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 40 patients will be accrued for this study within 4 years.
    
  