
    
      The incidence of pubalgia in the literature varies, with large series reporting an incidence
      close to 5-10%, representing 15 to 18% of all injuries.

      Recurrences are also common, affecting 30 to 35% of cases.

      Once other differential diagnoses (such as spondylarthropathy, colorectal cancer, kidney
      disease…) have been ruled out, athletic pubalgia is typically divided into three main
      categories based on the site of the injury:

        -  Abdominal wall, the most common form, representing 38 to 50% of all cases;

        -  Pubic symphysis due to osteoarthropathy of the pubic bone caused by repetitive stress
           injury, accounting for 10 to 15% of all cases of pubalgia;

        -  Adductor tendons, on which this study focuses, representing 22 to 38% of all cases of
           pubalgia, caused by repetitive tractions on the tendon insertions.

      There is no official recommendation or expert consensus on the management of pubalgia.
      However, a few protocols recommend a period of rest with Non-Inflammatory Anti-Steroidien
      Drugs (NSAIDs), icing and massages, as well as rehabilitation with passive stretching and
      muscle reinforcement.

      Neuromuscular reprogramming is then performed to stabilise the pelvis, followed by a
      progressive resumption of sporting activities, guided by the pain level.

      Generally, 70 to 85% of patients are able to resume their sporting activities with this
      management protocol.

      In 15 to 20% of cases of essential adductor tendinopathy, symptoms do not improve and the
      only currently validated solution is then a tenotomy, sometimes combined with partial tendon
      release in recurring cases.

      Recent studies showed that the use of botulinum toxin type A (BTA) produces fairly positive
      results in chronic tendinopathies, such as epicondylitis. However, the efficacy of BTA
      injections in adductor tendinopathies has not been demonstrated consistently and a
      feasibility study must be conducted to address this question.

      The hypothetical benefit of BTA in adductor tendinopathies is based on the toxin's known
      effects:

        1. a purely analgesic effect, which reduces pain in the injected area within a few days.
           This type of chronic tendinopathy does not involve inflammation. The pain in such cases
           is most likely due to the action of neurotransmitters such as substance P and calcitonin
           gene-related peptide (CGRP). As BTA is known to inhibit the secretion of these
           neurotransmitters, this mechanism could explain the toxin's specific analgesic effect.

        2. a muscle relaxant effect due to its action on the motor endplate, which reaches its
           maximum 6 weeks after the injection, and lasts 3 to 6 months.

      The resulting muscle relaxation helps improve healing of the damaged tendon, and provides
      sustained analgesia.

      A series including 39 cases showed that botulinum toxin is effective on hip adductor muscles
      following total hip arthroplasty, providing reduced muscle contracture and improved hip
      mobility without side effects.

      The use of botulinum toxin type A could be an option in cases of treatment failure. However,
      a feasibility study must be performed beforehand, and if results are positive, a study on a
      larger cohort could be conducted.
    
  