
    
      Introduction A lot of recent trials emphasized that perioperative magnesium sulfate (MgSO4)
      infusion has general anesthetic properties that could reduce anesthetic drug consumption and
      postoperative analgesia requirements in several types of surgery. Optimal post-operative pain
      control is necessary for early mobilization, improved respiratory function, and deep venous
      thrombosis. Administration of multimodal analgesics could limit the excessive use of systemic
      opioid analgesia especially (morphine), which has a high rate of postoperative side effects
      as sedation, respiratory depression, ileus, nausea, vomiting, constipation, urine retention,
      and itching. Therefore, medications and adjuvant drugs reducing the need for opioids have
      become widely used as parts of multimodal analgesia. Post-operative pain management begins
      with pre-operative planning and formulating a pain management plan that is tailored to an
      individual patient's liver function, respiratory and coagulation status, comorbidities and
      extent of resection.

      Anesthetic technique:

      Patients will be premedicated with tablet of alprazolam 0.25 mg the night before and 2 hours
      before surgery. Upon arrival in operating room usual monitoring will be established including
      heart rate, blood pressure, electrocardiogram (ECG),and temperature. After induction of
      anesthesia, an arterial line will be inserted for continuous monitoring of blood pressure and
      frequent blood gas analysis. End-tidal carbon dioxide (capnography) will be attached. General
      anesthesia will be administered using propofol 2 mg/kg, morphine 0.1 mg/kg and atracurium
      besylate 0.5 mg/kg followed by oral endotracheal intubation. Maintenance of general
      anesthesia with a mixture of isoflurane and 50% oxygen in air, morphine 2 mg/ h, mechanical
      ventilation will be adjusted to keep arterial oxygen saturation < 95 % and end-tidal carbon
      dioxide between 35 and 40 mmHg. Atracurium (0.15 mg/kg) will be administered every 30 min.

      Baseline intravenous infusion rate of lactated ringers solution will be set at (6ml/ kg/h) in
      both groups, additional solution will be infused if required. Magnesium sulfate infusion and
      anesthetic agents will be discontinued at the end of operation. The postoperative residual
      neuromuscular blockade will be reversed by using neostigmine 0.04 mg/kg and atropine 0.02
      mg/kg. Then the patient will be extubated and transferred to the post-anesthesia care unit
      (PACU) for 1-hour observation.

      Statistical analysis:

      Statistical analysis will be done using Statistical Package for Social Sciences (SPSS)
      version 19 for Windows software. Data will be collected from all patients during and after
      anesthesia. Descriptive statistics (mean, standard deviation, or median and ranges) will be
      calculated. Comparative statistics between the two groups will be applied. Unpaired t-test
      will be used to compare the mean values between the two groups. The Kolmogorov-Smirnov test
      will be implemented to check the normality of continuous data distribution (P ≤ 0.05)
      Mann-Whitney-U test will be used to compare diﬀerence between the two groups for
      non-parametric variables (e.g.VAS). While the Chi-square test will be used to compare the
      categorical variables between both groups. The significant result will be considered when P
      value was less than (0.05).

      Sample size calculations of this trial will be done upon the following assumption, α = 0.05 β
      = 0.2, effect size will be =0.7.The effect size is calculated by using G*Power software
      version 3.1.9.2 (Institute of Experimental Psychology, Heinrich Heine University, Dusseldorf,
      German) and the authors found that 25 patients in each group have a power of 80% and plan to
      recruit 30 patients per group to account for possible dropout.
    
  