
    
      Tuberculosis (TB) in children is a major public health problem . It has a global estimate of
      >100,000 deaths per year and is included in the top ten causes of mortality in children
      worldwide. Children contribute 10% of the total TB cases worldwide. More than 75% of the
      worldwide estimated cases of TB in children occur in the 30 high burden countries, Tanzania
      being one of them. The enormous burden of pediatric TB in these countries is due to the TB
      epidemic amongst adults and the simultaneous HIV pandemic and a child less than 14 years of
      age whether HIV infected or not is at a high risk of developing the disease. Subsequent
      dissemination of the mycobacterium and progression of the disease is also fast in children.

      Knowledge on the efficacy and safety of medicines for children is still very limited and
      sometimes children are still being treated as small adults. However, adult dosing cannot be
      logically extrapolated to children according to weight or age because of different
      pharmacokinetics, i.e. the relationship between doses administered and exposures (drug
      concentrations) achieved, in children as compared with adults . More specifically, these
      pharmacokinetic differences occur in the subsequent processes of absorption, distribution,
      metabolism and elimination of drugs, which are subject to physiological changes due to growth
      and development in children. Especially in young children, maturation of liver metabolism
      pathways and renal function are not completed.

      In contrast, the pharmacodynamics of a drug, i.e. the relationship between concentrations
      achieved and eventual response is generally considered similar between adults and children,
      although differences in drug metabolism between children and adults may lead to differences
      in susceptibility to some adverse drug reactions. Thus, because of the differences in
      pharmacokinetics in children with different ages, they should not receive the same drug doses
      on mg/kg base as adults, and drug dosage selection in children should rather be based upon
      stages of growth and development. These drug doses should target the exposures that are
      efficacious in adults.
    
  