
    
      It is widely known that complications after surgery are responsible for a good number of
      morbidity and mortality following surgery. This national cohort study will help contribute
      to, and allow a better computation of data on post-operative complications and mortality
      following elective surgery in Nigeria.

      This study therefore has important public health implications for Nigeria. This study will
      also provide a baseline for other similar studies in future being the first of such in
      Nigeria.

      Objectives are:

        1. To determine the mortality rate on the day of surgery for patients undergoing surgery in
           Nigeria.

        2. To determine the in-hospital mortality rate for patients undergoing surgery in Nigeria.

        3. To describe the relationship between anaesthetic complications and postoperative
           mortality.

        4. To describe the relationship between postoperative complications and postoperative
           mortality.

        5. To describe the proportional contribution of communicable, non-communicable diseases and
           traumatic injuries to critical care admissions and in-hospital mortality in Nigeria. We
           plan to recruit a minimum of 5 centres per state, made up of federal, state and private
           hospitals. The national coordinating centre shall be the University College Hospital,
           Ibadan. Regional coordinating centres shall be in Lagos, Kwara, Enugu, Kaduna,
           Port-Harcourt, Maiduguri and Abuja.The plan is to recruit all eligible patients during
           the recruitment week.

      All recruited patients would have had the routine preoperative surgical and anaesthetic
      review. Since the study is purely observational, all basic intraoperative procedures as it
      relates to surgery and anaesthesia will not be altered. Following informed written consent by
      the patient, the following information will be obtained.

        -  Results of preoperative Haemoglobin, Total white cell count, and Creatinine.

        -  Patient's socio-demographics.

        -  Co-morbid conditions

        -  Type of anaesthesia and surgical procedure.

        -  Anaesthetic and Surgical details

        -  Critical care admission post-operatively, and

        -  Postoperative complications observed till discharge or up to 30 days if on admission.
    
  