
    
      General purpose:

      To compare the frequency of perioperative complications and quality of life between early
      closure of the derivative ileostomy versus conventional closure in postoperative patients
      with low anterior resection for rectal cancer.

      Materials and methods:

      Controlled clinical trial, randomized, to be carried out at the National Cancer Institute of
      Colombia E.S.E. Eligible candidates for the study will be patients older than 18 years who
      have undergone a previous resection of the rectum plus a derivative ileostomy for colorectal
      cancer. All patients eligible for inclusion will undergo computed axial tomography with
      rectal contrast medium on postoperative day 5. Those who meet the inclusion criteria and do
      not present any of the exclusion criteria will enter the study, prior willingness to
      participate by part of the patient and obtaining verbal and written informed consent. Through
      computer-generated randomization, patients will undergo early closure (between 7 and 12 days
      after the ileostomy) versus conventional closure (after 90 days or more time from the
      creation of the ileostomy). A sample size of 81 patients was calculated for each arm. The
      follow-up will be done in both groups at 3, 6, 9 and 12 months after the creation of the
      ileostomy, including complications using the Clavien-Dindo classification and quality of life
      using the FACIT-C format. The statistical analysis will be done by protocol and intention to
      treat. The perioperative complications associated with the closure of the ileostomy, the
      complications associated with the presence of ileostomy, hospital stay, and quality of life
      will be analyzed.

      Expected impact:

      The investigators hope to find that the early closure of ileostomy in patients during the
      immediate postoperative period of previous resection due to rectal cancer is safe in terms of
      morbidity and mortality, feasible and with benefits in quality of life during the immediate
      postoperative period compared with patients to whom they are closed late (after 3 months).
    
  