
    
      Exercise physiology has shown that increased fluid intake and replacement can improve
      skeletal muscle performance in prolonged exercise. Labor is a physically demanding process
      that is essentially an "exercise" of the uterus, where uterine contractions of varying
      strength and dilation lead to thinning and dilation of the cervix and to eventual delivery of
      the infant. It has logically been theorized that, as with any exercise, improved hydration
      and delivery of carbohydrates to uterine smooth muscle can help optimize the contractions
      needed during labor. Conversely, dehydration is believed to result not only in decreased
      uterine perfusion (due to decreased intravascular volume), but also in reduced delivery of
      nutrients and elimination of waste products from the contracting myometrium.

      Inadequate maternal hydration has been postulated to be a contributing factor to prolonged or
      dysfunctional labor, in which uterine contractions are not sufficiently strong or are
      inappropriately coordinated to cause adequate cervical dilation and effacement. Even in
      patients who completely dilate, sufficient voluntary and involuntary muscle effort is
      required during the second stage of labor to achieve a vaginal delivery. Prolonged labors can
      not only lead to increased hospitalization cost, but also to increased risks of cesarean
      delivery for indications such as "failure to progress," chorioamnionitis (intrauterine
      infection), and postpartum hemorrhage. Establishing techniques to optimize the length and
      duration of labor has therefore been an area of particular research interest.

      To date, several randomized, controlled studies have demonstrated that with higher
      intravenous (IV) fluid rates, there is a decreased frequency of prolonged labor and possibly
      a decreased need for oxytocin in patients who present in active labor. One of these studies
      was performed here at Long Beach Memorial by Garite et al under IRB approval and supervision.
      Importantly, a systematic review of these studies by the Cochrane Collaboration in 2013
      demonstrated that increased intravenous fluid rates (250mL/hr vs 125mL/hr) appears to shorten
      the time to delivery and the cesarean delivery rate in patients who present in active labor.

      The rate of induction of labor has increased dramatically in recent years, from 9.5% in 1990
      to 22.1% in 2004. Women undergoing an induction of labor (whether elective or medically
      indicated) represent a distinct population from those who present in active labor, not only
      with regards to their baseline characteristics, but also with regards to their labor course
      and maternal and neonatal outcomes. There have been no studies thus far investigating the use
      of increased intravenous hydration in patients undergoing induction of labor, as previous
      studies have focused on patients who present in active labor. The objective of this study is
      therefore to determine the effect of increased intravenous hydration in nulliparous patients
      undergoing an induction of labor on length of labor, mode of delivery, and other maternal and
      neonatal outcomes.
    
  