
    
      This is a randomized, double-blind study to study the analgesic effect of auricular pressure
      pill on persistent pain after hemorrhoidectiomy. Baseline pain intensity scores (VAS>3) of
      the subjects will be collected 24 hours after the operation of the patients. Eligible
      subjects will be randomly assigned to receive auricular pressure pills or sham-auricular
      pressure pills. The treatment will last 5-7 days. Participants will receive auricular
      pressure once two days, and receive VAS, concomitant medication, PONV intensity scale and
      peripheral edema were recorded daily, and after the operation 24 hours, 3 days and 7 days the
      patients will receive anxiety and depression scale(HAD) , and VAS data will be collected by
      telephone at 3 and 6 months after the operation.

      The statistical analysis results will be subject to the full analysis set (FAS) results, and
      a sensitivity analysis will be performed comparing the per-protocol (PP). The main indicators
      will be analyzed by covariance analysis, with VAS results as the dependent variable, grouping
      as the random factor, and age, course of disease, surgical method and baseline as the
      covariables to correct the P value. The secondary indicator analgesic usage rate will be
      analyzed using logistic regression analysis. Whether analgesic will be used as a dependent
      variable, grouping as a random factor, and age, course of disease, surgical method and
      evaluation time point will be analyzed as covariables. Other outcome indicators will be
      analyzed by covariance analysis, and the model will be the same as that of the main
      indicators. P<0.05 considered as significant difference, and SPSS20.0 used for analysis.

      The purpose of this study was to seek high quality evidence-based medical evidence for
      intervention of auricular pressure pills on postoperative pain of hemorrhoidectomy.
    
  