
    
      Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most common malignances seen in different
      regions of the world. Surgical resection provides the best chance of cure for selected
      patients. However, we have long been perplexed by high rates of tumor recurrence, which is
      often the main cause of long-term treatment failure. The 5-year risk of recurrence of HCC
      after resection has been reported to be as high as 70%. It has been proposed that best way to
      reduce recurrence is to search for improved adjuvant therapies. Especially for some
      postoperative patients who were identified with the risk factors for recurrence, several
      adjuvant therapies were often used, including TACE. However, the safy and efficacy of
      preventive therapy is still not clear.

      Recently, a variety of Traditional Chinese Medicine combined with TACE for toxicity reduction
      and enhancing the efficacy have been investigated in the treatment of HCC. Cidan capsules are
      a formula containing more than ten types of plant extracts, including Rhizoma Curcumae (19%),
      Astragalus (19.6%), Cremastra appendiculata (9.8%), Salvia miltiorrhiza (9.8%), hive (9.8%)
      and Bombyx batryticatus (9.8%). Cidan has been clinically used for >10 years as a safe and
      nontoxic antitumor drug. A number of studies have investigated the clinical application of
      TCMs for HCC, demonstrating that β-elemene, which is present in Rhizoma Curcumae and the main
      component of cidan, may inhibit the proliferation of HepG2 cells in a time- and
      dose-dependent manner. The results indicated that β-elemene exhibited positive effects on
      apoptosis and induced the cell cycle arrest of HepG2 cells in the G2/M phase, while Fas and
      Fas ligand expression levels were markedly increased.

      In this prospective control study, we enroll such HCC patients experienced operation and were
      identifed with high risk of recurrence. After a preventive TACE, the eligible patients were
      divided into two groups. One group will accept Cidan therapy and another will not. Under a
      basis of large sample, the safty and efficacy of Cidan combined with TACE in HCC patients
      will be investigated and analysed.
    
  