
    
      This research will determine the effects of acute infection with Plasmodium falciparum on the
      absorption, pharmacokinetics and metabolism of iron from iron supplements and other iron
      preparations in non-immune adults in Thailand. Our project will combine measurements of iron
      absorption during and after successful treatment of acute uncomplicated falciparum malaria
      with characterization of the pharmacokinetics of the appearance of plasma
      nontransferrin-bound iron (NTBI) and measurements of the iron regulatory hormone, hepcidin,
      and other proteins of iron metabolism. We will examine iron supplements like those used in
      the Pemba supplementation trial (Sazawal et al., Lancet 2006; 367, 133-143) as well as
      alternative iron interventions that could minimize or avoid the formation of plasma
      non-transferrin-bound iron. This research has three specific aims:

        1. to characterize the pharmacokinetics of the appearance of non-transferrin bound iron in
           the systemic circulation after oral administration of an iron supplement or other iron
           intervention;

        2. to determine the effect of acute uncomplicated falciparum malaria on absorption of iron
           from iron supplements and other iron interventions, using erythrocyte incorporation of
           stable isotopes of iron;

        3. to assess the effects of acute uncomplicated falciparum malaria on iron metabolism by
           repeated measurements of serum hepcidin, transferrin receptor, ferritin, haptoglobin,
           and concentrations of pro- (Th-1) and anti- (Th-2) inflammatory cytokines, erythrocyte
           zinc protoporphyrin, and the complete blood count with absolute reticulocyte count and
           reticulocyte hemoglobin content (CHr).

      These studies of the effects of infection with P. falciparum on iron absorption and
      metabolism will further our basic understanding of the interaction of iron supplements with
      malaria and other infections. The results could help guide the choice of optimal means for
      the prevention and treatment of iron deficiency in regions endemic for malaria.
      Characterization of the pharmacokinetics of changes in plasma iron produced by administration
      of conventional iron supplements could lead to the design and development of new formulations
      of supplemental iron that would maximize iron absorption while minimizing risks associated
      with non-transferrin-bound plasma iron. Because of the public health importance of assuring
      iron sufficiency in mothers, our studies are focused on women of childbearing age but the
      results should be broadly applicable to the optimal means of providing iron to infants and
      children.
    
  