
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the feasibility and logistics associated with a clinical trial utilizing the
      Foundation Medicine Incorporated (FMI) test in an academic therapeutic setting.

      II. To determine the proportion of patients who will receive a cancer-related therapy based
      on the results provided by the FMI test.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To explore and report estimates of progression free survival (PFS) of the regimen
      administered after the FMI test results are revealed and the PFS of the most recent regimen
      administered before the FMI test results were received.

      II. To determine the feasibility of performing Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) on metastatic
      tumor tissue.

      III. To determine the feasibility of administering cancer-related drugs that are proposed by
      the results of NGS that are not Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved for a patient's
      specific cancer diagnosis.

      IV. To collect and report the molecular alterations discovered by NGS of advanced breast and
      colorectal cancer.

      V. To determine in an exploratory manner the concordance of the genomic alterations detected
      by the FMI test in circulating tumor cells (CTCs) to the genomic alterations detected by FMI
      test in tumor tissues collected from the same patient.

      OUTLINE:

      PART I: Within 10 weeks of beginning a treatment regimen, tumor tissue samples and CTCs from
      patients are collected for NGS and FMI testing, respectively. Patients remain on current line
      of therapy until a change in treatment is warranted. The physician's treatment recommendation
      is documented prior to the release of the FMI results.

      PART II: Physicians are furnished with FMI test results when patients become eligible for a
      change in therapy and new treatment recommendations are documented. Treatment is dependent on
      preferences of the physician, patient, and/or results of the FMI test.

      After completion of study, patients are followed up for at least 18 months.
    
  