
    
      Approximately, 4% and 10% of emergency department (ED) patients in the United States present
      with altered mental status (AMS). According to previous studies, close to 30% of AMS cases
      occur due to neurological etiologies. Among these pathologies are non-convulsive seizures
      (NCS) and non-convulsive status epilepticus (NCSE). In our previous study, the investigators
      established that approximately 4% (95% confidence interval, 2-8%) of ED patients with AMS
      suffer from NCS and NCSE. Our study also revealed that 78% of the ED patient with AMS have
      some form of EEG abnormality.

      NCS and NCSE are difficult to diagnose especially in AMS patients because performing a
      thorough physical examination or obtaining medical history is often impossible in altered
      patients. Definitive diagnosis of NCS/NCSE requires electroencephalography (EEG), a test that
      records brain electrical activity and provides information about the brain function.

      Unfortunately, obtaining an EEG in the ED can be challenging. This requires transporting an
      EEG machine to patient's bedside, where space limitations and presence of variety of monitors
      and devices, especially in over-crowded EDs render this practice difficult. In many
      institutions an EEG service is not offered after work hours due to the unavailability of 24/7
      EEG technologist coverage and real-time electroencephalographer interpretation. As a result
      of the aforementioned limitations, ED physicians may refrain from ordering EEG.

      The wireless portable EEG device (microEEG) designed by the Bio-Signal Group was designed to
      address these limitations. With minimal training, ED personnel could use this small, microEEG
      device to obtain an EEG. The recording then can be wirelessly transmitted to a host computer
      via a secure network connection to the neurology experts who could interpret the EEG.
      Incorporating microEEG in the initial workup of patients with AMS could help the ED attending
      rule out NCS/NCSE and focus on other diagnoses. Alternatively, if the presence of NCS is
      confirmed by EEG, the treatment could be initiated early and potentially reduce morbidity or
      mortality.

      The investigators hypothesize that incorporating EEG in the work of ED patients with AMS
      could impact the management(diagnosis and treatment)of these patients and influence their
      clinical outcome.

      Sample size: Our sample size analysis using data one published related study reveled that the
      study would need 65 patients in each group (total n:130). However, the investigators plan to
      perform an interim analysis after enrolling half of this target sample and adjust the sample
      size calculation based on the collected data if necessary.
    
  