
    
      The critical review of the scientific literature leads us to conclude that there are
      heterogeneous, and sometimes discordant, results about the impact of a 12-hours working shift
      organizations on caregivers, hospitals and unit operation, compared with less than 12-hours
      working shift organizations. This variety and ambiguity of the results could stem from lack
      of documentation and/or lack of quality of the studies' methodology, the choice of the
      outcomes, a too short time period for analysis after an organizational change.

      In addition, the sociologist analysis is rarely developed. Finally, quite a few studies are
      declarative, therefore, whatsoever objective outcome is measured.

      The determinants of the choice of working shift organization in health facilities are
      interlinked with multiple factors. Individual and economic factors are considered, as well as
      clinical risk management, continuity of care and continuity of public services. To the best
      of our knowledge, no study have evaluated the capacity to maintain a continuity of public
      health services using 12-hours working shift organization, in particular in French intensive
      care units subjected to a regulation on nursing and assistant nursing workforce per patient.
      Besides, there is no data about the impact of 12-hours working shift organization on the
      performance of intensive care units regarding clinical risk management.

      Our hypothesis is that a 12-hours working shift organization may result in a more important
      number of hours during which the French standard ratio of 1 nurse for 2.5 patients is
      observed or during which the intensive care beds are not closed, compared with a less than
      12-hours working shift organization, with similar caregivers quality of life and performance
      of intensive care units.

      First month of the study: self-administered questionnaires used in order to evaluate nursing
      work environment (Practice Environment Scale of the Nursing Work Index PES-NWI), caregivers
      quality of life at work (Nottingham Health Profile NHP, Perceived Stress Scale PSS10 and
      Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale HADS) caregivers satisfaction at work (Minnesota
      Satisfaction Questionnaire MSQ) and psychosocial and organisational work constraints (NWI-EO)
      will be completed by caregivers (doctors, nurses and assistant nurses).

      During the study a sociologist will carry semi-structured interviews on a subset of
      caregivers from different participating centers.

      Eleventh month: self-administered questionnaires used during the first month of the study
      will be completed again by all caregivers under the same conditions.

      One year study period: human resources, activity and performance data will be collected from
      the beginning to the end of the study.
    
  