
    
      Neuroendocrine tumors (NETs), best treated by complete surgical resection, are frequently
      difficult to localize due to small size, presence in hollow organs, and morphological changes
      caused by prior surgery. Imaging of NETs relies primarily on conventional morphological
      methods (EUS, CT, MRI, US). Functional imaging, such as somatostatin receptor scintigraphy
      (SRS) using the In111-labeled somatostatin analog octreotide, provides better staging of the
      disease, visualization of occult tumor, and evaluation of patient eligibility for
      somatostatin analog treatment. This modality is effective for carcinoid tumors, and for most
      pancreatic islet-cell tumors. However, it may fail to detect some tumors, mostly due to low
      density of somatostatin receptors, with resulting lack of tumor uptake. The relatively poor
      spatial resolution of planar and SPECT imaging may also reduce tumor detection, particularly
      for small tumors and/or those with low uptake. Furthermore, this technique is lengthy, often
      requiring repeated imaging over 24-48 hours. Introduction of newer somatostatin analogs such
      as DOTANOC offers many advantages. Higher uptake of the newer analogs in more of the
      somatostatin receptor subtypes improves lesion detection. In addition, labeling with the
      positron emitter, Ga68, instead of In111 improves the pharmacokinetics of the tracer, and the
      faster tumor uptake and more rapid clearance from normal tissues increases tumor to
      background contrast, improving tumor visualization, and resulting in an easier procedure with
      imaging only 1-2 hours after tracer injection. The superior spatial resolution of positron
      emission tomography (PET) again enhances lesion detectability, and use of PET makes it
      possible to perform exact quantitation of tracer uptake that can be useful for monitoring
      therapy and for planning peptide receptor radionuclide therapy.

      In this study, we propose to use Ga68-DOTANOC PET for imaging of various NETs, comparing the
      imaging data to those of anatomical and other functional modalities, and to histopathology,
      when available.
    
  