
    
      The prospective, pragmatic randomized trial will include approximately 320 surgical training
      programs across the United States. Participating programs will be randomized to the
      intervention or usual care arm. The intervention arm (vs. usual care) will receive
      program-specific cultural outcomes reports and a Surgical Culture Toolkit at the start of the
      trial as well as participate in Coaching Calls and In-Person Meetings to help facilitate and
      support intervention uptake throughout the trial period.

      To assess the individual efficacy of the reports in regards to decreasing rates of
      mistreatment and toxic outcomes, the reports will be given to programs approximately 2 months
      to 6 months prior to toolkit dissemination. Prior to toolkit dissemination, programs will
      have the opportunity to fully review the report, form internal teams to address the issues,
      and mobilize necessary resources in preparation of receiving the toolkit. A comprehensive
      list of all activities performed after report dissemination will be kept at a program level.
      Toolkit dissemination to intervention programs will occur within 6 months of report
      dissemination. Coaching Calls and In-Person/virtual Meetings will be held at a variety of
      time points during the trial. The usual care arm will continue to perform their normal
      quality improvement activities.

      The investigators will compare multiple postoperative outcomes between the two study arms
      using data collected from an annual resident survey.

      Subsequent extensions of these work will include surgical subspecialty training programs
      (e.g., vascular surgery, thoracic surgery). Eligible programs will be assigned in parallel to
      the randomization scheme of corresponding programs at their institution. Similar
      interventions and control protocols will be in-place for surgical subspecialties, with
      modifications to investigate specialty-specific survey items and interventions.
    
  