
    
      The introduction of direct-acting antiviral (DAA) therapies has meant the elimination of
      hepatitis C (HCV) as a public health issue in Australia is a very real possibility. The
      challenge that remains is to ensure that all people living with HCV can access testing to
      become aware of their status, and then get treated and cured. Given that people who inject
      drugs (PWID) account for the vast majority of new HCV infections in Australia, this group
      will be key to elimination efforts. Innovative approaches are needed to overcome the barriers
      to accessing health services that are faced by PWID.

      The Rapid-EC pilot study will determine feasibility of providing rapid point-of-care (POC)
      testing for HCV in community clinics, and whether the availability of POC testing increases
      uptake of testing, engagement in care and completion of treatment among PWID.

      The Rapid-EC pilot study will be delivered by a multi-disciplinary team in three community
      clinics in Melbourne, Australia. After providing informed consent and receiving pre-test
      counselling, participants will undergo an OraQuick mouth swab test for the presence of HCV
      antibodies, which indicates whether a person has ever been exposed to HCV. This result is
      available in 20 minutes. If this test is positive they will then be offered a test for the
      presence of virus in the blood, known as a PCR or RNA test. The Xpert HCV RNA POC test uses a
      5ml sample of blood from the vein and is run on the GeneXpert machine, which will be on-site
      at each clinic. This machine provides results in 105 minutes, allowing participants to
      receive a HCV diagnosis on the day of testing.

      Both the OraQuick HCV Ab test and the Xpert HCV RNA test are highly accurate tests; however
      they are currently awaiting approval for diagnostic use in Australia. As such,
      standard-of-care testing will be performed for all participants to confirm the result and
      inform clinical care. Participants who have a positive HCV Ab result will have a follow-up
      visit with the study nurse where they will review all test results. Those who are found to
      have a current HCV infection (positive RNA result) will have an assessment of liver health
      and, where appropriate, commence HCV treatment from the clinic. Participants will be
      reimbursed for the time taken to complete the study.

      To evaluate the impact of the study participants will be asked to complete two
      questionnaires: 1) at the beginning of the study to record demographics, risk behaviours, and
      previous experience of HCV testing; and 2) after completing the POC tests to provide feedback
      on their experience and preferences for testing. These responses, as well as clinical
      information collected by staff, will be de-identified. Data linkage with Medicare and
      Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme data will be used to determine if the participant followed up
      with their healthcare provider and collected a prescription for HCV treatment.

      This study will provide valuable insights into the feasibility and effects of offering POC
      testing for HCV, particularly the effect on uptake of testing and treatment. The results will
      inform a larger trial, with greater numbers of participants and sites, and the introduction
      of finger prick testing for HCV RNA, which is likely to become available for research use in
      towards the end of 2017.
    
  