
    
      Study Objectives: In cancer patients with moderate to severe pain who participated in the
      TEC-006 study:

      Primary Objectives:

        -  To assess the long-term efficacy of subcutaneous tetrodotoxin (TTX) treatment in
           reducing the pain outcome and improving the quality of life (physical and emotional
           functioning).

        -  To assess the long-term safety and tolerability of subcutaneous tetrodotoxin (TTX).

      Secondary Objective:

      • To assess the duration of analgesia following repeated cycles of tetrodotoxin (TTX)
      treatment.

      Overall Study Design:

      This will be a multicentre, open-label, continuation trial of the efficacy and safety of
      tetrodotoxin in patients with inadequately controlled moderate to severe pain associated with
      cancer. All patients who participated in the TEC-006 study (tetrodotoxin and
      placebo-treated), who would like to continue with tetrodotoxin treatment and meet the
      inclusion/exclusion criteria, are eligible to receive the First Treatment Cycle for this
      continuation study.

      The study will be conducted at all centres participating in the TEC-006 study. Patients may
      receive repeated cycles of treatment with tetrodotoxin. Each Treatment Cycle will consist of
      4 days of treatment with 30 μg b.i.d. of tetrodotoxin injected subcutaneously. Each Treatment
      Cycle will last from the start of treatment to the end of the analgesic response. All
      patients completing the first Treatment Cycle in this protocol must meet the criteria of the
      Responder (First TEC-006OL Treatment Cycle) definition in order to be eligible for a second
      Treatment Cycle. Patient eligibility for all subsequent Treatment Cycles will be determined
      using the eligibility criteria for a Repeated Treatment Cycle.

      Sample Size:

      Up to 120 patients.

      Investigational Product:

      30ug TTX(Tetrodotoxin injectable) injected subcutaneously twice daily for 4 days.

      Efficacy Variables:

      Worst pain in last 24 hours, average pain in last 24 hours, and/or component-specific pain
      intensity in last 24 hours, ATC and breakthrough analgesic use, impact of pain on physical
      functioning (general activity, walking ability, or normal work), and emotional functioning
      (mood, relations with other people, or enjoyment of life).

      Safety Variables:

      Safety assessments will include adverse event reporting, vitals signs, physical and
      neurological examinations, 12-lead electrocardiogram, clinical laboratory tests.

      Data Analysis Method:

      An initial analysis of results of the TEC-006OL study will be completed in parallel with the
      TEC-006 study. Further periodic analyses will be completed every 6 months until the study is
      closed.

      All efficacy and safety analyses will be performed for subjects that are dosed at least once
      in protocol TEC-006OL. All analyses performed will be descriptive. No statistics involving
      hypothesis testing will be performed.
    
  