
    
      Pancreatic cancer is the second most common gastrointestinal malignancy and fourth leading
      cause of cancer mortality. The incidence in the US is estimated at 8.8 per 100,000 population
      with 30,000 new cases diagnosed annually. The prognosis of unresectable pancreatic cancer is
      poor; overall 1 and 5-year survivals do not exceed 20 and 4%, respectively. For the minority
      of patients (15%) who are resectable at diagnosis, the median survival is 10-20 months, with
      5-year survival of 10-25%.

      Abdominal discomfort is a predominant symptom in patients with pancreatic cancer.
      Approximately 75% have pain at diagnosis and over 90% in advanced stages. Therefore a major
      aspect of palliation is provision of adequate pain control. The standard approach to pain
      management is based on the World Health Organization (WHO) 3-step ladder, beginning with
      non-opioid analgesics (e.g. non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) or acetaminophen),
      followed by weak opioids and then finally strong opioids as necessary. Virtually all patients
      require escalating doses of opioids during their disease. Adjuvant therapies, including other
      medications (e.g. trazodone, tricyclic anti-depressants, and bisphosphonates), palliative
      radionucleotides, external beam radiation, or chemotherapy may also be useful for symptomatic
      control.

      In the last 10 years, EUS-guided celiac plexus neurolysis (EUS-CPN) has been widely practiced
      for alleviation of pain in patients with pancreatic cancer and has been shown to be
      effective. At our institution, radiofrequency ablation (EUS-RFA), which involves ablation of
      celiac ganglia or celiac plexus using a radiofrequency catheter, is being performed to
      alleviate abdominal pain in pancreatic cancer patients. However currently no comparative
      studies exist comparing EUS-CPN with EUS-RFA for pain alleviation in pancreatic cancer
      patients.

      In this randomized trial, the investigators will be comparing EUS-CPN with EUS-RFA for pain
      alleviation in pancreatic patients, in order to determine which technique is better at
      improving pain in pancreatic cancer patients.
    
  