
    
      The World Alzheimer Report indicates that, worldwide, there were 35.6 million people with
      dementia in 2010 and according to forecasts, this figure will reach 65.7 million in 2030 and
      115.4 million in 2050. To correctly estimate the impact of the Alzheimer's Disease (AD), it
      should be considered that it also affects patients' families, on whom the burden of care
      fall. Not surprisingly, Alzheimer's disease is called a "family illness". Family caregivers
      of Alzheimer's patients are subject to high levels of stress: this puts them at greater risk
      of developing mood disorders, depression, insomnia and generally reduces their quality of
      life. Information technology (IT), telecommunications and electronic equipment applied to the
      home, can contribute to the improvement of the quality of life of Alzheimer's patients and
      their caregivers. However, the multidimensionality of this problem not only calls for new
      services, but also for a greater coordination and integration of existing community health
      and social care services, of the public, nonprofit and private organizations. The assumption
      underlying projects integrating health care and social services is to improve coordination of
      support, thus reducing cost and eliminating waste and inefficiencies and improving health
      outcomes of the patients assisted. Examples of such initiatives in the literature can be
      found in the United States (the "Program for All Inclusive Care for the Elderly", Branch et
      al, 1995), in the United Kingdom (the "Darlington Project", Challis et al, 1991), in Canada
      (the PRISMA project, Hebert et al, 2010) and in France (the "System for Integrated Care for
      Older Persons", Beland et al, 2006). Among the tools used in these studies are case
      management, operator training and the use of IT systems to integrate health care and social
      services.

      Building on these experiences, the UP-TECH project aims at developing innovative
      methodologies and new simple technologies to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of care
      for AD patients and their caregivers.

      The main objectives of the UP-TECH project are the evaluation of the improvement of the
      quality of life of family caregivers of people with Alzheimer's disease and the potential
      delay in institutionalization of these patients.

      The overall design of the UP-TECH project will include 450 dyads (AD patient and related
      caregiver) who will be randomly enrolled in three different types of intervention, defined as

        -  usual care

        -  UP Protocol

        -  UP-TECH Protocol

      fully described below in the section: Interventions.
    
  