
    
      This is a retrospective analysis of a treatment approach designed to increase enteral protein
      intake in critically ill surgical patients. The study investigators recently developed
      guidelines aimed to improve early enteral protein delivery in critically ill patients. The
      guidelines were tested for 6 months; applying it to 53 patients (April to September, 2016) in
      order to determine its safety and effectiveness. All subjects were admitted to the surgical
      intensive care unit and identified by one of the investigators as being appropriate for
      protein supplementation. The guidelines required that patients were: 1. Deemed ready to start
      enteral nutritional support by the attending intensivist within 72 hours of admission to the
      intensive care unit, 2. No contraindications to full enteral support, 3. No history of
      chronic liver disease, 4. Serum creatinine <2.0 mg/dl.

      In order to compare biochemical markers of nutritional support, the investigators used the
      electronic medical record to identify all patients admitted to the surgical intensive care
      unit who were in the ICU long enough to undergo testing of 24 hour urine nitrogen excretion
      from January to December 2016.8 As part of standard clinical practice, measurement of urine
      nitrogen excretion is performed in patients who are in the ICU and receiving nutritional
      support for more than one week. In addition to measuring TUN, the investigators also monitor
      the response to nutritional support and recovery from critical illness using serum
      transthyretin (also known as prealbumin).

      This review resulted in a cohort of 118 patients who underwent at least one TUN measurement.
      Of these, 27 received early protein supplementation and 91 did not and these provide the
      basis for the comparisons described below. We wanted to measure the effect of early
      supplemental protein treatment on nitrogen excretion and on serum transthyretin
      concentrations as the patients recovered. We therefore, compared nitrogen excretion and serum
      transthyretin between those who received early supplementation and those who did not.
    
  