
    
      Introduction:

      Acute appendicitis is one of the most common surgical emergencies, with a lifetime prevalence
      approximately 1 in 7. The incidence is 1.5-1.9 per 1000 in a male and female population with
      approximately 1.4 times greater in men than in women.

      Despite being a common problem, acute appendicitis remains a difficult diagnosis to
      establish, particularly in the young, elderly and female of reproductive age. Delay in
      surgery may risk appendicular perforation and sepsis. Reduced diagnostic accuracy and early
      surgery risk significantly high negative appendicectomy rate of about 20-40%. Diagnostic
      accuracy can be further improved by using ultrasonography or computed tomography scan.
      However, these modalities are costly and may not easily be available when needed.

      Clinical prediction rule (CPR) such as Alvarado score, the modified Alvarado score, and the
      RIPASA score have been developed to improve the diagnostic accuracy of acute appendicitis.
      Alvarado and Modified Alvarado scores have been reported to have very low sensitivity and
      specificity when applied to an Asian population with a completely different ethnic origin and
      diet. Thus RIPASA score was developed specifically for an Asian population and have been
      reported to have a significantly better sensitivity (98%) and specificity (82%) over the
      former two scores. Since 2009, the RIPASA score has undergone broad validation in different
      population settings with a different prevalence of acute appendicitis across the world and
      reported similarly high sensitivity and specificity.

      The standard management of acute appendicitis has remained largely been unchallenged since
      the late 19th century, largely because of the belief that if left untreated surgically, acute
      uncomplicated appendicitis will progress to perforation and peritonitis with increased
      morbidity and mortality. Furthermore current surgical management of acute appendicitis is
      associated with an unacceptably high negative appendicectomy rate of about 20-40% and
      significant post-operative complications.

      Antibiotic non-operative therapy of intra-abdominal sepsis has been accepted as mainstay
      therapy for a condition such as diverticulitis. Since 2009, antibiotic non-operative therapy
      has been increasingly proposed as an alternative strategy for early uncomplicated acute
      appendicitis (EuAA) and has also been reported to be safe and effective in children with
      acute appendicitis complicated by perforation, abscess or phlegmon formation.

      However, despite multiple randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and meta-analyses, the role of
      antibiotics in the management of EuAA in adults remains controversial. Early RCTs have
      reported treatment efficacy for antibiotic non-operative management strategy (AMS) of EuAA as
      high as 88-91% with a recurrence rate of acute appendicitis at 13-14% at 1-year follow-up.
      More recent RCTs comparing AMS versus surgical management strategy (SMS) have not been able
      to confirm non-inferiority of AMS over SMS. These later findings were also been supported by
      multiple recent meta-analyses. The discrepancies in reported studies are due to a lack of
      agreeable definition of EuAA, which was the common recommendation by all the recent
      meta-analyses. The NOTA study in 2014 reported using clinical prediction rules such as Acute
      Inflammatory Response (AIR) score (mean score of 4.9) and Alvarado score (mean score of 5.2)
      to define their group with EuAA, but this was only a prospective cohort study design and the
      mean score used were well below the threshold for diagnosing acute appendicitis.

      RIPASA Score provides a range of score from 3.0-16.5 for diagnosing acute appendicitis.
      RIPASA score less than 7 are considered having a low probability of acute appendicitis and
      RIPASA score more than 7.5 are considered high probability of acute appendicitis. Thus it may
      be possible to identify a group of patients with EuAA based on their RIPASA score range who
      may benefit from AMS.

      This study-working hypothesis is that RIPASA score as a CPR can determine a group of patients
      with a diagnosis of EuAA, who will benefit from AMS rather than SMS. The primary specific aim
      of this study is to confirm the non-inferiority status of AMS over SMS in EuAA. Secondary
      specific aims are to determine the range of RIPASA score which can be considered as providing
      a firm diagnosis of EuAA which can be management with AMS rather than SMS, step 3 impact
      analysis of RIPASA score as a CPR, and improve patient outcomes in terms of reducing
      unnecessary negative appendicectomy rate, hospital stay and complications arising from such
      surgery, and ultimately financial cost savings.

      Methodology:

      Trial Design:

      This study also known as RIPASA-TWO trial is designed as a single center, open-label,
      non-inferiority, prospective RCT to compare 2 management strategies for suspected EuAA, AMS
      versus SMS, using RIPASA score to identify the group of patients with EuAA and to monitor the
      progression of the disease and guiding surgical decision based on the participants' RIPASA
      score.

      Population and Study Setting:

      The study setting will be based at Raja Isteri Pengiran Anak Saleha (RIPAS) Hospital, a
      tertiary referral center. All staffs of the Department of General Surgery (GS) and Accident &
      Emergency (A&E) Department at RIPAS Hospital will be brief of the trial design and purpose.

      Recruitment:

      Patients presenting to A&E Department at RIPAS Hospital with right iliac fossa pain will be
      triaged and seen by the Casualty Officer. RIPASA score will be derived. Patients with RIPASA
      score between 7.5 to 11.5 and who satisfy the study inclusion and exclusion criteria will be
      referred to the on-call surgical medical officer (MO) for recruitment to RIPASA-TWO trial.
      Antibiotics will be withheld until patients have been seen by the surgical MO on duty and the
      RIPASA score is confirmed. The Surgical MO will inform and explain to the patient and family
      of the study and a study information sheet will be provided. Upon written signed consent to
      be recruited for the RIPASA-TWO trial, patients will be randomized to either arms - AMS or
      SMS.

      Allocation concealment:

      A variable block randomization sequence of 4,6 and 8 will be used to allocate participants to
      either AMS or SMS. A web-based program will be used and accessed via secured username and
      password, to obtain randomization allocation for the recruited participants. Once the
      randomization allocation code has been given, the surgical MO will allocate the treatment
      according to the randomized arm. Recruitment will be stratified to two RIPASA score range,
      7.5-9.5 and 10.0-11.5.

      Study Protocol:

      The surgical MO/SMO will login into the randomization allocation software to acquire the
      randomization allocation arm and code. The patient will then be admitted to GS inpatient
      wards. Patients randomized to AMS arm will receive the allocated antibiotic treatment. Those
      randomized to SMS arm will receive the usual Departmental antibiotic policy of preoperative
      antibiotics prior to appendicectomy.

      For patients in the AMS arm, the RIPASA score will be repeated to monitor the progression of
      the patient's condition after 24 hours. If RIPASA score remains stable or decreasing, the
      patient will continue on the allocated intravenous (iv) antibiotic treatment. If RIPASA score
      is increasing but remain below 11.5, the team looking after the patient can consider ordering
      further investigations such as ultrasound or CT scan, but patients will continue at this
      point on the antibiotic. If the RIPASA score increases to above 12, the surgeon can consider
      appendicectomy.

      For patients in the AMS arm who have not cross over to surgery, they will continue with iv
      antibiotics for 48 hours and if symptoms improved with decreasing RIPASA score to below 7.5,
      the antibiotic will be changed to oral route and the patient monitored regularly. If RIPASA
      score goes below 5, the patient can be considered for discharge and follow-up in 1 week in
      the clinic with an oral antibiotic for a total of 7 days.

      For patient randomized to the SMS arm, patients will undergo appendicectomy, unless their
      repeated RIPASA score decreases to below 7.5 or if their symptoms improved. For these
      patients, they will remain on iv antibiotics and will be changed to oral route after 48
      hours. If RIPASA score goes below 5, the patient can be considered for discharge and
      follow-up in 1 week in the clinic with an oral antibiotic for a total of 7 days.

      Antibiotic:

      Intravenous Amikacin 15mg/kg/day divided over 3 doses for 48 hours will be the antibiotic of
      choice for RIPASA-TWO trial and is based on the microbial antibiotic sensitivity from pus
      swab taken for all appendicectomy from the previous year (2016). After 48 hours, this will be
      converted to oral ciprofloxacin 500mg bd for 7 days. For patients allocated to SMS arm, the
      Department antibiotic policy is for a preoperative antibiotic combination of intravenous
      Cefuroxime 1.5g TDS and 500mg metronidazole TDS.

      Statistical methods:

      Sample size calculation:

      According to Chong et al, the reported negative appendicectomy rate based on the RIPASA score
      was 14.7%. Hence this 14.7% can be considered as surgical treatment failure due to an
      unnecessary operation and the surgical treatment efficacy is about 85.3%.

      The non-inferiority margin for RIPASA-TWO trial will be set based on this surgical treatment
      failure rate of 14.7%. Using the FDA-approved non-inferiority margin of 50% reduction in
      efficacy or 50% increase in failure rate will give AMS an acceptable failure rate of 22%.
      Thus a treatment failure for AMS between 14-22% will be considered as confirmation of
      non-inferiority. A treatment failure of less than 14% will be considered as superiority.
      Hence based on a difference in treatment efficacy rate of 7% (22% vs 14%), with a sample size
      powered at 80% at 5% significance, the sample size needed to show non-inferiority is 91 in
      each group. Assuming a dropout rate of 25%, the total number of patients needed to be
      recruited is 228 patients, based on a 1:1 recruitment.

      All statistical analysis will be performed using SPSS statistical program. Categorical data
      will be presented using frequencies and percentages. Continuous data will be presented as
      mean ± SD. All analysis will be conducted based on intention-to-treat principle and
      per-protocol analysis. Statistical analysis for categorical data will be carried out using
      Chi Square exact test. Differences between groups with normally distributed variables will be
      tested using independent sample t-test. Variables with no normal distribution will be tested
      using Wann-Whitney test. Non-inferiority for AMS will be tested using one-sided Wald tests
      with an α level of 0.05.

      Duration of Study:

      Based on the previous study, the recruitment of 200 consecutive patients with acute
      appendicitis, took over 8 months. Half of this group had RIPASA score from 7.5 to 11.5. Thus
      for a sample size of 228 for the RIPASA-TWO trial, the expected recruitment time is about 19
      months. Hence the study will be expected to complete within 2 years.

      Interim Analysis:

      An interim analysis will be conducted at 2-time points. For changes to antimicrobial
      sensitivity, the interim analysis will be conducted at every 6 months and any changes will be
      discussed with the Data Safety Monitoring Board for proposed changes to the antibiotic
      regime. The main study interim analysis will be conducted at 1-year post recruitment to
      assess safety efficacy of the trial to ensure that not too many patients are developing
      complicated acute appendicitis in the AMS arm.

      Ethical Consideration:

      Ethics approval for the study has been granted by the Medical and Health Research and Ethics
      Committee based in RIPAS Hospital.
    
  