
    
      Anxiety and unipolar depression are highly debilitating and commonly co-occurring in young
      adolescents with lifetime prevalence rates estimated at 8.4% for major depression or
      dysthymia and at 31.4% for any anxiety disorder in youth ages 13-14 (Merikangas et al.,
      2010). Cognitive and behavioral therapies (CBT) have received strong support for reducing
      distress in youth (Silverman, Pina, & Viswesvaran, 2008; David-Ferdon & Kaslow, 2008), but
      efficacy rates peak around 50-70% for anxiety and less for depression. Evidence is
      accumulating that "transdiagnostic" behavioral therapies that address multiple problems at
      the same time can enhance treatment outcomes by targeting the mechanisms that underlie
      commonly co-occurring problems, like anxiety and depression (Chu, Temkin, & Toffey, 2016;
      Temkin, Yadegar, Laurine, & Chu, in press). Furthermore, consolidated transdiagnostic
      treatment protocols can provide the same level of clinical benefit while delivering active
      components in a more efficient package, which can increase treatment efficiency and
      potentially make it easier to train novice clinicians in the future (Chu, 2012; Ehrenreich &
      Chu, 2013). While the evidence-base is growing for adult conditions, transdiagnostic
      interventions have been examined less in child and adolescent populations. Our team has
      demonstrated the efficacy of a school-based group transdiagnostic intervention that made use
      of behavioral activation (BA) and exposure therapy to address anxiety and depression for
      middle-school youth (Chu, Crocco, Esseling, Areizaga, Lindner, & Skriner, 2016). BA refers to
      a set of interventions that teach youth how to assess which stressors trigger avoidant coping
      responses in their lives (i.e., functional assessment) and learn how to address problems with
      pro-active problem solving strategies. Exposure therapy refers to a set of behavioral
      interventions that foster new learning tendencies by encouraging and reinforcing contact with
      the situations that scare individuals. Both sets of strategies have received substantial
      support in treating youth anxiety and depression. The Chu et al., (2016) trial demonstrated
      that these two treatment components could be combined and effectively treat a sample of youth
      reporting either anxiety or depression.

      The Chu et al. (2016) study was novel because most forms of evidence-based treatment have
      been designed as "single disorder" protocols, such that the interventions were designed to
      target one clinical problem at a time. The current trial takes the following innovative
      steps. The study will: (a) adapt the Chu et al. group-based protocol to an individual format,
      (b) deliver the program in a clinical outpatient setting, and (c) utilize three comparison
      conditions, including a wait-list control and two active psychological interventions. The two
      active interventions will be single disorder cognitive behavioral therapies (CBT) that were
      designed to specifically address either youth depression (Primary and Secondary Control
      Enhancement Therapy; PASCET; Weisz, Thurber, Sweeney, Proffitt, & LeGagnoux, 1997) or youth
      anxiety (Coping Cat; Kendall, 1994; Kendall et al., 1997). Both have received substantial
      support in the literature for supporting clinical improvements in brief individual formats
      (12 - 16 weeks). By comparing Individual Behavioral Activation Therapy (IBAT) to each of
      these active interventions, the study aims to demonstrate (a) superior treatment outcomes to
      wait-list control, (b) comparable treatment outcomes to PASCET and Coping Cat, and (c)
      differential mediator effects across the four conditions. Findings will provide support for
      the feasibility, acceptability, and efficacy of IBAT and provide conceptual support for its
      purported mediators of change.

      The current study is a Randomized Controlled Trial (RCT), comparing a novel behavioral
      intervention (Individual Behavioral Activation Therapy, IBAT) against two established
      cognitive-behavioral interventions (Coping Cat, PASCET) and a 14-week waitlist (WL) control.
      Participants will be 160 youth (ages 9-16 years old) who receive a diagnosis of a Diagnostic
      and Statistical Manual - 5th edition (DSM-5; APA, 2013) anxiety or depression disorder and
      their caregivers. Participants will be randomly assigned evenly to each of four conditions.
      The study intends to recruit participants within a 2.5-year period and complete all active
      participant participation within 3 years.

      Specific aims include the following:

      Aim 1 - Treatment Efficacy: To evaluate differences in treatment outcomes across IBAT,
      PASCET, CC, and WL conditions across pre-, mid-, and post-treatment in treatment efficacy,
      focusing on key diagnostic and symptom outcomes (i.e., CGI, principal diagnosis presence to
      absence and clinical severity, RCADS anxiety and depression scores, MASC, CESD).

      Hypothesis 1: IBAT will produce superior outcomes to 14-week WL control

      Hypothesis 2: The three active treatment conditions (IBAT, PASCET, CC) will demonstrate
      superior treatment outcomes to 14-week WL control, but will not be different from each other.

      Aim 2 - Mediator Analysis: To examine the strength of putative mediators in explaining the
      effects of active treatments (IBAT, CC, PASCET) in comparison to the 14-week WL and in
      comparison to each other. Putative mediators will include multiple domains: (a) youth
      socio-emotional functioning (cognitive, behavioral, and affective responses), (b) distress
      tolerance as assessed by computer tasks, (c) family environment and interactions, (d)
      caregiver distress and functioning, (e) client and therapist perception of psychotherapy
      process, (f) ecological momentary assessment and passive sensor data.

      Hypothesis 3: Each domain will prove to provide significant mediators for each treatment in
      comparison to the WL control.

      Hypothesis 4: Cognitive mediators will prove to provide significant mediation of CC and
      PASCET treatment effects, but not necessarily for IBAT.

      Hypothesis 5: Distress tolerance will prove to provide significant mediator for IBAT
      treatment effects, but not necessarily for CC or PASCET.

      Aim 3. Note patterns of additional youth mental health services and auxiliary services that
      families seek beyond treatment received at the Youth Anxiety and Depression Clinic.
    
  