
    
      This is a randomized controlled trial.

      Patients who are candidates for labor induction and meet inclusion criteria will be
      identified in the obstetrics clinic when they are being scheduled for induction of labor, or
      at a later clinic date. If they agree to participate, patients will be randomized and
      enrolled in the study at that time. Those who consent will be randomized into Group A
      (Experimental Group) and Group B (Control Group). No stratification criteria will be used.

      Patients randomized to the control group will undergo induction of labor using the standard
      foley bulb and Pitocin method. Participants will be placed in the dorsal lithotomy position,
      an 18 French Foley catheter will be placed transcervically and its balloon filled with 60mL
      of sterile saline. One of two methods will be used to place the transcervical foley based on
      provider preference and determination of which method will offer the greatest chance for
      successful placement. Method A is placement of the foley "blindly" by palpation of the
      cervix. Method B utilizes direct visualization with sterile speculum placement. Method will
      be documented in the data collection forms. The catheter will be left in place and IV
      oxytocin will be started per protocol. The foley catheter will be removed after 12 hours if
      not spontaneously extruded.

      Patients randomized to the experimental group will undergo outpatient induction of labor.
      Either of the above two described methods will be used to place an 18 French Foley catheter
      transcervically and its balloon filled with 60mL of sterile saline. The catheter will be
      deflated and removed within 10 minutes of placement. The patient will then undergo a
      non-stress test (NST). If the patient has a reactive NST with no late or variable
      decelerations or uterine tachysystole, the patient will be discharged home with clear return
      precautions and instructions to return to the triage area in 24 hours. When the patient
      returns to the hospital, a sterile vaginal exam will be done and Bishop score documented. The
      patient will then be admitted to L&D for inpatient continuation of induction with IV oxytocin
      per protocol.

      In accordance with the Friedman curve and current LAC+USC practice, primigravid participants
      will be given 20 hours of maximum Pitocin (22 mU/ min) to achieve active labor and
      multigravid participants will be given 14 hours before a failed induction is diagnosed.
      Cesarean delivery will be recommended for arrest of dilation, arrest of descent, or any
      obstetric indication as decided by the on-duty house staff. Finally, at patient request,
      intravenous or regional anesthesia will be made available at any time during the labor and
      delivery process.
    
  