
    
      Trial Design This is a prospective, longitudinal, observational, cohort study investigating
      young adults undergoing surgical extraction of a wisdom tooth with and without antibiotics
      post-operatively. The prescription of antibiotics will be based on clinical judgment based on
      case complexity, trauma and length of procedure. No randomization will be performed. Four
      observational time points will be undertaken for collecting 3 bacterial samples (tongue
      coating, saliva and stool sample at: baseline, 1 week, 1 month and 6 months.

      To survey the extent and persistence of a range of bacterial resistance genes within the oral
      and gut microbiota of a cohort of systemically healthy young adults before and after the
      surgical extraction of third molars who receive and do not receive amoxicillin.

      Hypothesis It is anticipated that a single course of amoxicillin (250 mg three times daily
      for five days) prescribed after a surgical tooth extraction, such as an impacted third molar,
      alters the short-term and long-term antibiotic resistance profile and causes a significant
      shift in the composition of the oral and gut resistome in a healthy cohort.

      From analysis of the bacterial resistance, comparison from the baseline data over time will
      give insight on the impact of increased antibacterial resistance. Understanding of this
      should help pave the way for determining guidelines for the rational prescription of
      antibiotics for dental surgical clinical procedures and so form a basis for antibiotic
      stewardship as well as determine a potential risk to benefit awareness when prescribing
      antibiotics.

      This baseline data can be followed-up in a longer timeframe to examine the persistence of
      resistance genes over time in a later study. It is expected a significant number of patients
      will be from student cohorts at HKU which will make later recall straightforward. Patients
      will be asked to keep a record log of antibiotic consumption after the initial study that may
      inform later research.

      Subjects scheduled for surgical extractions who give a written consent to be a part of the
      study will be recruited. An experienced clinical operator with specialist maxillofacial
      surgery training (ML Co-A) will be responsible for performing clinical treatment.
      Prescription of antibiotics will be based on case complexity, difficulty of the operative
      surgical procedure and time taken. Therefore patients will not be randomized but based on
      obtaining 10 patients in each group. Three sets of samples (Saliva, tongue dorsum scrapings
      and stool samples) will be collected at the following four time points.

      The subjects will be asked to refrain from brushing their teeth the night before sample
      collection is to be performed and similarly asked not to use dental mouthwashes. Apart from
      collection time points, subjects will be asked to maintain their 'normal', routine oral
      hygiene procedures for the duration of the study.

      After collection of the baseline samples the surgical extraction of the third molar tooth
      will be performed. The subject will be given post extraction instructions and analgesics for
      pain relief for all the subjects and Amoxicillin for those requiring antibiotics. Compliance
      will be checked for by asking the patient and checking the tablet wrapper strips of
      amoxicillin at the recall appointments. The subject will be asked to refrain from using any
      mouth rinse during the six month study period (if they did not already do so) and a
      toothpaste without antibacterial content will be provided for use.

      Tongue coating, saliva and stool samples for DNA extraction will be collected at all the
      specified time points as described below.

      Baseline- antibiotic group On the day of surgery Baseline- no antibiotic On the day of
      surgery

      1 week

      1 week

      1 month 6 months

      Samples from the oral cavity will be taken in the morning at least two hours after meals.
      Subjects will be advised to collect the stool samples within 24 hours of the scheduled
      appointment.

      A sterile micro brush will be used to collect the tongue coatings The tongue coating sample
      will be taken after stroking the surface of the tongue for three times from the back to the
      front side on one half of the anterior two-thirds of the tongue for each time point of
      sampling. After the sample collection, the tip of the micro brush will be cut and placed
      inside an Eppendorf vial. The samples will be stored at -800C until DNA extraction is
      performed.

      For the saliva samples, the subject will be asked to spit out into a sterile container which
      will be immediately transferred into ice and then stored at - 800C. Collection of the stool
      samples will be performed based on the guidelines for stool sample collection given for the
      human microbiome project (16). DNA extraction will be performed from the samples using the
      DNA extraction kit provided by (Qiagen, USA).

      Metagenomic shotgun sequencing For metagenomic sequencing extracted genomic DNA will be
      physically sheared to an average fragment size of 250 bp. The fragmented gDNA will be
      sequenced bi-directionally (100 bp each direction) on a lane of an Illumina HighSeq. Quality
      filtering will be performed with Trimmomatic (17), after which the paired and unpaired
      forward reads will be combined and reads with more than 10% ambiguous bases will be removed.
      Next, the reads will be screened for human sequences with Best Match Tagger v3.101 (18),
      after which human reads and duplicate reads will be removed.

      Relative abundance of resistant genes The blaTEM primer used will be as described by Kim et
      al (22). Primers to analyze the presence of erm (G), erm (B) and erm (F) resistance genes
      will be as described by Jansonn et al (23). Primers for Tet (M) and Tet (W) genes will as
      described by Diaz-Torez et al (24). 16S universal primers will be used for the relative
      quantification as a standard.

      12 The relative gene abundance will be assessed using real time PCR. Conventional PCR
      reactions will be used to generate gene-specific amplicons used as template DNA standards for
      qPCR. Amplicons will be purified using a gel/PCR extraction kit QIAquick PCR Purification Kit
      (Qiagen, USA) and quantified fluorometrically using a Quant-iTTM PicoGreen® dsDNA Assay Kit
      (Invitrogen). The number of DNA molecules will be calculated based on the size and mass of
      the amplicons. Tenfold serial dilutions of the amplicons will be prepared and used following
      the procedure by Yu et al. (25).

      Selection and Withdrawal of Subjects Patients will be recruited from the waiting list from
      the Prince Philip Dental Hospital, The University of Hong Kong who have been clinically
      screened and wish to have their impacted wisdom teeth removed.

      Sample size We would present the outcome in log 10 scale compared to day 0 in community DNA
      extracted from fecal samples. From the previous study (15), we anticipate the standard
      deviation as 1.25 units. By the sample size determination with the use of software G*Power
      version 3.1.9.2 (Franz Faul, Universitat Kiel, Germany), we would need at least 8 per group
      to have a power of 0.8 to detect the 1.25 unit difference at the 0.05 significance level.
      Therefore, in this research, we collect total sample size as 16 (8 per group) in the initial
      stage.

      Treatment of Subjects This is a prospective, longitudinal, observational, cohort study
      investigating young adults undergoing surgical extraction of a wisdom tooth with and without
      antibiotics post-operatively. Antibiotics and analgesics will be given post- operatively.

      Amoxicillin Intra orally, three times daily 250 mg for 5 days Analgesics - Arcoxia 120mg for
      three days and Paracetamol 500 mg QID PRN for 3 days or Paracetamol 1 g Plus 16 mg Codeine
      Phosphate. The prescription of antibiotics will be based on clinical judgment based on case
      complexity, trauma and length of procedure. No 14 randomization will be performed. Four
      observational time points will be undertaken for collecting 3 bacterial samples (tongue
      coating, mouth rinse and stool sample at: baseline, 1 week, 1 month and 6 months.

      If the patients have to take additional antibiotics in the review period of six months, they
      will be asked to inform the investigator.

      Compliance will be checked for by asking the patient and checking the tablet wrapper strips
      of amoxicillin at the recall appointments.

      Assessment of Efficacy The study is not looking into the efficacy of a new drug. The
      treatment procedures being carried out are according to the conventional treatment protocol.

      Assessment of Safety The study is not looking to the safety of a new drug. The treatment
      procedures being carried out are according to the conventional treatment protocol.
    
  