
    
      Staphylococcus aureus is a ubiquitous pathogen, and causes infections of the skin, lung,
      bloodstream, and other body parts. Over the past decade,community-acquired methicillin
      resistant S. aureus (CA-MRSA) infections, which were previously extremely rare, are occurring
      commonly worldwide. CA-MRSA is the most common cause of skin infection in many locales in the
      U.S., including Southern California.

      CA-MRSA strains are notable for their ability to spread in closed settings and cause
      recurrent infections among healthy persons. Management of recurrent CA-MRSA infection is
      challenging and optimal prevention strategies are undefined. Many experts recommend topical
      agents that decontaminate the body and/or anterior nares. Others suggest environmental
      decontamination to help control recurrences or transmission within households. However, there
      are no data that quantify the efficacy and safety of these approaches.

      We will conduct a multi-center clinical trial to compare the efficacy and safety of body and
      environmental decolonization regimens in the prevention of CA-MRSA infection. This trial is
      being conducted at Kaiser Permanente Southern California (KPSC) sites among KPSC enrollees.

      The study population will comprise of persons suffering from recurrent CA-MRSA infection.
      Household members of this "index subject" will also be offered the chance to enroll in the
      study. For this clinical trial, all subjects will be randomized in a 2 x 2 design to test: 1)
      chlorhexidine body washes and nasal mupirocin ointment vs. usual care, and 2) environmental
      cleansing with ethanol spray and aggressive laundering vs. no environmental cleansing.
      Household members, should they consent, will also be enrolled into the study into the same
      treatment arm as "index subjects". We will also perform selected secondary analyses,
      including studying the efficacy of the interventions at preventing infections in household
      members. Additionally, we will examine strain relatedness of colonizing and infecting CA-MRSA
      strains to better understand colonization dynamics within households.
    
  