
    
      This study will use a two-arm randomized control trial (RCT) design to examine the effect of
      a home-based exercise training program versus a minimal exercise, attention control condition
      on markers of subclinical atherosclerosis and mobility disability in persons with MS. The
      primary outcomes will be subclinical atherosclerosis including measures of arterial structure
      and function and measures of mobility disability including the six-minute walk and timed
      25-foot walk, GaitRite walking assessment and one week of accelerometry data.

      Fifty-four persons with MS who have an Expanded Disability Status Score (EDSS) score between
      0 and 4.0 will be randomized into either the home-based exercise training condition or the
      attention control condition. Participation in this study will include a 3-month exercise
      program to be completed at home. In addition, participants will need to come to University of
      Illinois at Chicago (UIC) three times to undergo testing. Each visit will take about 3-4
      hours to complete. Testing that will take place during these three visits include blood
      pressure measurement, six vascular (artery) measurements, heart measurements, short walking
      tests, peak aerobic capacity test, blood draw, five quality of Life questionnaires and two
      cognitive function tests.

      The home-based exercise regimen will include cycle ergometry as an aerobic mode of training 3
      times per week with a gradual progression of duration and intensity across a 12-week period.
      Exercise prescription will be based on the peak aerobic capacity cycling test conducted
      during the first visit. The attention control will involve stretching using the same
      frequency and duration across a 12-week period with exercises recommended by the National
      Multiple Sclerosis Society (NMSS). Both arms will receive weekly internet "coaching" sessions
      via video chatting.

      Subclinical atherosclerosis and mobility disability data will be collected before, after 6
      weeks of training and immediately after the 12-week intervention.
    
  