
    
      Unhealthy alcohol use is the third leading cause of preventable death in the US. Evidence
      shows that screening for unhealthy alcohol use and providing persons engaged in risky
      drinking with brief behavioral counseling interventions improves health outcomes,
      collectively termed screening and brief intervention (SBI). For moderate or severe alcohol
      use disorder (AUD), medication assistance therapy (MAT) is effective. Despite clear evidence
      of effectiveness, only 13% of primary care patients are screened with a standard instrument
      and only 6.7% of adults with AUD receive treatment. We believe that underutilization of SBI
      and MAT are driven by both a misunderstanding of the role and effectiveness of primary care
      in addressing unhealthy alcohol and limited practice resource and infrastructure. To promote
      the dissemination and implementation of evidence-based strategies to address unhealthy
      alcohol use throughout Virginia, we have extended our EvidenceNow collaboration to include
      addiction medicine experts at Virginia Commonwealth University, the Virginia Ambulatory Care
      Outcomes Research Network (ACORN), our state's family medicine residency training programs,
      and our state's Community Service Boards. We propose a practice-level cluster randomized
      trial with wait list control. 125 primary care practices in five regions throughout the
      state, each centered around a residency site for educational support, will receive a practice
      facilitation intervention to implement screening, counseling, and treatment for unhealthy
      alcohol at intervention start or 6-month delay. Guided by the identified EvidenceNow key
      drivers for change, practice support will include practice facilitation, education and
      training, shared learning and best practices, screening and counseling toolkits, data
      support, and assessment with feedback. Each practice will identify a clinician, nurse, and
      administrator champion to locally lead efforts and participate in learning collaboratives.
      Practices will design and implement screening, counseling, and treatment processes and
      operational changes, adapting their implementation strategy based on experiences and findings
      from other sites. We will conduct a mixed methods analysis. Primary outcomes will include the
      increase in screening for unhealthy alcohol use, increase in provision of brief counseling
      interventions and MAT, and reduction in alcohol intake for patients after practices receive
      practice facilitation. We will use the consolidated framework for implementation research to
      code and rate practice facilitation (e.g. dose, mode, reach) and practice implementation
      strategies (e.g. SBI and MAT strategies and tools implemented) on outcomes. Data sources will
      include practice facilitator field notes and interviews, chart reviews, patient survey,
      clinician survey, All Payer Claims Data, and qualitative interviews. We will administer the
      patient survey at baseline, 3 months, and 6 months after the intervention. Among patients age
      18 to 75 with an office visit the prior month, we will randomly select 60 to survey. In
      addition to our internal evaluation, we will participate in the external collaborative
      evaluation and dissemination activities with AHRQ throughout the project.
    
  