
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the time to prostate-specific antigen (PSA) relapse in patients with
      oligometastatic (=< 5 lesions) hormone-sensitive prostate cancer treated with 36 weeks of
      androgen deprivation therapy and localized radiotherapy to all known tumor sites.

      II. To assess the prostate-specific-antigen (PSA) and objective response rate to treatment
      with 36 weeks of androgen deprivation and localized radiotherapy in patients with
      oligometastatic hormone-sensitive prostate cancer.

      III. To assess the toxicity of 36 weeks of androgen deprivation and localized radiation
      therapy to oligometastases in patients with oligometastatic hormone-sensitive prostate
      cancer.

      IV. In appropriate situations evaluate the feasibility and toxicities of using helical
      tomotherapy image-guided intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) to treat
      oligometastatic sites.

      V. Long term followup of patients: PSA, local control of stage IV disease, progression-free
      survival (PFS), overall survival (OS), site and number of new metastases, systemic
      treatments, long term toxicity.

      OUTLINE:

      ANDROGEN DEPRIVATION THERAPY (ADT): Patients not currently on ADT receive goserelin acetate
      subcutaneously (SC) or leuprolide acetate via injection once every 4 or 12 weeks and
      bicalutamide orally (PO) once daily (QD). Treatment repeats every 12 weeks for up to 3
      courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients already
      receiving ADT at the time of enrollment continue treatment until they have received 36 weeks
      of therapy.

      RADIATION THERAPY: Patients achieving PSA normalization after initiation of androgen
      deprivation therapy undergo intensity-modulated radiation therapy daily for 2-7 weeks during
      or after completion of androgen deprivation therapy.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 4 weeks for 2 years, then
      every 3 months after year 2, and then every 6 months thereafter.
    
  