
    
      A total of 114 patients presenting with a non-healing diabetic foot ulcer (DFU) that is
      located below the malleoli (plantar only) of at least 4 weeks in duration and a size of at
      least 0.5 cm2 up to 5.0 cm2 for plantar wounds meeting all inclusion criteria but none of the
      exclusion criteria will be recruited from different trial sites. All patients will receive
      sharp debridement to remove non-viable tissue followed by standard of care including a
      sponsor approved standard dressing with a non-adherent wound contact layer, a foam pad or
      gauze for moderately draining wounds, a secondary bandage, and off-loading device specific to
      plantar wounds. Eligible patients return at two consecutive visits approximately two weeks
      apart to assess wound closure. Patients that exhibit a change of less than 30% reduction of
      the original surface area of their target wound two weeks after the screening visit following
      debridement will be randomized into the control group or the treatment group at this baseline
      visit, Week 1. The control group will continue to receive the standard of care and the
      treatment group will receive standard of care and NEOX速 CORD 1KTM. At each weekly visit, all
      wounds will be adequately debrided of devitalized and necrotic tissue, and the wound dressing
      will be replaced. For the treatment group, application of NEOX速 CORD

      1KTM will be considered at each weekly treatment visit following the Investigator's
      assessment of wound progression. If the Investigator determines it is medically necessary,
      additional NEOX速 CORD 1KTM will be applied, up to and including Week 12 for a maximum of no
      more than 10 applications. All wounds that close before Week 13 will be followed for an
      additional two consecutive weekly visits approximately to confirm closure before exiting the
      trial. Patients who experience closure at the Week 13 visit will be followed for an
      additional two consecutive visits up to Week 15 to confirm closure. Patients who do not
      experience wound closure prior to Week 13 will be considered a failure and complete the end
      of study/Withdrawal Visit 15 exiting the trial.

      At each weekly visit, efficacy will be assessed by the extent of wound closure as determined
      by the wound surface area and volume measured by an electronic measurement device
      (Silhouette速, ARANZ Medical), after debridement if performed, using a standardized protocol.
      After confirmation of closure, or at Visit 15, all patients will complete the trial.

      Safety will be assessed by clinical laboratory tests at screening and at End of
      Study/Withdrawal Visit 15, adverse event (AE) collection, and focused physical exams.
    
  