
    
      Objective: The overall objective of the study will be to describe the occurrence of
      Potentially Inappropriate Prescribing (PIP) in Ontario's elderly (>65 years) population,
      assess the health and economic burden associated with it, and evaluate interventions aimed at
      mitigating its effects.

      Hypothesis 1: Instances of Potentially Inappropriate Prescribing are frequent and costly.

      To test this hypothesis, the investigators will apply a subset of the STOPP criteria and
      Beers criteria to Ontario health administrative data to identify instances of potentially
      inappropriate prescribing, and estimate potential savings, both direct and indirect, which
      could be achieved by reducing inappropriate prescribing.

      Hypothesis 2: ED visits and hospitalizations are significantly associated with Potentially
      Inappropriate Prescribing

      To test this hypothesis, the investigators will estimate the attributable fraction of ER
      visits and hospitalizations associated with different frequencies of PIP using multivariate
      methods and survival analysis.

      Hypothesis 3: The likelihood of inappropriate prescribing is associated with patient and
      physician characteristics.

      To test this hypothesis, the investigators will identify each physician's annual PIP
      incidence density, calculated by dividing the number of PIP they issued by the total number
      of prescriptions they provided over the study period and then explore the association of
      patient and physician level covariates with patient outcomes.

      Background: Adverse drug events are common in the elderly, and contribute significantly to
      emergency room (ER) visits and unplanned hospitalizations. Patients aged sixty-five and over
      currently represent over 14% of the Canadian population, yet spending on prescription
      medications by seniors accounts for over 40% of all retail prescription drug sales. This is
      equivalent to a per capita spending on prescription drugs by seniors that is three times the
      Canadian average. A recent Irish study showed that, of 600 elderly patients admitted to
      hospital for an acute illness, 25% of them had one or more adverse drug events, of which two
      thirds had contributed to the hospitalizations. Of these adverse events contributing to
      hospitalizations, 69% were deemed avoidable. A number of tools and strategies have been
      developed to identify potentially inappropriate prescribing (PIP), however, until recently,
      none of the commonly used tools had been shown to reliably predict adverse events. The
      STOPP/START criteria (Screening Tool of Older Persons' potentially inappropriate
      Prescriptions / Screening Tool to Alert doctors to Right Treatment) was recently compared to
      the long-standing Beers criteria, and found to detect adverse drug effects that are causal or
      contribute to hospitalization in elderly patients with acute illness 2.8 times more often
      than the Beers criteria.

      The application of these criteria is usually done in a clinical context, which involves
      time-intensive and expensive chart reviews. There are relatively few studies looking at
      appropriateness of prescribing at the population level, using health administrative data.
      Applying tools to assess appropriateness of prescribing, such as a subset of the STOPP
      criteria, to health administrative data can provide a unique opportunity to assess both the
      frequency of potentially inappropriate prescribing and its associated costs, in terms of both
      medication and health services use at the population level.

      Methods: To achieve these aims, the investigators will conduct a retrospective cohort study
      using Ontario's large health administrative and population databases, that contain
      information on both hospital and outpatient use of health services, as well as demographic
      and socioeconomic data.

      This study will be conducted using Ontario administrative health databases housed at the
      Institute for Clinical Evaluative Sciences (ICES), which will be accessed from the
      ICES@uOttawa site.

      Benefits of our work: By using health administrative data from the Institute for Clinical and
      Evaluative Sciences (ICES) we expect to identify factors, both at the patient and prescriber
      levels, that are associated with poor prescribing, and to show that a measure already in
      place in some practice settings is effective at improving not only the quality of
      prescribing, but also at reducing adverse outcomes associated with poor prescribing. This
      evidence can provide the basis for targeted policy measures aimed at improving prescribing
      quality and outcomes for Ontario seniors, and reducing costs.
    
  