
    
      Dementia is a debilitating and increasingly pervasive condition impacting cognitive decline
      across the globe. Behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia (BPSD) impact quality of
      life (QoL) for people with dementia and are key interventional targets. Pharmacological
      interventions for BPSD can be costly, ineffective or life-threatening prompting law makers
      and the Federal Drug Administration (FDA) to support non-pharmacological interventions like
      multi-sensory environments (MSE) as the preferred first line of treatment. Despite this
      support for non-pharmacological interventions like MSE, there has been inconsistency in
      evaluative methodologies and application of MSE interventions, impeding the widespread use of
      MSE in dementia-care settings. Therefore, there is a critical need for empirical
      investigation of well-defined MSE in non-pharmacological dementia-care. The purpose of this
      study is to investigate the impact of MSE on aggression/agitation during assisted bathing,
      showering and/or tub bathing for veterans with dementia. The VA has implemented MSE therapy
      for veterans with dementia since 2010 and the impact of MSE on aggression remains to be
      evaluated. In 2013, due to favorable initial results, the VA installed both fixed-room and
      mobile cart MSE applications in 53 VA community living centers (CLCs) across the US,
      including one in Lake City, Florida which received mobile MSE carts and waterproof MSE
      equipment for use during assisted bathing, showering, and/or tub bathing. Most acts of
      aggression/agitation for people with dementia occur during assisted bathing and there is a
      strong need for evidence-based research of non-pharmacological interventions to reduce
      problem behaviors, decrease healthcare provider burden and improve quality of life (QoL) for
      people with dementia. The overall goal of this study is to investigate the effectiveness of
      MSE in the reduction of agitation/aggression during assisted bathing, showering, and/or tub
      bathing for veterans with dementia.
    
  