
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare disease-control duration in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer receiving
           FOLFIRI chemotherapy in combination with bevacizumab with or without bevacizumab
           maintenance therapy.

      Secondary

        -  Determine objective response rate.

        -  Determine non-hematologic grade 3-4 (except alopecia) toxicity rate.

        -  Determine overall toxicity rate.

        -  Determine duration of chemotherapy-free interval.

        -  Determine progression-free survival.

        -  Determine overall survival.

        -  Determine time-to-treatment failure.

        -  Determine quality of life (EORTC QLQ-C30).

        -  Complete geriatric evaluation.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to cancer center,
      primary tumor (resected vs unresected), and Köhne criteria (low vs intermediate vs high).
      Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm A: Patients receive FOLFIRI chemotherapy comprising irinotecan hydrochloride IV over
           90 minutes and leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours on day 1 and fluorouracil IV over 46
           hours on days 1-2. Chemotherapy treatment repeats every 2 weeks for 12 courses. Patients
           also receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes once every 2 weeks during chemotherapy.
           Patients then receive bevacizumab maintenance therapy once every 2 weeks during the
           chemotherapy-free interval.

        -  Arm B: Patients receive FOLFIRI chemotherapy and bevacizumab as in arm A. Patients
           receive no treatment during the chemotherapy-free interval.

      In all arms, the chemotherapy treatment and the chemotherapy-free interval treatment repeats
      in the absence of disease progression during the chemotherapy portion or unacceptable
      toxicity. Patients who progress during the chemotherapy-free interval will receive 12 more
      courses of chemotherapy.

      All patients complete quality of life questionnaires (QLQ-30) and patients ≥ 75 also complete
      the geriatric questionnaire at baseline and every 8 weeks during study treatment.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 8 weeks.
    
  