
    
      This is a randomized, double-blind single center study which compares the efficacy of
      lansoprazole by IV infusion daily (60 mg bolus followed by 6 mg per hour) compared to
      ranitidine 50 mg IV q12 h in healing pre-existing and preventing perioperative stress ulcers
      and associated upper GI bleeding.

      Patients will undergo a complete history including a medication history for intake of
      ASA/NSAIDs/anticoagulants/antiplatelet agents, physical examination, complete blood count,
      complete metabolic profile, ECG's and chest x-rays which rule out an exclusionary illness.
      Female subjects will have a urine pregnancy test performed. They will then sign an informed
      consent to participate in this randomized, double-blind study protocol. Patients will be
      excluded if they are currently using acid suppressive therapy or if they have a history of
      gastric/duodenal ulcers or gastroesophageal reflux disease that has required acid suppressive
      therapy.

      Patients will be randomized to receive either lansoprazole or ranitidine intravenously by
      continuous intravenous infusion on the morning of surgery and on each of the subsequent 4
      days. Computer randomization will be used with the code kept by pharmacy. The allocation will
      be concealed. Medication will be delivered in a sealed, unlabeled container from the
      pharmacy. Patients will be stratified between placebo and lansoprazole by preceding ASA/NSAID
      use. Lansoprazole will be given as a 60 mg bolus preoperatively followed by 6 mg per hour
      throughout the duration of the study. At the time of airway intubation in the operating room
      for the surgery, a nasogastric tube with a built-in intragastric pH electrode (Zinetics, Inc)
      will be passed into the mid-stomach by the anesthesiologist in place of the standard
      nasogastric tube. Intragastric pH will be measured during the perisurgical period until the
      morning of postoperative day 4, 72 hours after surgery. At that time, the nasogastric tube/pH
      probe will be removed and patients will undergo esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) under
      sedation with midazolam and fentanyl. During the endoscopy, the maximum number of submucosal
      hemorrhages and erosions in an endoscopic field from the anterior and posterior walls of the
      antrum will be counted. Modified Lanza scores for both the stomach and the duodenum will be
      determined to quantify gastric and duodenal erosions and ulcerations6. We will also determine
      the LA classification of esophageal injury and inflammation. Before removal of the endoscope,
      a wireless pH capsule (Bravo pH capsule; Medtronic, Inc) will be placed in the body of the
      stomach 12 cm below the squamocolumnar junction for an additional two day measurement of
      intragastric pH or until the time of discharge from the hospital if less than 48 hours from
      the EGD. Thus, intragastric pH will be monitored from the morning that the patient undergoes
      surgery for 6 days or until the time of discharge.

      After completion of surgery, all patients will be followed with hemoglobin and hematocrit
      every 12 hours; all stools will be tested for blood qualitatively (Hemoccult) and
      quantitatively (Hemaquant). Postoperatively, hemoglobin level will be maintained at or above
      10 gm% using packed red blood cell transfusions as needed. Transfusion requirements will be
      quantified. The times at which patients resume oral intake will be noted along with specific
      data on oral liquid and solid food composition.
    
  