
    
      This is an unmasked, prospective, single-center trial of twelve patients with sterile corneal
      melt and an underlying auto-immune or inflammatory disease, such as rosacea, Sjogren's
      syndrome, rheumatoid arthritis, Crohn's disease, Stevens Johnson syndrome, as well as toxic
      epidermal necrolysis or mucous membrane pemphigoid.

      The aim of this phase I study is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of topical
      infliximab 10mg/ml eye drops for the treatment of corneal melt. As such, six (6) subjects
      will be recruited in the experimental treatment study and six (6) subjects will be enrolled
      in the parallel observational study. Indeed, candidates having all inclusion criteria but one
      exclusion criteria (which are contraindication to infliximab use), will be recruited in the
      observational study, will receive the standard treatment without infliximab.

      During the treatment period, subjects in the therapeutic study will receive topical
      infliximab 10mg/ml four (4) times per day for four (4) weeks. In order to determine the
      safety profile, potential side effects as well as the course of the disease, subjects will be
      monitored while on the study medication as well as for 8 weeks following discontinuation of
      the drug. The ophthalmological follow-up will be identical in the two groups. However, only
      subjects enrolled in the experimental treatment study will receive additional laboratory
      tests. The total study duration for each patient will be 12 weeks.

      In terms of statistical analysis, the investigators will focus on describing the outcome
      measured in the study. For instance, the investigators will describe the number and
      proportion of side effects, the number of patients with a quiescent corneal melt at 4 weeks
      and the patients who required a tectonic surgery at 12 weeks post-treatment. The
      investigators will report the average and standard of deviation of the OSDI score, the
      epithelial deficit surface as well as the minimal corneal thickness. Moreover, the
      investigators will perform exploratory statistical analysis in order to study the disease
      course of each subject and comparing the addition of infliximab to the standard.
    
  