
    
      Background:

        -  The clinical course and poor prognosis of children and adolescents eligible for
           pediatric phase I trials may increase the vulnerability of patients and their families
           and confound informed consent

        -  Physicians report a tension between presenting reasonable options and a truthful
           prognosis while maintaining hope.

        -  Research on the communication and decisions regarding participation in pediatric phase I
           trial is needed.

      Objectives:

        -  The primary objective of this study is to understand communication, comprehension, and
           decision-making in Phase I childhood cancer trials (Specific Aim 1) by examining:

             -  The way that phase I pediatric trials are presented (Aim 1 Hypothesis 1)

             -  Whether and how alternatives (such as hospice) are introduced (Aim 1 Hypothesis 2)

             -  What parents and children older than 14 years understand after the consent
                discussion (Aim 1 Hypothesis 3)

             -  How the communication process influences parental comprehension and decision-making
                regarding participation of their child in a phase I study (Aim 1 Hypothesis 4)

             -  How clinician-investigator perspectives may vary from that of the parent of a child
                participating in a phase I study (Aim 1 Hypothesis 5)

        -  Compare Phase I vs. Phase III pediatric cancer informed consent (Specific Aim 2)
           regarding:

             -  Parental understanding of the scientific goals of the trial (Aim 2 Hypothesis 1)

             -  Trust, decision making preferences, strength of recommendation by investigators
                interactivity as measured by number of parental questions, reasons for decisions,
                child's involvement, reading consent document, parental understanding of choice and
                trial design/purpose, disclosure of prognosis (Aim 2 Hypothesis 1-9)

             -  Develop suggestions for interventions to improve informed consent in Phase I
                pediatric cancer trials through Parent Advisory Group on Informed Consent
                (PAGIC).(Specific Aim 3)

      Eligibility:

        -  Parents or guardians of children and adolescents considering enrollment on Phase I
           Trials of anti-cancer agents, gene transfer or vaccine studies are eligible if the child
           or adolescent is less than 22yrs with diagnosed with a recurrent or refractory malignant
           solid tumor or leukemia.

        -  Participants must speak English or Spanish.

        -  Parents or guardians of children or adolescents who are newly diagnosed with cancer or
           previously participated in informed consent research are excluded.

        -  In addition, we plan to interview a smaller number of patients who are 14-21 years of
           age and who have participated in an informed consent conference for a Phase I cancer
           trial.

      Design:

        -  Parents (n=132) of children or adolescents (age less than or equal to 21 years) who are
           being offered participation in a Phase I clinical trial for cancer will be sequentially
           recruited.

        -  The methods will include direct observation, digital recording of ICC, and
           questionnaires of parent/guardian, patients, and health care team members. Research
           Assistants (RAs) will be trained to observe and record all interactions between families
           and clinicians that relate to the Phase I clinical trial. Children over 14 years old
           will be interviewed using a separate instrument

        -  Data will be analyzed by quantitative and qualitative analytic methods. To assure 120
           cases for analysis, the total accrual is 132 cases at six institutions, up to 100 will
           be accrued at the NCI.
    
  