
    
      Radiculopathy generally presents with pain, numbness, or weakness in a dermatomal
      distribution. Causative factors include an acute nucleus pulposus herniation, spondylitic
      changes around the foramen causing nerve compression, or a combination of these.

      Cervical radiculopathy results from impingement on a nerve root by either spondylotic
      narrowing of the neural foramen or a lateral intervertebral disc herniation. Frequent
      complaints include painful neck movements, radicular pain, paraspinal muscle spasm, muscle
      weakness, and diminished deep tendon reflexes (Radhakrishnan K, 1994). Radiculopathy tends to
      produce substantial limitation of movement of the head and neck.

      The goals of any treatment plan should be well defined. Specifically, it should be the goal
      of the treating physician to relieve pain, improve function, and prevent recurrence. Although
      some symptomatic patients meet surgical criteria, most patients are clearly candidates for
      nonoperative treatment. Treatment modalities for radiculopathy include rest, medications,
      physical therapy, manipulation, injections, and patient education.

      Various studies have shown that nonoperative management of cervical radiculopathy leaves a
      substantial minority of patients with persistently troublesome symptoms (Lees F, 1963,41,
      42). Lees and Turner found that in two thirds of patients, symptoms tend to persist in the
      absence of surgical treatment (Lees F, 1963). DePalma and Subin found that of 255 patients
      treated nonoperatively, only 29% experienced complete symptom relief (Radhakrishnan K,
      1994,41). Better outcomes with nonoperative management, however, have been observed in
      studies that were based in physiotherapy centers than those from surgical series
      (Radhakrishnan K, 1994).

      Spinal balance is the way Professor Shi Qi " Arthralgia theory" and " The theory of muscle
      imbalance " theory under the guidance of mix martial arts, Wang Shi expertise and
      Traumatology, combined with clinical experience and experimental research. Rub, take, roll,
      put, loose, pull, friction, shaking, pinching, so called "nine manipulations." It can adjust
      qi and blood, phlegm stasis, Dredge meridians, spasm pain, support organs, alleviate, correct
      cervical dynamic and static imbalance. Three steps and nine manipulations is the common
      method of treatment of Professor Shi Qi for cervical disease .
    
  