
    
      Introduction

      Seeds of the date palm (P. dactylifera) are a very rich source of bioactive compounds, thus
      constituting strong candidates for functional food additives and nutraceuticals. Many
      promising results were observed when the effect of date flesh and seeds consumption have been
      studied in animals, for their role as either a protective1 against neurodegenerative 2,4,5
      diseases, or as a cure for it 2. Most of the observed effects were attributed to the
      antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties in dates flesh and seeds fruit due to it high
      content of phenolic compounds 3.

      Rational For years, date seeds were considered a waste, having no other uses except for
      feeding animals. However, as has already been demonstrated in other fruits and corresponding
      seeds, total phytochemical content of the date seeds was higher than in the edible flesh9.
      Date seeds have also been shown to have an excellent nutritional quality due to high amounts
      of fibre (676-742 g/kg) 3 depending on variety, considerable amounts of minerals, vitamins,
      lipids and protein. Additionally, date seeds were shown to be rich in antioxidants containing
      mainly phenolic acids (24.6 g k Gallic Acid equivalent) 3 and total flavonoids (3.67 g k
      Rutin Equivalent).

      Nowadays, and on sight of the aforementioned findings, date seeds are used to make a new
      coffee product. This ''coffee alternative'' is commercially available and is becoming more
      popular.

      Although, many studies have demonstrated that date seeds possess high antioxidant activities,
      due to their high content of flavonoids and phenolic compounds, no human trial has
      investigated the effect of the consumption of date seeds on humans and especially on mood and
      cognitive behaviour. Therefore, this study, for the first time, to the best of the research
      team knowledge will investigate the acute effect of date seeds coffee on mood and cognitive
      function on healthy young volunteers.

      Aim The aim of this study is to investigate the acute effects of a coffee made of date seeds
      on mood and cognitive performance.
    
  