
    
      Renal anemia is a complex condition in which chronic inflammation, among other factors, can
      change the iron distribution by locking it in deposits, and also, iron metabolism parameters.
      Thus, is hard to separate the iron functional deficit from overload.

      The ascorbic acid is a hydrosoluble vitamin capable of reduction and hydrolysis. As a
      reduction agent, the ascorbic acid supports the transformation of ferric iron to ferrous
      iron. For instance, the ascorbic acid can increase digestive absorption and taking over the
      iron without transferrin, helps iron release from ferritin and hemosiderin and delays
      ferritin conversion to hemosiderin; therefore, the administration of ascorbic acid can
      increase the quantity of iron available for erythropoiesis by realising it from the deposits.

      Consequently, the antioxidant function of ascorbic acid can increase the red cells' lifetime,
      reducing the inflammation and improving erythropoietin response Following these premises,
      recent studies have examined the effect of administrating ascorbic acid to hemodialysed
      patients with erythropoiesis stimulating agents (ESA) hyporesponsiveness anemia and
      functional deficit or iron overload markers. The results of administering ascorbic acid
      revealed an increased level of hemoglobin and transferrin saturation (TSAT) combined with the
      decrease of ESA doses. The major limitations of these studies are the short amount of time
      for observation (<6months) and the limited number of participants which hampered neither the
      complete evaluation of the goals, nor the adverse effects of supplementary administration of
      vitamin C.

      Until now, the Clinical practice guidelines of Kidney Disease do not recommend currently
      using of high doses of vitamin C, considering the risk of a high level of oxalemia and the
      limited information about the benefits. Considering this background, we intended to evaluate
      the benefits of intravenous administration of ascorbic acid in hemodialysed patients with
      iron balance markers suggestive for iron overload.
    
  