
    
      Previous studies have demonstrated that salivary phosphate levels are elevated in patients
      with CKD and that there is a direct and linear correlation between serum phosphorus and
      salivary phosphorus. K2CG chewing gum may provide an alternative approach to treating
      patients with elevated phosphate levels. However, data regarding the pharmacodynamic effect
      of the K2CG chewing gum on salivary phosphorus is lacking; as such, this study seeks to
      examine the phosphate binding characteristics of K2CG chewing gum with 2 different amounts of
      chitosan and varying exposure time in the fasting and fed condition.

      A precise knowledge of the pharmacodynamic effect of the K2CG chewing gum on salivary
      phosphorus is expected to provide information necessary to plan and conduct a subsequent
      interventional trial with K2CG chewing gum in patients with both Chronic Kidney Disease and
      ESRD. Specifically, quantification of the amount of salivary phosphorus that binds to 3
      formulations of chitosan loaded chewing gum (20 mg, 40 mg and 60 mg) with varying exposure
      times will inform the optimal duration of exposure relative to gum size. The effect of gum
      size will be further explored via the use of two different sizes of placebo chewing gum (1.7
      g and 2.0 g sizes). Additionally it is a specific aim of this study to assess whether chewing
      gum in the fasted vs. fed state affects the binding characteristics of chitosan loaded
      chewing gum.

      This study is a pharmacodynamic study to characterize the phosphate binding capabilities of
      three different doses of K2CG chewing gum (20mg, 40mg, 60mg) and one placebo chewing gum (1.7
      g). Thirty-six subjects will be enrolled across three renal function group based on estimated
      glomerular filtration rate.

      Study assessments will occur over four study visit days (Visit 2, Visit 3, Visit 4, and Visit
      5). Fasting study procedures will occur in the morning of each visit day, and non-fasting
      procedures will occur following the administration of a standardized meal on the same day.
      All subjects will receive three doses of K2CG chewing gum and one placebo: 20 mg dose at
      Visit 2, 1.7 g placebo at Visit 3, 40 mg dose at Visit 4, and 60 mg dose at Visit 5. Subjects
      will not be aware of the specific gum dose or size at any study visit (single blind). The
      duration of gum chewing and timing of salivary collections will vary within each group.

      Saliva will be collected at specified time points throughout the trial. Fasting salivary
      phosphorus must be collected with nothing to eat or drink for at least 2 hours.
    
  