
    
      Having outperformed other agents in head-to-head trials, intravenous (IV) dopamine
      antagonists, such as prochlorperazine or metoclopramide, are generally considered the 1st
      line treatment for headaches in the ED. However, despite the relative effectiveness of
      prochlorperazine, a substantial number of patients who present to the ED with a headache
      still have a moderate to severe headache 24 hours after discharge. Moreover, some patients
      may have difficult IV access, so it would be useful to employ a technique that could
      effectively treat headaches without the use of an IV line.

      One therapy that has been suggested but not well-studied that might help treat headaches in
      the ED without the use of an IV line is the sphenopalatine ganglion (SPG) block via
      intranasal lidocaine. The sphenopalatine ganglion may play a role in the development of pain
      in primary headaches through the release of neuropeptides that activate or sensitize
      intracranial nociceptors. Several prior randomized trials have evaluated the use of
      intranasal lidocaine or bupivacaine vs placebo for patients with migraine headaches, and the
      results have been mixed.

      Thus, the investigators propose a single-center, open-label, clinical trial to compare the
      efficacy of SPG blocks to standard IV therapy for headaches in the ED.

      Adult patients who come to the ED for a suspected primary headache may be enrolled. Patients
      who are assigned to the standard IV therapy group will receive prochlorperazine 10 mg and
      diphenhydramine 50 mg.

      Patients who are assigned to the SPG block group will undergo the following procedure. A
      cotton-tipped applicator soaked in 1% lidocaine will be placed in the nostril on the side of
      the headache. If the headache is bilateral, a cotton-tipped applicator will be inserted into
      each nostril. The cotton-tipped applicator(s) will be left in place for 15 minutes. If the
      patient has not had significant improvement upon removal of the cotton-tipped applicator the
      physician may order IV medication for the patient's headache ("rescue analgesia").

      Just before the initiation of treatment, an initial visual analog scale (VAS) pain score will
      be obtained from the patient. The VAS pain score will be repeated 15 and 30 minutes after
      treatment. Additional data will be determined through chart review and telephone follow up
      with the patient 24-72 hours after discharge.

      The primary outcome of the study will be the difference between groups in the fraction of
      patients with a 50% reduction in VAS pain score at 15 minutes. Secondarily, the investigators
      will compare groups with regards to their mean VAS pain scores as 15 and 30 minutes after the
      initiation of the first treatment, hospital length of stay, the need for rescue analgesic
      medications, complications (nose bleed, akathisia, etc.), and presence of persistent headache
      24-72 hours after discharge on telephone follow up.
    
  