
    
      Main objective In order to personalize patient approach and better care during surgery, the
      investigators recently proposed a cardiac afterload monitoring, in the descending thoracic
      aorta, based on a combined analysis of flow velocity signal recorded by trans-oesophageal
      Doppler and aortic pressure, the Velocity-Pressure Loop (VP Loop). Cardiac afterload is
      usually measured at the ascending aorta behind the aortic valves. The main objective of this
      study is then to compare VP Loop parameters build in the ascending and descending thoracic
      aorta according to patient cardiovascular risk factors.

      Cardiac afterload is measured under general anesthesia in the ascending and descending aorta,
      using recognized arterial indices describing it and parameters derived from the VP loop.

      Cardiac afterload can be schematically defined by the combination of three components:
      peripheral vascular resistance (PVR), total arterial compliance (Ctot) and aortic wave
      reflections (WR). WR could be assessed by pulse wave pressure analysis with the augmentation
      index (Aix) or after pulse wave pressure separation into a forward and backward wave with the
      wave reflection index (WRi) or the wave reflection area (WRa).

      Aortic pressure measurements As required by the standard of care of the interventional
      neuroradiology procedure, the neuroradiologist also cannulated the femoral artery. At the end
      of the procedure, during catheter withdrawal, pressure waveforms are recorded at two
      predefined aortic locations: in the ascending aorta and in the descending thoracic aorta just
      in front of the esophageal Doppler probe.

      Aortic velocity recording VP Loop in ascending aorta and aortic velocity are measured in the
      flushing chamber of the left ventricle from the apical five-chamber view by trans-thoracic
      echocardiography (TTE) (Philips, EPIQ 7). Descending aortic velocity is measured with a
      transesophageal Doppler CardioQ-ODM+ (Deltex Medical, Chichester, UK) in order to construct
      the VP Loop in descending thoracic aorta.

      VP Loop construction Digitalization of pressure and velocity signals are performed with the
      IntelliVue MP60 monitor (Philips, Eindhoven, The Netherlands) at a sampling frequency of 125
      Hz and saved using ixTrend software (ixellence, Wildau, Germany) on a computer.

      Briefly, the velocity coordinates is plotted on the x axis and the pressure coordinates on
      the y axis. The investigators characterise the VP Loop by 4 points (A, B, C, D), allowing us
      to identify 3 angles: Alpha, Beta and GALA.

      The goal of this study is to evaluate in patients cardiac after-load obtained by VP loop and
      to compare VP Loop parameters build in the ascending and descending thoracic aorta according
      to patient cardiovascular risk factors.

      Experimental design This is a single-center, interventional, category II prospective study
      (minimal risks and constraints) Population concerned Patients will be included if their
      perioperative risk required a continuous monitoring of MAP and CO. The study involves major
      patients under general anaesthesia in interventional neuroradiology.

      Research Proceedings For all patients, data from trans-oesophageal Doppler, trans-thoracic
      echocardiography (TTE) and hemodynamic data are collected at the end of the procedure. During
      catheter withdrawal, pressure waveforms are recorded at two predefined aortic locations: in
      the ascending aorta and in the descending thoracic aorta just in front of the esophageal
      Doppler probe. All data from monitoring are connected to the main monitor.

      Individual benefit:

      There is no benefit for the patient

      Collective benefit:

      Targeting mean arterial pressure (MAP) with boluses of selective peripheral vasopressors
      (without positive inotropic or chronotropic effects) could have deleterious effects on
      cardiac output. Thus, it seems important to use a combined analysis of MAP and CO with low
      invasive methods to estimate the Afterload-related cardiac performance (ACP) in surgical
      patients considered with "high cardiovascular risk".

      Risks and minimal constraints added by the research No added risk. Patients are included if
      their perioperative risk required a continuous monitoring of MAP and CO. The standard of care
      for the interventional neuroradiology procedure needs a catheterization of the femoral artery
      using the Seldinger technique and insertion of a catheter. All the other ones measures are
      obtained non-invasively.

      Patients are assigned to one of two groups according to their risk of increased arterial
      stiffness as reported in cardiological publications. The criteria used by investigators are
      as follows: age > 50 years old as a major criterion 20 and cardio-vascular risk factors
      (history of congestive heart failure, history of cardiovascular event, current smoking,
      diabetes mellitus, dyslipidemia, and arterial hypertension) as minor criteria. Patients were
      classified into the high risk group (Hi-risk) if they had at least one major criterion or two
      minor criteria or into the low risk group (Lo-risk) if they presented with no or one minor
      criterion.

      During their interventional neuroradiology procedure, all patients' routine monitoring will
      consist of electrocardiogram, pulsated oxygen saturation, end-tidal CO2, respiratory rate,
      tidal volume and monitoring of neuromuscular function.

      For all patients whatever the comorbidities, anesthesia induction will be performed using a
      target-controlled infusion (Orchestra® Base Primea - Fresenius Kabi France).

      According to our standard of care, intra-operative episodes of hypotension (mean arterial
      pressure (MAP) < 65 mmHg or < 80% baseline) are treated by Norepinephrine bolus of 10 µg.

      For all patients, data from trans-oesophageal Doppler, trans-thoracic echocardiography (TTE)
      and hemodynamic data are collected at the end of the procedure. During catheter withdrawal,
      pressure waveforms are recorded at two predefined aortic locations: in the ascending aorta
      and in the descending thoracic aorta just in front of the esophageal Doppler probe.

      Number of selected subjects Selection of patients up to 55 analysable patients Number of
      Centre : 1 Research Agenda inclusion period: 12 months duration of participation (treatment +
      follow-up): duration of the interventional neuroradiology procedure: 1 day total duration: 12
      months Number of planned inclusions by centre and month : 5 Number of subjects required : 55
      Statistics

      Continuous variables will be expressed as mean ± SD and qualitative variables are expressed
      as n (%). For comparison between LR and HR, investigators used the t-test or chi-squared test
      for continuous or categorical variables. The comparison of hemodynamic parameters between
      ascending and descending aorta is performed by a paired t-test. A Pearson correlation is used
      to study the relationship between different hemodynamic indices. Receiver operating
      characteristic curves (ROC) and Area under the curves (AUC) will be performed to calculate
      the performance of each cardiac afterload index to discriminate LR and HR patients. P-value
      less than 5% is considered significant.

      The sample size calculation is based on the following assumptions: incidence of Hi-risk
      patients of 50%, as previously reported, incidence of increase of intrinsic arterial
      stiffness (after-load). In low risk patients a difference in arterial stiffness between low-
      and high-risk patients at 30%, power at 80% and type I error at 5%. Accordingly, the
      calculated sample size is 55 patients for the entire population.
    
  