
    
      OBJECTIVES

      Primary

        -  Tolerability and safety of IMA950 adjuvanted with Poly-ICLC when given together with
           temozolomide, using CTCAE V 4.0.

        -  Immunogenicity of IMA950 plus Poly-ICLC when given together with temozolomide.

      Secondary

        -  6, 9 month progression free survival (PFS) using gadolinium enhanced MRI and clinical
           assessment according to revised RANO criteria

        -  Overall survival (OS)

        -  Immunologic endpoints (correlation between clinical and immunological responses):

        -  evaluation of peptide immunogenicity by tetramer staining

        -  analysis of memory, activation and homing marker expression by tetramer positive cells

        -  analysis of cytokine secretion and proliferation by antigen-specific CD4 and CD8 T cells

        -  analysis of the presence of T regulatory and myeloid-derived suppressor cells

        -  The immunological analyses will be performed on:

        -  peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC)

        -  cultures of skin punch biopsy at delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) site

        -  tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) if brain tissue is available at recurrence

      OUTLINE

      This is a monocentric, open label, one cohort, safety and immunogenicity, Phase I/II study.

      A maximum of 16 HLA-A2 positive patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma will be enrolled
      into the study after treatment with radiation therapy and concurrent temozolomide.

      All patients will receive the same dose of IMA950 with Poly-ICLC and follow the same
      vaccination schedule which comprises a Vaccination Induction Phase of 4 intensive
      vaccinations, followed by a Vaccination Maintenance Phase of five vaccinations over a longer
      period.

      The Vaccination Induction Phase will start a minimum of 7 days after the final
      radiotherapy/TMZ dose of CRT and 28 days (+7 days) prior to the first scheduled dose of
      adjuvant TMZ.

      This will ensure that all 4 vaccinations in the Induction Phase will be administered a week
      after immunosuppressive therapy (i.e. combined radiotherapy and temozolomide) and will finish
      a week prior to the start of adjuvant TMZ.

      Two Phases :

      Induction phase, patient receive the first 4 doses of Poly ICLC mixed with IMA 950 Peptide
      based vaccine (subcutaneously or IM) on days 1,8,15, and 21 in absence of unacceptable
      toxicity or disease progression.

      Maintenance Phase, patient receive Poly ICLC mixed with IMA 950 Peptide based vaccine (SC or
      IM) on day 21 of each adjuvant temozolomide cycle in absence unacceptable toxicity or disease
      progression.

      Immunomonitoring assessments will be performed at 8 time points with blood samples collection
      and one DTH site analysis(after vaccination 5).

      Brain MRI will be performed every two months for disease assessment.

      N.B. :

      An amendment has been accepted by Swissmedic and Local Ethics committee on september 2014,
      after suboptimal immunomonitoring preliminary assessments, the schedule of administration has
      been changed in order to improve the immunogenicity of the vaccine, as follows :

        -  injection of mixed peptides and adjuvant Poly ICLC

        -  4 vaccinations in the induction phase instead of 6

        -  one site of injection (thigh)

        -  two arms for the next 10 patients to be included that will be equally divided in 2
           groups : one group will be vaccinated subcutaneously and the other intramuscularly.
    
  