
    
      The primary endpoint of this research study is to prove safety in healthy subjects breathing
      humidified hypoxic inspiratory gas mixture for 5 days.

      The secondary endpoint of our study is to describe the physiological and biochemical changes
      during the 5-day hypoxic period and the 2 days after return to normoxia.

      The specific aims are as follows:

      AIM 1: To provide a safe, controlled setting for prolonged exposure of monitored healthy
      adults to a normobaric, low-oxygen environment for five days.

      AIM 2: To carry out a seven-days long pilot safety-study in twelve healthy young subjects by
      inducing hypoxia with a humidified normobaric gas mixture containing oxygen (O2) content as
      low as 11% to reach a peripheral oxygen saturation (SpO2) between 80%-85%.

      Screening will consist of a physical examination, 12-lead electrocardiogram, cardiac
      echocardiography, sickle cell screening test, and current (within 12 weeks of clearance exam
      with no intervening medical treatment) routine blood and urine analyses.

      Women using oral, subdermal or injectable contraceptives, and those using other means of
      birth control may participate. A urine pregnancy test will be conducted as part of the
      screening process for study participation no more than 7 days before starting the study and
      it will be repeated on the day of enrollment. The test result will be read by a female staff
      member who will keep the result confidential. If a woman declines to have a pregnancy test,
      she will not be able to participate.

      Recruitment will be done in three ways:

        1. Broadcast MGH: Research Studies In Need of Volunteers

        2. Enrollment in the Research Study Volunteer Program (RSVP) for Health of Massachusetts
           General Hospital (MGH) and Brigham Women Hospital (BWH)

        3. Advertising at the Partners clinical trials Potential study subjects will be able to
           contact study investigators by phone or email to verify eligibility according to the
           inclusion/exclusion criteria and to set up the first visit, at which point the study
           will be explained in detail and they will be asked to provide informed consent. Subjects
           may contact the study investigators at any time to withdraw from the study.
           Confidentiality will be preserved to the fullest extent.

      The study will be explained to each volunteer in detail. Signing of an Informed Consent Form
      will be requested for participation in the study. Volunteers will sign the informed consent
      at the beginning of the study. The Principal Investigator (PI) and/or Co-PIs of the study
      will be available to answer any questions the volunteer may have. Consent can be withdrawn at
      any time. The investigators will access personal Medical Information (PMI) for study
      purposes. There is no randomization in this interventional physiological study. All patients
      will receive the same procedures in the same order.

      Biostatistical analysis:

      A de-identified code will be assigned to the patient and registered on a dedicated enrollment
      log. The baseline study volunteer data (vital signs and biochemical measurements) will be
      collected from the MGH electronic medical chart (EPIC). Prospective collection of patient
      data will include specific data sheet. Data will be expressed as means ± standard deviation
      (SD) or median/interquartile range (IQR) as appropriate.

      Sample size: this research-project is aimed to study 12 healthy subjects for the entire 7-day
      study period. To account for possible dropouts and missing data, up to 18 healthy volunteers
      will be enrolled.

      Sample size calculation: This is an intra-hospital safety trial with the purpose of testing
      methods to re-create a safe hypoxic environment for possible future studies in patients with
      mitochondrial dysfunction. While 2 or 3 subjects would likely be sufficient to test our
      methods to reliably delivery humidified nitrogen (N2) and (O2) in predetermined
      concentrations, this method will be tested in 12 healthy subjects to reproduce our methods
      and obtain feedback from the volunteers. To account for possible dropouts, up to 18 healthy
      volunteers will be enrolled.

      Risk and discomforts

        1. Complications of surgical and non-surgical procedures, etc. Participants in the study
           will undergo 3 procedures during the study: hypoxic gas administration, phlebotomy, and
           echocardiography.

             -  Facemask.

                  1. Claustrophobia is one of the exclusion criteria. If a subject develops
                     claustrophobia, he/she may leave the trial at any point.

                  2. The most common side effects of facemask are pressure related, such as
                     redness, irritation over the mask's borders. To decrease possible skin
                     irritation and abrasions, subjects will be using a tent during the night and
                     high flow nasal cannula during the day for breakfast, lunch and dinner.
                     Additionally they will be able to choose whether to use high-flow nasal
                     cannula or the facemask during the day at any time as an alternative to the
                     facemask.

             -  Tent. Risks associated with use of tents include unintended hypoxia, hypercarbia,
                and claustrophobia. These tents are made at the MGH shop and routinely used on the
                burn unit to maintain elevated temperature (80-90 °F) and humidification in
                critically ill patients. Our subjects will be continuously monitored for hypoxia
                and clinical condition to limit risk of unintended hypoxia or hypercarbia.
                Claustrophobia will be handled as described previously.

             -  Nasal cannula and non-invasive high flow humidified gas. All participants will wear
                non-invasive high flow humidified gas for part of study period. Unlike masks, high
                flow nasal cannula is well tolerated in hospitalized patients and warm humidified
                air alleviates discomfort of the high flow. In order to avoid abrasions, we will
                inspect subjects' nasal mucosa in the morning and evening.

             -  Intravenous (IV) punctures and phlebotomy. Risks related to phlebotomy include
                bruising, hematoma formation, cellulitis, superficial thrombosis, bleeding and
                phlebitis. An IV nurse or an anesthesiologist will perform phlebotomy to minimize
                subject discomfort.

             -  Trans-thoracic echocardiography. Echocardiography will be performed on daily basis:
                Echocardiographic assessment of pulmonary artery pressure and cardiac output is a
                noninvasive and painless maneuver. It is commonly used in clinical practice, has
                been used in the field under hypoxic conditions, and is safe for the study
                subjects. If the echocardiographic study reveals any unexpected cardiac disease the
                subjects will be informed and also their primary care physician (PCP) will be
                informed. If the subject does not have a PCP, we will provide information about
                choosing a PCP.

           In presence of an abnormal physical exam and/or additional abnormal laboratory results
           (including a positive pregnancy test), subjects will be informed.

        2. Drug side effects and toxicities

           A gas mixture enriched with nitrogen will be tested. It is expected that subjects may
           suffer to a certain degree of acute mountain sickness. Symptoms may include: headache,
           dizziness, poor sleep, poor appetite and fatigue that are related to hypoxia. These
           symptoms are well described in mountain climbers and will not require interruption of
           the study, unless the subject requests exiting the study. Furthermore, in this proposed
           model of normobaric hypoxia, the risk of acute mountain sickness symptoms has been
           reported to be lower than hypobaric hypoxia (simulated altitude). The following risks
           might also occur:

             -  Risks Associated with Hypoxia: Severe hypoxemia (SpO2 ≤ 70%), especially with
                decreased respiratory rate can ensue. Since the fraction of inspired of oxygen can
                be quickly increased, there is no risk of developing prolonged hypoxia events. If
                SpO2 ≤ 70% decreases for more than one continuous minute, nitrogen administration
                will be stopped and the fraction of inspired of oxygen will be increased to 50%.
                The study will be stopped. Symptoms of hypoxia (light headedness, dizziness)
                typically resolve immediately upon return to a normal range of SpO2. If hypoxia
                symptoms are present, subjects will exit the study only after all symptoms of
                light-headedness or dizziness are resolved, and headache or nausea is absent.

             -  Acute mountain sickness can very rarely progress to high altitude pulmonary edema
                (HAPE) or high altitude cerebral edema (HACE) and would be case reportable were
                either to occur in normobaria at the limited hypoxic challenge we will be
                employing. Though HAPE is very unlikely to occur, we will provide daily monitoring
                by echocardiography, clinical exam (auscultation for rales and unusual dyspnea at
                rest solicited), and pulse oximetry. If HAPE does occur, the study will stop and
                the subject treated with oxygen until resolution of symptoms.

             -  HACE is also a very unlikely potential risk in this study. If a subject develops
                any evidence of ataxia or altered mental status, they will be immediately withdrawn
                from the study. FiO2 will be increased to 50%, dexamethasone 8 mg IV will be
                administered, and head computed tomography (CT) will be performed to rule out other
                much more common sources (e.g. spontaneous subarachnoid hemorrhage) of these
                complaints. If no CT abnormalities are noted, a brain magnetic resonance imaging
                (MRI) will be obtained to assess for cerebral edema and characteristic T2 weighted
                signal change in the corpus callosum consistent with HAPE..

           Any study subject who experiences side effects sufficient to prompt premature
           termination of the study will not be allowed to continue in the protocol. He or she will
           be monitored until vital signs normalize and transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) shows
           normal right heart function.

        3. Device complications/malfunctions Nitrogen generator: If the nitrogen generator is
           malfunctioning, air will be enriched with nitrogen from nitrogen-tanks. The manufacturer
           will be contacted (Higher Peak LLC, Winchester, Massachusetts (MA) 01890) in order to
           deliver a new nitrogen generator.

        4. Psychosocial (non-medical) risks Psychosocial risks include prolonged indoor exposure
           and perceived isolation from a subject's daily routine, family and friends. Subjects
           will have ready access to their personal communication devices (e.g. smart phone for
           voice/ social media use) during times when they are not actively participating in
           testing procedures. Subjects may be visited in person on the study floor. We do not
           anticipate any other psychosocial risks to the study subjects from participation in this
           protocol. Strict confidentiality will be maintained by the research team at all times,
           including keeping all data in a secure, locked cabinet with limited access. All
           specimens will be coded after they are obtained and the code key kept in a locked
           cabinet. All electronic data will be stored in a Partners encrypted laptop. Samples
           given to parties outside of MGH for analysis will be coded to maintain confidentiality.

      Monitoring and Quality Insurance:

      Due to the small size of the study, no independent monitoring is deemed necessary. The PI
      himself will be responsible for the monitoring of the study.

      The PI and co-Is will be responsible for the monitoring of the study. Dr. Lorenzo Berra is
      the Principal Investigator and he is an Anesthesiologist and Intensivist at MGH and Assistant
      Professor at Harvard Medical School.

      Stopping rules

      The principal investigator and co-investigators will perform the review and decision
      regarding altering or stopping the protocol. Mild or moderate adverse events will be
      presented in progress reports at continuing reviews. Protocol exit criteria will be:

        -  Desaturation: SpO2<70% for more than 1 minute not immediately responsive to oxygen
           therapy.

        -  Chest pain with evidence of ischemia on electrocardiography (EKG) (e.g., T-wave
           inversions, ST segment changes).

        -  Signs and symptoms of acute pulmonary edema:

             -  Rapidly progressive, severe shortness of breath at rest..

             -  Severe dyspnea, or a feeling of suffocating or drowning despite return to normoxia.

             -  Wheezing or gasping accompanied with anxiety, restlessness or a sense of
                apprehension.

             -  A cough that produces frothy sputum that may be tinged with blood

        -  Signs and symptoms of acute cerebral edema:

             -  acute ataxia or altered mental status

             -  any focal neurologic deficit.

        -  Increase in systolic pulmonary artery pressure of 15 mmHg from baseline (first
           trans-echocardiography in ambient air)

        -  Syncope.

        -  Febrile illness (> 100.4 on two contiguous assays 1 hour apart)

        -  Subject may voluntarily withdraw from the study at any time.
    
  