
    
      Study will be performed in public health facilities in up to 7 selected HDSS centres (Health
      and Demographic Surveillance sites) within the HDSS in Burkina Faso (1), Mozambique (1),
      Ghana (3), and Tanzania (2), where Eurartesim® will be used as first-line treatment of
      uncomplicated malaria episodes.

      Primary:

      Evaluate the safety of Eurartesim® when used under usual conditions in 10,000 patients with
      signs and symptoms of uncomplicated malaria confirmed by a parasitological diagnosis
      (Microscopy/Rapid Diagnostic Test) or, when this test is not available, by WHO diagnostic
      criteria.

      Main Secondary:

      Intensive assessment of a nested subset of 1,000 patients to evaluate the effect of the
      administration of Eurartesim® on blood biochemistry, full blood count, WBC differential count
      and QTc intervals. QTc interval and piperaquine concentration relationship will also be
      investigated in selected centers.

      Other Secondaries:

      Although it is expected that the vast majority of patients will be infected with P.
      falciparum, comparisons of the clinical tolerability of Plasmodium falciparum infected
      patients versus patients infected with other Plasmodia, as confirmed by the thick blood smear
      results, will be carried-out in the nested subset of 1,000 patients.

      Assessment of the relationship between the occurrence of Adverse Events and the
      administration of concomitant medications will also be evaluated in the subset of 1,000
      patients.

      All patients visiting Health facilities in the HDSS areas and for whom a diagnosis of
      uncomplicated malaria (according to the WHO criteria) is suspected or confirmed by a
      parasitological diagnosis (Microscopy/Rapid Diagnostic Test) and who have signed informed
      consent/assent (a parent/guardian for children below 18 years old) will be included in the
      study. In the subset of 1,000 patients, the presence of Plasmodia of any species will be
      confirmed microscopically.

      A thick blood smear will be prepared for further microscopic diagnosis in all the patients.
      Eurartesim® tablets will be prescribed to the patients (or to the parents/guardians, if the
      patients are children) meeting the protocol inclusion criteria before the results of the
      thick blood smear are known.

      The patients will be contacted at Day 5 (± 2 days), in order to capture recovery status and
      all the experienced adverse events. A visit by the community health agent will be scheduled
      on all the cases in which the information collected during the telephone contact should be
      considered incomplete or unreliable ones. Special procedures will be followed in case of
      serious and/or severe adverse events and events classified of special interest (see specific
      section).

      The subset of 1,000 patients will be intensively followed-up. These patients will have
      haematology (Hb and full blood counts (RBC, WBC and differential count)) and standard
      biochemistry (BUN, Creatinine, ALT/AST, Bilirubine, electrolytes (K+ and Cl-)) undertaken at
      Day 1 (before drug administration), Day 3 (3-4 hours after the last dose of treatment), and
      Day 7. If the results are abnormal and clinically relevant, the blood examination will be
      repeated until normalization. In all the 1000 patients, a plasma sample will be collected on
      Day 1 (before drug administration), twice on Day 3 (i.e. before and 3-4 hours after the last
      drug administration) as well as on Day 7 to assess plasma PQ concentration. From such blood
      drawings and before centrifugation, three drops of whole blood will be spotted on filter
      papers. These filter papers will be utilized to determine whole blood piperaquine
      concentration with the Dry Blood Spot methodology (if a validated analytical method for such
      determination will be settled up at the time of the study course). ECGs will be undertaken on
      Day 1 (before drug administration), twice on Day 3 (i.e. before and 3-4 hours after the last
      drug administration) as well as on Day 7 (ECG on Day 1 and Day 3 after last drug
      administration will be collected in triplicate); safety information will be collected at all
      these visits.

      If the QTcF (QT corrected by Fridericia's formula) value assessed on Day 3 before last dose
      is above 500 ms, Eurartesim® should be withheld until QTcF returns below 480 ms within 6
      hours. Thereafter, the Eurartesim® cycle may be completed under frequent QTc monitoring based
      on medical judgment. If the QTcF does not return below 480 ms within 6 hours, another
      antimalarial therapy should be considered.

      The occurrence of any adverse events will be solicited from the subset of 1,000 patients on
      Days 3 and 7 following administration of Eurartesim® as well as in any additional visits.

      All patients in the study with a cardiac event of special interest (see below) will have an
      ECG performed.

      Patients will be asked to report to the health facility or to the HDSS if any adverse event
      occurs after Day 5 (± 2 days) contact and within 28 days after the start of Eurartesim®
      intake.

      Female patients will be encouraged to communicate to the study team if they get pregnant
      within a period of two months after the start of the Eurartesim® treatment. In these cases,
      information on the evolution of the pregnancy will be collected at 3, 6, 9 months and after
      the delivery (6 and 14 weeks). Information on the drugs taken during the pregnancy as well as
      AEs/SAEs/AESIs and the health status of the newborn/s will be collected.

      Patients will be instructed to take Eurartesim® with a dose regimen of one administration
      every 24 hours over a period of three days, i.e. at Day 1, then after 24 hours (Day 2) and
      after 48 hours (Day 3) from the first administration.

      The dose will be based on patient body weight. Two strengths of Eurartesim® will be provided
      to facilitate the dosing in children and adults: 20/160mg and 40/320mg of DHA and PQP
      respectively.

      The patients will be instructed to take Eurartesim® with water, at least three hours before
      or three hours after food intake (i.e. three hours after the previous food intake with no
      food intake for the following three hours after Eurartesim® administration).

      To facilitate drug administration in small children, tablets will be crushed on a spoon and
      given with water. If vomiting occurs within 30 min from drug administration, dose will be
      re-administered. If vomiting occurs within 30 to 60 min, half a dose have to be
      re-administered. Re-dosing should not be attempted more than once.
    
  