
    
      The study comprises a Phase 2 vaccination study and a Phase 2b challenge study. The primary
      objectives of the Phase 2 vaccination study are: 1. To evaluate, in healthy volunteers, the
      safety and clinical acceptability of three spaced doses (one month apart) of an
      investigational, live, oral, attenuated vaccine called CVD 1208S, with particular attention
      to the occurence of diarrhea, dysentery, and fever, and 2. To characterize immune responses
      following ingestion of this vaccine. The primary objective of the Phase 2b challenge study is
      to measure the protective efficacy of 3 spaced doses of vaccine after ingestion of an oral
      challenge strain called Shigella flexneri 2a strain 2457T.

      Shigella is a leading cause of disease and death among children younger than 5 years living
      in developing countries. The difficulty controlling this infection has led experts to believe
      that prevention with the use of a vaccine is a promising strategy. At the CVD, we have
      pursued an approach of developing an oral, attenuated Shigella vaccine that prevents
      infection with the Shigella types of greatest clinical and epidemiologic importance. One of
      the strains to be included in the vaccine is called Shigella flexneri 2a. Investigators at
      the CVD have created a vaccine from Shigella flexneri 2a, designated CVD 1208S, using
      molecular biology techniques. To date, nearly 40 subjects have received varying doses of this
      vaccine with good clinical tolerance and modest immunogenicity. Previously a single dose of
      vaccine was used. In the current study, we will administer doses of vaccine on days 0, 28,
      and 56 to attempt to maximize immunogenicity. Approximately one month after the 3rd dose, a
      group of ~15-20 vaccinated volunteers along with a similar number of unvaccinated control
      subjects will be admitted to the CVD Research Isolation Ward at SNBL and challenged with wild
      type Shigella flexneri 2a. By comparing the attack rate of illness in vaccinated vs.
      unvaccinated subjects, we will determine the vaccine's ability to confer protective immunity.
    
  