
    
      In South Africa, >5 million people, including many adolescents, are living with HIV.
      Prevalence is increasing throughout South Africa, most precipitously in the Western Cape, the
      site of our proposed study. The investigators propose to pilot test a multisession
      worksite-based program to help parents learn how to take an active role in rearing sexually
      healthy youth. Our specific aims are to: (1) Culturally adapt our US-developed worksite-based
      program for parents of adolescents to the South African context; (2) Examine whether a
      worksite-based program for parents of adolescents in South Africa improves the parent-child
      relationship, including general parent-child communication and communication about sexual
      health and HIV risk-reduction, as perceived by parents and adolescents; (3) Explore program
      effects on parents' HIV testing and sexual behaviors; and (4) Explore program effects on
      theoretically important psychosocial mediators of behavior change (e.g., greater
      self-efficacy for refusing sex and using condoms, and more perceived disadvantages of
      unprotected sex). The proposed research is a unique opportunity to adapt and pilot test an
      innovative HIV prevention intervention that promotes the health of families in a culturally
      acceptable and sustainable setting.

      The research is being conducted in three phases. In Phase 1, the investigators conducted
      formative qualitative interviews with South African community members who work with
      adolescents and parents, who work on HIV prevention, and who hold relevant positions at
      worksites. The investigators used this information from key community members to culturally
      adapt the program. In Phase 2, the investigators are conducting a process evaluation of one
      intervention group of 15 parents using qualitative debriefing interviews and quantitative
      data. In Phase 3, the current phase, the investigators aim to conduct a pilot intervention to
      refine the program even further and test the evaluation methods with 60 Xhosa and
      Afrikaans-speaking parents and their 11-15-year-old adolescents (who will participate in the
      evaluation but not the program). Their outcomes will be compared to a wait-list control group
      of 60 Xhosa and Afrikaans-speaking parents and their 11-15-year-old adolescents.
    
  