
    
      Background: Physical activity is associated with management and/or prevention of over 25
      chronic health conditions; however the majority of adults in North America are not active
      enough to experience these benefits. Behavioral strategies have been shown to be effective
      for increasing physical activity, and wearable fitness monitors such as Fitbits include
      components of several behavioral strategies including goal setting and feedback. While this
      technology provides a platform for implementing self-regulation techniques important for
      behavior change, direct supervision is still the most effective strategy for behavior change.
      Supervised exercise programs and personal trainers may not be accessible or affordable for
      people; this study will examine whether proxy supervision by a partner is effective in
      changing behavior compared to self-regulation alone.

      Target Population: Sedentary adults aged 45-75 years old living in Victoria,
      British-Columbia, Canada.

      Sample Size: 80 participant pairs (160 total participants), 40 pairs per group (80
      participants per group).

      Intervention: Participants will be randomized to two groups: 1 - Self Monitored, 2 - Partner
      monitored. Both groups will receive an intervention with Group 1 (Self monitored) serving as
      the comparison group. Participants from both groups will wear an accelerometer for 1 week and
      complete an online questionnaire at baseline, 6 weeks, and 3 months. Measures of height,
      weight, waist circumference, and resting blood pressure and heart rate will be taken at
      baseline and 3 months. Participants will all receive a Fitbit activity tracker and wear it
      for 3 months. Group 2 (Partner monitor) participants will also have access to their partner's
      daily progress, receive eachother's Weekly Fitbit reports, and engage in a weekly discussion
      related to their Weekly Fitbit Report.
    
  