
    
      Insomnia is defined as difficulty with falling asleep, staying asleep, or early morning
      awakening. Chronic insomnia is estimated to affect 9-15% of the world's population. Lack of
      sleep increases a person's risk for many chronic diseases such as obesity, diabetes,
      cardiovascular disease, anxiety and depression. The two types of treatment available for
      chronic insomnia are cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) and pharmacotherapy, the latter of
      which includes benzodiazepines and non-benzodiazepines.

      The use of hypnotic medications is intended to be prescribed as a short-term treatment of one
      or two weeks, however this is not the case most of the time. Hypnotic abuse and dependency
      are prevalent issues that increase with advancing age. With the regular intake of these
      substances comes many adverse effects such as sedation, cognitive and psychomotor effects,
      falls and other accidents. Relative to non-drug users, cognitive events are 5.0 times more
      likely, psychomotor events are 3.0 times more likely, and daytime fatigue is 4.0 times more
      likely among drug users. Both non-benzodiazepines and benzodiazepines have the potential for
      dependency and withdrawal, although zolpidem and other non-benzodiazepine hypnotic agents
      have become the preferred drugs to manage insomnia due to the lower side effect profile.
      Withdrawal symptoms are associated with a rapid dose decrease or abrupt discontinuance of
      medication. These symptoms include rebound insomnia, anxiety, memory and concentration
      impairments and in severe states, psychotic symptoms, delirium and epileptic seizures.

      A recent comparison of cost data associated with pharmacotherapy and cognitive behavioral
      therapy showed that CBT was significantly less costly than pharmacotherapy. Unfortunately,
      CBT is often not applied due to limited access to appropriately trained practitioners. The
      combination of equivalent efficacy, reduced costs, and favorable side-effect profile have
      made cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) the preferred treatment for insomnia as evidenced by
      endorsements with the American Academy of Sleep Medicine. More recently, the delivery of CBT
      for insomnia has been enhanced to be provided through web-based portals. A number of
      web-based programs for insomnia have been developed with promising results. Some of these
      programs measured hypnotic use.

      The effect size associated with online CBT (without drug tapering component) on reducing
      hypnotic drug use has been small, and these studies have employed a mix of participants, only
      some of whom are interested in tapering with variable levels of motivation. Studies comparing
      CBT plus drug tapering with drug tapering alone using booklets and in-person sessions have
      found that such interventions are moderately effective in reducing dosage and frequency of
      sleep medication usage.

      The aims of the study are to determine whether an online drug tapering program (Sleeping
      without Pills; SWOP) can lead to successful drug tapering in hypnotic dependent insomnia
      (primary aim), and whether such tapering is associated with improved daytime functioning and
      sleep (secondary aims).
    
  