
    
      Although cancer is a disease associated with aging, there is no standard tool in oncology
      practice that incorporates clinical and biological factors to identify older adults with
      cancer who may be more vulnerable to the toxicity of chemotherapy. It is generally recognized
      that chronological age tells relatively little about an older adult's physiological age.
      Oncologists allude to this when they describe an older adult as: "a 'young' 80-year-old" or
      "an 'old' 80-year-old," implying factors other than age contribute to the health status of an
      older adult. Geriatricians address this by routinely performing a "geriatric assessment,"
      which measures independent clinical predictors of morbidity and mortality in older adults. In
      addition, several potential biomarkers of aging have been described that are associated with
      functional decline and mortality among older adults. This study will identify whether novel
      biomarkers of aging can predict risk of chemotherapy toxicity. The current proposal will fill
      this knowledge gap by melding the principles of geriatrics with those of oncology to create a
      tool to assess the clinical and biological risk factors for chemotherapy toxicity in older
      adults.

      Furthermore, this study will determine the association between chemotherapy toxicity and dose
      reductions and/or delays that decrease chemotherapy dose intensity. Maintenance of
      chemotherapy dose intensity is necessary to maintain chemotherapy efficacy. Older adults are
      at risk for chemotherapy toxicity and if this toxicity results in decreased dose intensity,
      the benefits of chemotherapy will be compromised. This study will identify the association
      between clinical and biological predictors of grade 2-5 toxicity and relative dose intensity.
      Furthermore, this study will identify the specific dose-limiting toxicities. These data will
      provide evidence-based criteria to identify those patients whose projected risk of toxicity
      would limit dose intensity and compromise the efficacy of standard treatment. These data
      could serve as the basis for "vulnerable elderly trials" which would study an alternate
      therapy regimen in patients who are predicted to have a significant risk of toxicity (and
      compromised efficacy) with the standard regimen.

      This proposal unites the fields of geriatrics and oncology, incorporating geriatric
      correlates of vulnerability and studying their impact in an aging oncology population. These
      data will be used to develop a predictive equation for the risk of chemotherapy toxicity that
      can be utilized in daily oncology practice. These data will facilitate decision-making
      regarding the risks and benefits of adjuvant chemotherapy in older adults with breast cancer
      and ultimately serve as a foundation on which to identify older adults at risk for
      chemotherapy toxicity in order to guide interventions to decrease this risk.
    
  