
    
      Dopamine replacement therapy (DRT) is the standard symptomatic treatment for early to
      moderate Parkinson disease (PD). In early to moderate PD, the most important DRT component is
      the Long Duration Response (LDR), a pharmacodynamic effect that builds up over the course of
      days-weeks and can be induced by dopamine agonists. Despite its effectiveness, DRT actions
      are poorly understood and the basis of the LDR is unknown. As the LDR wanes in advancing
      disease, PD patients develop troublesome motor fluctuations and increasing disability.
      Improved understanding of the LDR has the potential to prolong the duration of its effects
      and could have a significant positive effect on clinical practice.

      The kinetics of the LDR suggest long-term plastic changes in striatal function. Recent
      studies of striatal dopamine actions in PD subjects and experimental animals indicate that
      striatal dopaminergic neurotransmission regulates "vigor," the force, velocity, or amplitude
      of actions. Vigor is closely allied to the concept that striatal dopaminergic
      neurotransmission mediates motivation, which involves the assessment of act utility and the
      appropriate scaling of actions to perceived rewards. Recent theoretical and experimental
      results suggest that tonic striatal dopamine signaling, mimicked by dopamine agonist
      administration, is a key determinant of movement vigor. Convergent clinical pharmacologic and
      experimental data lead to a strong hypothesis that the LDR results from chronic DRT partially
      restoring motivational coupling of effort to perceived reward and movement vigor. Prior
      experiments examining vigor in PD subjects did not take the LDR into account, resulting in
      incomplete examinations of the role of vigor deficits in PD.

      Recent non-human primate work on the control and vigor of saccadic eye movements indicates
      the existence of basal ganglia circuit changes that stably encode motor action values for
      prolonged periods. Striatal dopaminergic neurotransmission is critical for establishing this
      remarkably stable form of value-action coupling. This phenomenon is a plausible circuit level
      mechanism underlying the LDR.

      Our long-term goal is to understand the clinically relevant actions of DRT. The primary
      objective of our proposal is to test the hypothesis that the LDR results from partial
      restoration of normal action vigor by reinstating the link between motivation and effort. Our
      secondary objective is to explore potential mechanisms underlying the LDR. The rationale for
      these experiments is that better understanding of the LDR, a clinically crucial component of
      DRT action, will lead to improved symptomatic therapy.

      We will study recently diagnosed PD subjects. All subjects will undergo standard evaluations
      of clinical, cognitive, and motivational features. Subjects will perform incentive motivation
      tasks assessing movement vigor in response to monetary incentives. Two complementary tasks,
      one based on modulation of movement velocity and one based on modulation of grip strength,
      will be employed. To assess whether the recently described stable action-value coupling for
      saccades is relevant to the LDR, subjects will perform a task that measures saccadic eye
      movement vigor in response to stable value signals learned prior to LDR induction. Subjects
      will perform all tasks before and after LDR induction in both the "practical off" and
      post-acute treatment states.

      Specific Aim 1: To use incentive motivation tasks to evaluate the coupling between motivation
      and movement vigor in recently treated PD subjects before and after LDR induction.

      Hypothesis 1A: LDR induction will result in partial restoration of movement vigor in response
      to monetary incentives in PD subjects in the "practical off" state.

      Hypothesis 1B: The magnitude of partially restored movement vigor in response to monetary
      incentives will correlate with reduced bradykinesia in PD subjects in the "practical off"
      state.

      Hypothesis 1C: Identical effects will be found with an incentive motivation task based on
      movement amplitude and one based on grip strength.

      Specific Aim 2: To use a saccadic eye movement task to assess saccadic eye movement vigor in
      response to stable value signals in recently treated PD subjects before and after LDR
      induction.

      Hypothesis 2: LDR induction will result in partial restoration of saccadic eye movement vigor
      in response to previously learned stable value signals in PD subjects in the "practical off"
      state.

      Validation of our hypotheses would have considerable impact by identifying a specific
      functional process underlying the LDR and a potential mechanism of the LDR. This will
      facilitate research into LDR mechanisms, provide a rational basis for developing valid animal
      models of the LDR, and open a new path towards improved symptomatic management of PD.
    
  