
    
      Objectives Overall objectives Overall Objectives Specific Aims

        1. To compare the effect of spinal versus general anesthesia on rates of postoperative
           delirium after hip fracture surgery. We hypothesize that rates of delirium after hip
           fracture surgery will be lower among patients receiving spinal versus general
           anesthesia.

        2. To develop, field-test, and conduct a qualitative evaluation of protocols and procedures
           for a planned multicenter trial to test the association of anesthesia technique with
           survival and recovery of function in activities of daily living ambulatory ability at
           six months after hip fracture.

      Primary outcome variable(s) The primary outcome variable is the rate of delirium after hip
      fracture surgery.

      Background Delirium, or a disturbance of consciousness and a change in cognition that develop
      over a short period of time, (1) complicates 2.6 million hospitalizations among U.S. adults
      aged 65 or older each year. (2,3) Patients who experience delirium during hospitalization
      face increased risks morbidity, mortality, and functional disability. (4) Each year, delirium
      accounts for $6.9 billion in Medicare hospital expenditures. (5) Delirium occurs in 35% to
      65% of the 320,000 older U.S. adults hospitalized for hip fracture each year. (6) While
      adverse survival and functional outcomes are common after hip fracture, (7) a single episode
      of delirium doubles the odds of both new functional dependence and new ambulatory disability
      at six months after fracture, and triples the odds of death or new nursing home placement.
      (8) Compared to general endotracheal anesthesia, spinal anesthesia may decrease the incidence
      of postoperative delirium after hip fracture surgery. Small randomized trials of anesthesia
      type for hip fracture have suggested a 50% lower risk of acute confusion after hip fracture
      surgery with spinal anesthesia, (9) but the heterogeneity of outcome definitions and
      measurement strategies employed by past trials, along with their use of historical anesthesia
      practices limit their applicability to current practice.

      As a result of these limitations, clinical equipoise continues to exist regarding the optimal
      anesthetic technique for hip fracture care. Compared to general anesthesia, spinal anesthesia
      may offer potential benefits not limited to decreased delirium. These may include decreased
      intraoperative blood loss, and decreased risks of postoperative thromboembolic events,
      respiratory infections and malignant hyperthermia. At the same time, spinal anesthesia may be
      associated with greater hypotension than general anesthesia, and may carry small risks of
      bleeding and infection at the site of the spinal injection and discomfort during block
      placement. Relative to spinal anesthesia, general anesthesia may offer benefits of
      hemodynamic stability. At present, while spinal anesthesia has been demonstrated in a
      retrospective observational study to be associated with lower in-hospital mortality after hip
      fracture (10), a meta-analysis of randomized trials was inconclusive with regard to mortality
      differences. (9) Reflecting this state of clinical equipoise patterns of anesthesia care
      differ widely by country and by provider, reflecting a large role of provider practice style
      in determining anesthesia care for hip fracture. For example, in a recent survey of UK
      anesthesiologists, 76% indicated that they routinely performed hip fracture surgeries with
      spinal anesthesia (11). In contrast, recent U.S. data suggest that approximately 80% of hip
      fracture surgeries are performed with general anesthesia, with wide variability in practice
      across hospitals.(10) While these variations may in part reflect differences in patient
      preferences, the current state of knowledge regarding the risks and benefits of differing
      types of anesthesia is inadequate to support appropriately informed medical decision-making
      by either patients or health care providers. The UKs national institute for Health and Care
      Excellence (NICE) strongly recommend further clinical trials to provide additional
      information regarding the clinical and cost effectiveness of differing anesthesia types for
      hip fracture, stating that they were unable to identify any recent randomised controlled
      trialsthat fully address this question and that the [available] evidence is old and does not
      reflect current practice.

      Study Design Phase II

      Design This is a randomized, controlled trial of spinal versus general anesthesia to test the
      effect of anesthesia type on rates of postoperative delirium after hip fracture surgery.

      Study duration It is expected that this study will begin enrollment in June 2013. The
      enrollment of all subjects is projected to be completed in May 2014 with data analysis to
      follow. The study will hope to be completed by June 2015.

      The length of participation for each subject will be about 5 days.
    
  