
    
      Asthma is one of the most common pediatric diseases affecting 6.7 million children and
      adolescents (Akinbami et al 2009). Asthma is a leading cause of hospitalizations, emergency
      department visits, school absences, and activity restriction for youth (ALA, 2011; Taylor et
      al., 1992; Weiss et al., 1992). Smoking is the leading cause of preventable morbidity and
      mortality as 443,000 deaths are attributable to smoking each year (CDC, 2012).

      This study had two aims that built on the results of a previous study (Borrelli et al.,
      2002): 1) to characterize the cognitive, affective, and behavioral changes associated with
      the Teachable Moment (TM), and 2) to test whether or not an extended intervention augments
      quit rates and prevents relapse over and above a previous theory-based smoking cessation
      intervention for low-income caregivers of children with asthma (Borrelli et al., 2002).

      In our study, we viewed the provision of objectivefeedback about the child's exposure to ETS
      as necessary to link the caregiver's smoking with the child's asthma. It was hypothesized
      that providing feedback within the context of heightened awareness of the child's health
      constitutes the teachable moment. The first aim of this study was to examine, in two
      populations, the effect of an intervention based on The Precaution Adoption Model (PAM)
      (Weinstein, 1988), in which Motivational Interviewing and biomarker feedback (smoker's CO
      level and child's ETS exposure) were used to increase risk perception to self and child. Our
      populations were: 1) smokers whose child with asthma had an acute exacerbation (PAM-Asthma)
      and 2) smokers who had a healthy child (PAM-Healthy).

      The second aim was to test the effect of increasing the intensity of our original
      theory-based intervention, PAM, by adding telephone counseling that focuses on motivating and
      sustaining quit attempts. Though our previous study demonstrated excellent quit rates in the
      short term (at 2 month follow-up), there was a dramatic decrease in abstinence by 6 months.
      Therefore, caregivers of kids with asthma were randomized to either 1) PAM-Asthma: our
      original intervention plus six contact control calls focusing on the child's asthma and child
      wellness (diet, exercise, safety, etc.) or 2) PAM-Enhanced/Asthma: our original intervention
      plus six counseling calls that focus on the child's asthma, motivating quit attempts, and
      preventing relapse. Precaution effectiveness (belief that quitting will improve one's own and
      the child's health) and self-efficacy were the primary intervention targets during the
      PAM-Enhanced/Asthma calls.

      A. Primary Aims

      Aim 1: To assess the cognitive, affective, and behavioral changes involved in the "teachable
      moment" by examining those who receive PAM and have children with asthma (PAM-Asthma) vs.
      those who receive PAM and have healthy children (PAM-Healthy).

      Hypothesis 1.1: PAM-Asthma will, at follow-ups, have significantly greater quit rates than
      PAM-Healthy (7-day point prevalence abstinence, 30 day abstinence) and lower levels of ETS in
      the home.

      Hypothesis 1.2: Parents who smoke and have children with asthma (PAM-Asthma) will have
      greater changes in the variables hypothesized to be associated with teachable moment
      (perceived risk, affect, self-concept) vs. parents who smoke and have a healthy child
      (PAM-Healthy). We are also exploring the mediational role of these factors on outcome.

      Aim 2: Among the parents of children with asthma, to assess the effectiveness adding
      telephone counseling to our previously tested intervention, PAM, (PAM-Enhanced/Asthma) vs.
      PAM plus contact control (PAM-Asthma).

      Hypothesis 2.1. PAM-Enhanced/Asthma will, at follow-ups, have significantly greater quit
      rates than PAM-Asthma (7 day point prevalence abstinence, 30 day abstinence), lower
      likelihood of relapse, and lower levels of ETS in the home.

      Hypothesis 2.2. Explore the hypothesized role of precaution effectiveness (i.e., quitting
      smoking will be associated with benefits for self and child) and self-efficacy for quitting
      as mediators of the effectiveness of (PAM-Enhanced/Asthma). We also plan to explore the
      effect of important moderating variables (demographics, social support, depressed mood) on
      smoking outcomes.

      B. Secondary Aims:

      Aim 3: To assess differences between PAM-Enhanced/Asthma and PAM-Asthma groups in asthma
      morbidity and health care utilization among children with asthma.

      Hypothesis 3.1: PAM-Enhanced/Asthma will have lower levels of functional morbidity due to
      asthma (i.e., fewer symptoms and less activity limitations) vs. PAM-Asthma.

      Hypothesis 3.2: PAM-Enhanced/Asthma will have lower levels of health care utilization
      including fewer hospital days for asthma, fewer urgent care visits for asthma, and fewer
      prescription refills for quick-relief asthma medications vs. PAM-Asthma.

      C. Study Design

      This was a three group design with 2 group comparisons. In order to test Aim 1 (Teachable
      Moment) smokers with kids with asthma (PAM-Asthma) were compared to smokers with healthy kids
      (PAM-Healthy) on their cognitive, affective, and behavioral changes before and immediately
      after receiving feedback on the child's smoke exposure. Both groups received home-based
      smoking cessation counseling (PAM), and six contact control calls focused on child wellness
      or asthma education. In order to test Aim 2, improving and sustaining the smoking cessation
      rates, smokers with kids with asthma were randomly assigned to receive to either PAM + six
      contact control calls (PAM-Asthma) or PAM + six counseling calls that focused on building
      precaution effectiveness and self-efficacy (PAM-Enhanced).
    
  