
    
      1. Abstract

           Ferromagnetic Implants such as PPM's and ICD's are traditionally accepted as
           contraindications to MRI due to safety concerns. The hypothesis is that these procedures
           can be safely performed when appropriate safety precautions and vetting practices are
           implemented.

           This is a cohort study. 1000 patients with a clinical need for MRI will be included in
           the study at OHSU. The type of device and leads will be ascertained and a safety
           protocol will be strictly adhered to.

        2. Background

           It has been estimated that 50-75% of patients with implanted devices (pacemakers and
           ICDs) will develop an indication for magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) examination. Thus,
           there are approximately 200,000 patients annually denied MRI scans because of the
           presence of PPMs and ICDs in the United States. The current standard of care is not to
           perform these scans, and instead to utilize other (inferior) imaging, and make clinical
           decisions without the benefit of MRI imaging. This is the current standard of care of
           OHSU, where only pacemaker patients who are not pacemaker dependent can undergo MRI
           scans, per radiology policy. However, this leads to gaps in care for some patients who
           would clearly benefit from an MRI scan. In some centers, it has been shown that when
           proper precautions are taken, MRIs can be safely performed on patients with PPMs and
           ICDs. The published experience from Johns Hopkins reports over 500 scans performed
           without any adverse outcomes.(1) There are also several smaller studies documenting the
           safe experience with MRI scanning in device patients (reviewed in (1), table 4)

           The main concerns which have led to restrictions on MRIs in patients with cardiac rhythm
           devices are the following:(2)

             1. Force and torque-ferromagnetic devices in a magnetic field are subject to static
                and gradient magnetic field induced force and torque. However, the maximum force
                that a modern PPM or ICD generator would be subject to is 100g, far under what
                would be needed to dislodge a device.

             2. Current induction-the gradient magnetic fields in the MRI scanner could induce
                current in conductors in the field. However, the maximum observed current in vitro
                has been less than 0.5mA, far less than what is required to capture myocardium.

             3. Heating-Leads and other metallic devices can act as antennae, and may heat in the
                magnetic field, however, no heating greater than 0.5deg C were observed in vitro.

             4. Inappropriate pacing/shock/inhibition of pacing-Pacemakers and ICDs have the
                possibility of receiving electromagnetic interference from the MRI and having this
                lead to inappropriate pacing, inhibition of pacing, ICD shocks, reprogramming, or
                loss of function.

           While all of the concerns are real and have been reported in earlier generation devices,
           with proper patient selection and monitoring during the scan, MRIs can be performed
           safely on most device patients. Johns Hopkins has an experience of over 500 scans
           without any adverse events.(1) The proposed protocol here follows exactly the Hopkins
           protocol, and, indeed, the OHSU data will be combined with the Hopkins data for future
           publications.

           To review the most recent Johns Hopkins publication:(1) 555 MRI studies in 438 device
           (PPM and ICD) patients were reported. All MRI scans were clinically indicated, and a
           device clinician, familiar with device interrogation and programming, was physically
           present for the entire duration of the scan. All patients were continuously monitored
           via telemetry and pulse oximetry during the MRI. For pacemaker patients, if they are
           pacemaker dependent they were reprogrammed to a non-sensing mode for the scan. If they
           were not pacemaker dependent, they were left in their usual mode. For ICD patients, if
           they were not pacemaker dependent, they were left in their usual mode. However,
           pacemaker dependent ICD patients were not scanned, as ICDs generally do not have a
           non-sensing pacing mode. Therapy for tachycardia was disabled in all ICDs for the scan.

           There were three clinical events during scans, all were "power on resets", which means
           that the device resets to "out of the box" original factory settings. One of these
           patients had an ICD, felt tugging in his chest during the scan, and the scan was not
           completed. The other two power on resets were in PPM patients, in whom the scan was
           completed. Neither were pacemaker dependent, and neither noticed anything abnormal
           during the scan. All three patients had normally functioning devices following the scan,
           and at followup.

           In the overall patient population in the Hopkins study, no single patient had a
           malfunction of a device immediately following the scan. There was a slight change in the
           electrical parameters of the leads, on average, but this did not result in the need for
           any intervention on any patient.

        3. Objectives

           The primary objective of this study is to develop a protocol, consistent with DHHS/CMS
           guidelines and requirements to further document safety in clinically indicated MR
           imaging in patients with implanted cardioverter defibrillators (ICD's) and pacemakers.

        4. Study Procedures

           MRI's will be conducted on patients who require a clinically indicated MRI only. All
           studies will be done in the 1.5 Tesla MRI unit. ECG monitoring pads will be placed on
           the patients for the duration of the study. An external defibrillator and ACLS drugs
           will be on hand. Heart rate, blood pressure, O2 saturation will also be monitored
           non-invasively throughout the study. All devices will undergo a complete interrogation
           prior to imaging. Parameters such as atrial and ventricular pacing thresholds, R and P
           wave amplitudes, lead impedance, and battery status will be measured and recorded. PPMs
           will be programmed to an asynchronous mode if dependent and to an inhibited mode in
           patients without pacemaker dependence.

           The pacemaker function of ICD's in pacemaker independent patients will be programmed to
           ventricular inhibited (VVI) mode at 50 bpm. Pacemaker dependent patients with ICDs will
           be excluded.

           In addition, there is a theoretical concern that patients who have capped or abandoned
           leads in their chest may be at risk for heating. While there is little or no objective
           data to support this concern, given this theoretical concern, patients in this category
           will only be admitted to the study if the referring physician deems the MRI critical and
           after the PI has carefully considered the risk/benefit ration for each patient who falls
           in to this category.

           Similarly, there historically has also been a concern that newly implanted leads (<4
           weeks) are at risk for lead to dislodgement d/t possible torque from the MRI
           environment. This too is only a theoretical concern and there is little or no scientific
           evidence to support this claim. Nevertheless, patients with newly implanted
           pacemaker/ICD leads will be considered by the PI for protocol inclusion only if the
           referring physician deems the MRI to be critical and after considering the risk/benefit
           to each individual patient.

           After the appropriate MRI protocol for each MRI patient's unique condition has been
           completed, the device will be re-programmed to its original settings and completely
           interrogated to detect any changes in device performance.

           The duration of the study extends to the post procedure interrogation at 1-6 weeks post
           MRI. IF the PPM or ICD reveals any malfunction post imaging (not seen yet), the patient
           will be followed by the electrophysiology service and appropriate follow-up management
           will be arranged.

        5. Study Statistics

             1. Primary outcome variable. Patient safety and device malfunction during or after MRI

             2. Secondary outcome variables. None

             3. Statistical plan including sample size justification and interim data analysis. We
                hope to enroll 1000 patients over 4 years to further evaluate safety.

             4. Early stopping rules. N/A

        6. Risks

             1. Medical risks, listing all procedures, their major and minor risks and expected
                frequency.

                There are no studies showing any health hazards associated with magnetic field
                exposure. PPM and ICD implants subjected to the strong electromagnetic field of MR
                imaging are thought to be susceptible to movement and torque. Other traditional
                concerns include malfunction due to demagnetization or magnetic activation leading
                to inappropriate pacing and shocks and artificial sensing of electromagnetic
                interference from MRI leading to inappropriate inhibition and/or activation of
                antitachycardia therapy, device malfunction and induced arrhythmias, as detailed in
                the background section above. Heating of the device and surrounding tissues leading
                to fibrosis and increased capture thresholds have also been a theoretical concern.
                However, recent work has revealed the safety of PPM's and certain ICD's in the MR
                environment given appropriate precautions(1, 3, 4).

             2. Steps taken to minimize the risks. Appropriate measures discussed in the protocol
                section will be taken to minimize risks associated with device exposure to MRI.
                Consistent with standard MRI policy, patients in the first trimester of pregnancy
                and patients with history of allergic reactions to gadolinium will undergo imaging
                without any contrast media.

             3. Plan for reporting unanticipated problems or study deviations. Patient data will be
                monitored on a per patient basis. Pre-vs. post MRI device testing data will be
                compared and any significant differences immediately reported to the IRB.

        7. Benefits a. Description of the probable benefits for the participant and for society.
           The patient will benefit from a standardized protocol to minimize the risk of an MR scan
           deemed necessary for his/her care which would otherwise be denied or performed without
           any organized framework. Society will benefit because of the increasing number of
           implanted devices and expanding use of MRI.

      8 Costs

      a. Detail costs of study procedure(s) or drug (s) or substance(s) to participants and
      identify who will pay for them.

      The patient and his/her insurance will be responsible for the cost of the clinically
      indicated MRI.
    
  