
    
      Efforts to address the cognitive impacts of schizophrenia can be broadly defined as falling
      into either compensatory or restorative categories. Restorative interventions, such as
      cognitive remediation, have shown promise in reducing cognitive deficits and improving
      functional outcomes (McGurk et al., 2007). In contrast, compensatory approaches such as
      Cognitive Adaptation Training work around cognitive deficits by changing the client's natural
      environment to support improved functioning. These compensatory strategies serve to bypass
      cognitive deficits and negative symptoms by organizing belongings and creating reminders and
      environmental cues to support specific adaptive behaviors. An example includes the individual
      packaging of clothes to be worn by day, to simplify the process of choosing what to wear and
      decrease the likelihood of clients impulsively putting on too many clothes or otherwise
      dressing in a manner that is not a good fit for the climate or social settings (Draper et
      al., 2009; Maples & Velligan, 2008).

      Cognitive Adaptation Training (CAT) is a manualized intervention that was developed to help
      individuals compensate for the cognitive deficits associated with schizophrenia. CAT
      interventions commence with a neuropsychological assessment of clients to determine the best
      profile of strategies to be implemented for the specific cognitive classification within
      which the person is placed. Interventions are based on two dimensions 1) level of executive
      functioning (as determined by scores on a set of neurocognitive tests) and 2) whether the
      behaviour of the individual is characterized more by apathy (poverty of speech and movement
      and difficulty initiating behaviours), disinhibition (distractibility and impulsivity) or a
      combination of the two. Clinicians then develop and implement an individualized set of
      strategies that address key domains such as hygiene, safety, dress, and medication. These
      strategies are then altered for strengths or weaknesses in the areas of attention, memory,
      and fine motor skills. For example, for someone with poor attention, the colour of signs can
      be changed regularly or florescent colours can be used to capture attention. For someone with
      memory problems (particularly those with good auditory attention) audiotapes can be used to
      sequence behaviour.

      CAT interventions are established and maintained in the home during monthly to weekly visits
      from a CAT therapist/trainer with the intervention typically lasting 9 months in most of the
      trials that have taken place to date

      Outcomes of randomized trials of CAT have been promising. Compared to control conditions,
      clients receiving CAT have lower levels of symptomatology, lower relapse rates, higher levels
      of adaptive functioning, better quality of life, and better medication adherence (Velligan et
      al., 2000; 2002; 2007; 2008a; 2008b). In general, CAT has been shown to be beneficial for
      individuals with schizophrenia who vary both in degree and type of functional impairment.

      The support and involvement of family in the care of individuals with schizophrenia is both
      one of the most important contributors to wellness and recovery and is also, unfortunately,
      one of the least acknowledged components of the recovery process. A high proportion of
      persons with severe mental illness stay in touch with family and the involvement of family in
      care has been associated with better clinical outcomes, improved quality of life, and less
      use of hospitalization (e.g., Fischer et al., 2008). Despite evidence of the importance of
      family in the recovery process, the contribution of family is often not adequately
      appreciated by treatment providers, and contact with providers is often limited. Similarly
      under-developed are evidence-based tools to assist families in their efforts to support the
      recovery of their loved ones.

      It is within this context that the development of a family member version of CAT is a very
      promising avenue to explore. While some elements of CAT require or are otherwise optimized by
      administration by a mental health professional (e.g., neuropsychological testing; targeting
      interventions based upon ongoing clinical evaluation), there are many standard components of
      CAT that can be readily implemented by a family member or other key support. Examples include
      CAT interventions such as visual reminders regarding medication, arranging cleaning supplies
      in the kitchen to reinforce cleaning routines, and assisting in the use of a calendar for
      scheduling. We have developed a tool that facilitates family members implementing CAT
      components that do not require professional administration.

      The initial 'beta' version of Family CAT was developed in close collaboration between Dr.
      Velligan's team at the University of Texas, the group implementing CAT at the CAMH site led
      by Dr. Kidd, and CAMH Social Workers. This 'beta' version is currently in the process of
      having its content reviewed by 6 families to obtain feedback regarding how readily it can be
      understood. Based on this feedback, we will make edits and produce the final version to be
      used in the trial proposed in this protocol.
    
  