
    
      Conservative management of OAB includes (NICE, 2006): behavioural therapy (bladder training
      techniques, prompted voiding, timed voiding…); physical therapy (PFM exercises, Biofeedback,
      Neuro Muscular Electrical Stimulation…); lifestyle interventions (weight loss, smoking
      cessation…) and fluid advice (fluid balance, reduction of caffeine intake…). Antimuscarinic
      agents are recommended if non-pharmacological treatment proves ineffective (NICE, 2006).
      However, results of behavioural and physical therapy have been shown to fall off by three
      months after treatment (Burgio et al, 1998). Furthermore, less than one third of patients are
      compliant with anticholinergic medication after 6 months, mostly due to intolerable side
      effects, but also to lack of efficacy (Hampel, 2007; Kelleher et al, 1997).

      Patients refractory to conservative regimens are candidates in our Physiotherapy Department
      for peripheral Neuromodulation therapy in the form of Percutaneus Tibial Nerve Stimulation
      (PTNS). Although its mechanism of action is still poorly understood, its efficacy has been
      reported to be comparable to that of the antimuscarinic agents, with an objective success
      rate of 60% (Burton, Sajja & Latthe, 2012), but with a better side effect profile.

      TPTNS is a non-invasive technique, easily manageable by patients, which lacks some adverse
      side effects reported with the use of PTNS, such as bleeding and/or pain at the site of
      needle insertion. As the technique is self-administered, the associated costs might be
      substantially lower when compared to PTNS, which involves repeated Hospital appointments for
      maintenance therapy.

      This study will help to determine the effectiveness of a self-supervised, home-based
      Transcutaneous Posterior Tibial Nerve Stimulation treatment protocol in maintaining
      Overactive Bladder (OAB) symptoms improvement in women responders to Posterior Tibial Nerve
      Stimulation (PTNS)

      Participants will be assigned to one of the two treatments arms using a computer generated
      random number table, with assignments drawn from sealed, opaque, serially numbered envelopes.

      Participants will be recruited from the Physiotherapy Department at the Liverpool Women's
      Hospital. Our primary outcome variable will be changes in 24-hour voiding frequency, number
      of episodes of urgency, as well as number of episodes of urge urinary incontinence. These
      variables can be reliably measured in self-completed 3-day bladder diaries (Gormley et al,
      2012).

      As OAB is a symptom-based diagnosis, the quality of life (QoL) impact of the symptoms is a
      crucial aspect of the condition. We will therefore use as secondary end point the score in
      the OAB-q questionnaire, a patient-reported outcome measure (PROM) of symptom severity as
      well as Health Related Quality of Life (HRQOL). The OAB-q has shown good content and
      construct validity, as well as high internal consistency and good test-retest reliability
      (Coyne et al, 2006).

      Bladder diaries and the OAB-q questionnaire are routinely used in our Department for all
      patients starting on PTNS (T1). Collection of data will be carried out again at the end of
      the 12-week course of PTNS. Data obtained at this point (T2) will determine those subjects
      who are objective responders and who will be invited to enter the trial and be randomized
      into one of the two treatment arms. During the study period, further assessments will be
      carried out by the main investigator, who will be blinded to the treatment group allocation,
      at 6 weeks (T3), 3 months (T4) and 6 months (T5).

      PTNS will be performed bilaterally, inserting a 40 mm x 0.25 mm acupuncture needle (Classic
      Plus Sterile Needle, HMD Europe), three finger breaths cephalad to medial malleolus and
      posterior to the medial border of the tibia (SP6 acupuncture point). A self-adhesive
      electrode will be placed on the medial aspect of the calcaneus. The needle and the electrode
      will be attached to a low voltage electrostimulator (AS SUPER 4 digital, Pierenkemper GmbH,
      Germany), set up with a pulse duration of 200 μsecs and a frequency of 20 Hz. The amplitude
      (0-20 mA, adjustable in steps of 0.1 mA) will be increased until flexion of the first toe or
      fanning of all toes is seen, or tingling sensation in the sole of the foot is reported,
      always at a tolerable level. Elevation of the Intensity will be allowed whenever the patient
      describes fading of the above sensation due to accommodation.

      TPTNS will be also applied bilaterally, using two surface self-adhesive electrodes in each
      leg, one placed at SP6 and the other placed on the ankle skin behind the medial malleolus.
      Electrical stimulation will be applied through a TENS unit (NeuroTrac PelviTone, Verity
      Medical Ltd, Hampshire, UK) using the same parameters as in the PTNS group.

      An experienced Women's Health physiotherapist will conduct the PTNS sessions in the control
      group and will instruct subjects in the TPTNS group in the stimulation technique.
      Participants will be provided with a telephone number to contact the research team in case
      they have any queries or any difficulty with the use of the TENS unit.
    
  