
    
      Obesity is a risk factor for a number of serious medical comorbidities and is second only to
      smoking as the leading cause of preventable death in the US. Further, estimates of the costs
      associated with overweight and obesity have topped $200 billion annually. The numbers are
      particularly alarming for adolescents, in whom the rate of obesity has risen at 2-3 times as
      quickly as in adults. Despite the urgent need, very few clinical centers offer obesity
      treatment due to the resource-intensive nature of most interventions and the fact that
      behavioral obesity interventions have rarely been reimbursed by 3rd party payers. Following
      the American Medical Association's recent decision to recognize obesity as a disease and
      establish ICD-10-CM Diagnosis Codes (e.g., E66.0), however, there is increasing pressure for
      3rd party payers to reimburse for effective obesity interventions. Thus, it is critical to
      identify effective treatment options that can be implemented in medical centers. Prior
      research has shown meal replacement-based diets to be more effective than typical
      "lifestyle-change" diet programs, both in terms of weight loss and, more importantly, weight
      loss maintenance. Evidence also suggests that solid meal replacements (e.g., bars) show
      greater effectiveness than liquid meal replacements (e.g., shakes). Finally, greater
      effectiveness is seen with meal replacements that are higher vs. lower in protein.
      Importantly, these interventions show high rates of effectiveness even in the absence of
      nutritional counseling, suggesting that a solid meal-replacement based diet program that is
      relatively high in protein could be highly effective and easily implemented in clinical
      settings. In this pilot study, 90 adolescents will be randomized to either a meal
      replacement-based diet (experimental) group or an educational video (comparison) group.

      All recruitment and study procedures will take place at the Mount Sinai Adolescent Health
      Center (MSAHC). The MSAHC is the largest adolescent-specific, integrated, primary care
      facility in the U.S., and is a unique model that integrates medical, sexual, reproductive,
      mental health and health education services. MSAHC provides inner-city youth ages 10-24 who
      are predominately youth of color high quality, comprehensive, easily accessed, free services.
      Flyers will be posted in the clinic of the Mount Sinai Adolescent Health Center.

      At the baseline assessment following recruitment, participants will provide informed consent
      and complete a structured interview conducted by research staff to more formally assess
      eating patterns and eating disorders symptomatology. Assessors will conduct interviews at the
      MSAHC on an individual basis. If a patient meets criteria for an eating disorder, s/he will
      be referred to treatment. Participants will be randomly assigned to one of two groups using
      the coin flipper function available at www.random.org. All files will be password protected
      to prevent unauthorized access of data.
    
  