
    
      Social Anxiety Disorder (social phobia) is the most common psychiatric disorder in the US. It
      negatively impacts health-related quality of life, educational and economic achievement, and
      it leads to attempted suicide in as many as 21% of affected individuals. A critical barrier
      to progress in reducing the negative impact of this disorder is that 75-92% of sufferers do
      not receive treatment. Social phobia self-help programs delivered via computer are designed
      to increase access to treatment and can be effective. Compliance and completion rates of such
      programs are, however, quite poor, greatly limiting their impact and accessibility.
      Furthermore, self-help programs for social phobia do not directly administer a critical
      component of treatment - exposure therapy. The direct administration of self-guided exposure
      therapy, using virtual reality is an innovation that would increase the accessibility and
      impact of computer delivered treatment.

      Exposure therapy is based on well-researched fear extinction learning paradigms, where
      individuals confront what they fear in a therapeutic manner and learn that the feared outcome
      will not occur. Ressler et al's groundbreaking translational research showed that
      D-cycolserine (DCS), an analogue of D-alanine and a partial agonist at the NMDA receptor,
      facilitates the process of fear extinction. DCS is different from other pharmacological
      agents used to treat social phobia which are prescribed chronically (daily) over a period of
      months or years to maintain a therapeutic dose; one pill of DCS is taken immediately before
      exposure therapy sessions. This work sparked a flurry of research showing that DCS augments
      exposure therapy for a variety of anxiety disorders; people who take DCS show benefit from
      therapist-assisted exposure therapy more quickly than those who take placebo. Two randomized
      double-blind, placebo-controlled studies of social phobia conclude that the combination of
      DCS and therapist-assisted exposure therapy improves treatment response when participants
      complete fewer exposure sessions. The ability of DCS to speed up the response to exposure
      therapy is especially valuable for sufferers using self-guided treatment, because they are
      not generally compliant with the full exposure protocol. The combination of DCS and
      self-guided exposure therapy would increase access to effective treatment. The use of DCS
      with self-guided exposure, however, has never been tested.

      Specific Aims

        1. Adapt an existing computer program to deliver self-guided VRE for social phobia via
           iPad, and

        2. Test the comparative efficacy of DCS vs placebo plus self-guided VRE.

      Hypothesis: Participants who receive self-guided VRE plus DCS will show less self-reported
      social anxiety and less avoidance during a laboratory based behavioral test following a
      5-week intervention than those who received self-guided VRE plus placebo.

      The investigators seek to shift current clinical practice in the treatment of social phobia
      so that more people with the disorder receive exposure therapy. The investigators will
      improve access to evidence-based treatment for social phobia with delivery of exposure via a
      computer - a modality that capitalizes on the fact that people with severe social phobia
      spend extensive hours on the computer; exposure therapy can come to people with social phobia
      "where they are." The investigators also will be the first to test the delivery of exposure
      therapy on an iPad. The study design improves the approach of existing research on
      computer-delivered programs for social phobia by testing how treatment affects real behavior
      - existing research has relied exclusively on self-report measures and assessment of
      diagnostic status. No studies have assessed actual behavior - either in the lab or in the
      real-world. This study will improve scientific knowledge by answering the question of whether
      or not DCS augments self-guided exposure therapy. The combination of a self-help program with
      DCS addresses many of the obstacles to treatment with therapist-guided exposure therapy. For
      example, there are not enough mental health providers trained in exposure therapy.
      Furthermore, social anxiety disorder is characterized by the fear and avoidance of social
      situations, and psychotherapy is inherently a social encounter. The effective combination of
      DCS and self-guided virtual reality exposure is an avenue for treatment to any sufferer with
      access to a computer and a prescribing physician. When the proposed aims are achieved, an
      innovative treatment will exist that did not before - self-guided VRE delivered via computer.

      The investigators have developed and tested a self-help program delivered via computer, with
      minimal therapist support. The self-help program was tested in a small (N=10) uncontrolled
      trial of 8 sessions, and results showed decreases in scores on standardized self-report
      measures of social anxiety from pre- to post-treatment and follow-up. Large effect sizes were
      observed at post-treatment (d = 1.22-1.53) and follow-up (d = 1.41 - 2.39).

      Using standardized measures of software usability, participants described the program as
      easy-to-use, including a participant who had never before used a computer. Since this study,
      the program has been updated with new virtual environments, as well as shortening the
      treatment down. The proposed project will adapt an existing program for delivery via a tablet
      and to collect data via the computer.

      Finally, the investigative team completed a double-blind, placebo controlled trial that
      tested the combination of DCS vs placebo combined with therapist-guided VRE for specific
      phobia.

      Thus, the investigative team is well-positioned to complete the specific aims of adapting a
      computer program that delivers self-guided exposure therapy for social phobia via a tablet
      and testing following hypothesis: Participants who receive self-guided exposure therapy plus
      DCS will show less self-reported social anxiety and less avoidance during a laboratory based
      behavioral test following a 5-week intervention than those who received self-guided exposure
      therapy plus placebo.
    
  