
    
      The purpose of this study is to evaluate if the SED can safely and effectively improve
      swallowing. Many people with severe swallowing disability (dysphagia) cannot open their upper
      esophageal sphincter, which is a circular band of muscle that acts like a valve, allowing
      food to enter the esophagus (food pipe) and go down into the stomach. People with extreme
      dysphagia may cough and choke on food, liquid, and even their own saliva. These people are
      always at risk of food/liquid/saliva accidently entering their lungs. This can cause
      pneumonia and, in some cases, death. The SED was developed by the University of California,
      Davis, to improve swallowing. The idea for the SED began when 6 people, who had feeding tubes
      for 100% of their nutrition because of severe swallowing disability, had a long suture thread
      attached to their throat. Patients pulled the two ends of the suture thread forward and were
      able to open their upper esophageal sphincter. In fact, their swallowing improved so much
      that 3 patients went home with the suture in place so that they could eat by mouth.
      Unfortunately, the skin around the suture became red and painful within 2-9 days of use. The
      suture was removed, but the idea for the SED was born. Since the suture study, three
      different models of the SED have been developed, with each subsequent model better able to
      improve swallowing, patient safety and use with other common medical tests. The current SED
      model looks like the letter "T" or a office tack used to stick paper on a wall or board. The
      SED has a plate and a post. The plate is like the top part of the "T" or smooth part of the
      tack. The plate is attached to the cartilage or flexible connective tissue of the throat. The
      SED post is like the bottom part of the "T" or pointy part of the tack, but instead of ending
      with a point, the end has a small ring. The post permanently sticks out from the throat, like
      a skin piercing, after the neck skin heals over the plate. Healing takes about 8 weeks. The
      SED is made out of titanium because this metal is extremely strong and commonly used in
      medical devices put into the body, such as hip joints or bone plates. A person can eat with
      the SED by having food enter their esophagus when the SED post is pulled forward with their
      fingers on the ring. Both sheep and human cadaver studies have shown that the SED works
      extremely well to widely open the upper esophageal sphincter. The University of California,
      Davis, and the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) have determined that the SED
      is ready to be tested in a small human study.
    
  