
    
      Regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) will be measured while normal subjects, patients with
      post-operative pain, and patients with neuropathic abnormalities of pain sensation are
      exposed to a battery of somatosensory stimuli that activate known pathways subserving touch,
      temperature and pain sensations. We have performed a series of studies on the genetics of
      pain, which assessed sensitivity (via subjective ratings) to a series of warm and painfully
      hot thermal pulses. Subjects ranged from insensitive (i.e. rating 49 degrees C as a 0.8
      versus a 10 on a 10 point scale), yet mathematically we could define an inflection point at
      the transition from warm to hot in nearly everyone, thus they most subjects encode the
      nociceptive input and they all alter their ratings at the threshold for C-fiber afferent
      firing (45 degrees C). We need to understand how the brain responds using objective blood
      flow endpoints. Our previous studies disclosed distinct pain-intensity driven network of
      regions activated by hot thermal stimuli and we will use repetitive scans to determine the
      degree of activation of this network in the sensitive and insensitive subjects. We have also
      developed a new treatment for cancer and arthritic pain that involves deletion of the primary
      afferent C-fibers. We are in the midst of getting approval from the FDA for use of this in
      patients with cancer pain. Assuming we obtain approval, we may then have the potential to
      scan some of the appropriate patients before and after treatment to determine the impact of
      the treatment and to explore alterations in the pain network in subjects with and without
      C-fiber afferents using experimental stimuli. We also expect to eventually treat patients
      with peripheral neuropathies and other chronic pain conditions that cause spontaneous pain,
      hyperalgesia, and allodynia (pain sensation to a normally non-noxious stimulus) and they will
      be examined with and without applied experimental stimuli before and after treatment.
    
  