
    
      Human microbiota play an important role in the functioning of various organs, as well as the
      education of the immune system. Mammals have evolved to be born non-sterile, covered with the
      maternal vaginal bacteria that populate the maternal birth canal, as well as to exclusively
      breastfeed during early development. Unfortunately, these processes are substantially altered
      with modern Western practices, which may have health consequences. In particular, C-section
      is associated with an increased risk of immune diseases and allergies. This study explores
      the effects of exposing neonates to the vaginal environment at birth, perinatal antibiotics,
      and lactation on the acquisition of new microbial genes during the first year of infant
      microbiome development.

      This study follows 78 babies from healthy mothers (18-40 years old) with uncomplicated
      pregnancies. The babies are divided into three groups according to their exposure to the
      vaginal environment at birth:

      Group 1: (n-26) Babies born via vaginal delivery.

      Group 2: (n-26) Babies born via scheduled C-section without exposure to mother's vaginal
      bacteria just after birth.

      Group 3: (n-26) Babies born via scheduled C-section with exposure to mother's vaginal
      microbiota just after birth.

      Sampling Time Points:

      Subjects may join the study at any point during their pregnancy or soon after delivery. If
      possible, samples of the mother will be obtained three times prior to delivery in the third
      trimester: at 30, and 4 or fewer days prior to the mother's due date, as well as on the day
      of birth prior to delivery. If not possible, samples of mothers and babies can be obtained
      from birth onwards. Samples will be collected from both mother and baby at day 1, day 2 or 3,
      weekly through the first month, and monthly through the first year. During monthly sampling,
      a member of the study team will communicate with mothers regularly to assess for any changes
      in the infant's diet or health between visits.

      Body Sites to be Sampled on Mother and Baby:

      At each sampling, a total of 6 samples will be taken from the baby (feces, mouth, nose,
      forehead skin, right forearm skin, right hand skin) and 9 will be taken from the mother (same
      as for the babies plus right areola, vagina, and breast milk). Sampling will consist of
      simple swabbing of the designated body sites, as well as the collection of mother's breast
      milk.

      Each time samples are collected, information about the subject's diet, medication and
      supplement use, sleep, physical activity and overall health will be asked by survey in order
      to correlate changes in the life of the subject with changes in his/her microbiota.

      C-section with Exposure to the Vaginal Environment Procedure:

      Mothers who give birth at NYULMC or Bellevue Hospital and comply with the inclusion and
      exclusion criteria for exposure to maternal vaginal contents can choose to expose their
      newborn to samples of their vaginal microbiome just after birth. Such mothers will be tested
      to confirm that their vaginal pH is acidic (pH ≤ 4), which indicates the dominance of lactic
      acid bacteria. Testing of vaginal pH will be performed using pH paper. These procedures
      require of the presence of a study member and will only be performed at NYULMC or Bellevue
      hospitals.

      Samples of vaginal bacteria will be collected prior to C-section. A piece of gauze will be
      placed in the birth canal just after antibiotic administration, and removed just before the
      caesarian procedure begins. This period will be no longer than 1 hour long. However, any
      amount of time the gauze is in the birth canal will be sufficient to proceed with the
      swabbing procedure. Once removed from the mother, the gauze will be stored in a sterile
      container until birth. Immediately after delivery, a trained study team member will swab the
      neonate with the gauze at multiple body sites, starting with the mouth, the face, and then
      subsequently the remainder of his/her body. After the swabbing, the 6 samples normally taken
      from all newborns will be collected.
    
  