
    
      At enrollment, subjects should be planned to receive either neoadjuvant chemoradiation or
      total neoadjuvant therapy, with the choice of regimen at the discretion of treating
      investigators. Subjects will have been staged as deemed consistent with standard of care,
      including either a pelvic Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and/or an endorectal ultrasound,
      and deemed to have either T3-T4 primary tumor or node-positive tumor.

      Neoadjuvant Chemoradiation Subjects will undergo endoscopic tumor biopsy within 6 weeks of
      the start of standard of care chemoradiation. Subjects will also have a baseline peripheral
      blood sample collected.

      Subjects will receive neoadjuvant chemoradiation per standard of care. This is typically
      comprised of radiotherapy with concurrent capecitabine 825 mg/m2 by mouth (po) two times
      daily (bid) (typically rounded to the nearest 500 mg dose) or infusional 5-fluorouracil
      (5FU). However, dosing and administration are at the discretion of the treating medical and
      radiation oncologist.

      An acceptable alternative approach is short-course radiation therapy per standard of care,
      which is typically comprised of radiotherapy, with surgery within 1 week of completion of
      therapy or delayed for 6-8 weeks. Selection of the optimal radiation therapy approach is at
      the discretion of the treating medical oncologist, radiation oncologist, and surgical
      oncologist. However, generally, short-course radiation therapy is not recommended for
      low-lying tumors less than 5 centimeters (cm) from the anal verge.

      Occasionally patients with inadequate response after neoadjuvant chemoradiation may be
      recommended to proceed with subsequent consolidative chemotherapy with 5-Fluorouracil,
      leucovorin, and oxaliplatin (mFOLFOX6) or capecitabine and oxaliplatin (CAPOX) for 16-18
      weeks before surgical resection. This treatment is at the discretion of the treating medical
      oncologist, radiation oncologist, and surgical oncologist. These subjects will be allowed to
      remain on study.

      Surgery will occur approximately 4-8 weeks after chemoradiation or consolidative
      chemotherapy, depending on clinical factors (i.e. resectability, presence or absence of
      metastatic disease), although it may occur as soon as 1 week after completing short-course
      radiation therapy. The timing of surgical resection after completion of neoadjuvant therapy
      is at the discretion of the treating surgical oncologist. At the time of surgery, tumor
      samples and peripheral blood samples for correlative studies will be collected.

      Subjects who do not receive preoperative mFOLFOX6 or CAPOX typically receive postoperative
      adjuvant chemotherapy with a fluoropyrimidine +/- oxaliplatin for an additional 16-18 weeks
      of therapy, if permitted based on recovery after surgical resection and post-surgical
      performance status. This treatment is at the discretion of the treating medical oncologist.
      Subjects will remain on study regardless of postoperative therapy administration or duration.

      Total Neoadjuvant Therapy Subjects will undergo endoscopic tumor biopsy within 6 weeks of the
      start of standard of care treatment with chemotherapy. Subjects will also have a baseline
      peripheral blood sample collected.

      Subjects who are intended to receive total neoadjuvant therapy will typically receive
      chemotherapy with mFOLFOX6 or CAPOX for 16-18 weeks, followed by chemoradiation. Dosing and
      administration are at the discretion of the primary medical and radiation oncologist.
      Alternative subsequent approaches such as short-course radiotherapy are also acceptable at
      the discretion of the treating medical and radiation oncologist.

      Surgery will occur approximately 4-8 weeks after chemoradiation depending on clinical factors
      (i.e. resectability, presence or absence of metastatic disease), although it may occur as
      soon as 1 week after completing short-course radiation therapy. The timing of surgical
      resection after completion of neoadjuvant therapy is at the discretion of the treating
      surgical oncologist. At the time of surgery, tumor samples and peripheral blood samples for
      correlative studies will be collected.

      Duration of Therapy

      The duration of therapy should be defined per the subject's standard of care. Reasons to
      discontinue treatment may include:

        -  Disease progression

        -  Inter-current illness that prevents further administration of treatment

        -  Unacceptable adverse event(s)

        -  Pregnancy

        -  Subject decides to withdraw from study treatment, or

        -  General or specific changes in the subject's condition render the subject unacceptable
           for further treatment in the judgment of the investigator.

        -  Subject has completed the treatment regimen

        -  Subject is lost to follow up

      Duration of Follow Up After surgery, subjects will be followed with routine surveillance at
      the discretion of treating investigators. Subjects will be followed for survival and disease
      status for at least 3 years after surgery or until death, whichever occurs first.
    
  