
    
      Children living in poverty have a high incidence of early-developing sleep and behavior
      problems, which are often co-morbid. Early sleep and behavior problems are prevalent and
      persistent risk factors for lifelong poor mental and physical health outcomes, and may be key
      mechanisms underlying early and enduring socioeconomic health disparities. While effective
      interventions exist, low-income families have low enrollment and retention in these
      interventions. Stigma of treating behavior problems creates an additional barrier to
      treatment. This RCT aims to address these barriers to treatment for low-income children with
      co-morbid sleep and behavior problems. Sleep and behavior problems and family dysfunction
      transact across time, increasing in severity, while healthy sleep, positive child behaviors,
      and effective parenting can support each other across development. Thus we posit that
      intervention in one domain, either sleep or behavior, may improve outcomes both within and
      across domains.

      The proposed study is a parallel randomized controlled trial of behavioral treatments for
      sleep problems and behavior problems in early childhood. The current study will test our
      three key aims: that evidence based sleep and behavior interventions each will improve
      trajectories from early comorbid sleep and behavior problems to healthier outcomes (Aim 1);
      that family preference, engagement, and value may differ for sleep vs. behavior interventions
      (Aim 2); and that families who choose between sleep and behavior interventions will have a
      more positive family response and better outcomes than those assigned to an intervention (Aim
      3). This study will enroll 500 low income children ages 24 to 48 months with comorbid sleep
      and behavior problems. Children will be recruited at Boston University and the University of
      Denver. Eligible participants will be randomized to one of four intervention arms, Behavior
      (FCU), Sleep (SHIP), Choice (FCU or SHIP, as selected by primary caregiver), and active
      Control (Oral Health, Child Safety, and Environmental Health). For those assigned to Choice,
      the primary caregiver will be provided information about FCU and SHIP and will select their
      preferred intervention.

      At the baseline evaluation (T1) all participants will undergo the following procedures: a) An
      evaluation of child behavior b) an evaluation of child sleep c) an evaluation of family
      functioning. Following the baseline evaluation all participants will engage in 8 sessions of
      parent coaching intervention over a 2 month period, with the content of the intervention
      varying by intervention arm, see descriptions below. The SHIP and FCU have similar structure,
      emphasizing motivational interviewing and support for parent goals. Paraprofessional staff at
      each site will be trained to deliver the FCU, SHIP, and Control interventions.

      The measures included in the T1 baseline evaluation will be repeated at 1 and 5 months post
      intervention, T2 and T3. At T4, 9 months post intervention, primary caregiver report of child
      behavior and sleep symptoms and family functioning will be collected via telephone interview.
    
  