
    
      Aim: A 6- to 8-month prospective cohort study to understand the root causes or facilitators
      of poly-substance use among at-risk youth and designing an individualized, youth-specific,
      community-based social intervention to reduce overall poly-substance use.

      Background: According to the 2015 Ontario Student Drug Use and Health Survey (OSDUHS), there
      has been a significant increase in the number of secondary school youth who use
      poly-substances. Not all youth have the same risk for problematic substance use. Health
      literature documents a high level of comorbidity between mental health and substance use,
      which is exacerbated in homeless youth populations. With addiction research speaking to the
      entangled nature of poly-substance use strengthened by shared neurobiological processes, the
      need to address poly-substance use is important. Using a Community-Based Participatory Action
      Research (CBPAR) approach can enhance intervention design as at-risk youth feel safe and
      comfortable enough to provide personal information about their poly-substance use and
      engagement with treatment or harm reduction programs. This type of research is especially
      important given the growing opioid use crisis in the US and Canada, and the urgent need for
      novel strategies to deal with the synchronicity of co-addictions, especially in high risk
      youth populations.

      Study Population: 20 at-risk homeless youth between the ages of 13-17, including
      street-involved, indigenous, LGBTQ and other non-mainstream youth

      Primary Patient-Oriented Outcome: Improved engagement and quality of life in participants. As
      well, reduced self-reported poly-substance use.

      Study Design: Phase 1 will involve gathering information on the root causes or facilitators
      of poly-substance use among at-risk youth, the types of drug use that is most prevalent among
      at-risk youth, and the early and ongoing points of access to licit and illicit substances.
      Following Phase I, Phase II will involve a single arm prospective cohort study looking to
      tackle poly-substance use in marginalized youth by providing an individualized,
      youth-tailored (i.e. based on qualitative results obtained in phase I), social-based
      intervention with optional access to an licensed mental health and substance use nurse
      counselling.

      Setting: 1) The Bridge Engagement Centre, Ottawa and 2) Operation Come Home, Ottawa

      Expertise: The PI is well versed in community-based research. Dr. Pakhale led the PROMPT
      project, a community-based smoking cessation project engaging a similar target population.
      Partnering with Operation Come Home and Ms. Elspeth McKay, the executive director of
      Operation Come Home, provides the PI with expert experience in engaging this marginalized
      youth population. Together the team is very experienced in substance dependence and the
      target population. The investigators collective expertise with links to the target community
      will support the implementation of the trial.

      Outcomes: Community-based participatory and peer-led research holds a tremendous potential in
      investigating solutions 'for the people, by and with the people'. Outcomes of this trial will
      aid policy makers in designing and implementing effective programs to treat substance
      dependence in marginalized youth populations.

      Timeline: The trial will require 6-8 months to complete.
    
  