
    
      Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a chronic, disabling functional gastrointestinal disorder
      that is characterized by abdominal pain or discomfort and a disturbance in bowel habit. It
      has long been recognized that psychological factors can be important in IBS, and that
      bi-directional signaling between the gut and the brain is likely involved in the
      pathophysiology of the syndrome. Approximately 50% of patients with IBS at a tertiary center
      will also meet criteria for anxiety or depression. Anti-depressant medications are widely
      used in the treatment of IBS, even without psychiatric comorbidity, with good evidence for
      both tricyclic antidepressants and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors. Unfortunately
      both classes of anti-depressants have significant gastrointestinal side effects and a large
      number of patients cannot tolerate the medications.

      Linaclotide, a guanylate cyclase agonist, has emerged as an important, novel treatment for
      patients with constipation-predominant IBS (IBS-C) and Chronic Idiopathic Constipation (CIC).
      Linaclotide is effective at relieving pain associated with IBS, which may be in part mediated
      by modulation of signaling between the gut and the brain. In this study the investigators
      will study the effect of Linaclotide on anxiety, depression and cognitive functioning in
      patients with IBS-C and CIC. If Linaclotide is also effective in treating anxiety and
      depression and improving cognitive functioning in patients with IBS-C and CIC, this will be
      an important therapeutic advance for the 50% of IBS patients with psychiatric comorbidity.

      The investigators also propose to investigate the mechanisms by which Linaclotide may effect
      psychiatric symptoms and neuropsychological functioning by measuring changes in the gut
      microbiome and inflammatory biomarkers. The gut and the brain are intimately connected by
      several, bidirectional, signaling pathways including neural, humoral and immune mechanisms.
      The concept of the "gut-brain axis" has recently been supplanted by the "microbiota-gut-brain
      axis," emphasizing the important role the gut microbiota plays in mediating brain responses.
      The gut microbiota communicate with the brain through immune and neuronal pathways and some
      microbiota can directly secrete neurotransmitters such as serotonin, dopamine and
      gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) . In true bidirectional fashion, the brain can also influence
      the microbiota through the secretion of cortisol and sympathetic neurotransmission, changing
      gut motility, secretion and mucin production, which can affect the habitat of the resident
      microbiota and thereby alter the composition of the microbiota. Alterations in gut microbiota
      have been associated with irritable bowel syndrome in multiple studies.

      Given the importance of the gut microbiota in mediating gut-brain responses, the
      investigators propose that the gut microbiota may play a direct role in the pathophysiology
      of anxiety and depression in patients with IBS. If Linaclotide is effective in reducing
      psychiatric and neuropsychological symptoms in patients with IBS, this may occur through
      changes in the gut microbiota, perhaps as a result of altered colonic motility and altered
      habitat of resident microbiota.
    
  