
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Prolonged grief disorder (PGD) is a new diagnosis that may occur after the death of a
      partner, parent, child, or other person close to the bereaved. PGD is characterized by a
      persistent and pervasive grief response including longing for the deceased or persistent
      preoccupation with the deceased accompanied by intense emotional pain (e.g. sadness, guilt,
      anger, denial, blame, difficulty accepting the death). The disorder has been admitted as an
      official diagnosis in the World Heath Organization's newest diagnostic manual (International
      Classification of Diseases, 11th revision; ICD-11). When introducing the diagnosis in ICD-11,
      health care services are obliged to identify and treat PGD.

      PURPOSE AND AIMS:

      The primary purpose of the study is to prepare healthcare services to use the diagnosis of
      PGD. More specifically, the project aims to determine the frequency of PDG in a population
      sample of bereaved spouses and their adult children. It will also identify early predictors
      of PGD and common trajectories of natural and prolonged grief as well as investigate the
      specificity of PGD in relation to other common loss-related reactions. Finally, the project
      will also assess the socioeconomic costs of PGD by analyzing health data registries.

      HYPOTHESES:

      Based on existing bereavement literature and empirical research, the project explores the
      following hypotheses:

        1. High rumination, low levels of mental and physical health, loss of spouse versus loss of
           parent, and presence of psychopathology at time of loss (T1) will predict degree of PGD
           symptoms among the bereaved at 6 (T2) and 11 (T3) months post-loss.

        2. The majority of bereaved individuals will exhibit a grief trajectory with a gradual
           decline in PGD symptoms over time, while a significant minority of bereaved individuals
           will show a trajectory with high levels of PGD symptoms across all measured time-points.

        3. PGD, PTSD, depression, and anxiety will be distinct constructs.

      PARTICIPANTS AND PROCEDURES:

      Individuals (age 25-85) will be consecutively recruited through the Danish Civil Personal
      Registry (CPR) from the Central Region of Denmark. After the loss, participants are contacted
      with a letter of condolence and a brief introduction to the study. Two months post-loss,
      potential participants are telephoned and invited to participate in the study. Participants
      are asked to complete self-report questionnaires, respectively at 2 (T1), 6 (T2), 11 (T3), 18
      (T4), and 26 (T5) months post-loss. To meet different needs, participants can choose to fill
      in the questionnaire online or by postal service.

      Bereaved individuals constitute a highly vulnerable group with a heightened risk of suicide,
      social isolation, depression, etc. In the event, participants appear suicidal or particularly
      distressed (e.g. high score on suicidal ideation) they will be contacted by the researchers
      and a suicide risk screening is performed.
    
  