
    
      Objectives

      The broad objectives of this multicenter and multidisciplinary observational cohort study are
      to investigate patient, provider, and system-related factors that are associated with the
      quality and safety of initial management for suspected ST-segment elevation myocardial
      infarction (STEMI) evolving for less than 12 hours in daily practice. The findings of this
      study should help identifying areas with room for improvement in clinical pathway for STEMI
      patients. The specific aims of this project are:

        -  to investigate the independent associations between the delivery of timely acute
           reperfusion therapy and patient, provider, and system-related factors, according to
           current guidelines

        -  to assess the independent associations between the delivery of timely acute reperfusion
           therapy and in-hospital clinical outcomes (including all-cause mortality and major
           adverse cardiovascular events)

        -  to determine the independent risk factors for major bleeding (excluding coronary-artery
           bypass graft-related bleeding events) among baseline patient and provider
           characteristics, processes of care, and system-related factors, respectively

        -  to elucidate the prevalence, risk factors, and in-hospital clinical outcomes
           independently associated with false-positive cardiac catheterization laboratory
           activation or inadvertent fibrinolytic therapy

        -  to determine how hospitals are interconnected by transferring patients with suspected
           STEMI

      Hypotheses The primary hypotheses guiding this project are that delayed reperfusion therapy
      for suspected STEMI independently relates to provider practice patterns and system barriers.
      It is further postulated that non-compliance with target delays in implementing primary PCI
      or fibrinolytic therapy is associated with worse in-hospital clinical outcomes.

      The secondary hypotheses are that the delivery of acute reperfusion therapy within target
      delays is associated with increased rates of false-positive cardiac catheterization
      laboratory activation, inadvertent fibrinolytic therapy, and bleeding events.

      Participating study centers and setting The project will be conducted at 3 emergency medical
      services (EMS/SAMU) and 23 public and private (for-profit and non-for-profit) acute care
      hospitals in Northern Alps in France. Northern Alps are a predominantly mountainous area
      covering 15,000 km² with an estimated population of 1,860,000 inhabitants with large seasonal
      variations due to tourism. The median distance and driving time from each community hospital
      to the closest PCI center are 63 km (range, 4.5-132 km) and 43 min (range, 10-88 min),
      respectively.

      As part of a coordinated regional system of reperfusion therapy for STEMI, all participating
      centers have a long collaborative tradition in STEMI management research.The rationale, data
      collection methods, verification procedures, and primary outcomes of this registry have been
      reported in detail elsewhere.

      Baseline data collection methods

        1. Prospective data collection As part of the ongoing registry, attending physicians or
           clinical research technicians routinely abstract summary information on demographics,
           presenting characteristics (including electrocardiographic findings), coronary
           angiography findings, and delivery and timing of acute reperfusion therapy in both
           prehospital and hospital settings.

           Based on patient home address, travel time and travel distance to the nearest community
           hospital and PCI-capable hospital will be obtained through calls to commercial Web page
           (MapQuest or Via Michelin). ZIP code will replace patient home address when unavailable.
           Previous studies have shown that this method provides reasonable estimates. To account
           for peak travel time, slowdowns of 20% will be factored in during the hours of 7 to 9 AM
           and 4 to 7 PM, Monday through Friday.

        2. Retrospective data collection Two clinical research nurses will perform retrospective
           chart review using a computerized data collection instrument. The following variables
           will be recorded: baseline patient characteristics, clinical variables, comorbid
           conditions, laboratory variables, procedural interventions (cardiac catheterization, PCI
           [not primary], and coronary artery bypass grafting) at any time during index
           hospitalization, medications (on admission, during the first 24 hours, and at
           discharge). Index hospitalization includes both admitting and transfer hospital stays.

      Characteristics will also be collected for attending physicians (gender, age, discipline) as
      well as admitting and transfer hospitals (community vs PCI-capable facility, size, public or
      non for profit versus for profit). Consistent with a previous study, PCI centers are defined
      as hospitals that offer emergency PCI 24 h a day, 7 days a week.

      Data management

        1. Prospective data collection As part of the ongoing registry, data are prospectively
           recorded in duplicate on standardized forms designed to facilitate data collection and
           entry. All completed forms are forwarded to the core coordinating facility of the
           regional emergency system (RENAU=Réseau Nord-Alpin des Urgences ; www.renau.org), where
           the data are entered electronically (single-data entry) and maintained on a local
           computer network. The data entry screens are similar to the paper forms. Original data
           collection forms are kept in locked file cabinets.

           Data integrity is enforced through two complementary approaches:

             -  Routine edit checks (valid values, range checks, and consistency checks) are
                performed at the time of data entry by a clinical research technician at the core
                coordinating facility.

             -  The registry statistician periodically screens data for additional errors using
                programs designed to detect missing values or inconsistencies.

        2. Retrospective data collection To ensure optimal quality, all data collected
           retrospectively by chart review will be entered electronically by clinical research
           nurses using a personal identification code and password-protected web-based data
           collection system. The clinical research nurses will receive formal training in the
           methods of data abstraction and recording. An operation manual that includes definitions
           and acceptable data sources for all variables will be distributed. Reliability of data
           abstraction will be assessed by randomly selecting 30 cases for independent collection
           by the two study nurses.

      The data manager will screen data for additional errors using programs designed to detect
      missing values or inconsistencies.

      Statistical analysis

        1. Overview Standard descriptive summary statistics will be used for reporting continuous
           and categorical variables. In univariate analysis, inferential comparisons will be
           performed using analysis of variance or the Kruskal-Wallis rank sum test. Logarithm
           transformation may be used for highly skewed variables prior to inferential comparisons.
           Categorical variables will be analyzed with the use of Khi² or Fisher exact tests.
           Trends across ordered groups will be analyzed for statistical significance using the
           Khi² test for trends for categorical variables and the non-parametric Wilcoxon-type test
           for trends for continuous variables, respectively. Two-sided P values of less than 0.05
           will be considered statistically significant.

        2. Primary effectiveness outcome A non-parsimonious multivariable logistic regression model
           will be developed to identify baseline characteristics that are independently associated
           with timely acute reperfusion therapy. Covariates entered into the multivariable model
           will be prespecified before modelling, without investigating their association with the
           primary study outcome.

           Secondary analysis restricted to the subset of patients with prehospital management will
           use multilevel logistic regression, with the 3 levels defined by patients, mobile
           intensive care units, and hospitals. The Metropolis-Hastings algorithm (a Markov Chain
           Monte Carlo method) will be used to account for the cross-classification of mobile
           intensive care units that transported patients at more than one study site.

        3. Secondary medical outcomes Because timely acute reperfusion therapy is not randomly
           assigned in this observational study, unadjusted comparisons of medical outcomes between
           study groups might be confounded by imbalances in baseline characteristics.For this
           purpose, propensity score analysis that compensate for differences in measured baseline
           characteristics will be performed between timely acute reperfusion therapy recipients
           and non-recipients.

           Practically, a propensity score will be derived for the receipt of timely acute
           reperfusion therapy using a full non-parsimonious logistic regression model that
           includes baseline characteristics as covariates.

           Each patient will be assigned a propensity score, which may range from 0.00 to 1.00 and
           reflects the conditional probability of timely acute reperfusion receipt given his
           baseline characteristics.

           To compare secondary medical outcomes among patients with similar conditional
           probability of timely acute reperfusion therapy, a cohort of timely acute reperfusion
           therapy recipients and non-recipients matched by propensity score will be also defined.
           For this purpose, an algorithm will be used to match each timely acute reperfusion
           therapy recipient to a single non-recipient who have the nearest propensity score within
           one digit. If this cannot not be done, that timely acute reperfusion therapy recipient
           will be excluded from the propensity-matched analysis. The propensity-matched cohort
           will be evaluated for significant residual imbalances in baseline characteristics. Then
           logistic regression will be used to estimate the odds ratio for each secondary medical
           outcomes associated with the receipt of timely acute reperfusion therapy among
           propensity score-matched patients.

        4. Secondary effectiveness outcomes Using the same modelling approach as previously
           described (i.e., b. primary effectiveness outcome), multivariable logistic regression
           will be performed to identify baseline characteristics that are independently associated
           with false-positive cardiac catheterization laboratory activation among patients who are
           candidate for primary PCI. A first-order interaction term involving prehospital cardiac
           catheterization laboratory activation will be tested for statistical significance. If
           appropriate, analysis will be stratified according to prehospital versus hospital
           cardiac catheterization laboratory activation. Then medical outcomes will be compared
           between false positive and true positive cardiac catheterization laboratory activation
           after adjusting for quintile of propensity score.

      In a separate analysis, multivariate logistic regression will be performed to identify
      baseline characteristics that are independently associated with inadvertent fibrinolytic
      therapy among fibrinolysis recipients. A first-order interaction term involving prehospital
      fibrinolysis will be tested for statistical significance and, if appropriate, analysis will
      be stratified according to the receipt of prehospital versus hospital fibrinolysis. Then odds
      ratio will be estimated for each medical outcome associated with inadvertent fibrinolysis
      after adjusting for quintile of propensity score.

      Harms and safety In this retrospective observational study, severe adverse events occurring
      during hospitalization will be specified as secondary medical study outcomes (mortality,
      major adverse cardiac events [reinfarction, cardiogenic shock, cardiac arrest, heart failure,
      stroke], and major bleeding).

      Other prespecified adverse events will be recorded, including atrial fibrillation or flutter,
      sustained ventricular tachycardia, atrioventricular block (Mobitz II or 3rd degree),
      mechanical complications (ventricular septal defect, mitral regurgitation, free wall
      rupture), venous thromboembolism (deep vein thrombosis and/or pulmonary embolism), acute
      renal failure, thrombocytopenia and heparin-induced thrombocytopenia, and non-major bleeding
      events.

      Adverse events will be collected through a structured chart review. There will be no attempt
      to determine potential causality.
    
  