
    
      Relapse is inevitable in orthodontic treatment. Teeth will want to return to their original
      position after fixed appliances are removed. Regardless with or without fixed appliances,
      changes and physiological relapse will still occur due to time and age changes. This is why
      retention is a crucial part of orthodontic treatment, where it would aim to maintain the
      corrections achieved after orthodontic treatment.

      Literature regarding retainers is quite substantial, where a recent Cochrane review was
      published comparing the different types of retainers. However, the evidence is lacking in
      terms of comparison of arch width relapse between modified vacuum-formed retainers and Hawley
      retainers specifically in expansion cases.

      This study aims to compare the relapse in arch width in expansion cases with modified
      vacuum-formed retainers with palatal coverage versus Hawley type retainers in Unit Ortodontik
      Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia (UKM), Klinik Pakar Ortodontik Klinik Kesihatan Bandar Botanik
      and Unit Pakar Ortodontik Klinik Pergigian Sungai Chua patients. Although other types of
      modified vacuum-formed retainers effective for maintaining palatal expansion have been
      described, these retainers require a wire outlining the Cementoenamel junction of the teeth
      palatally. This technique requires the experience of the technician, is at a higher cost and
      requires more lab time. The modified retainer that investigators described in this study
      would be as efficient and as quick as the normal vacuum-formed retainers, which would usually
      take a couple of hours to make (same day or next day fit). The present practice at all 3
      locations constructs Hawley and normal VFR retainers for all orthodontic patients. There are
      technicians and laboratory facilities to construct normal VFR as well as Hawley retainer. The
      only difference between modified and normal vacuum formed retainer is the outline of the
      retainers where the technician would trim the retainer, where it would cover the hard palate.
      Therefore it is only the location of trimming that is different using the same special
      trimming appliances for normal VFRs.

      A number of subjects who fulfil the criteria will be invited to participate in this study.
      The study will involve arch width analysis using study models pre, post-debond, 3 months
      review post-debond, and 6 months review post-debond. All data will be analyses using
      Statistical Package for Social Sciences (SPSS). The arch width of subjects post-fixed
      appliances will be compared. Most studies compare the arch width, as well as lower incisor
      irregularity in evaluating relapse in different groups of retainers. However, there are
      currently no randomized control trials comparing expansion cases of Hawley vs vacuum-formed
      retainers, hence why this study will be conducted.

      The investigators expect to see no difference between the modified vacuum formed retainer and
      Hawley retainer in terms of maintaining arch expansion post-orthodontic treatment. This
      would, therefore, mean that there would be a simpler method and would be a suitable more
      cost-effective alternative as compared to constructing Hawley retainers or adding a palatal
      wire on the vacuum-formed retainers.
    
  