
    
      Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a common and debilitating anxiety condition that
      affects up to 20% of war Veterans. PTSD is often a chronic problem for Veterans, affecting
      reintegration into society, family and marital relationships, sleep, employment stability,
      substance abuse rates, and risk for depression and suicide, among other areas. Although
      several effective therapies exist to treat PTSD, research shows that up to half of patients
      completing these treatments continue to have elevated symptoms indicating the important need
      for developing additional treatment options.

      In the current trial, we propose to test one such new treatment, specifically a meditation
      practice known as Transcendental Meditation. The Transcendental Meditation (TM) program will
      be compared to one of the best and most standard of PTSD therapies (Prolonged Exposure
      therapy), and a educational control group. This study will recruit 210 War Veterans
      clinically diagnosed with PTSD from the San Diego VA Healthcare System over a 4 year study
      period.

      The intervention period will be 3 months. Study participants will be randomized equally to
      one of three study groups, either

        1. Transcendental Meditation (TM) or

        2. Cognitive Behavioral Therapy with Prolonged Exposure (CBT-PE) or

        3. Educational control group.

      The primary outcome will be scores on the Clinically Administered PTSD Scale (CAPS).

      Secondary outcomes will includes scores on PTSD symptoms including depression, anger, mood
      disturbance and quality of life.

      Behavioral or lifestyle factors will also be measured including smoking, alcohol, and
      non-described drug usage along with compliance with each treatment.

      Physiological markers of stress and disease risk will include cortisol, blood pressure,
      inflammatory markers and body mass.

      If successful, these research findings will serve to provide key data on the feasibility and
      efficacy of the TM program as an alternative therapy for PTSD. The results will serve to
      inform policy decisions on the study and application of standardized and validated stress
      reduction programs in veteran populations.
    
  