
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To compare the overall survival of patients with previously treated K-Ras wild type
           metastatic colorectal carcinoma treated with brivanib alaninate in combination with
           cetuximab versus placebo in combination with cetuximab.

      Secondary

        -  To compare the progression-free survival of these patients.

        -  To compare the objective response rate and duration of response in these patients.

        -  To compare the quality of life of these patients.

        -  To compare the health utilities of these patients.

        -  To conduct a comparative economic evaluation of these patients.

        -  To evaluate the safety profile of this regimen in these patients.

        -  To explore an association between FGF-2, BRAF mutations, amphiregulin (AREG) and
           epiregulin (EREG) as determined from paraffin embedded tumor specimens and the potential
           for clinical benefit from the addition of brivanib alaninate or placebo to cetuximab in
           terms of overall survival, progression-free survival and objective response rate
           compared to cetuximab alone.

        -  To explore associations with mRNA and/or protein expression and/or variations in genes
           associated with epidermal growth factor (EGF), vascular endothelial growth factor
           (VEGF), angiogenesis, and other related pathways and the potential for clinical benefit
           from the addition of brivanib alaninate to cetuximab in terms of overall survival,
           progression-free survival, and objective response rate compared to cetuximab alone.

        -  To explore an association with changes of Collagen IV in the blood and the potential for
           clinical benefit from the addition of brivanib alaninate to cetuximab in terms of
           overall survival, progression-free survival and objective response rate compared to
           cetuximab alone.

        -  To establish a comprehensive tumor bank linked to a clinical database for the further
           study of molecular markers in colorectal cancer.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to participating
      center and ECOG performance status (0-1 vs 2). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oral brivanib alaninate once daily and cetuximab IV over 60-120
           minutes once weekly.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive oral placebo once daily and cetuximab IV over 60-120 minutes
           once weekly.

      In both arms, treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      Tumor tissue and blood samples are collected for correlative studies. Samples are analyzed
      for biomarker levels (Collagen IV, FGF-2, and epiregulin, amphiregulin, and BRAF mutation
      status) and correlation with response.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 4 weeks and then every 8 weeks
      thereafter.
    
  