
    
      The recruitment of participants will be performed through social media divulgation, on our
      official website and through contact with preschools in the city of Sao Paulo. The
      participants that have been selected on the telephonic pre-screening are called for a
      diagnostic evaluation and an eligibility criteria verification performed by a child and
      adolescence psychiatrist and neuropsychologists. The psychiatric care and the outcomes
      evaluation sessions will be conducted by trained professionals, under the principal
      investigator's supervision.

      The children will be randomized using the website randomization.com to one of the three
      groups: drug treatment with methylphenidate and educational information, parental training
      and placebo medication, or active control group with educational information and placebo
      medication. After the eight-week intervention, the participants can receive treatments not
      previously offered according to a clinical decision.

      All selected participants for the clinical trial will be evaluated and accompanied by a child
      and adolescent psychiatrist before the study and bi-weekly until its completion. Furthermore,
      a blind evaluator will be responsible for the outcomes measures evaluation.

      The clinical evaluator (child and adolescent psychiatrist) and the research assistant
      responsible for the questionnaires application will be blind towards the modality of
      treatment that the participant undergoes.

      All of the study's evaluation protocol and monitoring is done on the platform Research
      Electronic Data Capture - REDCap, a software developed by Vanderbilt University - Tennessee,
      which is hosted in The Clinics Hospital of the University of São Paulo Medical School server.
      REDCap presents three main functions: a) electronic data collection; b) data management; c)
      study flow management. This data bank complies with the international policies of data's
      privacy and security on health area. In addition to the collection and storage structure,
      validation, auditing and data exporting tools of the system itself are also used.

      The efficacy analysis will be made from treatment intention (data from all randomized
      patients will be included in the analysis). The outcomes (clinical measures of efficacy and
      tolerability) will be analyzed through mixed effects analyses, with individual models for
      each outcome. This model assumes that missing data occurs at random and avoids potential
      biases associated with the analysis only of the individuals who completed the observations or
      using the strategy to carry the last observation made. The model will include fixed effects
      for treatment (three levels), time (0, 5 and 9 weeks), time-treatment interaction and
      randomization effect for the participants. Effect sizes will be calculated by subtracting of
      the modification of each of the outcomes between the patients in the active groups versus
      active group control, and between both active treatments, divided by the standard deviation
      of the entire sample.
    
  