
    
      Women are looking for termination of pregnancies in the second trimester, after 12 weeks of
      gestation for social and medical reasons, as well as due to intrauterine fetal demise. Both
      surgical and medical methods can be used, depending on the patients' preference, providers
      skills, availability of drugs and instruments and more. Methods of medical abortion can be
      performed with the use of prostaglandin analogues, mifepristone, oxytocin, foley catheter and
      osmotic dilators. Misoprostol, a prostaglandin analogue (PGE1), is currently recommended over
      other agents due to its efficacy, low cost and ease of use. Misoprostol can be used alone or
      in combination with other agents. The use of Mifepristone, an antiprogesterone, and
      Misoprostol together, has been shown to make the medial abortion process more efficient and
      reduce the induction-to-abortion interval by almost 50%. Current guidelines recommend the use
      of Mifepristone 200 mg orally, followed by Misoprostol 400 mcg every 3-4, hours 24-48 later
      until expulsion of the fetus. Despite the recommended 24-48 Mifepristone-Misoprostol
      interval, recent retrospective study of a flexible interval, ≤12, 12-24 and >24 hours, have
      revealed shorter total abortion time (time from Mifepristone to fetal expulsion) with the
      shorter intervals. Thus, strict adherence to current guidelines may unnecessarily prolong the
      abortion procedure.

      Objective Prompted by the need to explore more beneficial methods and regimes for second
      trimester medical abortion, we aim to compare 24 to 12 hours Mifepristone to Misoprostol
      intervals

      Material and Methods Women eligible for second trimester medical abortion will be approached
      to enroll in the study at the clinic or emergency room when they arrive to schedule medical
      abortion. A research staff member will obtain informed consent. The patient will undergo a
      blood test including blood type, complete blood count and chemistry. Basic demographic
      information will be collected. A complete history and physical assessment will be performed.
      If an ultrasound report is not available to confirm gestational age dating, ultrasound will
      be performed to determine gestational age. A baseline cervical exam will be done at this
      visit to assess cervical consistency. Patients will be randomized into one of two groups
      according to a computer-generated random allocation sequence. Sequentially numbered sealed
      opaque envelopes will be used to provide allocation.

        -  Patients allocated to group 1 will receive 200 mg Mifepristone orally, followed by
           Misoprostol 400 mcg vaginally 12 hours later and subsequently 400 mcg orally every three
           hours until fetal expulsion to a maximum of 5 doses.

        -  Patients allocated to group 2 will receive 200 mg Mifepristone orally, followed by
           Misoprostol 400 mcg vaginally 24 hours later and subsequently 400 mcg orally every three
           hours until fetal expulsion to a maximum of 5 doses.

      Patients will be discharged home after receiving Mifepristone, and hospitalized upon arrival
      for the Misoprostol administration.

      If the abortion is not complete after five doses, the woman may be allowed to rest for 12
      hours before starting the cycle again.

      All participants will be contacted by phone as well as a chart review conducted to assess for
      delayed complications. During this follow up time, they will be asked to notify the research
      team if they should develop fatigue, malaise, abdominal pain, or jaundice. If these symptoms
      occur, a workup for liver injury would be performed. Patients will be asked to obtain repeat
      liver function tests within two weeks post-procedure to compare to their baseline hepatic
      panel.
    
  