
    
      This is a prospective observational questionnaire based study measuring the degree of patient
      satisfaction with the outcomes of some expensive cytotoxic agents.

      The tested drugs are trastuzumab, lapatinib, sunitinib, m tor inhibitors, sorafenib,
      cetuximab, panitumumab, bevacizumab, erlotinib, rituximab, imatinib mesylate, gefitinib,
      abiraterone acetate, cabazitaxel, pertuzumab, fulvestrant, pemetrexate and crizotinib.

      The evaluation will be through a predesigned template questionnaire that will be applied to
      all the tested drugs. The questions are divided into five categories measuring five items,
      the negative impact of the drug on patient's finances, satisfaction with drug efficacy,
      toxicity and effect on quality of life, satisfaction with drug availability in the market and
      satisfaction with the received education from the treating physician about the drug before
      usage. A predesigned questionnaire based scoring system will categorizes the processed data
      to low, intermediate and high score for each of the five measured topics. The data will be
      processed and each drug will acquire low, moderate or high score. Subsequent recommendations
      for revision of the drug price, cost effective analysis studies, physician education about
      drug pharmaceutical perspectives will be elaborated for some drugs. The study will clarify
      the most annoying and frequently reported side effect for each drug and will suggest
      recommendations for its treatment.

      The study is currently recruiting patients.

      The study is currently accepting to add authors (Oncology physicians) who can fulfill the
      following prerequisites:

        1. Answer a questionnaire that will be mailed to him upon request and propagate this
           questionnaire to 10 oncology physicians in his center to answer them. (The 11
           questionnaires should be scanned and mailed to ellithym@med.asu.edu.eg. or given as hard
           copies to Dr Mahmoud Ellithy (Mobile: +01000069694).

           (This questionnaire is designed to be answered by oncology physicians to measure their
           degree of satisfaction with the outcomes of expensive cytotoxic agents).

           The questionnaire can be answered electronically online
           https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/Cureandmore. (for oncologist with foreign nationality who
           want to share as an author. Egyptian oncologists should fill a hard copy not online).

           Disclosure: The Questionnaire for the physicians is a clinical trial registered clinical
           trials.gov with NCT02630979. URL. https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/nct02630979.

        2. Each author must share with at least 90 patients with at least 5 patients for each drug.
           The maximum allowed numbers of authors from each center are two authors sharing with 180
           patients till closure of the study in 30th January 2019.

        3. Share with any new idea that will add benefit to the study. ( Item 1 and 2 are
           mandatory).

      The Oncologist who want to share as an author in this study must sign a memorandum of
      aggrement consenting for the accuracy, confidentiality and validity of the data with a
      copyright, stating that he must obtain a written permission from the research team (Cure and
      More research team) to produce any text, figures, tables or illustrations from this study in
      future works of his own.
    
  