
    
      This is a single center, unblinded, randomized control, feasibility trial to evaluate the use
      of LISA in the DR for extremely preterm infants born 23-25 weeks GA who were successfully
      resuscitated without being intubated. The study team will approach a mother who is at risk of
      delivering an infant between 23-25 week GA for consent to be included in the study. Infants
      will be resuscitated according to NRP algorithm. Infants who are successfully resuscitated
      without requiring intubation and mechanical ventilation (HR >100, regular spontaneous
      respiratory effort, able to maintain oxygenation per NRP target saturation goal) are eligible
      for enrollment. Randomization will be achieved by opening an opaque envelope.

        -  Prophylactic LISA arm: Infants with a stable heart rate and spontaneous respiratory
           effort on CPAP are eligible for surfactant therapy. A LISA catheter will be prepared for
           use prior to the birth of the infant. Surfactant will be drawn into a syringe soon after
           the initial stabilization. A trained physician will perform LISA. The infant will be
           maintained on CPAP by prongs during the procedure. PPV will be provided if needed after
           the procedure. The infant will be monitored in the DR for stable HR, respiration and
           SpO2 prior to being moved to a transporter. Infants requiring FiO2 >0.8 on CPAP 8 cm H2O
           to maintain SpO2 88-94% by 20 minutes of life will be intubated prior to transport.
           After admission to NICU, CPAP level will be titrated between 5-8 cm H20 based on FiO2
           threshold ≥0.3

        -  Early rescue LISA arm: Infants will be resuscitated per NRP guidelines. Infant with
           stable HR and respiratory effort will be changed to binasal prongs and transported to
           NICU on CPAP. CPAP level be titrated between 5- 7 cm H2O in the DR. Infants requiring
           FiO2 >0.8 to maintain SpO2 88-94% by 20 minutes of life will be intubated in DR. After
           admission to NICU, CPAP will be escalated every 30 minutes up to a maximum level of 7 cm
           H2O at which point infant would qualify for LISA if the FiO2 requirement is ≥0.3. CPAP
           level will be titrated between 5-8 cm H20 based on FiO2 threshold ≥0.3. Infants in both
           groups who require FiO2 ≥0.6 for ≥1 hour, apnea requiring stimulation 3 times within one
           hour or ≥6 over 6 hour period, any apnea requiring PPV, or CO2 >0.65 in two consecutive
           blood gases drawn over two hours will be considered as reasons for intubation after
           LISA.

      Repeat doses of surfactant will be administered every 12 hours for FiO2 ≥0.4 up to a maximum
      of three doses.
    
  