
    
      This longitudinal, parallel randomized control trial has two treatment conditions with equal
      allocation, the YPT intervention and the standard of care transplant education as provided by
      UCLAKPT. Patients in both groups will be assessed at four time points: 1) a phone survey at
      baseline; 2) a phone survey at 4 months post-baseline; 3) a phone survey at 8 months
      post-baseline; and 4) a medical records review at 4, 8 and 18 months post-baseline.
      Additionally, patients in the YPT intervention group will receive individualized YPT
      transplant education at various time points: 14 days post-baseline by phone, the in-person
      transplant education (ITE) session, during the 4 month post-baseline survey, and during the 8
      month post-baseline survey. The date of the ITE education session cannot be fixed because it
      may occur at different points in each patient's transplant evaluation process.

      As patient records are received via the transplant database, a data manager will determine
      which are eligible for the study, then assign eligible patients a PIN that has been
      pre-randomized to treatment group before uploading the record to the recruitment database.
      Randomization will be completed by using a computer software program called TTMX
      (Transtheoretical Model Expert). Knowledge of treatment assignment is required at and after
      this stage so that the YPT expert system can be delivered to patients randomized to the
      intervention condition. Patients will be randomized into one of two groups: usual care or
      intervention group.

      Usual Care Control Group-UCLA The control group for this trial consists of the usual care for
      transplant education which, for this facility, begins when a referral is made. A physician,
      patient medical group or dialysis center can make the referral. Once UCLAKPTP receives the
      patient's information via a patient information form and their insurance has been verified,
      the patient is called to schedule an Education Seminar and a one-on-one evaluation
      appointment. Next, both UCLAKPTP mail out an "Appointment Letter" for the patient to complete
      and bring with them to Evaluation Day. These packets include a UCLAKPTP Appointment Letter
      and a Doctor's Information Worksheet. Patients are asked to fill out and bring the
      Information Worksheet with them on their appointment day. The evaluation day is a full day of
      group education, physician appointment, meetings with several coordinators of care and if
      necessary completing several medical tests with blood and urine collection. During the two
      hour group education a power point presentation is given that reviews different
      transplantation options including living and deceased donors as well as high risk donors. The
      social worker concludes the education by reviewing important insurance information with the
      group. Next, the patients have a series of individual appointments with the transplant
      physician (either a nephrologist or a surgeon), a social worker and the transplant
      coordinator where they can ask questions and will receive additional information on
      transplant. Psychosocial evaluations are completed by the social workers to identify any risk
      factors or red flags which would contradict transplant as a treatment. This routine is
      standard for all patients evaluated for transplant. Patients in this group will be surveyed
      at baseline, 4 months and 8 months post baseline. These surveys will be conducted over the
      phone and can last up to 50 minutes each.

      YPT Intervention Group Patients in the intervention group with receive individualized YPT
      transplant education at four time points. Their total participation is estimated to be 2.5
      hours. Printed materials and videos will be sent to the patients after each time point.
      Patients will also receive individualized feedback reports based on their stage of readiness
      to pursue DDKT and LDKT. In addition to being tailored to the individual's stage of
      readiness, these reports will address any concerns the patient has mentioned as well as
      answers to knowledge questions the patient may have missed.

      YPT intervention: baseline time point. We will first administer verbal consent form and
      assess for ineligibility criteria. After consent has been given and eligibility determined,
      we will conduct a baseline assessment of the patient's demographics, knowledge, decision
      making, readiness, and self-efficacy for both DDKT and LDKT. Family support and living donor
      availability will also be assessed for LDKT. This time point is estimated to last 40 minutes.
      At the end of the survey the patient will be asked schedule a time to conduct the first
      education session.The education session will occur at any time up to 14 days after the
      baseline assessment and will last between 20-30 minutes. The coach will then discuss the
      patient's readiness to pursue DDKT. This will be guided by the patient's stage of change.
      Next, the coach addresses the benefits of DDKT and provides coaching for any concerns the
      patient mentioned in the assessment. After this, the coach will discuss the patient's over
      all confidence for pursuing DDKT and then provide itemized feedback for problems the patient
      believes will prevent them from pursuing DDKT. The coach will then provide the same education
      and coaching for LDKT. At the end of the education session the coach will inform the patient
      that they will meet the patient on the day of their ITE.

      The coach will then mail a folder containing the first set of educational materials which
      includes factsheets, brochures and the patient's personalized, tailored feedback report.

      YPT intervention: ITE time point. The ITE session will occur at the UCLAKPTP during the
      patient's medical evaluation visits. It is expected to last 40 minutes. Patients will be
      taken to a semi-private area in the transplant center at either facility and re-assess the
      patient's readiness to pursue DDKT and LDKT as well as the perceived benefits and concerns.
      The patient's confidence for pursuing both DDKT and LDKT will also be re-assessed. We will
      provide feedback to the patient based on any changes in readiness, confidence, and perceived
      benefits or concerns that may have occurred since the initial assessment. DDKT feedback will
      occur directly after DDKT re-assessment and LDKT feedback will occur after LDKT
      re-assessment. The patient will then be asked to watch a 10 minute video while we print off
      the patient's personalized feedback report. Based on the patient's stage of change, one of
      two videos will be shown: "Pursuing Donation" to those patients who are in the
      pre-contemplation and contemplation phases and "Exploring Donation" will be for patients in
      all of the other stages. At the end of the session we will give the patient a second folder
      with educational materials, a DVD, and their personalized feedback report.

      YPT intervention: 4 month and 8 month time point. We will contact the patient four months and
      eight months after their baseline survey. Pre-survey reminder postcards will be sent one
      month prior to the survey. It is estimated that each survey will last 45 minutes. These
      interviews will be similar to the baseline survey given at the beginning of the trial.
      However, we will not re-assess demographic information, comorbidities, or unmet needs. At
      both time points, we will provide tailored feedback throughout the interview. This will occur
      immediately after the re-assessment of potential barriers to pursuing transplant, knowledge,
      and transplant decision making for both DDKT and LDKT. During the eight month interview, we
      will ask the patient questions regarding the cultural competency of their medical providers,
      their decision about which treatment to pursue, and their ability to have made an informed
      decision as to whether or not pursue DDKT or LDKT. As with previous time points,
      individualized feedback reports and tailored education will be sent to the patients following
      the phone call.

      YPT patients: 4, 8, and 18 month medical record review. Patients' medical records will be
      reviewed at 4, 8 and 18 months after their baseline survey in order to determine whether they
      had: 1) been waitlisted for transplant; 2) received a DDKT; 3) received an LDKT; 4) gone
      inactive or been determined ineligible for transplant; 5) died.
    
  