
    
      Fibromyalgia (FM) is a chronic widespread pain and fatigue syndrome that affects 3 to 6
      million adults in the United States. Consequences of FM include physical and psychological
      distress, loss of work productivity, reduced quality of life, and increased use of health
      resources. Although the mechanisms underlying the symptomatology of FM are not clear; one
      theory suggests potential alterations in cytokine balance. Because the symptoms of FM may be
      worsened by stress and negative psychological processes, mind-body modalities may positively
      influence the neuroendocrine and immunological mediators of symptoms in FM. Given that immune
      modulation by both psychosocial stressors and interventions has been linked to health
      changes, self-efficacy (i.e., the belief that one can cope), may be one mechanism affecting
      FM outcomes. The specific aims of this project are: (1) to test the effects of a 10-week
      guided imagery intervention in comparison to an attention control group among women diagnosed
      with fibromyalgia on (a) the primary outcomes of self-efficacy for managing symptoms and
      perceived stress and (b) the secondary outcomes of symptoms of fatigue, pain, distressed
      mood, and depressive symptoms and markers of immune function; and (2) to examine the
      relationships among self-efficacy for managing symptoms, perceived stress, symptoms of
      fatigue, pain, distressed mood, and depressive symptoms and markers of immune function. The
      biobehavioral framework to guide this project is adapted from psychoneuroimmunology. Using a
      randomized controlled two-group design with repeated measures, 72 individuals will be
      recruited and randomized into one of two groups: Usual Care plus guided imagery (GI)
      intervention (Group 1) or Usual Care alone (i.e., attention control group) (Group 2). The
      intervention consists of three 30-minute guided imagery audio recordings to be used in a
      proscribed manner over a 10-week period. An ANCOVA model will be used to test for group
      differences between the intervention and standard care groups at week 10. This project will
      be the first known to explore the relationships among cytokines and perceived stress and the
      symptoms of fatigue, pain and mood following the administration of a biobehavioral
      intervention in women with FM.
    
  