
    
      STUDY OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN This randomized clinical trial will enroll HIV-uninfected Black
      MSM and transgender females (TGF) and randomly assign them to receive enhanced versus
      standard PrEP adherence packages. Study participants will receive PrEP-related clinical care
      at Harlem United, a community-based healthcare provider in New York City's Central Harlem.

      Primary Objective Compare the effectiveness of enhanced versus standard packages for
      increasing adherence to PrEP in a community-based primary care clinic

      Secondary Objectives

        1. Compare the enhanced and standard PrEP adherence packages on:

             -  sexual risk behaviors

             -  retention in care

             -  PrEP knowledge

             -  seroconversions

        2. Examine the safety of PrEP among participants as measured by the type and frequency of
           adverse events

        3. Describe acceptability of daily PrEP among Black MSM and TGF generally and among those
           who have agreed to take PrEP

      Study Design This is an open-label, randomized clinical trial that aims to assess the
      effectiveness of an enhanced PrEP adherence package compared to a standard PrEP adherence
      package on PrEP adherence. PrEP uptake, acceptability, safety, retention in care, and
      feasibility will also be measured. Participants will be prescribed once daily oral
      co-formulated emtricitabine/tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (Truvada) by physicians at Harlem
      United, a community-based primary-care clinic located in Harlem, New York City. 200
      participants will be recruited through: Harlem United client services; studies being
      conducted at the Harlem Prevention Center; the study's ethnographic component; and targeted
      direct recruitment strategies. Each participant will receive PrEP for one year. In addition
      to PrEP, all participants will receive comprehensive HIV prevention services with access to
      condoms, risk reduction counseling, and STI screening and treatment. Participants will have
      follow up clinical visits at 12 week intervals to be evaluated for side effects, renal
      toxicity, adherence, risk behavior, and HIV seroconversion.

      Additionally, the study will assess: 1) correlates of PrEP knowledge, uptake, safety,
      retention in care, and acceptability among Black MSM and TGF individuals who are determined
      to be eligible for PrEP based on self-reported sexual risk behavior and history of sexually
      transmitted infections (STIs); and 2) patterns and correlates of adherence among participants
      in the study. The project will also assess other aspects of PrEP feasibility including risk
      compensation and side effects.

      The first eligible 50 individuals who are agree to be in the study but decline to take PrEP
      will be asked to answer a brief set of questions about the reasons for their decision.

      STUDY POPULATION

      Description of Study Site The study will be implemented in Harlem, New York by the Harlem
      Prevention Center (HPC), Mailman School of Public Health, Columbia University. HPC is located
      on 125th Street in Central Harlem and is the home for various HIV and tuberculosis (TB)
      studies, including HIV prevention studies. Informed consent and research interviews will be
      conducted and study records stored at HPC.

      Harlem United (HU), a community-based organization offering health and social services in
      Central Harlem, will serve as the locus of many study activities. HU has the capacity to
      comply with the protocol, project-specific procedures, and all applicable regulations. HU
      locations include 1) HOME (Helping Our Members Evolve), a drop-in center for younger MSM and
      TGF clients, 2) the Prevention Center which provides non-clinical HIV and non-HIV services to
      clients of all ages and genders, and 3) the Willis P. Green Jr Clinic providing HIV and
      non-HIV medical services. All sites have reception areas with waiting areas, counseling
      rooms, private rooms for HIV testing, and data management areas. Additionally, the clinic has
      physical examination rooms, medication storage areas, and access to laboratory facilities.

      Description of Study Population The study population is Black MSM and TGF, who are at-risk
      for HIV infection. MSM and TGF at-risk for HIV infection are defined as men or male-to-female
      transgendered individuals who report indicators of HIV risk. We expect that approximately 95%
      of participants will be MSM due to their larger population size in the Harlem community.

      STUDY PROCEDURES Individuals who meet criteria for the study will receive a referral for
      medical assessment. Individuals who are medically eligible to take PrEP and who agree to
      initiate PrEP will provide Informed Consent. They will then be given a 30-day PrEP
      prescription, followed by a baseline research interview. After enrollment, participants will
      be seen for a 4-week follow-up visit to be evaluated for evidence of HIV seroconversion,
      adherence to medication, and clinical toxicity. Subsequent medical and research follow-up
      visits will occur at 3, 6, 9, and 12 months after enrollment. Quarterly medical visits will
      include testing for HIV and STIs as per clinic protocol. In addition, study participants will
      have creatinine levels checked and will receive brief adherence and risk reduction
      counseling. Participants who wish to discontinue PrEP will remain in the study and may resume
      PrEP. Those who discontinue PrEP and wish to leave the study will be asked to complete an
      exit interview.
    
  