
    
      There are currently more than 150,000 cancer survivors in Ireland, and this number continues
      to rise. Subsequently, as both the number of cancer survivors and the length of survival time
      are increasing, long-term health issues related to cancer and its treatment are becoming more
      prevalent.

      Depending on the specific treatment exposures, cancer survivors can face numerous adverse
      consequences of cancer treatment. Numerous systematic reviews demonstrate that exercise can
      mitigate a number of these factors in cancer survivors and improve quality of life,
      cardiorespiratory fitness, physical functioning, fatigue and can optimise functional status,
      preserving the ability to remain in the workforce and fulfil other life roles.

      Despite the robust body of existing literature, addressing the long term side effects of
      cancer is a major challenge for health care policy and the integration and delivery of
      exercise rehabilitation and survivorship into standard clinical cancer care in Ireland
      continues to remain the exception rather than the norm. Internationally, models of cancer
      survivorship care have been developing rapidly in recent years, many centring on the
      provision of exercise rehabilitation programmes across diverse delivery settings. However,
      referral to exercise specialists is not a part of the standard care received by oncology
      patients in Ireland with a distinct lack of rehabilitation services available for cancer
      survivors.

      The aim of the FIXCAS study is to examine the feasibility of implementing a 10 week
      multi-modal exercise rehabilitation programme to deconditioned cancer survivors in a National
      Cancer Centre.

      This single-arm prospective feasibility study will evaluate the introduction, implementation
      and acceptability of an exercise rehabilitation programme for deconditioned cancer survivors
      in a real-world, standard practice setting. A convenience sample of cancer survivors (n=40)
      aged 18 or older that have completed treatment with curative intent attending outpatient
      oncology services in a National Cancer Centre will be recruited. Participants will undergo a
      10-week multi-modal exercise programme. Feasibility will be evaluated in terms of
      recruitment, adherence and compliance to the programme. Secondary outcomes will examine
      physical function and quality of life measures. In addition, the acceptability of the
      programme will be assessed through patient feedback.

      The study results will be used to optimise the intervention content, and may serve as the
      foundation for a larger definitive trial.
    
  