
    
      There is an unmet need for effective and feasible interventions for spatial neglect after
      right hemisphere stroke. Neglect is a frequent problem after stroke and makes it difficult
      for individuals to pay attention and notice information coming from the left side of their
      world. Thus, they often miss food on the left side of their plate, fail to wash or groom the
      left side of their face or body, or run into objects on the left side of the hall when
      walking or using their wheelchair. Neglect is associated with slower recovery, reduced
      independence, longer stays in rehabilitation and need for more resources when discharged. The
      investigators have developed a novel and simple computerized prism adaptation (PA) procedure
      for treating neglect, but the investigators don't know yet whether it is feasible and
      effective in a typical health care setting. Thus, the purpose of this project is to conduct a
      randomized, controlled clinical trial, comparing the PA method to a control intervention for
      the treatment of neglect. The investigators will measure feasibility of use in a clinical
      setting and effectiveness in terms of impairment (i.e., does PA improve neglect symptoms?),
      activities (i.e., does having PA improve independence in daily activities) and health care
      outcomes (i.e., does giving PA shorten length of stay and decrease the need for resources on
      discharge?). By treating neglect with PA, the overall aim is to improve the health care
      outcomes for those with neglect and to reduce need for extended hospital care.

      A controlled, randomized design will be used in the present study. Patients will be randomly
      assigned (with stratification related to neglect severity) to PA (experimental) or sham
      (control) conditions and complete 10, 30-minute intervention sessions over approximately two
      weeks. These intervention sessions will involve a novel and simple computerized prism
      adaptation, Peg-The-Mole (PTM). Outcome measures will be collected before and after each
      treatment, as well as at baseline, and a three month follow-up over the phone.
    
  