
    
      BACKGROUND: Current literature on fall prevention for community-dwelling elderly who are at
      risk of falling suggests that: 1) either single, multicomponent or multifactorial
      interventions are effective at preventing falls; 2) elderly at risk of falling with
      Parkinson's Disease (PD) and previous Stroke, although having an even greater risk of
      falling, are often excluded by these interventions; 3) often, present screening methods for
      risk of falling do not allow the early identification of subjects at risk before the first
      fall.

      AIMS

        -  To compare the efficacy of an interdisciplinary multicomponent and personalized
           multifactorial intervention aiming at reducing falls in comparison to the usual care, in
           a sample of community dwelling elderly, with or without Parkinson's Disease and/or
           previous Stroke, within the context of an RCT.

        -  To improve the accuracy of screening tests for risk of falling by using wearable
           inertial sensors.

        -  To develop a reduced set of clinical and instrumental indicators, to be utilized as a
           quick and reliable screening tests in outpatients clinics.

      METHODS: multicenter, randomized controller trial, with blind assessments on pretest, postest
      and on one-year follow-up.

      POPULATION: community-dwelling elderly (aged ≥65 years) with age-related or neurological
      condition-related (Parkinson's Disease and/or Stroke) risk of falling.

      INTERVENTION: interdisciplinary multi-component (group-based exercise; home-based exercise;
      increasing knowledge/education; home safety interventions) and personalized multi-factorial
      interventions (assessment and treatment of individual fall risk factors) CONTROL: structured
      information about participant's own personal risk factors given to the family doctor.

      OUTCOMES: The primary endpoint is the fall rate at one year in both groups. The secondary
      endpoint is the fall risk at one year.

      EXPECTED RESULTS: in the intervention group, a significant reduction in the number of total
      fall is expected, together with decreases indicators of utilization of acute health services
      because of falls. At three months, it is expected a significant improvement of functioning
      (motor functions, activity and participation) and health quality indicators.
    
  