
    
      This study was conducted according to the Helsink Declaration. The approval was obtained from
      the Ethics and Research Committee at Araraquara Dental School, São Paulo, Brazil (protocol
      #11/09). All parents/guardians of the children signed the informed consent.

      Study design:

      This case control study included four clinical exams performed in 6 to 8 years-old children
      that received preventive treated with sealants, divided into 2 groups: G1 - teeth not affect
      by MIH and G2 - teeth affect by MIH.

      Subjects:

      The 21 children included in the study had been previously diagnosed with MIH, according to
      the EAPD criteria. A total of 41 first permanent molars teeth (FPM) were included, being 16
      without MIH and 25 with MIH.

      Calibration of the examiner for the evaluations:

      The examiner was calibrated according to MIH based on criteria proposed by the European
      Academy of Pediatric Dentistry and for USPHS-Modified. The examiner assessed 32 clinical
      photographs of patients from the Clinic of Pediatric Dentistry of the Araraquara Dental
      School in São Paulo, Brazil, followed by a discussion with the MIH research team of all the
      indices and codes. After an agreement, 30 patients with enamel alterations (17 of them with
      MIH) were evaluated. After 2 weeks, the patients were reevaluated and the Kappa coefficient
      was used to verify the agreement between the evaluations. The intra-examiner values for MIH
      and USPHS-modified were 0.80.

      Treatment:

      The 41 FMP were clinically examined and classified according the presence of MIH according
      the European Association of Paediatric Dentistry and were distributed into groups. The
      preventive procedures were performed at the Pedodontics Clinics of São Paulo State
      University, for another operator. All teeth receive pre-treat with care 4 weekly applications
      of fluoride varnish (Duraphat, NY, USA).

      Both group teeth were treated with sealants.

      Evaluation:

      The four clinical exams (1, 6, 12 and 18 months) were performed in a clinical environment
      according exams preconized by the World Health Organization under artificial lights and after
      prophylaxis.

      The sealants were clinically evaluated by a calibrated examiner (Kappa 0.80). The groups were
      evaluated according to the criteria for quality of the restoration proposed by the United
      States Public Health Service USPHS-Modified and classified as satisfactory or unsatisfactory.
      When the tooth was considered unsatisfactory, it was considered failure and the treatment was
      replaced but it had not considered for the research evaluations.
    
  