
    
      Aim-I To develop and test a clinical care pathway that can be utilized in similar epidemic
      conditions in the future. To study this aim, the investigators will be using the COVID-19
      medical surge as a condition to evaluate the framework of delivering care through remote
      patient monitoring. The success of this care delivery model will be evaluated on ease of
      model implementation, patient satisfaction, clinical outcomes, and the utilization of shared
      decision making.

      Aim-II To evaluate remote patient monitoring for appropriate resource utilization in epidemic
      and pandemic conditions. To evaluate this aim, the investigators plan to compare the
      emergency department (ED) visits and in-patient admission of patients with and without
      wearable remote patient monitoring devices. Additionally, the investigators will compare the
      number of patients that required critical interventions (mechanical ventilation and ECMO)
      during the hospital stay.

      Aim III To evaluate the utilization of wearable technology for upfront predictions of
      patients that would require in-patient admissions. To evaluate this aim, patients who are
      diagnosed with COVID-19 and are undergoing self-quarantine will be closely monitored using a
      wearable device, and shared-clinical decisions will be made based on the monitored data and
      patient diary. The comparison group will be patients undergoing routine standard of care at
      the hospital. ED visits, in-patient hospital admissions, and patient satisfaction will be the
      outcome measures compared between the two groups.

      Aim IV To evaluate the association between early identification of critical, abnormal vital
      signs and the prevention of serious adverse events. To evaluate this aim, patients in the
      monitored group and non-monitored group will be compared for ED visits, in-patient
      admissions, length of hospital stay, and serious adverse events.
    
  