
    
      Regional abdominal field blockade has been demonstrated to deliver effective analgesia for
      procedures involving the anterior abdominal wall and may represent a feasible, minimally
      invasive alternative to central neuraxial blockade for some procedures and surgery of the
      abdomen.

      Regional anesthesia and analgesia techniques are commonly advocated for post-operative pain
      control in pediatric surgical practice. Regional techniques decrease morphine requirements
      and improve the quality of post-operative pain control and patient-parent satisfaction. The
      most commonly used technique is caudal anesthesia, which is generally indicated for urologic
      surgery, inguinal hernia repair and lower extremity surgery. Complications are rare and
      usually minor, however, the caudal technique is limited in its ability to provide reliable
      analgesia to the abdominal wall and for surgical procedures involving the mid and upper
      abdomen. A reasonable alternative for these surgical procedures is to perform a formal lumbar
      epidural. This provides excellent post-operative analgesia and complications are rare.
      However, when complications do occur they are not minor. Because of the risks and potential
      complications of epidural catheter insertion, current clinical experience reveals an
      unwillingness for parents to consent to this technique.

      On average, two hundred gastric tube insertions are performed in Image Guided Therapy (IGT)
      per annum (year) in this institution. Current standard practice for post-procedure pain
      control is local infiltration of the insertion site with local anesthetic during the
      procedure and intravenous morphine supplemented by rectal acetaminophen post-operatively. A
      retrospective review of this patient group demonstrates that approximately 80% of patients
      require one to three doses of morphine in the first 12 - 16 hours after the procedure. Even a
      single dose of intravenous morphine can increase the incidence of vomiting in children
      undergoing day surgical procedures.
    
  