
    
      We propose to conduct a randomized, unblinded, clinical trial of a medication adherence
      intervention in opioid-dependent, HIV-infected participants who are initiating new
      antiretroviral therapy, and who receive opioid agonist maintenance therapy with methadone or
      buprenorphine in opioid treatment programs (OTPs) in Baltimore, MD. Randomization will be
      stratified by study site and prior antiretroviral exposure. Two hundred participants will be
      randomly assigned 1:1 self-administered antiretroviral therapy (SAT) or directly administered
      antiretroviral therapy (DAART). Subjects assigned to DAART will take morning doses of
      antiretroviral therapy with a nurse or medical assistant in a private room at the OTP. DAART
      subjects will be transferred to self-administered therapy after 12 months. This is a 5 year
      study and participants will be enrolled between month 6 and month 42 of the study. The
      maximum follow-up for individual participants will be 18 months. Based on our pilot
      experience we anticipate 50% of subjects will be women, 80% African American, with a median
      age of 44 years. The following outcomes will be compared in the two study arms:

        -  Suppression of the viral load (primary outcome)

        -  Changes in CD4+ cell counts

        -  The development of antiretroviral drug resistance

        -  Retention to opioid agonist maintenance therapy, urine toxicology screens for drugs of
           abuse, and self-reported drug and alcohol use

        -  Self-reported adherence with therapy, retention to ART, and clinical and psychosocial
           moderators of adherence

        -  Electronically monitored medication adherence, using MEMS caps, in the first 2 months of
           the study

      Outcomes data will be obtained at study assessment visits at baseline, 3 months, 6 months, 12
      months, and 18 months. Participants will provide contact information, take an
      interviewer-administered survey, and provide blood and urine samples at study assessment
      visits. MEMS cap data will be captured at 1 month and 2 months. Subjects will be compensated
      for successful completion of study assessment visits and MEMS interrogations.
    
  