
    
      In recent years, the neuropeptide oxytocin (OT) has been implicated in a wide range of social
      behaviors including attachment bonds, emotion recognition, eye gaze to social cues, and
      memory for social information. Social impairments represent one of the most intractable
      features of autism, and evidence now suggests that OT biology is dysregulated in individuals
      with this disorder. The central aim of the research outlined here is to test whether OT
      administration to children with autism increases their quality and quantity of social
      interactions and enhances their ability to process emotional and social information. Findings
      from initial single-dose OT administration studies in teenaged and adult males with autism
      have shown improvement in some aspects of social functioning, but replication and extension
      to well-controlled treatment trials with younger male and female subjects is necessary to
      evaluate effectiveness. We therefore aim to investigate the effect of intranasal OT on social
      cognition and behavior immediately following a single-dose (24IU) and following a 4-week
      period of OT (24IU BID) administration in a sample of 50 subjects with autism aged 6 to 12
      years. The primary outcome for this study is change in social behavior, as determined by
      parent ratings on the Social Responsiveness Scale (SRS) after the 4-week treatment period.
      Secondary outcomes are changes in functioning on laboratory-based measures of social behavior
      and cognition following single-dose and 4-week OT administration. Research in a small study
      sample (N=13) also identified treatment responders and non-responders to a single-dose of OT.
      Thus, we also aim to identify biological and cognitive and behavioral variables (i.e.,
      pretreatment levels of social functioning and pretreatment plasma hormone levels) that may
      influence treatment response efficacy in our larger study sample. On completion of the 4-week
      treatment period all subjects will have the option of participating in another 4-week
      double-blind trial in which they will be switched to the alternate nasal spray to that which
      they previously received. They will then undergo a fourth and final assessment time-point
      using the same testing procedures as outlined above on completion of the 4-week dosing. By
      providing subjects with the option of participating in a second 4-week treatment trial, all
      subjects will have an opportunity to receive the active oxytocin nasal spray. We also will be
      able to examine any ongoing effects of oxytocin treatment in the group receiving placebo
      during the second 4-week administration period. Subjects not willing to take part in the
      second trial will exit the study and will be referred to their treating physician.
    
  