
    
      Stroke is one of the leading causes of long-term adult disability worldwide. The impaired
      ability to walk post-stroke severely limits mobility and quality of life. Many
      recently-developed assistive technologies for gait rehabilitation are at present only
      marginally better at best than traditional therapies in their efficacies. There is an urgent
      need of novel, clinically viable, and effective gait rehabilitative strategies that can
      provide even better functional outcome for stroke survivors with diverse presentations.

      Among the many new post-stroke interventions, functional electrical stimulation (FES) of
      muscles remains attractive. FES is a neural-rehabilitative technology that communicates
      control signals from an external device to the neuromuscular system. There is increasing
      recognition that rehabilitation paradigms should promote restitution of the patient's muscle
      coordination towards the normal pattern during training, and FES can achieve this goal when
      stimulations are applied to the set of muscles whose natural coordination is impaired. For
      this reason, FES is a very promising interventional strategy. Existing FES paradigms,
      however, have yielded ambiguous results in previous clinical trials, especially those for
      chronic survivors, likely because either stimulation were applied only to single or a few
      muscles, or the stimulation pattern did not mimic the natural muscle coordination pattern
      during gait. A multi-muscle FES, when applied to a larger functional set of muscles and
      driven by their natural coordination pattern, can guide muscle activations towards the normal
      pattern through neuroplasticity, thus restore impairment at the level of muscle-activation
      deficit.

      The aim of our project is to rehabilitate the gait of chronic stroke survivors by delivering
      stimulations to multiple muscles, in their natural coordination pattern, using our wearable.
      participants will utilize the theory of muscle synergy from motor neuroscience to guide our
      personalizable selections of muscles for FES. Muscle synergies are hypothesized neural
      modules of motor control that coordinate the spatiotemporal activation patterns of multiple
      muscles. Our customizable FES pattern for each stroke survivor will be constructed based on
      the normal muscle synergies - identified from age-matched healthy subjects - that are absent
      in the stroke survivor's muscle pattern during walking. Since muscle synergies represent the
      natural motor-control units used by the nervous system, reinforcement of their activations
      through FES should lead to a restoration of normal neuromuscular coordination, thus more
      natural post-training gait.
    
  