
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the duration of chronic phase chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) and survival of
           these patients treated with standard remission induction comprising hydroxyurea (HU) and
           interferon alfa (IFN-A), followed by allogeneic bone marrow transplantation and
           consolidation comprising HU and IFN-A vs cytarabine and idarubicin.

        -  Compare the frequency of hematologic and cytogenetic remission (including elimination of
           Philadelphia-positive and/or BCR/ABL-positive chromosome abnormalities), time to
           remission, and duration of remission in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Correlate the quality of hematologic and cytogenetic remission with the survival of
           patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the toxic effects of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare the disease progression in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Correlate the duration of chronic phase CML and survival with prognostic criteria and
           the significance of normal vs subnormal leukocyte counts in patients treated with these
           regimens.

        -  Compare the survival of patients without a suitable allogeneic bone marrow donor treated
           with autologous bone marrow transplantation as consolidation therapy vs consolidation
           and maintenance chemotherapy regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      participating center, eligibility for allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (Allo-BMT) (yes
      vs no), donor availability (sibling vs unrelated vs none), and risk status (high vs low).

      Induction therapy

        -  Patients receive induction therapy comprising oral hydroxyurea (HU) until WBC falls
           below 10,000/mm^3 and interferon alfa (IFN-A) subcutaneously (SC) daily beginning after
           WBC reduction and continuing in order to maintain WBC between 2,000-4,000/mm^3 and
           platelet count greater than 50,000/mm^3. If WBC is 10,000/mm^3 or greater on IFN-A
           alone, then HU must be restarted. Patients with disease progression and no anti-IFN
           antibody also receive cytarabine (ARA-C) SC for 15 days a months. Patients who develop
           disease progression while receiving ARA-C and IFN-A are taken off study.

        -  Patients who are eligible for Allo-BMT, have a sibling donor, and are age 55 and under
           receive induction therapy for a maximum of 1 year and then proceed to regimen B.
           Patients who are eligible for Allo-BMT, have an unrelated donor, and are age 45 and
           under receive induction therapy for 12-18 months. Those patients with cytogenetic
           remission receive induction therapy for up to 2 years and then proceed to regimen B.
           Those patients without cytogenetic remission proceed directly to regimen B. Patients who
           are ineligible for Allo-BMT, but are eligible for autologous BMT (AuBMT) or peripheral
           blood stem cell transplantation (PBSCT) receive induction therapy for a maximum of 1
           year and then proceed to regimen C. Patients who are ineligible for Allo-BMT and achieve
           hematologic complete remission (CR) within 3 months receive induction therapy for 18
           months. Those patients with cytogenetic remission proceed directly to regimen A. Those
           patients without cytogenetic remission proceed to randomization on regimen B. Patients
           who are ineligible for Allo-BMT and fail to achieve hematologic CR within 9 months
           proceed to randomization on regimen B. All other patients who are ineligible for
           Allo-BMT receive induction therapy for 1 year. Those patients with cytogenetic remission
           proceed to regimen A. Those patients without cytogenetic remission proceed to
           randomization on regimen B.

      Consolidation/maintenance therapy

        -  Patients are assigned to 1 of 3 regimens.

        -  Regimen A: Patients continue to receive IFN-A as in induction therapy in the absence of
           disease progression.

        -  Regimen B: Patients receive conditioning therapy comprising busulfan for 4 days and/or
           total body irradiation, followed by Allo-BMT. Patients are then randomized to 1 of 2
           treatment arms.

             -  Arm I: Patients receive consolidation therapy comprising HU and IFN-A as in
                induction therapy.

             -  Arm II: Patients receive consolidation therapy comprising ARA-C SC every 12 hours
                on days 1-5 and idarubicin (IDA) IV on days 3 and 4 (and day 5 for patients with
                responding disease). Consolidation therapy continues every 2 months for a total of
                3 courses. When blood counts recover, patients receive maintenance therapy
                comprising IFN-A and ARA-C (if needed) as in induction therapy.

        -  Regimen C: Patients receive IDA and ARA-C as in arm II. Patients then undergo AuBMT or
           PBSCT.

      Patients are followed every 3-6 months for at least 4 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 750 patients will be accrued for this study within 5 years.
    
  