
    
      Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF) is a nucleotide analogue that can inhibit both HIV and
      HBV DNA polymerases, and is active against wild-type HBV and HBV strains that contain
      lamivudine-associated polymerase gene mutations (Dore, Cooper et al. 2004). TDF was approved
      for use, in combination with other antiretrovirals, for HIV therapy in April 2002 in
      Australia. It is not currently approved for use in Australia for treatment of HBV
      mono-infection. TDF has only recently become available in Thailand where HIV/HBV co-infected
      individuals are predominantly infected with genotype B and C. In contrast, in Australia and
      Europe, the dominant HBV genotype in HIV/HBV co-infected individuals is A and D. As with all
      antiviral agents there is concern with long-term use and the development of resistance.

      There has been a report of a signature mutation leading to TDF resistance at rtA194T (Sheldon
      et al., 2005). We recently conducted a retrospective study of HIV/HBV co infected individuals
      in Melbourne who had received TDF for at least 3 months. Twenty-eight patients had samples
      available on TDF of which four (~14%) had detectable HBV DNA by PCR. We did not identify the
      mutation rtA194T or rtV214A/Q215S in individuals failing TDF and found that the only
      persisting mutations were LMV-resistant mutations. These findings highlight the need for a
      surveillance system for HIV-HBV co-infected individuals receiving TDF for the detection of
      novel mutations in the four major HBV genotypes. In addition, it is important to determine
      the clinical and virological risk factors for TDF failure. This is particularly important
      given that these agents will be used indefinitely in this patient population and with the
      development of unique drug resistant mutations there will be implications for progression of
      liver disease and future therapeutic choices.

      This study will recruit patients who are co-infected with HIV and HBV, and are currently
      taking or who are about to commence the anti-HIV drug TDF. The study cohort will include
      HIV-HBV co-infected individuals from the Alfred Hospital and Melbourne Sexual Health Clinic.
      Other sites, not covered by this application, are St Vincent's Hospital, Sydney and King
      Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital, Bangkok, Thailand.

      The aim of the study is to identify any changes in the HBV DNA that might be associated with
      resistance to TDF, to determine how long any changes take to occur and to determine the
      effect of these changes on the clinical response to TDF.

      This will be achieved by 6 monthly assessment over a 2 year period, with medical history,
      physical examination, routine clinical investigations, hepatitis B activity and HBV DNA
      sequencing.
    
  