
    
      Recording of Evoked Potentials characteristics:

      The following characteristics of the evoked potential signals will be recorded:

        -  Amplitude: Size of the response, measured in microvolts (μV)

        -  Latency: Speed of the response, measured in milliseconds (ms)

        -  Morphology: Appearance of the response - Simple/Complex wave shape Baseline evoked
           potentials will be recorded at various points of surgery.

      Anaesthesia variables:

      At the time of recording of evoked potentials:

      - Intraoperative temperature, blood pressure, ETCO2, anaesthesia depth - bispectral index
      monitoring (BIS), remifentanil TCI, MAC of desflurane, Train of Four, volume of propofol and
      remifentanil until randomization, total volume of desflurane and remifentanil used,
      anaesthetic medications used, FiO2, SpO2

      Patient characteristics:

      - Age, gender, race, weight, BMI, medications used, haematocrit, preop blood glucose (for
      Diabetics)

      Safety considerations:

      'Recommended standards for intraoperative monitoring of somatosensory evoked potentials',
      Guideline 11B of the American Clinical Neurophysiology Society (2009) and 'Intraoperative
      motor evoked potential monitoring - A position statement by the American Society of
      Neurophysiological Monitoring' will form the basis of the safety aspects of the study.

      Conduct of Anaesthesia:

        -  The induction of anaesthesia will be achieved using targeted propofol and remifentanil
           infusions (TIVA). Muscle relaxants atracurium, rocuronium or suxamethonium will be used
           to facilitate intubation.

        -  Anaesthesia will be maintained on TIVA until the patient has recovered from muscle
           relaxant. Baseline characteristics (BC1) of the evoked potentials in TIVA will be
           obtained at this stage.

        -  Once the BC1 has been obtained, the patients will be randomized to two groups:

      Group A- Anaesthesia maintained with 0.5 MAC desflurane/remifentanil infusion Group B-
      Anaesthesia maintained with 0.75MAC desflurane/remifentanil infusion

        -  Baseline characteristics 2 (BC2) will be obtained and the decision to proceed with 0.5
           or 0.75 MAC desflurane made.

        -  On completion of the neuromonitoring phase of surgery, as defined by completion of
           instrumentation and start of closure, all patients in Group A and B will be maintained
           with 1.0 MAC desflurane with remifentanil infusion. Baseline characteristics 3 (BC3)
           will be recorded at this stage.

        -  The remifentanil infusion will be titrated at various stages of surgery to maintain a
           stable BIS and will also be based on haemodynamic variables.

      All patients will get additional analgesics and antiemetics as deemed necessary.
      Post-operative recovery will follow the standard industry norms.
    
  