
    
      Cervical spondylotic myelopathy (CSM) is a neurologic condition resulting from spinal cord
      compression caused by degenerative narrowing of the cervical spinal canal. CSM is most common
      after the age of 50 years, but the age of onset is variable depending on the degree of
      congenital spinal canal narrowing. Progressive degenerative changes in the cervical spine,
      such as disc bulges or herniations, facet hypertrophy, ligamentum flavum thickening, and
      degenerative vertebral spondylolisthesis, can all contribute to progressive spinal cord
      compression. The end result is chronic compression of the spinal cord and/or nerve roots
      leading to impaired blood flow, which can result in frank damage within the spinal cord
      itself. CSM is characterized by a wide variety of clinical presentations, which can include
      neck pain, numbness or weakness in the extremities, hand clumsiness, and, classically, gait
      disturbances. This typically manifests as difficulty with balance, but patients with more
      advanced myelopathy can also develop a stiff, spastic gait.

      Surgical treatment of CSM revolves around decompressing the spinal cord, either with or
      without concurrent fusion. Many surgical strategies have been proposed. Anterior surgical
      approaches include anterior cervical discectomy and fusion or anterior corpectomy and fusion.
      Posterior surgical approaches include laminectomy with or without fusion, or laminoplasty.
      The choice of surgical approach is specific to each patient based upon the extent and
      location of the pathology, the presence or absence of deformity or spinal instability, the
      sagittal alignment of the spine, the presence or absence of ossification of the posterior
      longitudinal ligament (OPLL), as well as other patient co-morbidity factors and surgeon
      preference. While there may be some debate as to when patients with radiographic cervical
      stenosis should undergo decompressive surgery, most surgeons would agree on surgery for
      patients with moderate or severe clinical myelopathy.

      Altered gait is frequently seen with CSM, and has been reported to be improved by surgical
      intervention. A stiff or spastic gait is also characteristic of CSM in its later stages. Many
      clinical studies have determined that patients with CSM have a slower gait speed, prolonged
      double support duration, and reduced cadence compared to healthy controls.Previous studies
      also identified reduced knee flexion during swing in the early stages of the disease, and, in
      more severe cases, decreased ankle plantar flexion at the terminal stance and reduced knee
      flexion during loading response.

      Upright stance and body stability depends on the vestibular, visual, and somatosensory
      systems.These systems contribute to the maintenance of postural control. The spinal cord,
      particularly the dorsal column, is an integral part of the somatosensory system.The dorsal
      columns relay the position and vibration sensations as well as play an important role in
      maintaining postural stability and conveying sensory information such as deep sensations to
      the lower limbs.When the dorsal column of the spinal cord is compressed, the functions of
      vibration sense, deep sensibility, and joint position sense are lost. CSM patients were found
      to have impaired knee proprioception when using electrogoniometer.22 A damaged spinal cord
      causes impaired body balance because of proprioceptive loss, and patients develop ataxia in
      the lower limbs.

      Jean Dubousset, first introduced the concept of the cone of economy and balance (COE) in
      1994. The COE refers to a stable region of standing posture. The fundamental assumption is
      that swaying outside one's individual cone challenges the balance mechanisms and expends
      critical energy. Balance is defined as the ability of the human body to maintain its center
      of mass within the base of support with minimal postural sway. Sway is the movement of the
      COM in the horizontal plane when a person is standing in a static position. Balance
      efficiency is defined as the ability of the patients to maintain their COM within the COE
      with minimal sway and energy expenditure.Maintenance of balance requires coordination between
      the sensorineural and musculoskeletal systems. Very few studies have looked at functional
      balance in CSM patients. These studies used a stabilometer to measure center of gravity.
      During a 30 seconds balance test with closed eyes, CSM patients swayed significantly more and
      had greater postural instability compared to healthy controls. Neither of those studies
      reported on neuromuscular activity during a functional balance test. Haddas et al.was first
      to introduce a method to objectively quantify the COE and neuromuscular energy expenditure
      during a dynamic balance test.

      There is very little literature investigating the effect of surgical intervention on a CSM
      patient's balance and gait using human motion analysis both before and after surgery. In
      fact, there have not been any studies examining how surgical intervention for CSM can improve
      patients' balance and gait utilizing objective neuromuscular data as well as full body
      kinematic analysis. Additionally, none of the previous studies have been able to validate
      self-reported pain and functional outcome measures utilizing a human motion capture system
      and EMG.

      This study explores the effect of CSM on human balance and gait and will utilize kinematic
      balance and gait analyses to examine the dynamic range of motion of the spine and lower
      extremities, along with neuromuscular data from surface EMG to precisely define the timing
      and degree of spine and lower extremity muscle activation and peak activity, as well as
      measurements of ground reaction forces throughout the gait cycle. All of this will be
      compared pre- and post-operatively and also with a healthy control group in order to
      determine the extent to which CSM affects the biomechanics of and neuromuscular control
      during balance and gait and how this changes after surgical intervention. We will also be
      able to correlate these objective measures with patient self-reported pain and function based
      on commonly used outcome instruments.

      In summary, the purpose of this study is to explore the level of functional compromise, both
      objectively and with patient-reported outcome measures, in patients with CSM and to quantify
      the possible benefit of surgical intervention on the biomechanics and neuromuscular control
      of the spine and lower extremities as evaluated by balance and gait analyses using dynamic
      EMG, video motion capture, force plate analysis, and validated patient-reported outcome
      metrics.
    
  