
    
      The disease caused by SARS-CoV-2 infection, COronaVIrus Disease-19 (COVID-19), was first
      reported on December 31, 2019. About 20% patients, mostly elderly people, suffered from a
      severe form of acute respiratory failure. COVID-19 is a new clinical entity, therefore its
      understanding is largely incomplete, in particular as regards medium and long term
      consequences both in the clinical and functional domain. An early integration of
      rehabilitation care since the acute phase is often required to cope with the functional
      sequelae of the severe respiratory syndromes, as well of cardiac and neurological
      complications. However, indications, approaches, timing, amount and settings are mainly
      unknown due to the lack of epidemiological data regarding the impact of COVID-19 in terms of
      body function impairment and activity limitations in the short term and participation
      restrictions in the medium and long-term.

      The purpose of the study is to apply a prospective observational design to describe the
      emerging functional impairments of subjects affected by COVID-19 in the acute phase and
      monitor their course and impact on activities and participation up to 12 months of onset. The
      ultimate goal is to provide a reliable framework to plan rehabilitation delivery to COVID-19
      survivors in each phase and foresee health needs in the medium and long term. The secondary
      objective of the study is to find predictors of functional recovery, among pre-existing and
      emerging individual and contextual factors, with a special focus on the latency of
      rehabilitation start after hospital admission.

      The study protocol complements measures of functioning with the indicators used in the
      registration form for clinical characterization cases disseminated by the World Health
      Organization: in doing so, the authors aim to support the global project of providing Member
      States with a standardized approach to collect clinical data.

      Study objectives Primary Objective: To describe the emerging functional impairments in
      patients hospitalized for SARS-COV-2 infection (COVID-19), and monitor their course and
      impact on activities and participation up to 12 months of onset Secondary Objective: To
      search for predictive factors of recovery, among the pre-existing and emerging individual and
      context-related ones. Particular attention will be paid to the presence and latency of
      rehabilitation delivery after hospital admission, describing the functional evolution of
      subjects who received rehabilitation since the acute phase, compared to those who did not.

      MATERIALS AND METHODS. Study Design. Prospective observational study with 12-month follow-up.
      Total study duration: 18 months Population. Adults, male and female, admitted to the
      University Hospital "Ospedali Riuniti of Ancona" (UH-ORA) from March 1st, 2020 for the
      management of acute COVID-19 infection, able to provide written or oral informed consent. The
      only exclusion criterion will be the lack of information concerning clinical data regarding
      the management in the acute ward.

      Data collection: A paper CRF and an eCRF will be implemented to record patients' data

        -  Clinical, laboratory and instrumental data collected in the acute phase will be
           retrieved, retrospectively, from patients' clinical records.

        -  Data concerning function impairments, activity limitations and participation
           restrictions will be collected through direct assessment carried out by the
           rehabilitation team at the enrollment, on the first referral of the patient for
           counseling (T0) and at hospital discharge (Td) (for those who will receive
           rehabilitation in the acute ward), as well as at 3 , 6 and 12 months of COVID-19
           diagnosis (T3, T6, T12). Patient reported outcomes will be assessed through
           questionnaires and interviews, also delivered by telephone or video-consultation.

      The primary endpoint is the change in the overall health status observed at enrolment (T0),
      compared to the pre-COVID-19 condition, and its evolution at 3, 6 and 12 months. To this aim,
      we will assess:

        -  independence in activities of daily living (ADLs), by the modified Rankin scale. The
           modified Rankin scale is a rapid and validated measure of global independence in ADL
           with a score ranging from 0 (no disability) to 5 (bedridden). To assess changes, the
           pre-COVID mod. Rankin scale score, retrospectively ascertained, will be compared to the
           scores prospectively collected at enrolment and at 3, 6 and 12 months

        -  walking performance, by the Walking Handicap scale (WHS). The Walking Handicap scale is
           a quick and validated measure of walking performance, with a score ranging from 1
           (Physiological walker: Walks for exercise only either at home or in parallel bars during
           physical therapy) to 6 (Community walker: Independent in all home and community
           activities. Can accept crowds and uneven terrain. Demonstrates complete independence in
           shopping centers). To assess changes, the pre-COVID WHS score, retrospectively
           ascertained, will be compared to the scores prospectively collected at 3, 6 and 12
           months

        -  health-related quality of life perception, by the 36-Item Short Form Survey (SF-36).
           SF-36 is a widespread validated scale assessing patient-reported changes in
           health-related well-being perception over the last 4 weeks. SF-36 scores will be
           collected at 3, 6 and 12 months.

      The secondary endpoint is the identification of the predictors of functional recovery at 3, 6
      and 12 months, among the pre-existing and emerging individual and context-related factors.

      The following explanatory variables will be considered:

        -  Pre-existing individual factors: age, gender, blood type, nutritional status,
           comorbidity (Modified Cumulative Illness Rating Scale - CIRS), life habits and
           pre-existing disability (modified Rankin Scale and Walking Handicap scale in pre-COVID
           phase)

        -  Emerging individual factors: severity of COVID-19 on admission to the acute ward,
           severity of pneumonia during hospitalization (according to Li et al 2020), blood
           chemistry (e.g. levels of interleukine, albumin, creatinine, CRP), pulmonary
           thromboembolism, neurologic complications, swallow disorders in the acute phase;
           severity of body function impairment and activity limitation on enrolment (as measured
           by the Trunk control test-TCT, Standing Balance-SB, Functional Ambulation Category-FAC,
           modified Barthel index- mBI, Montreal Cognitive Assessment-MoCA)

        -  Emerging context-related factors: drug treatment in the acute phase (e.g. ACE
           inhibitors, Angiotensin II receptor blockers, Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatories,
           Antivirals, heparin), procedures adopted in the ICU (prone positioning, tracheostomy,
           support for ventilation, ECMO, Renal replacement therapy or dialysis,
           Inotropes/vasopressors), rehabilitation delivery in the acute ward and latency from
           hospital admission to rehabilitation start.

      Clinical-functional evaluations will be carried out at the following time-points:

      T0 = on enrolment Td = discharge from the acute ward (only for subjects who are enrolled
      during their stay in the acute ward) T3, T6, T12 = three, six and 12 months after hospital
      admission due to COVID-19 infection.

      After discharge from hospital, the assessments will be carried out in the outpatient
      laboratory; in case of mobility restrictions, questionnaires will be delivered and interviews
      will be conducted by telephone or by video consulting.

      Sample size and data analysis. Given the nature of the study, a formal calculation of the
      sample size was not made. The enrolment of at least 100 subjects is estimated based on
      COVID-19 incidence in the catchment population of the UH-ORA.

      A descriptive analysis will be conducted on the collected variables using point estimates and
      variability measures for quantitative variables or absolute and relative frequencies for
      category variables.

      A multivariate model will be constructed to extrapolate predictors of poor recovery at 12
      months (i.e. Delta T12-T0 on modified Rankin score : >1), by adjusting for potential
      confounders. After checking for the normal distribution of quantitative measures, the
      analysis of variance (ANOVA) for repeated measures will be applied to analyze the
      distribution of functional outcome measures, at 3, 6 and 12 months, among those who received
      rehabilitation in the acute phase, respect to those who did not.
    
  