
    
      While this study used participants from a general surgical floor, its merit should be
      translatable to the cardiovascular surgical patient population. Additionally, Thorup et al.
      (2016) proved a positive correlation between the amount of time a step counting device was
      worn and the distance walked by patients.

      It is no surprise that the importance of activity level and ambulation goals are stressed as
      much, if not more, to cardiac surgery patients versus other surgical patients. In order to be
      released from the hospital, a cardiac surgery patient must meet and exceed a certain walking
      distance. Because of this, much of the post-operative teaching is related to the importance
      of ambulating, setting distance goals, and defining a walking plan to adhere to during the
      hospital stay and after discharge.

      Early and sustained mobility in the post cardiovascular surgical patient can positively
      impact patient outcomes. In order to drive these outcomes, patient ownership, motivation and
      self-accountability beyond the walls of the hospital must be achieved.

      This study will use best practice guidelines, the relationship-based care model, and
      innovative technology to determine if using wearable activity monitors impacts: (1) intrinsic
      motivation, (2) time of return to pre-operative mobility levels, (3) LOS and readmission
      rates, and (4) overall fitness level.

      The aim of this study is to determine if use of a wearable activity monitor will motivate
      post cardiovascular surgical patients to increase activity levels over a 12 week period, to
      determine the wearable activity monitor's ability to influence return to pre-surgical
      self-reported mobility level, to determine if using a wearable activity monitor will increase
      6 minute walk test(6MWT) distance comparing pre-discharge 6MWT and 3 month post 6MWT, to
      determine amicability of a wearable activity monitor as an intervention strategy in post
      cardiovascular surgical patients, to determine if use of a wearable activity monitor as a
      post-operative intervention will impact patient length of stay and/or readmission.
    
  