
    
      This investigation will be a randomized, subject-masked, active-controlled parallel-arm,
      human subjects clinical trial. Of note, the investigators will be using standard-of-care
      local anesthetic under an FDA-approved purpose and do not plan to research a possible change
      of indication or use of these medications as part of this research project. The treatments in
      both groups are currently used at the study institution and there is true clinical equipoise
      at this time. The only difference in treatment between subjects who enroll versus those not
      enrolled in this study will be those who enroll will have the decision between which anatomic
      block location determined randomly, as opposed to the physician simply choosing him/herself.

      Enrollment. Consenting adults undergoing breast surgery with a planned single-injection
      regional analgesic will be offered enrollment. Patients undergoing breast surgery with a
      planned perineural catheter regional analgesic will be excluded. Study inclusion will be
      proposed to eligible patients prior to surgery. If a patient desires study participation,
      written, informed consent will be obtained using a current University of California San Diego
      (UCSD) Institutional Review Board (IRB)-approved Informed Consent Form (ICF). Selection for
      inclusion will not be based on gender, race, or socioeconomic status. The study population of
      interest includes men and women of all races and socioeconomic status. Inclusion and
      exclusion criteria are listed in another section.

      Preoperative Procedures. Following written, informed consent, the investigators will collect
      baseline anthropomorphic information (e.g., age, sex, height, and weight). All subjects will
      have a peripheral intravenous (IV) catheter inserted, standard noninvasive monitors applied,
      supplemental oxygen administered via a nasal cannula or face mask, and placed in the sitting
      position. Midazolam and fentanyl (IV) will be titrated for patient comfort, while ensuring
      that patients remain responsive to verbal cues. Both possible block locations will be viewed
      with ultrasound. If one or both of the locations is unacceptable for block placement in the
      clinician's opinion, the subject will not be randomized and will not proceed further with the
      study.

      Subjects will then be randomized using a computer-generated list and opaque, sealed envelopes
      to one of two treatment groups: (blocks of 4, stratified for unilateral vs. bilateral
      surgery): (1) erector spinae plane or (2) paravertebral block. All blocks will be placed by a
      regional anesthesia fellow or resident under the direct supervision and guidance of a
      regional anesthesia attending (or by the attending him/herself).

      The area of needle insertion will be cleaned with chlorhexidine gluconate and isopropyl
      alcohol. All blocks will be placed using standard UCSD ultrasound-guided techniques.

      Ropivacaine 0.5% (with epinephrine 1:200,000-400,000) will be administered via the needle
      into the target plane. For erector spinae plane blocks, this will be at the T3 level for
      surgery involving the axilla and the T4 level for surgery not involving the axilla (20 mL of
      local anesthetic for unilateral surgery; 16 mL of local anesthetic each side for bilateral
      surgery). For PVBs without axillary work, this will be at the T3 and T5 levels. For PVBs with
      axillary work, this will be at the T2 and T4 levels. For unilateral PVBs, 10 mL of local
      anesthetic will be injected per level. For bilateral PVBs, 8 mL of local anesthetic will be
      injected per level.

      Single-injection blocks will be considered successful if, within 30 minutes, the subject
      experiences decreased sensation to cold temperature with an alcohol pad over the approximate
      level of the ipsilateral 4th thoracic dermatome. Misplaced blocks will be replaced
      successfully, or the patient excluded from further study participation. For subjects
      undergoing bilateral surgical procedures, a block using the same protocol will be
      administered on the contralateral side.

      Intraoperatively, all subjects will receive a general anesthetic using inhaled and
      intravenous anesthetic and oxygen. Intravenous fentanyl will be administered for
      cardiovascular responsiveness to noxious stimuli at the discretion of the anesthesia
      provider.

      Postop: Subjects will be discharged with a prescription for oxycodone 5 mg tablets for
      supplementary analgesia and instructed to record the time at which subjects take their first
      opioid tablet as well as the time at which subjects believe the block starts to wear off.

      Outcome measurements (end points). Pain scores will be recorded using the Numeric Rating
      Scale (NRS). Within the recovery room, pain scores, opioid requirements, and antiemetic
      administration will be recorded by nursing staff masked to treatment group. The morning
      following surgery, all subjects will be contacted by phone or in person [if hospitalized] to
      record lowest, average, highest, and current pain scores; sleep disturbances, and nausea
      using a 0-10 Likert scale (0 = no nausea; 10 = vomiting). For outpatients, opioid
      requirements will be recorded while inpatients will have opioid requirements extracted from
      the electronic medical record. In addition, the investigators will extract antiemetic use
      from the electronic record. The investigators will collect the times at which subjects felt
      their block resolve and subjects consumed their first opioid analgesic pills following
      recovery room discharge.

      Hypothesis 1: Following breast surgery, analgesia will be non-inferior in the recovery room
      with an erector spinae plane block compared with a paravertebral block as measured with the
      Numeric Rating Scale.

      Hypothesis 2: For breast surgery, opioid consumption will be non-inferior in the operating
      and recovery rooms with an erector spinae plane block compared with a paravertebral block
      (primary: cumulative intravenous morphine equivalents).

      Primary end point: In order to claim that erector spinae plane blocks are non-inferior to
      paravertebral blocks, both Hypotheses 1 and 2 must be at least non-inferior.

      Statistical methods. Descriptive statistics will be provided by arm and in aggregate.
      Baseline characteristics of arms will be compared using the Wilcoxon-Mann-Whitney and
      Fisher's Exact tests. Key characteristics that are significantly different (p<0.05) will be
      included as covariates in the analysis models.

      Primary aim. The investigators will test the noninferiority of the erector spinae nerve block
      compared to the paravertebral nerve block. The 95% confidence interval (CI) associated with
      the Wilcoxon-Mann-Whitney test will be derived for the group difference (paravertebral minus
      erector spinae) in median pain scores within the recovery room. If the lower limit of the 95%
      CI is greater than -1.25, the investigators will conclude noninferiority. If there are
      significant differences between the groups in any key characteristics, these characteristics
      will be included as covariates in a linear model. The same noninferiority margin (-1.25) will
      be applied to the 95% CI for the covariate adjusted group difference in mean pain derived
      from the linear model.

      The noninferiority of the erector spinae nerve block with regard to total opioid consumption
      within the operating and recovery rooms will be tested in the same manner as pain, i.e.
      comparing the limits of a 95% CI associated with the Wilcoxon-Mann-Whitney test to a
      predefined noninferiority margin (in this case 2 mg). Covariate adjusted linear models will
      again be applied in the event that key characteristics are significantly different between
      the groups.

      Sample size justification. Power for the Wilcoxon-Mann-Whitney derived noninferiority testing
      is based on 10,000 simulated trials. The investigators simulated pain scores from a discrete
      distribution with median (interquartile range) 3 (2-5) [Kairaluoma, 2004]. Between the
      quartiles, the probability of each score was assumed constant. The distribution for each
      group was assumed to be the same. The sample size of n=50 per group provides 82% power to
      detect noninferiority in pain with a margin of 1.25. Similarly, opioid consumption was
      assumed to follow a truncated normal distribution with mean 2.5 mg and standard deviation 2
      mg, and minimum value 0 mg. The sample size of n = 50 per group provides at least 95% power
      to detect noninferiority with margin 2 mg. Therefore, the investigators will enroll 50
      subjects for each of two treatments with a total enrollment of 100 subjects. To allow for
      dropouts, the investigators will request a maximum enrollment of 120 subjects. Noninferiority
      in pain is tested first, and if significant, noninferiority in opioid consumption is tested.
      Under this hierarchical testing framework, no adjustment in alpha is necessary to control
      Type 1 error [Mascha, et al 2012].
    
  