
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the efficacy of high-dose methotrexate (HMTX) in combination with
      mechlorethamine, vincristine, prednisone, and procarbazine (MOPP) in infants or young
      children with primitive neuroectodermal tumors (PNET) (including medulloblastoma, anaplastic
      ependymoma, ependymoblastoma, or pineoblastoma) or high-grade astrocytoma. II. Determine
      whether the addition of HMTX to MOPP (MMOPP) improves the continuous complete response rate
      of MOPP alone and eliminates the need for salvage with radiotherapy in these patients. III.
      Determine the ability of MMOPP to provide neuroaxis prophylaxis or to treat spinal metastasis
      without radiotherapy in infants or young children with PNET. IV. Determine the toxicity of
      this regimen in terms of neurologic and neuropsychologic sequelae, growth, and development in
      these patients. V. Correlate the efficacy of this regimen with the histopathologic diagnosis
      of these patients. VI. Determine the optimum method for radiographic evaluation of spinal
      cord disease in patients with PNET. VII. Determine the utility of sequential spinal cord
      radiography as a means of monitoring PNET in these patients.

      OUTLINE: Patients undergo maximum tumor debulking. Patients who have undergone incomplete
      resection proceed to induction. Patients with a primary diagnosis of primitive
      neuroectodermal and pineal tumors or glioblastoma multiforme who have undergone total
      resection proceed to induction. Induction: Patients receive high dose methotrexate (HMTX) IV
      over 6 hours on day 1. Beginning 3 hours after completion of HMTX infusion, leucovorin
      calcium (CF) is administered IV over 30 minutes every 3 hours for 9 doses. Beginning 3 hours
      after completion of the last CF infusion, oral CF is administered every 6 hours for 8 doses.
      Patients receive a second HMTX infusion beginning 1 week after completion of the first HMTX
      infusion. Beginning 1 week after completion of the second HMTX infusion, patients receive
      mechlorethamine IV and vincristine IV on days 1 and 8, oral procarbazine and oral prednisone
      on days 1-10, and tapered doses of prednisone on days 11-13 (MOPP). Maintenance: Beginning 4
      weeks after initiating the first course of MOPP, patients receive HMTX on day 1 and MOPP
      beginning on day 4. Treatment continues every 31 days in the absence of disease progression
      or unacceptable toxicity. After 1 year or 14 doses of HMTX, whichever occurs first, HMTX is
      discontinued and treatment with MOPP alone continues every 4 weeks in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Treatment is discontinued after 2 years if the patient
      is in continuous complete remission.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 5-25 patients will be accrued for this study within 24-30
      months.
    
  