
    
      One-hundred consecutive patients with active JIA, as diagnosed by the Department of Pediatric
      Rheumatology, Astrid Lindgrens Barnsjukhus, Karolinska University Hospital will be included.

      Inclusion criteria are:

        -  age between 7 and 14 years

        -  a diagnosis of JIA according to the International League of Associations for
           rheumatology

      Exclusion criteria are:

        -  current malignancies

        -  TMJ surgery or trauma within two years

        -  recent intra-articular glucocorticoid injection in TMJ (within 1 month)

        -  other conditions or diseases than JIA that may cause orofacial pain. The parents of the
           patients and/or the patients will give their verbal and written informed consent to
           participate in the study according to the permission from the regional ethical committee
           2011/2:1.

      Clinical examination and follow-ups The patients will be examined clinically three times with
      an interval of 12 months. The clinical examination will be performed according to the RDC-TMD
      by calibrated investigators. Panoramic x-ray and CT scans will be performed at the inclusion
      examination as well as at the end of the study after 24 months. Pharmacological treatment
      will be recorded at every clinical examination and at telephone interviews. The patients will
      also be examined by a pediatric rheumatologist regarding general disease activity according
      to the Juvenile Arthritis Disease Activity Score 27 (JADAS-27), the Short Form (36) Health
      Survey (SF-36), thrombocyte particle count, C-reactive protein and blood titer of rheumatoid
      factor and anti-cyclic citrullinated peptides. Information from the examination by the
      pediatric rheumatologist will be drawn from the Swedish national register for children with
      JIA.

      Telephone interview Six months after the first and second visit, a structured telephone
      interview with the patients and/or their parents will be performed according to a
      questionnaire. The objective is to estimate the degree of joint pain and functional
      limitations in jaw function.

      Radiological examination Conventional panoramic x-rays and bilateral TMJ images will be
      obtained with the digital volume tomography (DVT, New Tom Model QR-DVT 9000, New Tom AG,
      Marburg, Germany). The CT sections will be evaluated by a specialist in oral radiology for
      presence of radiographic signs of cortical and subcortical erosions, flattening, sclerosis
      and ramus height.
    
  