
    
      Patients are randomly divided into two equal groups using the computer-based sealed envelope
      technique. Group I (Block) will receive superficial cervical plexus block and group II
      (Placebo) will receive placebo. The physician, patient and data collector are all blind to
      the patients' assigned group.

      Demographic data including gender, age, BMI and American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA)
      physical status will be noted at the initial visit. Moreover, patients' medical history, pain
      history, characteristics and type of pain, as well as previous treatment are collected for
      each patient. In addition, side effects, pain scores and analgesic consumption will be
      recorded after performing the block.

      Patients will receive 14 daily charts to record daily pain scores, symptoms and the use of
      analgesics. Patients will be told to take their medications as usual. They will be contacted
      via phone calls to ensure that they are recording information in the charts.

      Pain is assessed using the visual analogue scale (VAS). Patients with score <4 are given 500
      mg paracetamol with a maximum of 6 tables per day, or ketoprofen 100 mg tablet to a maximum
      of 3 tables per 24 hours. Patients with a score>4 are given tramadol hydrochloride 100 mg
      tablet to a maximum of 3 tablets per day.

      Superficial cervical plexus block technique A nerve stimulator is used to guide the
      superficial cervical block. The nerve stimulator needle is first passed over the skin after
      aseptic preparation from the distal to proximal part of the posterior border of the
      sternocleidomastoid. Upon contraction of the levator scapulae, a mark is placed and the skin
      is infiltrated with 1 ml lidocaine 1%. A 22-G, 2.5 cm nerve stimulator needle is subsequently
      advanced through the skin by 0.5-1 cm depending on patient's weight while passing 5-8.5 mA
      current at 1 Hz. Then, the stimulating current is reduced to 0.5-0.6 mA while maintaining
      muscle contraction. At this point, 3-5 ml of the anesthetic mixture is injected. Each 10 ml
      of the anesthetic mixture contains: 3ml lidocaine 2%, 3 ml lidocaine 2% with epinephrine
      1:200,000, 3 ml bupivacaine 0.5% and 1 ml clonidine 150µg/ml. Group II will receive an
      equivalent volume of normal saline.
    
  