
    
      This is a randomized, open-labelled study to study the effect of the different acupoints
      combination under TCM treatment principles by fNIRS.

      The investigator aim to recruited 36 depression subjects and go through 6 acupuncture
      treatment sessions in 3 weeks. The subjects will be asked to visit the clinic for 7 times.
      The depression subjects will be recruited from Queen Mary Hospital, The Mental Health
      Association of Hong Kong (Kwun Tong center) and the community. Basic personal information,
      depression medical history, level of education etc will be collected for demographic use.

      All eligible subjects will be asked to fill out the Patient Health Questionnaire Depression
      Self-test (PHQ-9) and who score 10-19 on the PHQ-9 will be entered for a Structured Clinical
      Interview for Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HAMD). This interview will be conducted
      in person by our psychiatrist Dr. Chan Wai-Chi from Department of Psychiatry, the University
      of Hong Kong in Queen Mary Hospital. They will be divided into 2 groups by randomization.
      (Group A n=18, Group B n=18) The participants will receive 2 acupuncture session per week for
      3 consecutively weeks. In each treatment session, all subjects in both groups will receive
      the same amount of needle insertion ( total 14 needles) , all needles will be retained for 30
      minutes. The whole treatment will last for around 45 minutes. No sedation will be conducted.

      Subjects in Group A will receive 14 needles based on the TCM theory "Soothing liver-qi
      stagnation", all needles will be retained for 30 minutes. Acupoint combination: Taichong太衝
      (LR 3), Ligou蠡沟 (LR 5), Zhongdu 中都(LR6), Xiguan膝關 (LR 7), Ququan曲泉 (LR 8), Zhangmen章門(LR13),
      Qimen期門 (LR14).

      Subjects in Group B will receive 14 needles based on the TCM theory "Soothing liver-qi
      stagnation" and "Tonifying the heart and the spleen"and "Invigorating the Yang Qi", all
      needles will be retained for 30 minutes. Acupoint combination: Taichong太衝 (LR 3), ,
      Sanyinjiao 三陰交 (SP 6), Xuanzhong懸鐘 (GB 39), Shenmen 神門 (HT 7), Zusanli 足三里(ST 36), Baihui
      百會(DU 20), Shenting神庭(DU24), Qihai 氣海(RN6), Guanyuan 關元(RN4). Teding Diancibo Pu
      (abbreviation: TDP) "特定電磁波譜" will be applied to Group B immediately after the needle
      insertion. This TDP device is a infra-red heat lamp which is commonly used by acupuncturists
      and Chinese Medicine Practitioner as a therapeutic substitute for moxibustion. The procedure
      will be lasted for 30 minutes in 30-40 cm above the specified acupoint Qihai 氣海(RN6) and
      Guanyuan 關元(RN4).

      Skin around these points will be sterilized by 75% alcohol and then sterilized disposable
      needle will be inserted at each point. A registered Chinese medicine practitioner with at
      least 5 years experience will be recruited to deliver the acupuncture treatment. The
      acupuncture treatment will be conducted in either Specialist Clinical Centre for Teaching and
      Research of School of Chinese Medicine, the University of Hong Kong (Address: G/F, 10 Sassoon
      Road, Pokfulam, Hong Kong), or The Hong Kong Tuberculosis Association Chinese Medicine Clinic
      cum Training Centre of the University of Hong Kong (Address: 2/F Tang Shiu Kin Hospital, 282
      Queen's Road East, Wanchai, HK)

      During the study period, subjects can receive the routine western treatment.

      fNIRS will be conducted during the whole procedure of the treatment in the 1st treatment
      sessions and the last treatment session (6th treatment). This is a safe and non-invasive
      imaging to assess the brain activation. Brain activation hemodynamic signals (e.g.,
      concentration level of Oxygenated Hemoglobin (O2Hb) and Deoxygenated Hemoglobin (HHb)) over
      the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) will be measured by a customized portal fNIRS
      device.

      Subjects will be required to fill in a Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9) at the following
      time point:

        1. Screening stage

        2. Before start of 1st treatment in Week 1

        3. Immediately after the 3rd treatment in Week 2

        4. 1st week, 2nd week and 4th week after the last treatment, conducted by telephone
    
  