
    
      Introduction. As the world population ages, glaucoma is becoming an increasingly significant
      cause of blindness. Statistics gathered by WHO in 2010, show that glaucoma is the leading
      cause of irreversible blindness, worldwide. A key component in the management of glaucoma, is
      the use of prescribed medications· but the effectiveness of medications depends on patient's
      adherence to treatment. However, there is evidence of poor adherence to prescribed medication
      in chronic diseases and a causative factor for that is the limited education and the low
      health literacy. This study aims to investigate the reasons of non-adherence to the
      medication plan among patients with glaucoma and secondly, according the findings, to develop
      and implement a comprehensive educational program.

      Methods and analysis. This is a mixed method study which include 3 stages: a descriptive
      study (stage 1), focus group discussion (stage 2) and a randomised control trial (stage 3).
      Sample: Patients with glaucoma, using at least one kind of drops, will be recruited from the
      two ophthalmology clinics in Cyprus. Selected measures include: Glaucoma Treatment Compliance
      Assessment Tool (GTCAT), European Health Literacy Survey Questionnaire (HLS-EU-Q6) and the
      Glaucoma Medication Self-Efficacy Questionnaire (GMSEQ). The data will be analysed by SPSS
      program with descriptive and inferential statistics. Content analysis will be used for the
      data from the focus groups.

      Ethics and dissemination. Permission to conduct the study received from the Cyprus National
      Bioethics Committee (ΕΕΒΚ ΕΠ 2019.01.220) and the board of management of the two
      ophthalmology clinics. All participants will be informed fully on the purpose and methods of
      the study. Consent forms will be signed and at any time participants will have the right to
      withdraw. Confidentiality of the participants will be respected as also the protection of
      data. Dissemination strategy includes presentations in international and national scientific
      conferences and publications in scientific journals.
    
  