
    
      Fractional flow reserve (FFR) is commonly used to search for ischemia-producing lesions
      during percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), and its assessment becomes an integral part
      to guide PCI when objective evidences of inducible myocardial ischemia are not available. A
      transient imbalance between oxygen supply and demand leads to the ischemic cascade, which are
      typically accompanied by regional wall motion abnormalities or electrocardiographic changes
      as objective evidences of inducible myocardial ischemia.

      FFR is a pressure-derived surrogate of coronary flow limitation defined as the ratio of
      distal coronary pressure to aortic pressure during maximal hyperemia. FFR has been indirectly
      validated against noninvasive stress tests, and large outcome trials support the benefit of
      FFR-guided PCI strategy. However, FFR is not a direct measurement of coronary flow, and
      myocardial ischemia depends on coronary flow rather than pressure. In fact, an experimental
      model shows that myocardial function can be maintained without evidences of myocardial
      ischemia despite low FFR. Furthermore, FFR did not predict improvement in symptoms or
      exercise performance after PCI, challenging the current threshold of FFR for discriminating
      ischemia-producing lesions.

      The clinical benefit of FFR-guided PCI is certainly related to relief of inducible myocardial
      ischemia. However, there is little information to examine a direct link between FFR values
      and documented inducible ischemia at the time of FFR measurement. Therefore, the
      investigators investigate the relationship between FFR values and inducible myocardial
      ischemia at the time of definite ischemia during adenosine stress testing.

      A 12-lead ECG recordings, FFR, and two-dimensional echocardiographic monitoring will be
      continued before, during and after adenosine infusion. When new regional wall motion
      abnormalities in echocardiography develop, adenosine infusion is ended and echocardiographic
      monitoring will be continued until left ventricular wall motion returns to normal. Apical
      (two-chamber, four-chamber and five chamber views) and parasternal long-axis and short-axis
      views will be recorded for offline analysis.
    
  