
    
      African American adults (AAs), compared to White adults, are half as likely to be screened
      for depression in primary care settings. Disparities in depression screening contribute to
      poor clinical outcomes, as AAs with depression are more disabled, sicker longer, and less
      likely to seek treatment compared to Whites. Black churches are trusted settings that provide
      "de facto" mental health services for depression. Indeed, in the first study of its kind, the
      study team found that 20% of adults in Black churches screened positive for depression using
      the Patient Health Questionnaire-9 (PHQ-9). However, no subjects with a positive screen
      (PHQ-9 ≥10) accepted a treatment referral when offered by research coordinators onsite for
      each screening.

      Community Health Workers (CHWs), who are trusted para-professionals from the target
      community, may bridge the gap between depression screening and treatment. The investigators
      have trained and certified 102 CHWs from 42 Black churches in Harlem, New York to deliver an
      evidence-based intervention called Screening, Brief Intervention, and Referral to Treatment
      (SBIRT), which is centered on culturally tailored Motivational Interviewing (MI). Thus, the
      scientific premise of this study is that employing CHWs to implement depression screening in
      Black churches will bridge the gap between church-based depression-screening and engagement
      with clinical services.

      Using a Hybrid Type 1 Effectiveness-Implementation design, the investigators propose a 2-arm,
      mixed-methods Cluster-Randomized Controlled Trial within 30 Black churches our CHWs currently
      attend. Based on our pilot data, the investigators expect 20% of adults (n=600) to have a
      positive depression screen. Adults will be randomized based on church study site to either
      SBIRT (n=15 churches) or Referral As Usual (RAU, n=15 churches). The investigators will then
      compare the effectiveness of SBIRT (Intervention arm) to RAU (Usual Care arm) on treatment
      engagement (primary outcome), defined as attending a depression-related clinical visit for
      which the subject reported receiving information, referral, counseling, or medication for
      depression (Aim 1). The investigators will then compare changes in Mental Health Related
      Quality of Life and depressive symptoms (secondary outcomes) at 3- and 6-months
      post-screening (Aim 2). Finally, the investigators will conduct a concurrent, mixed-methods
      (qualitative-quantitative) process evaluation to assess contextual facilitators and barriers
      of screening and referral (Aim 3).
    
  