
    
      During conservation of red blood cell concentrates, red blood cells (RBCs) undergo
      biochemical and morphological changes that have been well described, and are collectively
      termed " storage lesions ". The exact effects of these lesions in terms of beneficial or
      deleterious implications in the recipient remain to be elucidated. However, several
      retrospective studies in targeted populations suggest that an increase in the duration of RBC
      conservation could lead to an increase in morbidity and mortality in transfused patients. The
      multicenter, prospective trial ABLE (Age of Blood Evaluation, ISRCTN44878718) aimed to
      evaluate in a randomised clinical trial, the impact of the age of transfused RBC concentrates
      on several outcomes in critical care patients.

      Among the modifications that RBCs undergo during storage, the generation of microparticles
      from red blood cellsRBCs or residual platelets present in the blood concentrate has never
      been evaluated in a prospective clinical study. It has been reported that the number of red
      cell-derived microparticles (RMPs) present in stored blood increases with storage duration.
      In vivo, microparticles MPs appear to be increasingly involved in disease processes, notably
      due to their pro-inflammatory and pro-coagulant effects. Furthermore, it has been shown that
      the antigens of the Rhesus group are expressed on the RBC derived microparticles, and the
      investigative team has shown that microparticles derived from elsewhere (endothelial cells)
      are capable of activating cells which are important in the induction of immune responses
      (dendritic cells). Thus, transfusing red blood cell derived microparticles could participate
      in post-transfusional alloimmunization which may also be evaluated in this study.

      The aim of the IMIB study is to (1) quantify red cell- and platelet-derived microparticles
      MPs in RBC concentrates, and (2) evaluate the impact of the quantity of transfused
      microparticles (MPs) on survival and several outcomes in the patients enrolled in the ABLE
      trial in France.

      Other aims are to investigate the relationship between the number of microparticles in RBC
      units and (1) the age of RBC, (2) donors characteristics, (3) the procedures used to prepare
      the blood products (to define a potential new "lesion storage" marker).
    
  