
    
      This proposal seeks to investigate the effect of gait training combined with behavioral
      strategies on long-term retention of improvements on gait parameters and use of the affected
      lower-extremity in real-world situations.

      Aim 1: To assess transfer and long-term retention of walking and balance skills after robotic
      treadmill gait training combined with the TP. A total of 24 participants with chronic stoke
      will be randomly allocated to either treadmill training combined with the TP (TT+TP) or usual
      TT with an educational approach. The 8-week intervention will consist of three weekly
      sessions of 1 hour of TT. The experimental group will also receive the TP for 30 minutes and
      the control group will receive a manual with exercises to be performed at home. The primary
      outcome is the change in Lower-Extremity Motor Activity Log. Also, change in walking speed,
      endurance, functional strength and use of the affected LE will be assessed at 3- and 6-months
      after the intervention.

      Aim 2: To understand participants' acceptability and perceptions of the TP as a tool to
      enhance transfer of skills to real-world situations. A qualitative approach will be used for
      evaluating the acceptability of the TT + TP protocol. Individual interviews will be conducted
      with all participants to assess their opinion about TP, particularly, their perceived
      influence of the TP on real-life situations.

      Aim 3: To examine the feasibility of body weight support treadmill training combined with
      behavioral strategies to improve walking and balance after stroke. Compliance with the
      intervention will be measured as the number of sessions attended and number of activities
      performed outside the clinical setting. Also, the relationship between the outcome changes
      after the intervention and the participants' perceptions will be explored.

      The hypothesis is that the use of the TP will promote long-term retention of the positive
      changes in walking and balance and also changes in real-world situations. This pilot study
      will lead to future studies with larger samples in order to compare the effect of body weight
      support treadmill training combined with the TP. The long-term goal is to provide a
      systematic combination of strategies to improve gait and mobility after stroke that can be
      implemented in the clinical setting.

      In this study our goal is to combine gait training with a robotic treadmill and the TP. The
      TP is adapted from our previous work with Lower-Extremity Constraint-Induced Movement
      Therapy. The effect of the combined gait training will on real-world use of the affected
      lower extremity, walking speed, endurance, functional strength will be tested as well as the
      effect of the TP on long-term retention. Furthermore the combined TP + treadmill training
      will be meaningful to the patient.

        1. Participants: sampling and selection criteria Participants will be recruited from a list
           of patients that have been discharged from the Spain Rehabilitation Center at University
           of Alabama at Birmingham (UAB). Participants will be recruited from a registry of
           individuals who have had a stroke and whom are interested in research managed by the
           Department of Neurology at UAB.

           The inclusion criteria is as follows: (1) 18 years of age or older; (2) at least 6
           months post stroke; (3) present lower extremity motor impairment secondary to stroke,
           (4) able to walk at least 10 feet with or without personal assistance; (5) discharged
           from rehabilitation. Participants will be excluded if present uncontrolled clinical
           conditions, weight > 400lb because this is limit supported by the KineAssist, other
           neurologic conditions, a Mini-Mental State Examination score (MMSE) <24, inability to
           provide the informed consent, and insufficient language skills to answer the screening,
           assessments and interview questions.

           Participants will be first contacted by phone and the study will be fully explained, if
           the participant is interested the first screening interview will be conducted. During
           this first screening the inclusion criteria and the availability of the participants
           will be checked. After assuring the inclusion criteria have been met, a more thorough
           in-person screening examination will be scheduled in order to assess participants'
           cognitive and motor functions. All participants will be asked to voluntarily provide
           informed consent.

           A total of 24 people with chronic stroke will be selected and will be randomly allocated
           to TT+TP (N=12) or TT group (N=12). Sample calculation was performed using standard
           deviation and effect size of the LE-MAL which was obtained from a previous study
           conducted by the PI.20 This proposal is 90.9% powered to detect a significant difference
           between study arms of 1.55 improvement on the LE-MAL.

        2. Intervention All participants will receive the same robotic treadmill training. The
           training conducted on the robotic treadmill device will be based on different constructs
           of walking and balance, including standing, stepping, propulsion, speed, strength, and
           endurance. The KineAssistTM (KA) robotic device will be used for targeted training of
           participants. The KA uses a patented force-sensing, pelvic support mechanism to sense
           the user's intended walking speed and direction to drive a moving surface, thus allowing
           a person to move at their own intended walking speed and pace. The device is sensitive
           enough to allow sudden starting and stopping movements, so that balance tasks and
           responses to sudden disturbances can be accommodated. This system is uniquely different
           compared to a treadmill, which only moves at a fixed speed and can only allow repetitive
           stepping protocols. The robotic system that allows individuals to move at self-driven
           speeds against challenging conditions in order to implement a combinatorial approach to
           assessment and intervention.

           The transfer package element of the body weight support treadmill training, was modified
           accordingly in order to fit the gait training intervention. The TP procedures will be
           administered as described below.

           On the first day of treatment, participants will be asked to sign the behavioral
           contract (BC). The purpose of the BC is to: (1) achieve safety while engaging in
           improved use of the LEs, (2) increase use of the more-affected LEs in functional
           activities whenever possible, and (3) increase use of both LEs in a more coordinated
           manner. Additionally, the behavioral contract formally engages the patient in actively
           exploring more ways to use their more-affected LE in their home environment and in
           adopting a problem-solving approach to accomplish that end. The BC will be worked out
           with the patient at the end of the first treatment day. Before discussing the contract,
           therapist will develop in conjunction with the participant a daily activity schedule
           from the time of awakening in the morning until arrival at the clinic for training on
           subsequent days, and between sessions..

           Also a list of activities to be performed outside the clinical setting, the Home Skill
           Assignment (HSA), will be developed for each day of the week during the treatment
           period. The HSA process is a transfer technique designed to encourage use of the
           more-affected LE during activities of daily living (ADL). The HSA supports and should be
           in agreement with the behavioral contract. It will be given to the patient as a written
           set of activities to be accomplished after the end of the treatment session and it has a
           check-off component. After each activity is accomplished outside the treatment setting
           the patient checks that item Another component of the TP is the Home Practice after
           treatment. The purpose of home task practice after the intervention period is to assure
           continued progress with LE use after the intervention program is completed. With home
           practice, participants are encouraged to engage in functional skills and fitness
           activities on a daily basis. These activities will maintain improvements in LE use
           realized during the LE-CIMT protocol and possibly enhance them. Toward the end of
           treatment, a written individualized post-treatment home practice program will be
           developed and given to the patient. The program consists of 7 separate lists, one for
           each day of the week, repeated weekly.

           The last TP element is the administration of the Lower-Extremity Motor Activity Log
           (LE-MAL) during all treatment sessions. A full description of the LE-MAL is provided in
           the Results/Outcomes section below.

           The 8-week intervention will consist of three weekly sessions of 1 hour of TT. The
           experimental group will also receive the TP for 30 minutes and the control group (TT
           group) will receive a handbook with exercises and stretching techniques. Therapists will
           ask the participants of this group to pick up at least 2-3 activities and perform them
           for 30 minutes everyday.

        3. Outcomes In order to assess LE physical performance and use, the following primary
           outcome tools will be used: (1) the primary outcome is the Lower Extremity Motor
           Activity Log (LE-MAL);20,21 (2) Berg Balance Scale (BBS);22 (3) 10 meters walk test
           (10MWT);23 and (4) 6 minutes walking test (6MWT).24 The secondary outcomes are: (1) 5
           times sit to stand (5TSTS);25 (2) Fear of Falling Avoidance Behavior Questionnaire
           (FFABQ).36 The LE-MAL is a semi-structured interview, created in the UAB
           Constraint-Induced Therapy Research Group laboratory, that consists of questions asking
           the participant the level of assistance, how well her/his performance is, and level of
           confidence while executing 14 different daily tasks (e.g. walking indoors, climbing
           stairs) in real world environment.20,41 The LE-MAL investigates the transference of the
           skills addressed during the treatment to different contexts. The principal investigator
           of this proposal has used the test extensively and has participated in a reliability and
           validity study of the LE-MAL which showed that the LE-MAL is a reliable tool in both
           test-retest results (r=0.93) and internal consistency (Cronbach's alpha = 0.96).

      Assessments will be administered during pre-, post-treatment and follow up visits (3 and 6
      months after the end of the intervention protocol). Each assessment visit will last
      approximately 40 minutes. The follow up assessment will provide information regarding
      long-term retention of results and will serve as the basis for future research. Pre-,
      post-treatment, and follow up assessments will be compared in order to investigate changes
      observed compared to the baseline and long term retention of these changes. For this, an
      analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) will be utilized to analyze the changes among different time
      points (post-treatment and follow up assessments). Those subjects with complete data will
      contribute to the analysis. In case of missing data, a last observation carried forward
      (LOCF) sensitivity analysis will be conducted. In addition, those with incomplete follow-up
      data will be compared to subjects with complete data to see if the groups differ
      significantly in baseline characteristics.

      Compliance will be described by the percentage of sessions attended and number of activities
      performed outside the clinical setting. Considering that the participants will receive a list
      with 10 activities to be performed in the real world (Home Skill assignment), a total of 560
      activities will be listed during the intervention. In a previous LE Constraint-induced
      therapy study, participants performed approximately 85% of the activities. However, this was
      a shorter intervention (2 weeks) and a lower percentage might be observed in longer protocol
      as the purposed here. Thus, a minimum of 60% of compliance regarding the list of activities
      will be expected.

      A qualitative strand will be conducted after the conclusion of the treatment. Participants
      will be interviewed face-to-face to determine perspectives regarding the intervention
      protocol, especially acceptability. Semi-structured, in-depth interviews will be conducted
      regarding how time consuming the TP is (outside the clinical setting), potential routine
      modifications, and potential suggestions. The interviews will be conducted by other
      researchers who are knowledgeable and skilled in qualitative interviewing and are uninvolved
      in the delivery of the treatment to avoid influence on participants' responses. The
      interviews will be audio recorded and transcribed verbatim. The interviewer will follow a
      script which provides participants with an overview of the interview protocol. The interview
      questions will include participant's impression about the elements of the TP, the
      transference of motor skills trained during the gait sessions to other environments,
      compliance with procedures, and suggestions for modifications. Perceptions regarding the
      control condition will also be collected using the same procedures.

      The qualitative data will be analyzed through thematic analysis procedures in which the main
      themes collected along the interview will be categorized and reported.27 Two researchers will
      code the transcripts independently. The themes will be compared and revised by both coders.
      The themes will be refined if needed, and the final list of themes will be reported in a
      joint display.
    
  