
    
      This study is a multi-center, double-blind, placebo-controlled, Phase I study to evaluate the
      safety, reactogenicity, tolerability, and immunogenicity of MVA-BN-YF in Flavivirus-naïve
      healthy male and non-pregnant female adult subjects. There are six dose groups in this study.
      Subjects who have never received a licensed or investigational smallpox vaccine will be
      randomized to Groups 1-5 and vaccine administration and follow-up will be conducted in a
      double-blinded fashion. Subjects who have previously received two, 1 x 108 TCID50 doses of
      MVA-BN between 19 and 45 days apart by SC or IM routes will be enrolled in Group 6 and will
      be dosed open-label. Since this is a first in human, phase I study, a sentinel cohort will be
      utilized. The first two subjects (1st sentinel group) one at each clinical site will be
      randomized to Group 2 or 3 and vaccinated with MVA-BN-YF with or without ISA 720. Subjects
      and study personnel will be blinded as to whether ISA 720 was administered. Subjects will be
      monitored for safety for one day, and if no pre-defined halting rule is met (Section 9.5.1)
      then two additional subjects (2nd sentinel group) one at each clinical site will be assigned
      to the group the previous subject was not assigned to. These subjects will be vaccinated and
      monitored as above. A total of 4 sentinel subjects will be vaccinated. Primary objectives are
      assessment of the safety, tolerability, and reactogenicity of MVA-BN-YF vaccine administered
      with or without ISA 720; comparison of the safety, tolerability, and reactogenicity of
      MVA-BN-YF vaccine administered with or without ISA 720 with YF-VAX and MVA-BN. Secondary
      objectives are: assessment of the immunogenicity against the MVA-BN backbone and Yellow Fever
      virus (YF) antigen insert of MVA-BN-YF with and without ISA 720 as assessed by kinetics of
      the immune responses, seroconversion rates, and peak Geometric Mean Titer (GMT); assessment
      of the impact of previous MVA-BN vaccination on peak immune responses to YF antigen in
      MVA-BN-YF; comparison of the peak immunogenicity against YF antigen of 1 or 2 doses of
      MVA-BN-YF with or without ISA 720 with YF-VAX; comparison of the peak immunogenicity against
      the MVA-BN backbone of 1 or 2 doses of MVA-BN-YF with or without ISA 720 with MVA-BN;
      assessment of durability of immune response to YF antigen and MVA-BN at 6 months after 2nd
      vaccination or placebo administration.
    
  