
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Evaluate the relative efficacy of 4 times a day consumption of liquid or lozenge Manuka
           honey to delay or prevent radiation esophagitis-related pain (during combined
           chemotherapy and radiation therapy for lung cancer) as compared to standard supportive
           treatment, as measured at week 4 by Numerical Rating Pain Scale (NRPS) for pain upon
           swallowing.

      Secondary

        -  Evaluate the trend of severity of radiation esophagitis-related pain during combined
           chemotherapy and radiation therapy for lung cancer using weekly measurements of the
           NRPS.

        -  Evaluate the adverse events associated with Manuka honey, as measured by CTCAE, v. 4.

        -  Evaluate the severity of radiation esophagitis (grade 3-4, CTCAE, v. 4).

        -  Assess weight loss (percent weight change from baseline to 4 weeks).

        -  Assess quality of life (QOL) and pain, as measured by the European Organization for
           Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ-30) global
           QOL score and pain symptom subscale.

        -  Assess patient-reported dysphagia via a daily patient log.

        -  Assess nutritional status, as measured by the mean change in serum prealbumin levels
           from baseline to 4 weeks.

        -  Assess opioid use by collecting the patient's narcotic use in the previous 24-hour
           period at each weekly evaluation.

        -  Evaluate patient-reported adverse events associated with Manuka honey using the
           Patient-Reported Outcomes Version of the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events
           (PRO-CTCAE).

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to the percentage of
      esophagus in the radiation field (V60 < 30% vs V60 ≥ 30%). Patients are randomized to 1 of 3
      treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive standard supportive care for esophagitis-related pain as needed
           during chemoradiotherapy.

        -  Arm II: Patients swallow liquid Manuka honey slowly over 3-5 minutes. Patients must
           refrain from eating and drinking for 1 hour after administration. Treatment continues 4
           times per day during chemoradiotherapy.

        -  Arm III: Patients place Manuka honey lozenges in their mouth one at a time and swallow
           the honey as it dissolves (no chewing or swallowing it whole). Patients must refrain
           from eating and drinking for 1 hour after administration. Treatment continues 4 times
           per day during chemoradiotherapy.

      Patients complete quality of life, pain swallowing diary, and pain assessments (Numerical
      Rating Pain Scale, EORTC QLQ-30 and Pain Subscale, and PRO-CTCAE) periodically during study
      treatment.

      Patients are followed up at 12 weeks from the start of study treatment.
    
  