
    
      Postoperative ileus is common after surgery. One non-pharmacological intervention that has
      shown promising results in reducing the duration of postoperative ileus is chewing gum after
      surgery. However, this has not been investigated in upper gastrointestinal surgery such as
      pancreatic surgery. Hence the aim of this study was to investigate the effects of chewing gum
      treatment on patients undergoing pancreaticoduodenectomy due to pancreatic or periampullary
      cancer.

      This study was conducted as a phase-III trial. Patients diagnosed with pancreatic tumours
      scheduled for pancreaticoduodenectomy were included. The treatment group received chewing gum
      postoperatively and standard care. Controls received glucose solution and standard care.

      Participants were included on the day of admission, which was the day prior to surgery.
      Randomization to the two groups (1:1) was done when patients returned from the intensive care
      unit (ICU) to the ward. This procedure was chosen in order to avoid perioperative drop-outs
      due to inoperable tumors. With a power of 80% and a level of significance of 0.05, 18
      patients were needed in each group.Comparisons between the groups were analyzed with
      non-parametric tests; the Mann Whitney U test and Chi 2 test.

      Controls received standard care and sips of glucose, in total 3.6g/day in a 12-ml mixture per
      day, the same amount of glucose per day as the treatment group received via the chewing gum.
      The chewing gum used was ChiczaTM, a natural organic gum whose main ingredients are latex,
      glucose and natural flavors (lime or spearmint). Patients started to chew after they returned
      from the ICU the day after surgery. Chewing gum was administered every fourth hour
      (08.00-12.00, 12.00-16.00 and 16.00-20.00). During each four-hour period, patients chewed two
      pieces of gum for 30 minutes each. Chewing gum was used during the whole hospital stay. The
      time to the first postoperative flatulence and defecation was recorded, in addition to
      standard clinical data.
    
  