
    
      Research objectives

        1. Research and follow-up of the course and outcome of high-risk pregnant women with
           perinatal depression in the third trimester;

        2. Factors affecting the outcome of the disease;

        3. Recurrence of PND in pregnancy again;

        4. The influence of different intervention methods on the course of the disease. Research
           process: 1. The pregnant women who were filed at Xinhua Hospital and Tongji Hospital and
           were receiving perinatal care from July 2019 to December 2019 were evaluated in the
           third trimester of pregnancy using the General Situation Questionnaire, SSRS, PHQ-9, and
           GAD-7. Those with PHQ-9 score ≥ 5 or GAD ≥ 5 were classified as having symptoms of
           depression and anxiety, and those who were screened positive were included in the study
           cohort; 42 days postpartum, 3 months postpartum, 6 months postpartum, 12 months
           postpartum, 18 months postpartum , 24 months postpartum, use PHQ-9, GAD-7 scale, 6
           quality of life questionnaires, and SSRS to evaluate the cohort. If the PHQ-9 score is
           greater than or equal to 5 or the GAD is greater than or equal to 5, the psychiatrist
           will perform a clinical examination based on DSM-IV to make a clinical diagnosis; the
           outcome of the cohort and the incidence and influencing factors; 2 . During the
           follow-up process, the cohort developed high-risk pregnant women with depression,
           anxiety symptoms and other perinatal depressive disorders during the follow-up process.
           Based on the WeChat platform, integrated general hospitals, psychological counseling
           centers, social families and other service resources were carried out throughout the
           prenatal and first delivery period. Intervention methods such as community intervention
           for perinatal depression that focus on the comprehensive "physiology, psychology, and
           society" of the whole process after the first childbirth. Pregnant women diagnosed with
           PND will be evaluated by a psychiatrist to determine the treatment plan, and follow-up
           will continue.
    
  