
    
      The purpose of the proposed study is to demonstrate that a hand sewn anastomosis using
      STRATAFIX is safe and effective after minimally invasive esophagectomy and capture
      anastomotic leak and stricture rate after esophagectomy. If proven, one may reasonably
      conclude that STRATAFIX may be safely used in other less complex anastomoses and closures
      throughout the gastrointestinal tract. Furthermore, the work may promote the utilization of
      STRATAFIX for other applications, e.g. closure of the vaginal cuff after hysterectomy. The
      study is proposed to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of utilizing an absorbable running
      suture for completion of a hand swen intra thoracic esophago-gastric anastomosis during
      minimally invasive esophagectomy. There are many advantages to hand sewn anastomosis compared
      with stapled, e.g. EEA anastomosis. Two potential advantages are a lower leak rate and a
      lower stricture rate. Currently hand swen anastomosis is performed with interrupted suture of
      absorbable material. While effective, this technique requires multiple sutures, thus
      increasing operative time and material cost. Utilizing a running suture technique has the
      potential to reduce operative time and overall operative cost. Furthermore, it may lead to a
      reduction in postoperative morbidity by reducing anastomotic leak rate and structure
      formation. The hypothesis of the protocol is to evaluate the use of STRATAFIX in performing a
      hand swen intrathoracic anastomosis after minimally invasive esophagectomy is non inferior
      (and may be superior) to historical cases in which the anastomosis was completed using other
      types of suture material. Inclusion criteria: (1) All patients with esophageal cancer who are
      deemed candidates for minimally invasive robot assisted Ivor Lewis esophagogastrectomy. (2)
      Patients who provide written informed consent for the study. Exclusion criteria: Standard
      minimally invasive esophagectomy technique will be employed. (1) Creation of gastric conduit
      laparoscopically. (2) Robotic assisted esophageal mobilization through the right chest. (3)
      Robotic assisted intrathoracic anastomosis at or above the level of the azygous vein. (4)
      Barium swallow performed on post operative day 5-7 to assess anastomotic integrity. (5)
      Periodic clinical follow up on an outpatient basis to assess need for any interventions for
      anastomotic stricture.
    
  