
    
      In modern literature there is no conclusive evidence for the superiority of endoscopic over
      open inguinal hernia repair techniques, due to the lack of prospective, multicenter,
      randomized studies involving a sufficient number of patients. Both Lichtenstein and TAPP/TEP
      techniques are widely used and accepted methods of treatment. The clinical significance of
      this study is to show the differences in the incidence of perioperative complications, the
      evaluation of postoperative pain, full recovery time and improving the quality of life. The
      diagnosis of inguinal hernia will be based on a physical examination performed by an
      experienced surgeon based on the medical history of the patient and, if necessary, on
      ultrasound examination of the abdominal wall. Random assignment of patients to one of three
      treatment arms will take place the day before the surgery using computer-generated
      randomization list. The operating surgeon will be determined prior to randomization. Each
      patient before the study will receive complete information about the study which will be
      explained in detail regarding all planned procedures, the patient will obtain answers to any
      questions. After explaining any doubts the patient will sign the informed consent to
      participate in the study, in the presence of the investigator. Patients will be divided into
      three groups - TAPP, TEP and Lichtenstein method. Patients treated by TAPP and Lichtenstein
      will be further divided into subgroups - fixation glue or stitching - Lichtenstein method;
      fixation glue, tackers or implantation without fixation - TAPP method. Patients will receive
      preoperative antibiotic prophylaxis with a single dose of cephalosporin. Patients undergoing
      surgery will be hospitalized in the Department of Surgery until the first postop day. In
      justified cases, hospitalization will be extended.
    
  