
    
      Patients were randomly enrolled into two groups. Group A included 32 eyes of 32 patients who
      underwent conjunctival autografting augmented with topical application of Mitomycin C (0.2
      mg/mL). Group B included 31 eyes of 31 who underwent conjunctival autografting augmented with
      Ologen implantation.

      All patients had a recurrent nasal pterygium after one surgical session for removal of the
      primary one. Any patient with primary nasal pterygium, or patients with recurrent pterygium
      who had more than one session for surgical removal were excluded. As well, patients with
      cicatrizing conjunctival disease or previous conjunctival surgery were excluded from the
      study.

      A comprehensive ophthalmic examination, including best-corrected visual acuity testing,
      slit-lamp examination, Goldmann applanation tonometry, fundus examination, and examination of
      ocular motility, was carried out for all patients. According to their corneal extent,
      pterygia were classified into 3 grades:

      Grade 1: Fibrovascular proliferations extend up to one quarter of the corneal diameter.

      Grade 2: Fibrovascular proliferations extend up to the center of the cornea. Grade 3:
      Fibrovascular proliferations extend beyond the visual axis.

      Consents were taken from all patients and research was approved by the institutional review
      board. All measures were in accordance with the tenets of the Declaration of Helsinki.

      As for group A, 0.2 mg/mL MMC was prepared by reconstituting 2 mg vial of Mitomycin with 10
      mL sterile water for injection. When using Mitomycin 10 mg vial, the same concentration was
      achieved by reconstituting the 10 mg vial 10 mL sterile water for injection. Then 1 ml of the
      prepared solution was diluted with 4 ml of saline to achieve 0.2 mg/mL (0.02% solution). This
      solution is stable for 2 weeks under refrigeration, and 24 hours at room temperature (59° to
      86°F).

      As for group B, 1×2 or 2×2 square millimeter porous collagen matrix was used for each patient
    
  