
    
      Osteogenesis imperfecta (OI) is a heritable connective tissue disorder leading to frequent
      fractures and bone deformities. In about 90% of individuals with OI, the disease is caused by
      dominant mutations in one of the two genes coding for collagen type I, COL1A1 and COL1A2. The
      phenotype of OI ranges widely, which is captured by the Sillence classification of OI into
      clinical types I through IV. Individuals who have bone disease that is severe enough to lead
      to long-bone deformities, such as bowing of femurs and tibias, are usually diagnosed with OI
      type III (severe bone fragility) or IV (moderate bone fragility).

      Apart from the well-known features of OI in the extracranial skeleton, OI is frequently
      associated with dental and craniofacial issues. These abnormalities are a source of major
      concern to patients. Misalignment of the jaws is a common problem in individuals with OI Type
      III and IV. Malocclusion associated with OI types III and IV differs markedly from the types
      of malocclusion commonly observed in the general population. Malocclusion in the general
      population is predominantly class II, however, OI types III and IV are commonly associated
      with class III malocclusion. The Invisalign® system (Align Technology, Santa Clara, CA) is a
      personalized and FDA-approved (Class II device; 510(k) number: K143630) approach to treat
      malocclusion. It involves incrementally moving teeth with a series of removable, custom-made
      clear polyurethane trays (aligners) that exert forces on teeth. The aligners are transparent
      ('clear aligners') and therefore are less visible than traditional braces that are made of
      metal. An important consideration in the treatment of patients with OI is that Invisalign
      does not require surface etching and cement bonding of metal braces to the tooth surface,
      which is difficult in the presence of dentinogenesis imperfecta. In this study, we will
      therefore use the Invisalign system to treat malocclusion associated with OI. This study will
      directly inform clinical orthodontic practice in an area of unmet clinical need and utilizes
      a treatment method that may be immediately implemented.

      Individuals who meet the eligibility criteria will be able to enroll in the intervention arm
      of the study to undergo orthodontic treatment. Participants who fail to meet the eligibility
      criteria will be offered to participate in the study for observation purposes (natural
      history arm) without undergoing treatment. Participants in the intervention arm will need to
      visit the study site every two months for the study duration (28 months). Initial four months
      will involve observation period followed by two years of orthodontic treatment. Participants
      in the natural history arm will visit the study site every six months for a period of two
      years (4 visits). A complete oral exam, craniofacial evaluation, intra-oral photos,
      intra-oral scans, face photos, masticatory test, cone-beam CT and self-reported
      questionnaires will be done during the visits.
    
  