
    
      Dilated cardiomyopathy of unknown cause (DCM), known clinically as idiopathic dilated
      cardiomypathy, is the most common cardiomyopathy and is the leading cause of heart
      transplantation. DCM affects approximately one million individuals, and so has a major impact
      on US public health. DCM is commonly asymptomatic until very late in its course when it
      causes heart failure, disability, and death. Because of its clinical course, any means to
      identify patients at risk for DCM or to detect DCM in its asymptomatic phase could provide
      enormous opportunity for intervention to extend lives and prevent late-stage disease. Within
      this paradigm precision medicine for DCM could greatly impact health care outcomes and costs.
      Recent advances in DCM genetics have introduced these possibilities, but unresolved questions
      of familial recurrence risk, genetic etiology, racial differences, and family-based screening
      must be addressed to move ahead. The central hypothesis of this study, based on published
      studies of the investigative group, states that DCM has substantial genetic basis. For this
      study the investigators hypothesize that: (a) 35% of probands of both European and African
      ancestry (EA/AA) will be classified as familial in a cohort recruited in a multicenter US
      consortium and given explicit recommendations and assistance to achieve the clinical
      screening of relatives; (b) approximately 40% of DCM probands, whether categorized as
      familial or non-familial, or as EA or AA, will have pathogenic or likely pathogenic variants
      in genes previously implicated in DCM; and (c) a tailored intervention to help DCM probands
      communicate DCM risk to their family members will improve the uptake and impact of necessary
      clinical and genetic testing. To test these hypotheses, the investigators propose to: (1)
      estimate and compare the frequencies of EA and AA DCM probands classified as having familial
      DCM; (2) estimate and compare the proportions of probands with an identifiable genetic cause
      of DCM in groups defined by proband classification (familial/non-familial) and ancestry
      (EA/AA); and (3) evaluate the impact of a randomized intervention to aid and direct family
      communication on participation of at-risk family members in clinical screening and
      appropriate follow-up surveillance for DCM. These aims will be accomplished by recruiting a
      cohort of 1300 DCM probands (600 EA, 600 AA, 100 Hispanic ethnicity), performing
      cardiovascular clinical screening of 2600 family members, performing genetic testing of
      probands and affected family members by exome sequencing, returning genetic results, and
      randomizing probands to an intervention to improve family communication regarding DCM risk.
      Proving these hypotheses would be transformative for the field: rather than viewing DCM as
      only a clinical diagnosis, cardiovascular professionals would understand DCM as a genetic
      disease that should be managed using genetic diagnostic and family-based preventive
      strategies. These study results would make precision medicine for DCM a reality.
    
  