
    
      Treatment Protocol: CBT-I and armodafinil are being studied in a four-arm, randomized,
      controlled, clinical trial of 226 cancer survivors with chronic insomnia who are at least one
      month post treatment. The seven-week intervention is designed to determine the efficacy and
      acceptability of these treatment strategies in reducing insomnia in cancer survivors.
      Assessments will be made by questionnaires before, during, and two weeks following the study
      intervention. All ancillary treatments, as appropriate for control of symptoms caused by the
      cancer or its treatment may be administered as clinically indicated.

      Withdrawal of Sleep Medications: All participants, prior to beginning the baseline data
      collection phase of the study, must have withdrawn from all sleep medications, including:
      prescription, over-the-counter, CAM and herbal remedies for at least one week prior to
      beginning the study.

      CBT-I (Arms 3 & 4): CBT-I will be provided on an individual basis to all patients in study
      Arms 3 & 4 by a licensed clinical psychologist trained in CBT-I by Dr. Perlis. Subjects in
      these two study arms will receive 7 weeks of CBT-I, using a structured research grade
      protocol developed at the UR-SNRL. This manualized intervention, which exists as a published
      text: Perlis et al., 2005, includes four essential components: Sleep Restriction Therapy,
      Stimulus Control Instruction, Sleep Hygiene Guidelines, and a session of cognitive therapy.

      Data Collection: Patients will complete the Insomnia Severity (ISI) at the time of consent
      and every Friday during weeks 3-11 of the study. A follow-up call by study personnel will be
      made to each participant not currently receiving CBT-I on each of these Fridays to promote
      compliance, prompt completion, assess potential side effects of study medication, and answer
      patient questions.
    
  