
    
      -  This study will be conducted during the influenza's epidemic season. The start and the
           end of this study will be determined using national epidemic bases (national reference
           center for inluenza in Lyon).

        -  Collection of consent of eligible patients after medical information by a senior
           emergency physician

        -  Sampling = nasopharyngeal swabbing for all patients using usual testing or point-of-care
           testing

        -  first arm : performing the test at the adult emergency department 24h/24

        -  second arm : sending the test to the virology laboratory and realization during working
           hours

        -  Collection of clinical data : a specific standardized questionnaire is used, as soon as
           the patient is included and until he leaves the emergency medical service, to collect
           clinical data and the time taken to take care of the patient

      In order to reduce the bias of this study, it has been established :

      After verification of the eligibility criteria and obtaining the written consent of the
      patient, a randomization procedure will be initiated for the patient. Randomization will be
      centralized at the DRCI of Clermont-Ferrand University Hospital. Patients will be randomly
      assigned to one of the study groups by means of individual block randomization. A document
      describing the randomization procedure will be kept confidentially in the DRCI of
      Clermont-Ferrand University Hospital;

      - The collection of data will be prospective.

      A listing of patients opposing to the study's participation to verify that their
      characteristics are homogeneous to the general population The choice of the Genexpert®
      automaton used in the "point of care testing" arm whose principle of operation requires a
      minimum of manipulations (<2 minutes) and does not generate inter-operator variability
      Statistical analyzes will be performed with the Stata software (version 13, StataCorp,
      College Station). All statistical tests will be carried out at the risk of error of the first
      species α of 5%. Part of the analysis of the secondary endpoints should be primarily
      exploratory in nature. As discussed by Feise in 2002 (Feise RJ, Do 2: 8), the adjustment of
      the risk of error of 1st species will not be proposed systematically, but case by case in
      view of clinical considerations and not just statistical ones.

      Continuous variables will be presented as mean and standard deviation, subject to the
      normality of their distribution (Shapiro-Wilk test if necessary). In case of non-normality,
      they will be presented as median, quartiles, and extreme values. The qualitative variables
      will be expressed in numbers and percentages associated. Graphic representations will be
      associated with these analyzes as much as possible.
    
  