
    
      Design: With a self-administered screening for depression (PHQ-9), parents with a subclinical
      cutoff score or above will be eligible to participate in a four-session parent workshop. The
      same program will be provided in five locations in Hong Kong. A waitlist-control randomised
      controlled trial will be used to evaluate the outcomes of the program. An estimated 340
      parents will be recruited and randomised into an intervention group and a wait-list control
      group. The sample estimation is based on an expected effect size of .33 for family
      functioning in the PI's pilot study, with an estimated drop-out rate of 15%, a two-tailed α
      error of 5%, 80% power, and a test of two independent groups.

      Measures: (1) Exposure to social unrest will be measured using the Political Life Events
      Scale. The scale contains 20 items related to stressful events, to which respondents report
      exposure by answering yes or no. In view of the local context, only 16 items will be used.
      (2) Negative emotions about social unrest will be measured by the three items developed by
      Halperin et al. The items assess the intensity of negative emotions (hatred, anger, despair)
      in the context of social unrest, with responses given on a Likert-type scale ranging from 1
      (not at all) to 10 (very strong). (3) Depression and anxiety symptoms will be assessed by the
      Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9) and the Generalized Anxiety Disorder 7-item (GAD-7)
      scale. (4) Traumatic stress will be assessed by the International Trauma Questionnaire (ITQ),
      a 6-item self-report measure of the major symptoms of post-traumatic stress. The ITQ has been
      translated into Chinese and validated for screening of post-traumatic stress. (5) Family
      functioning will be assessed by the Family APGAR (Adaptation, Partnership, Growth, Affection,
      Resolve) scale (APGAR). The 5-item scales uses a 3-point response scale (0 = hardly ever and
      2 = almost always). A cutoff for severe family dysfunction is available for Chinese families.
      (6) Family conflict will be measured by the Conflict Tactics Scale (CTS-2), a self-report
      measure of behavioural assault or psychological aggression among family members. It has been
      used in studies of conflict between adolescents and parents.
    
  