
    
      Our ongoing nonmyeloablative allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) transplant protocol
      (03-H-0170) for patients with severe sickle cell disease (SCD) and B-thalassemia from
      HLA-matched family donors has excellent results thus far. Our long term leukocyte engraftment
      rate is 85-90% with the same disease-free survival. None of the engrafted patients had acute
      sickle-related events, significant toxicity associated with the conditioning regimen, or any
      evidence of graft versus host disease (GVHD).

      While these results rival the transplant outcomes from low risk transplant patients with
      B-thalassemia, there are areas for improvement. The first is the 10-15% graft rejection rate,
      where a majority of these individuals were male donor and female recipient pairs. Another
      limitation is the significant delay in donor red cell engraftment in one recipient who had
      pre-existing allo-antibody to donor red cells from previous transfusions. Also we have
      excluded another group of individuals with preformed antibodies, recipients having major ABO
      incompatibility to the donors.

      To overcome these limitations (and reduce the transplant failure rate) in this new protocol,
      we will continue our nonmyeloablative approach in the patients with SCD and B-thalassemia
      with HLA-matched family donors, but using an increased intensity regimen in a subset
      considered at high risk for transplant failure. This modified regimen consists of pentostatin
      and oral cyclophosphamide, which we hypothesize will reduce both the T cells that mediate
      leukocyte rejection and the B/plasma cells that produce anti-donor erythrocyte antibodies.
      The main transplant backbone will remain as alemtuzumab, low dose total body irradiation of
      300 cGy, and sirolimus; the transplant graft will remain as unmanipulated G-CSF mobilized,
      T-cell replete, PBSC product for hematopoietic and lymphoid reconstitution.

      The primary endpoint of this study is the percentage/number of patients who have sustained
      donor type hemoglobin at 1 year post transplant for male donors - female recipients. The
      primary endpoint for those with pre-existing antibodies is the presence of donor red cells
      with reticulocytes greater than or equal to 30 k/uL at 2 years post-transplant. Other
      endpoints include the toxicity of the pentostatin-cyclophosphamide regimen, the degree of
      donor-host chimerism necessary for long-term graft survival and disease amelioration,
      incidence of acute and chronic GVHD, incidence of graft rejection, transplant-related
      morbidity, as well as disease-free and overall survival. Since SCD and B-thalassemia are
      non-malignant disorders of red cells, severe GVHD, lack of donor erythrocyte (prolonged donor
      red cell aplasia), or graft rejection is collectively considered transplant failure.
    
  