
    
      With an estimated 2.5 million HIV-infected persons, India is home to one of the largest
      populations of HIV-infected persons in the world. Yet, it is estimated that less than 20% of
      the people living with HIV in India are aware of their status. Andhra Pradesh (AP), situated
      in south India, is the state with the highest HIV burden in India. Reports from AP suggest
      usage of voluntary counseling and testing (VCT) is low, especially among high-risk groups.
      VCT has been shown to have many benefits in addition to diagnosis of HIV infection such as
      reduction in risk behavior, partner referral, and serving as an entry point to the health
      care system. Community mobilization and VCT vans have been shown in the past to play a role
      in increasing utilization of VCT services in various developing countries similar to India.
      The primary objective of this protocol is to arrive at an effect size of community
      mobilization alone, and both community mobilization and VCT vans, on the adoption of VCT
      services in Andhra Pradesh, India. Secondary objectives include identifying barriers to VCT,
      assessing stigma in the community, and establishing a specimen repository at the YRGCARE
      infectious disease laboratory in Chennai, India. We will achieve these objectives by
      conducting a cluster randomized clinical trial with 3 arms: ARM 1: standard of care with
      pre-existing VCT centers (SVCT); ARM 2: community mobilization in the setting of pre-existing
      VCT centers (CVCT); ARM 3: community mobilization plus VCT van in addition to the
      pre-existing VCT centers (MCVCT). The overall study duration will be 6 months from
      randomization. To our knowledge, this is the first study to examine the role of community
      mobilization and VCT vans on the adoption of VCT in the Indian context. It will provide us
      with vital data that will be used to plan a larger powered study to evaluate the
      effectiveness of these interventions including sites from other parts of India. Additionally,
      this study will also provide us with important information on barriers to VCT in these
      communities.
    
  