
    
      : Multiple Sclerosis (MS) is the most frequent disabling neurological disease in young
      adults. Over the past two decades, cognitive impairment in MS has received increasing
      interest. Although for a long time described in MS text books, it has been underestimated
      until recently. It is now accepted as an important feature of MS with a high impact on
      working and social abilities. The cognitive disorders in MS are dominated by a slowdown in
      information processing speed (IPS), as well as disturbances of attention and memory. The
      nature of cognitive findings suggest that the impairments depend on the integrity of
      large-scale cortical integrative processes, which involve long-distance white matter
      projections which can be impaired due to diffuse demyelinating injury in patients with MS. At
      the early stages of MS there is increasing evidence that neuroplasticity, the ability of the
      brain to respond to various insults, allows adaptive reorganization of cognitive functions to
      limit impairment, despite widespread tissue damage. Recently, we showed that at the early
      stages of RRMS compensatory capacities are relatively maintained, especially in
      highly-educated patients suggesting that cognitive training might be useful. The requirement
      of cerebral compensatory mechanisms to perform the cognitive tests was postulated in MS
      patients on the basis of functional MRI (fMRI) studies. By using a go/no go task of
      increasing complexity in a fMRI study in RRMS patients, we observed that a limitation of this
      compensatory cerebral recruitment appears when the attentional solicitations reach a
      particular level of difficulty. We postulate that a cognitive training program may help to
      maintain these compensatory capacities. Therefore, we propose to evaluate the effect of the
      program on brain activation using a task with several levels of attention requirement
      (increased attention load) by using fMRI and to evaluate in parallel its clinical effect and
      its impact in daily activities.
    
  