
    
      Background: The tract for percutaneous nephrolithotomy is typically established in the 11th
      intercostal space or in the subcostal area. According to Keegan and Garrett's dermatome map,
      the somatic pain could be controlled if the 11th and 12th the spinal nerve been blocked.
      However, the investigators found that if the 11th and the 12th spinal nerve had been blocked
      by evaluating the landmarks of ventral landmarks (xiphoid process , umbilicus and pubic
      symphysis), the somatic pain of percutaneous nephrolithotomy could not be controlled. In
      order to find the reason, the investigators compared the four main dermatome maps created by
      Henry Head, Foerster, Keegan and Lee. There are significant differences of dermatome among
      these maps. In addition, there were no landmarks to evaluate the dermatome at the back.

      Objectives: To map the sensory innervations of lower thoracic nerves and find the dorsal
      landmarks to evaluate sensory innervations by epidural block.

      Methods: Adult patients undergoing elective percutaneous nephrolithotomy, ureteroscopic
      lithotripsy, transuretheral resection of prostate and transuretheral resection of bladder
      tumor will receive epidural block with 0.5% ropivacaine. Complete Sensory loss to ice will be
      evaluated at anterior median line as soon as the surgery was completed. The superior border
      of complete sensory loss to ice will be identified by ventral landmaks (xiphoid process ,
      umbilicus and pubic symphysis). Fifty patients with superior border of complete sensory loss
      to ice from T9 to T12 will be included in this study. The sensory loss to ice will be
      evaluated at anterior median line, midclavicular line, anterior axillary line, posterior
      axillary line, scapular line and posterior median line. The level of vertebrae will be
      identified and marked by ultrasound. The superior border of complete sensory loss to ice form
      anterior median line to posterior median line will be drawn and recorded for every patient.
      The dermatome map from T9 to T12 will be drawn. The landmarks of sensory innervations at
      posterior median line will be established using vertebrae..
    
  