
    
      As human kidney function declines, so does the kidney's ability to excrete urea, the chief
      end product of nitrogen metabolism. Excess urea may accelerate the pathophysiological
      consequences of kidney failure. Urea spontaneously dissociates to form cyanate, which, in its
      unprotonated form can react with protein amino groups in a process known as carbamylation.
      Carbamylation-induced protein alterations may be involved in the progression of various
      diseases by changing the structure, charge, and function of enzymes, hormones, receptors, and
      amino acids. For example, proteins such as collagen and low density lipoproteins (LDLs), when
      carbamylated, have been shown to induce the characteristic biochemical events of
      atherosclerosis progression. This research aims to evaluate whether amino acid
      supplementation can attenuate such processes that are known to contribute to morbidity in
      patients with ESRD.

      Percent carbamylated albumin (C-Alb) level will be used as a measure of overall carbamylation
      burden. Previous studies conducted by MGH Investigators have shown a negative correlation
      between %C-Alb and circulating amino acids, suggesting that free amino acids may actively
      scavenge reactive isocyanate. Further, ex vivo studies show that amino acid supplementation
      reduces the carbamylation reaction. The MGH Investigators recently demonstrated an
      association between markers of cardiac stress, heart failure and carbamylation in patients
      with ESRD and found that %C-Alb was strongly associated with erythropoietin resistance in
      dialysis patients. Additionally, using validated measures of total-body carbamylation, these
      and other Investigators have reported that elevated protein carbamylation was linked with
      higher mortality in several distinct ESRD cohorts. Finally, preliminary data from a recent
      pilot study at MGH (NCT01612429) suggests that amino acid supplementation in patients with
      ESRD undergoing maintenance hemodialysis can attenuate carbamylation of proteins.

      The proposed randomized study will directly evaluate the impact of amino acid supplementation
      on: (1) the burden of carbamylation in terms of %C-Alb; and (2) selected intermediate
      determinants of clinical outcomes, i.e., markers of inflammation, cardiac stress, and
      erythropoietin responsiveness.
    
  