
    
      The standard treatment for traumatic hemothorax (HTX) and hemopneumothorax (HPTX) has been an
      insertion of a large-bore chest tube (CT) (French 28-40). The procedure is associated with
      significant patient's pain and discomfort. Our institution has taken a lead role to replace
      chest tube insertion with percutaneous (pigtail) catheter (PC) (14F) insertion. The
      investigators have previously published that, not only PC works just as well as the
      traditional CT for both pneumothorax (1) and hemothorax( 2), but it is also associated with a
      significant less insertion pain and tube site pain (3). In that hemothorax study,
      investigator reported 36 patients who received PC for HTX (2) with the same success as 32F
      chest tube in term of initial output and success rate; success rate was defined as no further
      intervention was needed. Since the completion of that study (December 2011), our division has
      inserted probably 100 PC for hemothorax and hemopneumohthorax Therefore, investigator now
      believes that it is time for us to demonstrate the efficacy of the PC for hemothorax with a
      prospective and randomized study as investigators have done previously for traumatic
      pneumothorax (3).

      The investigator hypothesizes that PC will be just as effective as CT in patients with
      traumatic HTX and HPTX.

      Our study aim is to demonstrate the efficacy of the PC in a prospective and randomized
      fashion as we have done previously in pneumothorax.

      Our primary end point is the success/failure rate. Failure is defined as patient require a
      second intervention i.e., second tube, video-assisted thoracoscopy (VATS), etc.

      Our secondary end points are the amount of initial tube drainage (1-hour), 24-hour, 48-hour,
      72-hour; tube insertion-related complications, hospital length of stay, and patient's
      experience during CT/PC insertion (if patient can provide the information).

      Significance of the study:

      Currently, most trauma surgeons prefer CT over PC for the management of traumatic HTX. The
      study will provide a level 1 scientific evidence that PC works as well as CT for traumatic
      HTX/HPTX, and we have already shown that PC is less painful than CT.
    
  