
    
      The primary purpose of the proposed study is to evaluate the feasibility and efficacy of
      tailored CBT with standard pharmaceutical care (CBT/SC) in reducing pain, disability, and
      distress among persons with Multiple Sclerosis (MS) related pain conditions. This will
      entail: (1) evaluating the feasibility, perceived credibility, participation and adherence
      rates, and satisfaction related to CBT, (2) conducting a randomized controlled trial of the
      efficacy of CBT relative to an education control/standard care (ED/SC) condition, and (3)
      evaluating possible predictors of treatment response including demographics, disease-relevant
      variables, cognitive functioning, and motivation or readiness to adopt a self-management
      approach to MS-related pain.

      Research Design: A randomized mixed factorial controlled design will be employed in which
      CBT/SC is compared to EDSC. Repeated assessments of key outcome domains will occur at
      pretreatment/baseline, at 15 weeks (post-treatment), and 20, 36, and 52 (follow-up) weeks.

      Methodology: Participants in this trial will be 124 persons with MS (including veterans and
      non-veterans) who report persistent MS-related pain (e.g., neuropathic pain, pain related to
      muscle spasms, neuralgias) of at least moderate intensity (pain severity of 4 or greater on
      the numeric rating scale) despite optimal pharmacological management. Participants must be at
      least 21 years of age and able to provide informed consent. Exclusion criteria include: (1)
      pending surgery or interventional anesthesiological procedures for pain, (2) currently
      psychotic or actively suicidal or homicidal, (3) current alcohol or substance abuse or
      dependence, (4) presence of other life threatening illnesses, (5) the presence of profound
      cognitive impairment rendering successful participation in CBT or ED impossible, (6) the
      presence of physical disabilities resulting in an inability to attend treatment sessions
      and/or inability to participate in telephone interventions (e.g., severe dysarthria), (7)
      prior or current psychological treatment for chronic pain, (8) two or more documented
      exacerbations of MS-related symptoms during the past year, and (9) current exacerbation of
      symptoms defined as sudden onset of symptoms within a 24 hour period. CBT will involve an
      innovative treatment approach that combines specific training in relevant cognitive and
      behavior skills targeting management of pain and the negative impacts of pain. The
      application of these skills for the management of coincident symptoms of MS (e.g.,
      spasticity, fatigue, abnormal sensory experiences) will also be encouraged. ED will involve
      provision of a broad array of educational material regarding MS and its management, but it
      will not explicitly inform participants about non-pharmacological strategies for management
      of pain. Both treatments will involve seven 60 minute, outpatient individual treatment
      sessions offered every other week, interspersed with five, 30 minute individual telephone
      sessions (one final face-to-face session will be 30 minute individual telephone sessions will
      be included) provided by a psychologist and supported by patient education and treatment
      guides that have been developed for the study. Participants will be randomly assigned to one
      of two treatment arms: CBT/SC or ED/SC. Recruitment rates, session adherence, dropout rates,
      and participants' ratings of comprehension, treatment credibility, treatment satisfaction and
      adherence to therapist recommendations will be used to assess feasibility of the treatment
      and recruitment methods. Multiple standardized measures of each outcome domain of interest
      will be obtained, including pain severity, disability, affective distress, and quality of
      life. The analysis of each of the primary and secondary outcome measures (summary measures of
      pain intensity, pain-related disability, MS-related disability, and emotional functioning)
      will be by a repeated measures mixed effects model27. The outcome variable in each model will
      be the changes at each follow-up visit relative to baseline, with the baseline value included
      as a covariate in the model. Several possible predictors of treatment adherence and outcome
      will be examined, including participant demographics (e.g., age, gender, ethnicity),
      disease-relevant variables (e.g.., MS subtype, disease duration, disease severity, level of
      cognitive functioning), outcome measures (e.g., pain severity, depressive symptom severity),
      and a measure of motivation for adoption of a self-management approach to chronic pain.
    
  