
    
      Young adulthood is a critical time for negotiating several life transitions and establishing
      and pursuing important life goals. Unfortunately, a cancer diagnosis disrupts this period of
      life for more than 60,000 people annually in the U.S. Compared to those without a history of
      cancer, young adult cancer survivors report poorer mental and physical health; moreover, they
      report significantly greater disruption in their goal pursuits than cancer survivors
      diagnosed at a later age. However, this high-risk group has been underserved and
      understudied, particularly in terms of intervention research to address these sequelae. Hope,
      a positive psychology construct that taps the ways in which people choose and pursue goals,
      is particularly relevant to this population. Additionally, higher hope is related to engaging
      in health promoting behaviors and living healthier lifestyles, which reduces risk of disease
      and adverse late effects and ultimately increase quality of life (QOL). The research team has
      pioneered a app-based behavioral intervention called Achieving Wellness After Kancer in Early
      life (AWAKE), aimed at promoting healthy lifestyles - specifically targeting mental health
      and positive health behaviors - among young adult cancer survivors. The proposed study will
      refine the intervention messaging to focus on goal-oriented thinking, include a coach, and
      extend the prior pilot work to a larger sample of young adult cancer survivors (aged 18-39
      years) recruited from two NCI-designated cancer centers (Emory's Winship Cancer Institute in
      Atlanta; University of Kentucky's Markey Cancer Center in Lexington). In this randomized
      controlled trial, recipients of the AWAKE intervention will be compared to an attention
      control group.

      The specific aims of this study are to:

      Aim 1. Test the feasibility and acceptability of AWAKE among intervention participants. The
      primary feasibility indicators are participation rates and retention rates. The primary
      acceptability indicators are use of and satisfaction with intervention components.

      Aim 2. Estimate effect sizes of AWAKE vs. control at 2 and 6 months to inform sample size
      calculations for the subsequent efficacy trial. The primary outcome is changes in hope, per
      the Trait Hope Scale. The secondary outcome is changes in quality of life, per the 36-Item
      Short Form Health Survey (SF-36) and the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - General
      (FACT-G).
    
  