
    
      The study will enroll patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage, who generally have a high risk
      of ischemic stroke in the 2 weeks following the initial bleed, and patients with clipped or
      coiled aneurysm. The study intervention will consist of the application a blood pressure cuff
      around the subjects arm or leg and use it to interrupt the circulation to the arm or leg for
      10 minutes. This will be repeated for a total of 3 times every 24 to 48 hours up to 14 days.
      The cuff will be inflated for 10 minutes and then deflated for 5 minutes. There will be 3
      cycles of this. The cuff will be inflated to 200mmHg.

      The primary endpoints are safety in nature and defined as follows:

        1. If the prolonged upper or lower extremity application of blood pressure cuff should
           induce tissue breakdown, ischemic injury or musculoskeletal injury patient will be
           withdrawn from the study.

        2. If the subject does not wish to continue with limb preconditioning because of discomfort
           or pain.

        3. Any unexplained neurological deterioration will be carefully reviewed and the etiology
           ascertained. If this should temporally coincide with the preconditioning stimulus on at
           least 2 occasions the patient will be withdrawn from the study.

        4. Any unexplained cardiovascular event (myocardial ischemia, chest pain, hypotension) will
           be carefully monitored and the etiology reviewed. Any temporal association with the
           pre-conditioning protocol will be examined.

        5. Deep vein thrombosis. Patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage have a high incidence of
           deep vein thrombosis. It will be difficult to determine if this is due to the
           intervention or not. The investigators will carefully monitor deep vein thrombosis in
           the preconditioned leg and compare that to the incidence in the non-preconditioned leg.
           The Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) will make final adjudication of the relation of
           preconditioning procedure and development of deep vein thrombosis.
    
  