
    
      End stage renal disease (ESRD) is kidney disease that requires dialysis or kidney transplant
      to replace lost kidney function. The most common renal replacement therapy in North America
      is conventional, in-center hemodialysis (CHD). Home dialysis - including peritoneal dialysis
      (PD) and home hemodialysis(HHD)offers benefits to quality of life, patient satisfaction and
      clinical advantages, including better survival compared to CHD. (references 1-11 in the
      protocol).

      Patients with (ESRD) have a high burden of co-morbidity. Periods of transition of care from
      acute care to other settings are thought to represent times of increased vulnerability. Since
      patients who require home dialysis have high co-morbidity and have complex medical care
      issues, the investigators seek to improve transitions of care for these patients with a novel
      strategy of follow-up.

      When patients have been hospitalized, had treatment for an infection, had a procedure, or
      have just transitioned to home dialysis therapy,the investigators aim to decrease gaps in
      care by having a clinician follow-up by telephone with these patients in a scheduled way.

      During the telephone call the clinician will assess the patients care and symptoms, and make
      adjustments to prescriptions of medications and dialysis, or referrals to additional care as
      required. Evaluation of care will include:

        1. Indication for admission to the Virtual Ward.

        2. Dialysis prescription.

        3. Demographic and comorbidity data.

        4. Medication reconciliation.

        5. Symptom Assessment.

        6. Dietary review.

      Symptoms will be evaluated using a standardized patient assessment tool,the Charlson
      Comorbidity Index and the modified Edmonton Symptom Assessment Scale.

      At the end of the Virtual Ward follow-up period, patients will be asked to complete a Patient
      Satisfaction Questionnaire.

      Data from a preliminary vanguard pilot phase of 84 assessments done in 21 patients over 2
      months indicates that 170 to 200 patients recruited from eight sites during a 10 month period
      should be sufficient to allow analysis of the data collected.

      Each of the participating Investigator's will have input into the study conduct and
      publication preparation.
    
  