
    
      Pain associated with burn dressing changes does not arise purely from a physical source; it
      is also commonly influenced by psychological factors. The anticipation that accompanies a
      dressing change has the potential to set up fear and heightened anxiety as the patient is
      aware that at a predetermined time other people will manipulate injured areas on his/her
      body.

      Many techniques of analgesia have been advocated in burn dressing changes. Opiates have been
      the mainstay, and many techniques for their administration have been described. In particular
      the use of background plus PCA administration of opiates has been demonstrated to be superior
      to PCA administration alone. Another analgesic/dissociative agent commonly described for
      these procedures is Ketamine. Both opiates and ketamine have limitations in that they cause
      unfavourable side effects such as respiratory depression, sedation and nausea and vomiting in
      the case of opiates and respiratory depression, hallucinations and unpleasant dreams in the
      case of ketamine. Other problems relating to the use of opiates and ketamine relate to the
      approach of treating a multifaceted experience such as burn dressing pain solely with
      pharmacotherapy.

      The need for psychological interventions in burn dressings has been highlighted by many
      researchers. In particular, Ptacek noted that burn patients experiencing more anxiety tended
      to have higher ratings of pain, while those with larger areas of burns reported more
      affective pain and greater variability in pain ratings.

      There is strong consistency among reviewers for recommending the addition of adjunctive
      therapies of a psychological nature for managing patients having burn dressing changes.
      Patterson et.al in particular is of the belief that burn patients having dressing changes are
      more amenable to hypnotherapy as an analgesic adjunct.

      The nature of psychological interventions examined by researchers have included hypnosis
      (where strong suggestions were aimed at reducing tension, anxiety, and sensation of pain),
      rapid induction analgesia, simple stress reducing strategies, attention and information, and
      autohypnosis. While some have conducted prospective trials which involve large numbers of
      patients, only one trial actually made mention of randomizing participants. Most other
      reports examining psychological therapies have been at the case report level.

      While most of these trials and case reports have reported favourable outcomes, no single
      trial has been able to consistently show a significant reduction of pain scores and anxiety
      ratings and analgesic consumption.

      Virtual Reality (VR) assisted techniques that modify psychological well-being are beginning
      to play a role in clinical practise and in research. There are currently two publications,
      one a case report and another a prospective randomized trial which specifically examine the
      role of VR in the context of painful procedures associated with burn injuries. The randomized
      crossover trial by Hoffman et.al in 6 patients having physical therapy utilising immersive VR
      found a significant reduction in pain ratings in all patients, while Patterson et.al
      described the successful use of VR hypnosis in one "difficult" patient which had lasting
      effects for up to 48 hours.

      Reviews of psychological therapies for patients having burn dressing changes have addressed
      the need for more systematic controlled trials to supplement existing evidence and more
      clearly define the role of such interventions. Coupled with this is the need for more
      knowledge as to the most appropriate psychological intervention and the ideal situations
      where it will prove most beneficial. Patterson feels that there is good anecdotal evidence
      that burn patients have a particular propensity to respond to adjunctive therapies
      incorporating hypnosis. Hypnosis screening among burn patients involving the hypnotic
      induction profile demonstrated a link between high hypnotizability and the experience of more
      intense arousal, greater avoidance and more significant feelings of intrusiveness.

      We propose to conduct a prospective randomized trial which looks at the effect that VR
      relaxation has when combined with PCA morphine in a group of patients having potentially
      painful dressing changes. In addition we want to isolate patients who have high
      susceptability to hypnosis and compare their ratings of pain, anxiety and opiate requirement
      with patients of lesser susceptibility. Our hypothesis is that patients with higher
      susceptibility to hypnosis stand to gain most from the addition of VR to their
      pharmacotherapy.
    
  