
    
      The investigators aim to develop a new bidirectional composite soft actuator that is capable
      of assisting in both hand flexion and extension. This new class of actuator will comprise of
      a flexion actuator component with its external bending patterns and dedicated pneumatic
      channel, and an embedded extension actuator component with its dedicated air-flow inlet. When
      pressurized air is introduced through the extension inlet, the extension actuator will
      inflate and stiffen, thereby assisting in hand extension. Moreover, when pressurized air is
      introduced through the flexion inlet, the flexion actuator will inflate and bend, thereby
      assisting in hand flexion.

      These bidirectional actuators will be embedded onto each finger segment of a fabric glove,
      and air inflow into each of the bidirectional actuators can be controlled via a pump-valve
      control system. The pump-valve control system comprises a microcontroller, onboard power
      source, transceiver, motor pump, and flexion and extension control valves. Once the
      microcontroller receives a command signal to adopt a specific hand posture, it will send the
      postural command to the motor pump and the necessary flexion/extension control valves,
      thereby actuating the corresponding bidirectional soft actuators to assist the user's hand
      into the desired hand posture.

      Aims:

      Aim 1: The bidirectional myoelectric soft robotic glove may provide intuitive user-controlled
      robot-assisted hand grasping postures to the human user for achieving functional tasks. With
      the help of the glove system, participants may be more capable of achieving active daily
      living tasks.

      Aim 2: The bidirectional myoelectric soft robotic glove may provide intuitive user-controlled
      robot-assisted hand grasping postures to the human user for rehabilitation purposes.

      Hypothesis:

      The central hypothesis is that a bidirectional myoelectric soft robotic glove will provide
      intuitive user-controlled robot-assisted hand grasping postures to the human user for
      achieving functional tasks more than no robot assistance.
    
  