
    
      Anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstruction is the 6th most common orthopaedic procedure.
      Disruption of the ACL leads to altered knee function and significantly increases the risk for
      osteoarthritis (OA). Current methods to reconstruct the ACL are generally perceived to be
      successful; however, several recent meta-analyses have indicated that normal structure and
      function of the knee is restored only 60% to 70% of the time and 60 to 90% have radiographic
      evidence of knee OA within 10 to 20 years. Though the causes of post-traumatic OA are almost
      certainly multifactorial, a significant factor contributing to the increased risk for OA
      following ACL injury and surgery may be failure to restore normal anatomy and kinematics of
      the knee.

      We have previously shown that conventional single-bundle (SB) ACL reconstruction fails to
      restore normal knee kinematics, leading to altered patterns of joint loading. There is
      growing support for the theory that cartilage adapts to its local loading environment and
      abnormal joint loading may play an important role in the development and progression of OA.
      Our understanding of ACL anatomy has also improved over the last few years, revealing the
      shortcomings of current surgical techniques to restore anatomy of the ACL. We have developed
      double-bundle (DB) surgical procedures to restore normal anatomy of the anteromedial (AM) and
      posterolateral (PL) bundles of the ACL. The underlying principle for this approach is that
      more anatomical graft placement will lead to better knee mechanics, which are necessary for
      improved long-term outcome.

      To determine if anatomic DB ACL reconstruction can effectively restore normal dynamic knee
      function, we will conduct a double-blind randomized clinical trial to compare SB vs. anatomic
      DB ACL reconstruction. The specific aims of this study are to determine if DB is better than
      SB ACL reconstruction in terms of 1) dynamic knee function and 2) clinical outcomes. We will
      randomly assign 160 subjects with an isolated ACL injury to SB or DB ACL reconstruction and
      will follow the subjects for 2 years. We will utilize a unique combination of high-speed
      biplane radiography (for accurate assessment of knee kinematics) and 3D imaging (MRI and CT,
      to define joint and cartilage morphology) to characterize joint kinematics and cartilage
      surface interactions during functional tasks. Clinical outcomes will include laxity, range of
      motion, functional strength and patient-reported symptoms, function and activity. Successful
      completion of this study will provide evidence of the efficacy of anatomic DB ACL
      reconstruction for restoring normal knee mechanics and improving clinical outcomes. If the
      results show a clear benefit of this procedure, then a sound basis will have been established
      for future studies to assess the benefits of anatomic DB ACL reconstruction on long-term
      clinical outcomes and joint health.
    
  