
    
      Visit 1 - Screening visit After reading and signing this informed consent form, you will
      complete a detailed medical and dental history form. We will review this form with you to
      ensure you can safely participate in the study. You will also have an oral exam to determine
      if you qualify for the study. If you are a woman of childbearing age, you will be tested for
      pregnancy. If you are pregnant or trying to become pregnant, you cannot participate in the
      study. You will also have one digital dental x-ray of the area for tooth extraction, if not
      available already, which is standard of care. You will also have dental impressions (molds of
      your teeth), which are made in a non-invasive manner to collect data for some of the research
      measurements. This visit will last between 1 and 1.5 hours.

      Visit 2 - Baseline visit In less than 10 weeks after the screening visit, you will have the
      tooth extraction and bone grafting, which will be just like the procedure performed for
      patients who are not enrolled in the study and present a similar clinical scenario. Before
      the surgical procedure, a special dental x-ray scan known as cone beam computed tomography
      (CBCT) will be taken for the purpose of collecting research measurements. The CBCT scan
      generates 3D images of your teeth and surrounding tissues. After numbing the area, clinical
      measurements will be gathered. These measurements are non-invasive (do not involve cutting
      your body or putting instruments inside it) and will not harm the gums or surrounding teeth.
      The extraction (removal of the tooth) will be performed and the tooth socket (the area
      surrounding the tooth that was removed) will be cleaned, which is what would happen to
      patients who are not enrolled in the study. At this time, additional measurements of the area
      will be taken. These measurements will not cause you any extra discomfort, since that area
      will be numbed. Then, the socket grafting technique will be performed. The treatment will
      consist on the combination of a bone grafting material from a human donor (EnCore,
      Osteogenics Biomedical Inc.) and a non-dissolvable barrier membrane (Cytoplast TXT-200,
      Osteogenics Biomedical Inc.), to protect the bone graft and that will be removed in 5 weeks.
      You will be given prescriptions for an antibiotic, a pain reliever and a mouth rinse. You
      will also receive home care instructions before you leave. This visit will last about between
      1.5 to 2 hours.

      Visits 3, 4, 5 and 6 - Post-operative follow up visits You will return to the clinic at 1, 2,
      5 and 20 weeks, which is standard of care in many cases of tooth extraction and grafting. In
      these visits, you will have an oral exam, check-up, and the researchers will monitor how well
      you are healing. These visits will last approximately 30 minutes.

      At the 5-week visit, the barrier membrane will be removed. You will not have to be numbed for
      this.

      Additionally, only at the 20-week visit after tooth extraction, a second CBCT x-ray scan will
      be obtained to determine how much bone is available after the healing period to plan the
      implant placement and for research measurements. The second CBCT x-ray scan will allow your
      surgical doctor to evaluate the amount of bone volume and is standard of care when planning
      for dental implant placement. A dental impression (mold) will be made to collect information
      about the gum tissue. Recommendations on further treatment, including the potential for
      implant therapy or possible additional grafting, will be provided based on the findings from
      this visit.

      Visit 7 - Implant placement visit If you can receive the implant, a surgical placement visit
      will be scheduled at approximately 24 weeks after tooth extraction. After numbing the area, a
      small gum flap will be opened to access the area underneath that was bone grafted. A bone
      sample biopsy will be taken and analyzed for research purposes. This bone would be disposed
      otherwise, since a bed must be created in the bone to allow for implant placement. After an
      adequate space for implant placement is created in your bone, the implant will be placed. If
      implant primary stability (sufficient retention) is not achieved, the doctor may need to
      place a larger implant (in length, diameter or both) or, if this is not possible, discontinue
      the procedure and plan for delayed implant placement at another time. If this is the case,
      the study will cover the costs associated with additional grafting and implant placement.
      Upon implant placement, your gums will be stitched and you will be given prescriptions for an
      antibiotic, a pain reliever and a mouth rinse. You will also receive home care instructions
      before you leave. This visit will last between 1.5 and 2 hours.

      Visit 8 - Post-operative follow up visit You will be seen by your surgical doctor for a
      postoperative visit at approximately 2 weeks after the implant is placed to monitor the
      healing and to remove sutures, which is standard of care. You will have an oral exam,
      check-up, and the researchers will monitor how well you are healing. These visits will last
      approximately 30 minutes. This is the last visit of the study.
    
  