
    
      Rationale:Strict glycaemic control improves outcome of critically ill patients. Real Time
      Continuous Glucose monitoring System (RT-CGMS) is a novel system which can provide health
      care professionals with real time information about the blood glucose level without the need
      for multiple invasive measurements. Furthermore, with continuous monitoring it is possible to
      identify trends in glycaemic profiles. Its accuracy and safety have never been tested in a
      population of patients admitted to an intensive care unit.

      Objective:To investigate the accuracy and safety of the RT-CGMS in patients scheduled for
      elective cardiac surgery. Our secondary objective is to define the possible factors
      interfering with reliable and adequate glucose measurements and to investigate the effect of
      RT-CGMS on glucose control.

      Study design: Open label, randomised controlled trial. Study population:Patients scheduled
      for elective cardiac surgery. Intervention:After informed consent and randomisation, all
      patients will have the RT-CGMS inserted pre-operatively. In one group (Control group; 15
      subjects), the RT-CGMS will be blinded, so that no information on blood glucose values
      measured and stored by the RT-CGMS will be available to care-givers, investigators or
      patients during the study period. In the other group (Active group, 15 subjects), the RT-CGMS
      will not be blinded. The system will alert whenever a glucose level falls below or rises
      above preset values. Sensor values are not intended to be used directly for making therapy
      adjustments. Whenever a value is below or above the preset value, the blood glucose level
      will be measured using separate blood analysis and therapy adjustments based on this value
      will be done according to the (ICU) protocol.

      Study endpoints: Correlation between data obtained with the RT-CGMS and the conventional
      method. Degree of glucose control defined as the time spent in normoglycaemia, hypoglycaemia
      and hyperglycaemia, as recorded both with sensor measurements and ward measurements.
      Occurrence of significant clinical events and its effect on RT-CGMS.
    
  