
    
      The results of recent sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitor therapy clinical
      trials demonstrate clinically significant reductions in cardiovascular endpoints (myocardial
      infarction, cardiac death, heart failure hospitalization). SGLT2 inhibition appears to exert
      cardiovascular protection through pleiotrophic effects involving both the myocardium and
      peripheral organs but the primary pathway of risk reduction of heart failure incidents has
      not been elucidated. SGLT2 inhibitors induce a loss of 50-100 grams of glucose through
      urinary excretion daily. There is a compensatory increase in ketone body production in the
      liver after initiation of SGLT inhibition. Ketone bodies are the most energy efficient
      myocardial fuel source and reduce myocardial oxidative stress when consumed as the primary
      energy substrate. Inducing a shift to ketone body metabolism to improves cardiac diastolic
      performance suggests a unifying paradigm of direct myocardial effect and peripheral metabolic
      flexibility through which SGLT2 inhibition mediates myocardial protection in HFpEF.

      Specific Aims Aim 1: Determine if 12 weeks of SGLTi2 therapy improves peak exercise oxygen
      uptake compared to placebo. We will perform cardiac MRI exercise testing (CPET-ExMR) before
      and & post 12 weeks of therapy to measure cardiopulmonary fitness by metabolic cart gas
      exchange and left ventricular myocardial mass.

      Aim 2: Evaluate the short term (12 weeks effect of SGLTi on metabolic flexibility in HFpEF
      compared to baseline function and control group. We will measure glucose and lipid metabolism
      response to SGLT2 inhibition. Serum samples of glucose and ketone bodies (β-hydroxybutyrate)
      will be assessed before & post 12 weeks of therapy. Serial serum samples will allow us to
      generate metabolomics profiles before and after treatment. This experimental design will
      provide insight into ketone body production, peripheral glucose flux, and circulating
      lipoparticles in response to SGLTi therapy.
    
  