
    
      The etiology of plantar fat pad atrophy may be age-related, due abnormal foot mechanics,
      steroid use, or collagen vascular disease. Displacement or atrophy of the fat pad can lead to
      osseous prominences in the forefoot that may be seen with painful skin lesions. Disease
      states, such as diabetes, may have loss of soft tissue integrity. Fat pad atrophy, regardless
      of the etiology, may result in significant pain, epidermal lesions, or metatarsalgia. In
      sensate patients, the pain can lead to emotional and physical pain, leading to productivity
      and financial losses.1

      It is well documented that plantar pressure is directly correlated with plantar tissue
      thickness, with the loss of plantar fat being a fundamental mechanism for pressure related
      foot disorders.2,3 Autologous fat grafting to areas of plantar fat pad atrophy may reduce
      plantar pressures, and thus serve as a treatment for metatarsalgia, corn and callus
      prevention, and possibly ulcer prevention in diabetics. Plastic surgeons, with significant
      skills in fat grafting, can make a significant contribution.

      Current treatment modalities for fat pad atrophy include silicone injections, fat injections,
      and other temporary fillers; however, no objective studies using autologous fat have been
      performed. Approximately 30 adults who experience pain from fat pad atrophy, will have the
      option to participate. Through a randomized, controlled, cross-over study, some patients will
      receive autologous fat grafting, while some will receive standard of care podiatric
      treatment, then cross-over to fat grafting treatment after a year. Through pedobarograph and
      ultrasound assessments, the focal pedal pressure and tissue thickness following treatment
      will be documented over two years.

      The investigators hypothesize that fat grafting for areas of increased pedal pressure will
      help decrease foot pressure during gait and increase soft tissue thickness on the foot pad,
      ultimately reducing pain. The investigators also hope to demonstrate that by using autologous
      fat with evidence-based fat transfer techniques, results may be durable. This pilot study
      will help build new collaborative efforts between Foot and Ankle Surgery, Podiatry and
      Plastic Surgery, combining expertise in foot biomechanics with reconstructive fat grafting.
    
  