
    
      Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a heterogeneous cancer implying accumulation of mature cells.
      This leukemia is characterized by a poor prognosis for most patients, as they have a high
      relapse rate despite aggressive treatment with chemotherapy agents and allogeneic bone marrow
      transplantation. It has been proposed that relapse can be attributed to a leukemic cells
      population with quiescence properties that are resistant to chemotherapy, known as leukemic
      stem cells (LSCs). Clinical trials shown a major LSCs percentage than diagnosis correlated
      with worst prognosis or minimal residual disease with AML.

      AML is most common in adults and represents about 40% of all leukemia types in American
      Continent. In Mexican patients with AML age median is 32 years, lower than other
      international series.

      AML may be classified in 8 sub-types based on FAB Classification (French-American-British
      Classification). FAB Classification is based on morphology and cytogenetic. Sub-types are M0
      to M7, based on the type of leukemia cells and their maturity. Other classification system
      used is the one of the World Health Organization (WHO) that classifies the types of leukemia
      based on genetic/molecular alteration or existence of other potential factors impacting
      clinical prognosis. The Hospital General de Mexico classifies the leukemia types based on
      morphologic, immunophenotype, genetic and sometimes in molecular criteria.

      Genomic and functional studies have identified two classes of mutations, which cooperate
      during AML development. Class I mutations, which confer proliferative and survival advantage
      to hematopoietic stem cells, an example is the occurrence of mutations in NRAS or KRAS genes,
      or mutations affecting receptor tyrosine kinase FLT3.Class II mutations characterize for
      promoting self-renewal and blocking differentiation of hematopoietic stem cells. These
      mutations include certain translocation, an example of this type of mutations is gene MLL1
      derived from t(8;21) (AML1-ETO).Major mutations in AML are commonly detected in
      cytogenetically Normal (CN) cases representing 40% to 50% of all AML.

      Such aberrations have demonstrated impacting prognosis of patients with AML. These genes
      include: FLT3, NPM1, CEBPA, MLL, NRAS, KIT, WT1, RUNX1, TET2, IDH1/2, DNMT3A, ASXL1, PHF6.
      For example, mutations in FLT3 (37%-46% of patients) indicate poor prognosis. On the
      contrary, mutations in NPM1 (48%-53% of patients) and CEBPA (13% to 15% of patients) indicate
      a better prognosis. AMLis a neoplastic clonal disease that originates from progressive
      accumulation of genetic and epigenetic aberrations affecting mechanisms regulating
      proliferation and differentiation of hematopoietic trunk cells (HTC). However, impact of
      these mutations in survival and chemo resistance to new therapeutic agents in LSCs, including
      emergent therapies against LSCs, which have not been described. In the Hospital General de
      Mexico, the prognosis of LAM at 5 years is only 30%. For this, it is necessary to detect
      mutation pattern of genes that may contribute to AML development or prognosis in Mexican
      patients of the Hospital General de México.

      Somatic mutations have been identified recently that codify for isocitrate dehydrogenase
      (IDH). These genes codify key metabolic enzymes, which convert isocitrate into
      α-ketoglutarate (α-KG).15-16From which IDH1 and IDH2 genes presenta high frequency of
      mutations in AML and other types of tumors. IDH mutations affect mainly active site residues
      (for example, IDH1 R132, IDH2 R140 or IDH2 R172), resulting in the normal enzymatic function
      loss abnormally converting α-KG to 2-hydroxiglutarate (2-HG).

      "Oncometabolyte" 2-HG may competitively inhibit multiple α-KG depending dioxygenases,
      including key epigenetic regulators as histones demethylases and TET proteins. Consequently,
      IDH mutations are associated with chromatin alterations including global alteration of
      histones and NDA methylation. This is the reason of the need to identify such mutations of
      genes (IDH1/IDH2) in patients with SMD and AML entering Hematology service of the Hospital
      General de Mexico from 2017 to 2019, and determine clinical impact in prognosis and
      monitoring the response to therapy, as well as prognosis and survival..
    
  