
    
      An ostomy adversely affects health-related quality of life in a diverse population of cancer
      survivors. For cancer, ostomies are most commonly placed for rectal cancers, followed by
      urinary bladder cancer. Ostomies may be needed for other cancers related to bulky or
      metastatic disease, or in emergencies. In addition, ostomies may be placed on a temporary or
      a permanent basis. Temporary ostomies may be created in emergencies, such as perforation or
      obstruction due to tumor, or in planned procedures, as with a low rectal resection for cancer
      where an ostomy is placed to "protect" a new anastomosis while it heals. Temporary ostomies
      may become permanent as a result of underlying comorbidities, need for other treatments
      related to cancer, or poor outcome of anastomosis (leak or stricture). Peri-operative needs
      are the same regardless of ostomy permanence; survivors should receive clear, systematic,
      evidence-based ostomy self-management instruction and support.

      To cope with the challenges of their diseases, cancer survivors with ostomies should have
      confirmed levels of self-management skills, as well as strong commitments to self-management.
      Cognitive restructuring, problem solving, and self-efficacy/locus of control are essential
      tools for effective self-management. As in most chronic conditions, this tends to be
      long-term, complex, and multidimensional. Trial-and-error ostomy self-care, nurse counseling,
      and community referral have been the primary modes of self-management education and support
      in the peri-operative period. Clearly, ostomates face many obstacles in coping with their
      condition, not least of which is medical care that often does not meet their needs for
      effective information, clinical management, psychological support, and patient
      activation.1-13 These obstacles are likely compounded for ostomates living in rural areas.
      Approximately 14-19% of the US population resides in rural areas. Rural cancer survivors face
      significant barriers to ongoing care including lack of access to specialists and
      cancer-specific specialized support, longer travel distances to access follow up care, and
      transportation challenges due to financial barriers or lack of a vehicle. Individuals in
      rural areas travel a median of 51-59 minutes to reach specialized oncology care.Additionally,
      some studies suggest that rural cancer patients have worse quality of life and mental health
      than urban counterparts, and up to a quarter of rural cancer patients have unmet cancer
      information needs. Telehealth delivery of an ostomy self-management program offers an
      opportunity to reduce these access disparities among rural ostomates.

      Ostomates and their families must engage in ostomy self-management, make behavior changes,
      and adjust to the consequences of their condition, becoming the principal caretakers and
      navigators. Preparation of the survivor and unpaid designated caregiver/support person
      (usually family members) is requisite to assure optimal functioning and HRQOL, as well as to
      prevent or ameliorate ostomy-related complications and associated health care utilization.
      Multiple communication issues make it difficult for ostomy survivors to access resources for
      improving their self-management, and undermine opportunities to improve and sustain HRQOL.
      These resources include lack of consistent follow-up, travel issues, lack of surgeon focus on
      ostomy-related problems, and lack of ostomy nurse clinic resources.

      Ostomies are associated with multiple HRQOL difficulties. Ongoing problems include pouching
      care, travel out of the home (especially relevant for rural populations), social
      interactions, intimacy, and acceptance of/satisfaction with appearance. Studies document
      persistent challenges including sexuality psychological problems and interference with work,
      and recreation and sporting activities. However, improved self-efficacy eases psychological
      and social burden of ostomies. No reports have been published on the results of a systematic
      ostomy self-management program to ensure optimal post-operative care, including adaptation,
      self-management, and ostomy comfort.
    
  