
    
      Patients will be examined to make sure that they meet the requirements of this study. There
      will be tests of the heart and of the lungs. X-rays will be taken of the lungs and other
      organs, depending on the disease. An MRI and consultations with different specialists will
      also be conducted.

      Patients also must have a negative pregnancy test before entering this study if they are a
      woman of childbearing potential. The blood will be tested for viruses and to look at the
      functioning of the liver and kidneys. The examination also includes HIV testing. If the
      patient has HIV, they will not be able to be treated on this protocol.

      After we have determined that the patient is eligible for treatment on this study and a
      suitable UCB stem donor has been found, they will have a central line placed.

      After placement of the central line, the following chemotherapy will be given to after
      admission to the hospital:

        -  9 days before the infusion through 6 days before the infusion: Busulfan every 6 hours
           for 16 total doses.

        -  5 days before the infusion through 2 days before the infusion: Cytoxan given daily for 4
           days over 2 hours. (It can be given over 1 to 4 hours if needed as decided by the
           physician). Mesna will be given per standards.

        -  4 days before the infusion through 1 day before the infusion: Fludarabine given daily
           for 4 days over 1 hour.

      Stem cell transplant (infusion of the UCB stem cells) - defined as Day 0 of the treatment.
      All other "numbered" days relate to this infusion date. For example, Day 1 is the first day
      after the stem cell transplant.

      Standard Therapy: Phenytoin will be given according to the standards of the TCH formulary.

      Cyclosporin A (CSA) will be given starting 2 days prior to the stem cell infusion. It will be
      given daily over 2 hours every 12 hours, and then tapered if no GvHD is present.

      Administration of Mycophenolate Mofetil (MMF) will start on the day the stem cell infusion is
      completed, and will continue daily for 45 days unless the patient develops GvHD.

      Intravenous Immunoglobulins (IVIG) will be given as per CAGT SOP for infections prophylaxis.

      Granulocyte Colony-Stimulating Factor (GCSF) will be given daily starting at Day +7 until ANC
      is greater than 2,500 for three consecutive days.

      Study Evaluation: Patients will have various study evaluations, including blood samples,
      before and after the transplant.

      Follow-Up: After year 1, the patients will be asked to return to the clinic once a year for
      consultations. These consultations with specialists will be similar to the ones the patients
      had before their transplant.
    
  