
    
      The goal of this project is to improve risk-stratification for patients who present to the
      emergency department (ED) with syncope (transient loss of consciousness), in order to better
      delineate which patients require admission and which can be safely discharged home. Syncope
      and pre-syncope (the sensation of impending loss of consciousness) are common reasons to
      present to the ED, representing over 1.3 million visits per year in the United States.

      Although syncope is most often benign, it can occasionally be caused by serious
      cardiopulmonary diseases such as cardiac arrhythmia, acute coronary syndrome, or pulmonary
      embolism. Despite thorough evaluation in the ED, the cause of syncope remains unknown in over
      50% of cases, which leads to a large number of syncope patients being admitted for
      observation and/or further testing. These admissions to the hospital or observation unit are
      low-yield, costly, and expose patients to the possibility of iatrogenic harm.

      In response to this, two groups of researchers have developed distinct syncope
      risk-stratification tools: the US Syncope Risk Score (FAINT) and the Canadian Syncope Risk
      Score. These scores use a combination of clinical, electrocardiographic, and laboratory
      variables to predict the risk of serious clinical outcomes at 30 days. While promising, these
      two risk scores require external validation prior to widespread clinical implementation. The
      study team will prospectively collect data on ~1,270 ED patients with syncope/pre-syncope and
      follow them for 30 days to validate the predictive accuracy of these two risk scores. The
      study team will then assess the impact of implementing these scores by measuring their
      potential effect on healthcare utilization and costs.

      If validated and shown to safely reduce healthcare utilization, these syncope risk scores
      could play a major role in improving emergency syncope care by reducing low-yield admissions
      and identifying patients who are unsafe for discharge from the ED. This study, entitled
      PACES: Practical Approaches to Care in Emergency Syncope, will help increase the quality and
      value of emergency care, and advance the field of syncope research.
    
  