
    
      Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is a major concern in public health globally, as well as in
      China, and remarkable variations of resources available and health system performance have
      been noted. Relatively limited information is available about how evidence-based therapies
      are incorporated appropriately into routine clinical practice. In addition, little
      information is available about the magnitude and quality of PCI, which has developed rapidly
      during the past several decades. Practical and applied knowledge from large unselected
      population is needed to guide practice and policy for quality improvement and cost reduction.

      This study will enroll patients undergoing PCI after admission consecutively in 30 tertiary
      hospitals scattered all over China. At study entry, participants will be interviewed during
      their index hospitalization, to collect information about symptoms, functioning, quality of
      life, and medical care. Demographic characteristics, medical history, clinical features,
      diagnostic tests, medications, procedures, and in-hospital outcomes of patients will be
      abstracted from medical records by well trained professional abstractors. And CAG imaging
      will be reviewed by national and international expert panels. At 1 month, 6 month, and 12
      month after discharge, participants will return to the clinic for follow up visits, a
      face-to-face interview will be conducted to get information about clinical events, symptoms,
      functioning, quality of life, and medical care during the recovery period. At 1-Month and
      12-Month follow-up visit, blood and urine sample will be collected. Participants' blood
      samples will be stored for future biologic and genetic studies. This study will examine
      various real-life factors that may affect patients recovery after PCI, including patients'
      characteristics and treatment measures. Practical guidelines, quality evaluative system, and
      appropriateness criteria will be established based on the findings, to improve patients
      outcomes in future finally.
    
  