
    
      Critical limb ischemia (CLI) results from severe occlusive disease that impairs distal limb
      perfusion to the point where oxygen delivery is no longer adequate to meet the metabolic
      needs of the tissue, even under resting conditions. The limits of peripheral artery disease
      (PAD) compensatory mechanisms, such as distal vasodilatation and collateral formation, have
      been exceeded at this point. PAD is a widespread disease, affecting up to 15% of all adults
      older than 55 years. Formation of true new blood vessels, or angiogenesis, and development of
      collateral vessels from preexisting blood vessels, or arteriogenesis, is important in the
      pathophysiology of vascular disease. By stimulating these processes we might be able to
      provide an alternative treatment strategy for patients with lower limb ischemia. In response
      to tissue injury and remodeling, neovascularization usually occurs via the proliferation and
      migration of progenitor endothelial cells (EPC) from preexisting vasculature. The EPCs
      resident within bone marrow and peripheral blood, so it seems implantation of BM cells can
      contribute to injury-induced and pathology induced neovascularization. Indeed, recent studies
      have shown that bone-marrow mononuclear cell (BM-MNC) implantation increases collateral
      vessel formation in both ischemic limb models and patients with limb ischemia. In addition,
      granulocyte-colony stimulation factor could mobilize the EPCs to peripheral blood. After
      BM-MNC implantation, G-CSF can contribute more EPC in PB for effective angiogenesis in PAD
      patients.

      In this study, Bone marrow puncture will be performed in a common manner. The iliac crest is
      punctured under epidural anesthesia and 400 mL of bone marrow will be aspirated. The MNCs are
      isolated under good manufacturing practice conditions by Ficoll density separation and is
      intramuscularly injected (40 sites, in 3 × 3 cm distance, 1-1.5 cm deep, into ischemic leg.
      In some patients G-CSF (10 microgr/day) is administration by subcutaneous injection from day
      of cell injection for 5 days.
    
  