
    
      Lower limb surgeries, particularly knee surgeries, are prevalent procedures in US orthopedic
      departments. Many of these procedures require a postoperative period of immobilization, which
      may be lengthy for surgeries involving ligament reconstruction, fractures, meniscal repairs,
      or cartilage transplantation. This leg immobilization results in rapid and significant loss
      of skeletal muscle mass. Even for shorter periods of immobilization, atrophy occurs within as
      little as 5 days of immobilization in healthy subjects, and the largest extent of
      post-operative atrophy takes place during the first two weeks of being immobilized (1)(2).

      Muscle atrophy can prolong recovery times and directly impact the safety of a patient's
      return to activity progression. Providers need a reliable, valid method of assessing
      postoperative muscle atrophy which is cost-effective, safe, and simple to implement in a
      clinical setting (4). The aim of this study is to demonstrate that ultrasounds are reliable
      and valid tools for measuring large lower limb stabilizers such as the rectus femoris. Upon
      proving reliability and validity, we aim to use the ultrasound to track and characterize
      rectus femoris atrophy after a common lower limb surgical procedure; anterior cruciate
      ligament (ACL) reconstruction. Success of this validation study would support the use of
      ultrasound to monitor large muscle atrophy after lower limb orthopedic surgical procedures,
      and to evaluate the impact of muscle health interventions. Our ultimate research aim is to
      develop a reliable, valid ultrasound measurement technique to evaluate promising
      perioperative interventions for attenuation of muscle atrophy following surgical procedures
      of the knee.

      Patients and Methods:

      Part I: Ultrasound measurements of the rectus femoris will be obtained in approximately 50
      healthy volunteers. Thigh circumference measurements will be taken as well. The ultrasound
      (US) images will be de-identified with research identifier (ID) only and transferred from the
      US unit to a secured folder on a research drive, and associated only with basic demographic
      information such as age, gender, height, and weight. Ultrasounds currently in use at the UIHC
      Sports Medicine Clinic will be used. Measurements will be made at a point mid-way between the
      anterior superior iliac spine and the superior border of the patella.

      Part II: Following validation in healthy controls, approximately 100 ACL reconstruction
      patients will be enrolled for a longitudinal study which utilizes the same ultrasound methods
      and equipment to track their rectus femoris size at a preoperative visit, and during the 6
      week, 3 month, and 6 month standard postoperative follow-up visits. Thigh circumference
      measurements will be taken as well. The ultrasound images will be de-identified with research
      ID only and transferred from the US unit to a secured folder on a research drive, and
      associated only with basic demographic information such as age, gender, height, and weight;
      along with basic survey data on physical therapy adherence. The patients will not incur any
      cost from the ultrasound testing, and the ultrasound testing will occur at the same clinical
      location (UIHC Sports Medicine Clinic) as their follow-up visits.

      Aim 1: Assess the inter-rater and intra-rater reliability of ultrasound for measuring
      skeletal size using a commercially available ultrasound unit.

      Hypothesis 1: We hypothesize that ultrasound measures of rectus femoris will demonstrate both
      high intrarater and interrater reliability.

      Aim 2: Assess the validity of ultrasound in measuring muscle size when utilized by a novice
      user as compared to a professional sonographer.

      Hypothesis 2. The ultrasound will demonstrate high validity and ease of use when comparing
      novice and professionally obtained images.

      Aim 3: Assess the accuracy of ultrasound in measuring muscle size compared to the literature
      standard measurement technique of thigh circumference.

      Hypothesis 3: Ultrasound measurements will be equally or more accurate than thigh
      circumference measurements at detecting rectus femoris size differences between subjects, and
      ultrasound measurements will have less interrater and intrarater variability.

      Aim 4: Develop a descriptive characterization of rectus femoris size parameters among a
      healthy young adult population.

      Aim 5: Track and characterize rectus femoris atrophy in ACL reconstruction patients using the
      validated ultrasound methodology.

      Hypothesis 4: Patients will show a statistically significant degree of rectus femoris atrophy
      between their preoperative visit measurement and their 6 week and 3 month follow up
      measurements.

      Hypothesis 5: Patients will show a statistically significant degree of improvement in rectus
      femoris atrophy when comparing their 6 month visit measurements with their 6 week and 3 month
      visit measurements.

      Hypothesis 6: There will not be a significant difference between the preoperative and 6 month
      postoperative rectus femoris measurements.

      Hypothesis 7: Ultrasounds measurements will be equally or more sensitive at detecting
      significant rectus femoris atrophy in anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction (ACLR)
      patients compared to thigh circumference measurements.

      Aim 6: Analyze how external factors impact rectus femoris atrophy in ACL reconstruction
      patients using the validated ultrasound methodology Hypothesis 8: Graft choice will impact
      rectus femoris atrophy and recovery. Hypothesis 9: Fewer physical therapy office visits will
      impact rectus femoris atrophy and recovery.
    
  