
    
      The investigator designe a cross-sectional study to explore the correlation between the
      pathogenic microbiome and lung cancer, and to understand the specific pathogen distribution
      of the "lung cancer microbiome" in order to provide new ideas and strategies for the
      pathogenesis and prevention of lung cancer.

      The subjects of this study are patients with lung shadow confirmed by CT-guided percutaneous
      lung biopsy. Lung shadows usually refer to high-density areas found in the parenchymal areas
      of the lungs on radiographs or radiographs, and often appear on CT as exudation,
      consolidation, masses, or nodules. Lung shadows mainly include infectious diseases of the
      lung, Tumors and interstitial lung diseases. The subjects are patients who cannot be
      diagnosed by conventional non-invasive testing methods (including blood, sputum and other
      specimens) and bronchoscopy, and the patients need to be diagnosed and treated as soon as
      possible (such as lung tumors, lung infections and other diseases ). Obtaining pathological
      and etiology of lung lesion tissue for examination is a necessary and effective diagnostic
      measure. Part of the biopsy tissue will be submitted for pathology and immunohistochemical
      detection, and the other part will be submitted for microbial mNGS detection.

      Pulmonary shadow cases include lung cancer and non-lung cancer patients, which are intended
      to be included in 300 cases. According to the previous lung shadow patients admitted to
      respiratory department in Huashan Hospital, it is estimated that about 100 lung cancer
      patients and 200 non-lung cancer patients will be included, respectively.

      Observation indicators in this study include histopathology of lung puncture biopsy, and
      next-generation sequencing of microorganisms in lung puncture biopsy.Baseline screening
      includes demographic data, medical history, combined medication records, symptoms, signs,
      electrocardiogram, lung function, and safety observation indicators. All patients will be
      followed up for 1 week for a total of three times, including baseline follow-up, 24 hours
      after lung puncture, and 1 week after lung puncture.
    
  