
    
      Electroacupuncture improves pain and wrist functionality in patients undergoing
      rehabilitation therapy after distal radius fracture Distal radius fracture is extremely
      common, and it is about 10% of all fractures in the human body. Therefore, the distal radius
      is the most frequently fractured part of the upper limbs of the human body. Once the fracture
      occurs, internal fixation is the main surgical procedure. And, the postoperative goal is to
      restore the function of the forearm and the mobility of the wrist joint. Therefore,
      rehabilitation treatment is the key. However, postoperative patients often delay
      rehabilitation therapy due to pain, resulting in stiffer wrist joints. In recent years,
      electroacupuncture(EA) has been widely used to relieve pain after surgery, and many studies
      have confirmed that it is effective. And it is already an alternative to postoperative pain
      relief. The investigators hope that by electroacupuncture, the investigators can help
      patients reduce pain, increase joint mobility, and make patients willing to start
      rehabilitation therapy, reduce joint stiffness, and restore wrist function as soon as
      possible, which will help patients return to work and normal life early.

      Methods:

      It is expected that 30 patients will be randomly assigned to the following groups:
      electroacupuncture group, control group without EA. Two groups of subjects started to
      rehabilitation at the 4th week after surgery.

      Mode of operation: Electroacupuncture group: At the 4th week after surgery,
      electroacupuncture was performed, and the activity of wrist joint on the affected side was
      performed at same time, and at a frequency of two times per week for six weeks, for a total
      of twelve times.

      Control group: At the 4th week after surgery, only the activity of wrist joint on the
      affected side was performed, and at a frequency of two times per week for six weeks, for a
      total of twelve times.

      Acupoint selection: needles were inserted to Taixi (KI3), Taichong (LR3), Zusanli(ST36),
      Yanglingquan (GB34), contralateral to the operated leg and deqi sensation elicited at
      acupoints.

      Data collection:

      The evaluator does not know the patient group to achieve a single blind effect.

        1. Use the visual analog scale (VAS) to assess the patient's pain level

        2. Use the Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand questionnaire(DASH) to assess the
           patient's pain and the functionality.

        3. The degrees of wrist mobility were measured.

        4. Three time points were recorded: before the first electroacupuncture (4th week after
           surgery, when removing fixation), after the 6th, 12th (last) electroacupuncture.
    
  