
    
      Asthma is a prevalent chronic disease in rural and border communities along the U.S.-Mexico
      border. Among 5-17 year olds, 20.2% have physician-diagnosed asthma compared to 16.2%
      statewide. Risk factors for poor asthma control are well documented and include ambient air
      quality, home environmental factors, and exposure to tobacco smoke. Although directionality
      is not well established, obesity and poverty are related to asthma and are also prevalent in
      the partner communities. These combined risk factors may explain the elevated rates of
      emergency department use for asthma among children in Imperial County compared with the
      state. Comprehensive approaches are needed that recognize and involve the various sectors
      relevant to asthma control.

      Objectives: The Imperial County's Asthma CER project is a family-clinic-community
      intervention designed to improve asthma control. The objectives of this study are to
      determine whether this combined approach (family clinic-community) is more effective at
      promoting asthma control, quality of life and improved lung functioning than a
      family-community intervention, a clinic-community intervention, or a community only
      intervention. The ultimate goal is to identify feasible and effective methods for promoting
      lifelong asthma control.

      Methods: This is a 2x2 factorial (family and clinic) study nested within a community
      intervention. Four hundred children 6-17 years old and a parent/legal guardian will be
      recruited to participate in the study which includes random assignment to family home
      visitations or no family home visits. Assignment in the second factor (clinic) will be
      determined based on whether the child is a patient of the partner clinic (Clínicas de Salud
      del Pueblo, Inc).

      Patient Outcomes: Changes in children's asthma control, quality of life, and lung functioning
      will be examined.

      Partnerships to Facilitate Study: This study is a partnership between an academic/research
      institute (San Diego State University and the Institute for Behavioral and Community Health)
      with over 30 years of experience conducting rigorous public health research, a Federally
      Qualified Health Center (Clínicas de Salud del Pueblo, Inc) with excellent reach and
      credibility in the partner community, a community-based organization (Comité Cívico del
      Valle) with extensive experience in promoting asthma control, and a division of the state
      health department (California Breathing) responsible for asthma control efforts statewide.
      Combined, they bring expertise in developing and implementing evidenced-based approaches for
      real world settings to address urgent public health problems. Importantly, they have
      successfully collaborated in the design, implementation and evaluation of over ten research
      studies and/or projects within the last ten years.
    
  