
    
      In Western society, the most common causes of chronic mitral regurgitation (MR) are ischemic
      heart disease and myxomatous degeneration of the valve, resulting in prolapse, ruptured
      chordae or partial flail leaflet. Current indications for surgery are only for patients with
      severe MR and either notable symptoms or overt Left Ventricular (LV) dysfunction (ejection
      fraction < 60%, end-systolic diameter > 40 mm). Therefore, despite the availability of
      surgery, most patients with MR of moderate severity are not immediate candidates for surgery,
      warranting analysis of potential beneficial effects of medical treatment. Chronic therapy
      with vasodilators reduces LV wall stress and thereby delays the need for valve replacement in
      aortic regurgitation; however, no such data are currently available in patients with chronic
      MR using standard vasodilators or agents that block the renin angiotensin system (RAS).

      In a clinically-relevant dog model of MR, the investigators have shown increased LV ACE and
      chymase expression, increased LV angiotensin II but, as opposed to pressure overload, there
      was an absence of fibrosis with net extracellular matrix (ECM) degradation and activation of
      matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs). However, blockade of the RAS does not improve (and may
      actually exacerbate) LV remodeling in MR. Interestingly, the investigators and others have
      shown that ß1-receptor blockade (ß1-RB) is more effective than RAS blockade in attenuating
      progressive LV remodeling and ECM degradation in MR. Moreover, increased sympathetic drive
      and inflammation has been identified in patients with chronic MR. ß1-RB reduced plasma
      markers of inflammation in patients with heart failure and resulted in substantial reverse LV
      remodeling in patients with heart failure. Taken together, activation of the adrenergic
      nervous system early in the course of volume overload contributes to increased production of
      reactive inflammatory species (RIS) and that one mechanism underlying the salutary effects of
      ß1-blockade may relate to attenuation of myocardial formation of RIS with subsequent
      beneficial effects on MMP activation and ECM and LV remodeling and function.
    
  