
    
      PURPOSE:

      to determine the effect of aerobic exercise training on sex hormones and cognitive functions
      and if is there correlation between two factors effect in postmenopausal elderly women

      BACKGROUND:

      Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common neurodegenerative disease, accounting for more
      than 50% of all dementia types. Its twice more common in females which could be due to
      increased longevity and sex difference in brain size .Estrogen has neurotrophic action in
      areas involved in memory and cognition. Post-menopausal women are at increased risk than
      their male counterpart. Women with Alzheimer have lower endogenous estrogen level which lead
      to the hypothesis that estrogen could be neuroprotective. Estrogen and androgen receptors are
      widely distributed throughout the brain e.g. in the cerebral cortex, amygdala, hypo-thalamus
      and also in the hippocampus which is important for cognitive functioning. There are shown
      clear associations between sex hormones and activities in memory, emotional and rewarding
      circuits in the brain measured with functional magnetic resonance imaging, several
      significant correlations were found between serum hormone levels and spatial ability. High
      absolute estrogen levels, a high estrogen/testosterone ratio and increasing levels during
      estrogen treatment were all associated with lower spatial ability. This is in agreement with
      many previous reports of sex differences where women in general tend to perform worse than
      men in this specific aspect of cognitive function. In menstruating women, a deterioration of
      spatial ability was demonstrated during high levels of circulating estrogen, and it was
      improved during the menstrual phase of the cycle when hormone levels are lowest.

      HYPOTHESES:

      There is no correlation between sex hormones and cognitive functions in response to exercises
      in elderly postmenopausal women

      RESEARCH QUESTION:

      Is there correlation between sex hormones and cognitive functions in elderly postmenopausal
      women in response to exercises?
    
  