
    
      Infection with the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) has been linked to new-onset olfactory
      dysfunction, often as the only presenting symptom. In one multicenter European study, 85.6%
      of patients with mild to moderate symptoms reported hyposmia or anosmia with early recovery
      of olfactory function in just under half of patients. However, the pathogenesis and natural
      history of COVID-19 related olfactory dysfunction is poorly understood.

      Anosmia most commonly arises in association with sinonasal disease or post-infectious or
      post-traumatic disorders. Notably, olfactory loss has been associated with impaired quality
      of life, higher rates of depression, and even increased mortality risk. Spontaneous recovery
      has been observed in patients with post- infectious olfactory dysfunction, typically over a
      period of months to years, with an estimated one-third of patients demonstrating meaningful
      improvement after one year.

      Smell retraining therapy appears to be an effective therapeutic option for patients with
      post-infectious olfactory dysfunction, particularly for patients who initiate treatment
      within one year from onset of symptoms, but requires an intervention period of at least three
      to four months. Various pharmacotherapies have been investigated in the treatment of
      post-infectious anosmia but none have clearly demonstrated utility with the exception of a
      possible benefit for nasal steroid irrigations in combination with smell retraining therapy.

      More recently, omega-3 polyunsaturated fat supplementation has emerged as a promising
      pharmacotherapy for olfactory dysfunction in patients without sinonasal disease. Omega-3
      fatty acid deficient mice demonstrate evidence of olfactory dysfunction and mice receiving
      omega-3 fatty acids have improved recovery after peripheral nerve injury, which has been
      linked to neuroprotective effects mediated through anti-oxidant and anti-inflammatory
      pathways. In humans, a large cross-sectional study found that older adults with higher
      dietary fat intake had lower incidence of olfactory impairment. From a clinical perspective,
      patients without sinonasal disease receiving postoperative omega-3 fatty acid supplementation
      after endoscopic endonasal skull base surgery in a randomized control trial demonstrated a
      significantly greater rate of return of normal olfactory dysfunction.

      Little is known about either the natural history of olfactory dysfunction associated with
      COVID-19 infection or about the therapeutic efficacy of omega-3 fatty acid supplementation in
      patients with post-viral anosmia. The study team hopes to gain a better understanding of each
      through a randomized double-blind placebo control study that assesses both objective and
      subjective perception of olfactory dysfunction over a period of 6 weeks after infection.
    
  