
    
      The fatigue-sleep disturbance-depression symptom cluster (FSDSC) is regarded as one of the
      most common symptom clusters among breast cancer (BC) patients. Considering the fact that no
      specific medications can be recommended to relieve symptom clusters, numerous
      non-pharmacological interventions have therefore been performed with medication as a
      combination intervention for the treatment of symptom clusters in cancer patients. Among
      these interventions, tai chi could be an optimal option for relieving the FSDSC. The overall
      aims are to develop an evidence-based traditional Chinese exercise (TCE) tai chi protocol,
      test the feasibility of the protocol, and preliminarily examine the effectiveness of tai chi
      on the FSDSC and quality of life (QoL) through a pilot randomized controlled trial (RCT).The
      MRC Framework will be used to develop and evaluate an evidence-based intervention for BC
      patients. In phase one, an evidence-based TCE tai chi intervention protocol will be
      developed. An expert panel will then be invited to assess the content validity of the
      intervention protocol. Testing the feasibility of the tai chi intervention protocol, and
      preliminarily examining the effects of tai chi on the FSDSC will be conducted in phase two.
      After completion of the pilot RCT, semi-structured interviews will be conducted to assess the
      participants' experience of participating in the pilot trial and performing the tai chi
      exercise. The evidence-based tai chi intervention protocol for managing the FSDSC in breast
      cancer patients will be developed. The feasibility and effects of utilizing the tai chi
      intervention for BC patients will be explored. A future multicentre large-scale RCT to
      further evaluate the effects of tai chi on the FSDSC in the BC population will benefit from
      the study results of this doctoral research project.
    
  