
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of reduced-intensity (FM) haploidentical
      hematopoietic cell transplantation (Haplo-HCT) followed by post-transplant cyclophosphamide
      (PTCy) in patients with advanced myelofibrosis (MF), as assessed by the evaluation of
      toxicities, including type, frequency, severity, attribution, time course and duration.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To summarize and evaluate hematologic (neutrophil and platelet) recovery. II. To estimate
      graft failure-free survival (GFS) at 100-days post-transplant. III. To estimate overall
      survival (OS), progression-free survival (PFS) and cumulative incidence (CI) of
      relapse/progression, and non-relapse mortality (NRM) at 100-days, 1-year, and 2-year post
      transplant.

      IV. To estimate the cumulative incidence of acute graft-versus-host disease (GvHD), grade
      II-IV, at 100-days post-transplant (per Keystone Consensus modification of the Glucksberg
      criteria).

      V. To estimate the cumulative incidence of chronic GvHD at 1-year and 2-year post transplant
      (per National Institute of Health [NIH] Consensus Criteria).

      VI. To characterize the severity and extent of acute and chronic GvHD.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive melphalan intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on days -5, fludarabine
      phosphate IV over 1 hour on days -5 to -2. Patients undergo total body irradiation (TBI) on
      day -1 and hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HCT) on day 0. Patients then receive
      cyclophosphamide IV over 1-2 hours on days 3 and 4. Beginning on day 5, patients receive
      tacrolimus IV continuously for approximately 2 weeks, then orally (PO) for 6 months followed
      by a taper, mycophenolate mofetil PO thrice daily (TID) until day 100, and filgrastim
      subcutaneously (SC) daily from day 7 until continued until absolute neutrophil count (ANC) >
      1,500/mm^3 for 3 consecutive days. Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression
      or unexpected toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 1, 3, 6, 9, 12 and 24
      months.
    
  