
    
      In 2019 the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care commissioned The Topol Review:
      Preparing the healthcare workforce to deliver the digital future which recommended the
      adoption of digital medicine to improve National Health Service (NHS) services and face the
      future challenges facing the NHS. Among these challenges is the increasingly alarming burden
      of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) on the NHS with more than 4 million people diagnosed with
      disease and 12 million with pre-diabetes across the United Kingdom (UK). The National
      Institute of Clinical Excellence (NICE) encourages the adoption of individualized approaches
      to diabetes care that are tailored to the needs of patients with type 2 diabetes through
      structured education programs that are evidence based.

      Standard practice across the UK is to offer patient with T2DM face-to-face structured
      education such as DESMOND (Diabetes Education and Self-Management for On-going and Newly
      Diagnosed) and the X-pert Health program. These programs follow a face-to-face structured
      group education session format.

      The National Diabetes Audit 2016-17 showed an increase in the percentage of patients with
      T2DM who are offered a diabetes education program with more ore than 90% of people diagnosed
      with T2DM being offered structured education. Despite this, only 7% of these patients
      recorded an attendance.

      Digitally delivered interventions have the potential to solve the problem of adherence to
      education programs. Digitally delivered diabetes prevention programs have been shown to have
      higher participation than in-person programs. The digital nature of these interventions
      allows them to be delivered at scale and at a lower cost when compared to in-person programs.
      NICE puts great emphasis on individualization of recommendations delivered to patients.

      The investigators propose a digitally delivered diabetes education program based on
      individualization of carbohydrate intake through regular interactions with a trained
      nutritionist via text messaging. The program follows a clinical approach based on
      low-carbohydrate and low glycemic index diet recommendations which has been shown to have
      better participant retention, greater weight loss and better T2DM outcomes when compared to
      other dietary approaches. It is also in line with the latest National Institute for Health
      and Care Excellence (NICE) guidelines and recommendations.

      The investigators interviewed a group of general practitioners and patients to identify the
      target group most suited for this solution. Three groups of patients were identified who
      would benefit the most from a digital diabetes education program. The first group are
      patients who have declined face-to-face education for any reason. The second group are
      patients who are on a waiting list for face-to-face education but will not receive it. The
      third group are patients who have undergone in-person education but have not clinically
      improved.

      Participants will be invited to download the Span Health mobile application (app). The app
      delivers educational content on diabetes and nutrition in a structured format in a 12 week
      long program.

      Participants will be invited to have a 1-to-1 consultation with a nutritionist through the
      app at the beginning of the program where they will set goals and expectations and a
      nutritional plan. They will have weekly consultations to track their progress. The app also
      allows participants to ask questions via text messaging at any time which would be directed
      to a nutritionist who will provide an answer.

      The app allows for personal tracking of self-measured blood glucose and ketone levels. It
      also contains tools for fasting tracking and nutritional information on common foods along
      with a library of food recipes.

      The Span Health program is based on individualized carbohydrate management which aims to
      train participants to adopt a low-carbohydrate diet taking into account the patient's
      self-measured biometrics and individual tolerances and circumstances.

      To evaluate the acceptability of this approach among patients with diabetes type 2 the
      investigators will conduct a single arm non-randomised controlled trial recruiting a number
      of patients to use the service. Qualitative outcomes will be measured using a Net Promoter
      Score survey based on a 0 to 10 scale with a higher score indicating a more favorable
      outcome. Adherence to the program will be assessed by measuring the percentage of people
      completing the whole 3 months. They will also evaluate whether this approach improves patient
      outcomes as measured by NICE defined treatment targets for glucose control, blood pressure
      and blood cholesterol. Outcomes are to be measured at baseline and at the completion of the
      12 week program. Clinical outcomes to be measured are: body weight, blood pressure, fasting
      blood glucose, Haemoglobin A1c (HbA1c), total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein
      cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol and triglycerides level.

      Despite the increasing availability of digitally delivered diabetes education programs, most
      practices still offer in-person programs. Which the increasing burden of diabetes on the NHS.
      it is wise to start thinking about more scalable solutions that utilize digital medicine to
      approach this problem. This relatively novel approach if proven to be beneficial could lead
      to wider studies and a discussion on changing the current approach recommended by NICE.
    
  