
    
      The goal of this project is to restore these multiple functions to these individuals through
      a comprehensive neuroprosthetic approach that addresses the overall needs of the individual.
      This approach involves all aspects of the implementation, including the implanted technology,
      the surgical installation, and the outcomes assessment through a coordinated team approach in
      order to maximize the functional independence gained by the individual. With this system, we
      propose that individuals who have a mid-cervical-level spinal cord injury will regain control
      over multiple functions, including grasp, reach, bed mobility, seated posture, restoration of
      an effective cough and bladder function. This ambitious and exciting goal is made possible by
      the culmination of our research and clinical deployment of neuroprosthetic systems for spinal
      cord injured subjects over the past 30 years. We anticipate that this system will not only
      provide increased independence in each of the targeted body functions, but will provide
      enough of an overall benefit to demonstrate significant improvements in quality of life and
      health outcomes.

      In clinical feasibility studies with spinal cord injured subjects, our clinical research
      teams have demonstrated the control of bilateral hand function, bed mobility, postural
      control, restoration of an effective cough, and bladder control using chronically implanted
      neuroprostheses. Outcomes from each clinical study demonstrate that each system provides
      increased functional independence to the individual. Initially, only a single type of
      implanted system was implemented in any one individual, resulting in restoration of a single
      bodily function. Thus, it has been necessary for subjects to choose between available
      functions and select only one, despite the fact that each subject had multiple disabilities.
      In the past few years, we have progressed to implementing a few subjects with more than one
      system, such as providing both hand function and trunk stability. However, the fundamental
      limitation of the current approach has been technological; i.e. each implanted system is
      completely independent (both technically and programmatically), requiring separate technology
      to be developed for each function, and these systems are implemented by separate teams in
      separate surgical procedures. Thus, to this point, it has not been possible to address each
      individual's comprehensive needs and tailor an overall approach that maximizes their
      functional gains.

      The proposed approach depends on the availability of a foundational platform technology that
      is capable of meeting our broad specifications. We have now achieved this milestone under
      separate funding, creating a revolutionary new implantable neuroprosthetic technology that is
      fully capable of providing the necessary technological base for our proposed research. This
      system, the Networked Neuroprosthetic System (NNPS), is a modular, scalable, and configurable
      network of fully implanted, networked modules capable of meeting or exceeding the needs of
      all of these neuroprosthetic applications. The NNPS provides a foundation which enables
      efficient technical refinements that optimize implementation of the system for each targeted
      application. The NNPS technology is currently operational and is undergoing fabrication and
      testing in preparation for final pre-clinical studies and human implantation.
    
  