
    
      Subjects will be asked to make no changes to their analgesic regimen for at least 1 month
      prior to the cryoneurolysis procedure and continuing for 4 months until the measurement of
      the primary end point-for the duration of the study, all patients will be allowed to continue
      their pre-intervention analgesics. All subjects will have a peripheral intravenous catheter
      inserted, standard noninvasive monitors applied, and oxygen administered via a facemask or
      nasal cannula. Midazolam and fentanyl (IV) will be titrated for patient comfort. The specific
      nerves targeted will be the sciatic and femoral (or their distal branches). The potential
      cryoneurolysis sites will be cleansed with chlorhexidine gluconate and isopropyl alcohol. The
      target nerves will be identified in a transverse cross-sectional (short axis) view using
      ultrasound. A Tuohy-tip needle will be inserted beneath the ultrasound transducer and
      directed until the needle tip is immediately adjacent to the target nerve. Local anesthetic
      (1-3 mL, lidocaine 2%) will be injected. This will be repeated for the femoral nerve. Within
      20 minutes of the second injection, the subject's limb pain level will be evaluated on the
      0-10 NRS and if higher than at baseline prior to injection, the subject will NOT continue
      with treatment and their participation in the study will terminate upon discharge.

      Treatment group assignment (randomization). Remaining subjects will be allocated to one of
      two possible treatments:

        1. cryoneurolysis

        2. sham cryoneurolysis (placebo control)

      Randomization will be computer-generated and stratified by enrolling institution in randomly
      chosen block sizes. Cryoneurolysis probes are available that either (1) pass nitrous oxide to
      the tip inducing freezing temperatures; or, (2) vent the nitrous oxide at the base of the
      probe so that no gas reaches the probe tip, resulting in no temperature change (PainBlocker,
      Epimed, Farmers Branch, Texas). Importantly, these probes are indistinguishable in
      appearance. Unmasking will not occur until statistical analysis is complete.

      Intervention. The potential cryoneurolysis sites will be again cleansed with chlorhexidine
      gluconate and isopropyl alcohol. With the same ultrasound transducer used to previously
      administer local anesthetic, the target nerve will again be identified in a transverse
      cross-sectional (short axis) view at or distal to the deposition of local anesthetic. A
      cryoneurolysis device (PainBlocker, Epimed, Farmers Branch, Texas) will be inserted with the
      appropriate randomization-designated probe (either active or sham/placebo) and nitrous oxide.
      The cryoneurolysis device will be triggered using 3 cycles of 2-minute gas activation (active
      or sham) separated by 1-minute defrost periods. The process will be repeated with the same
      treatment probe for the femoral nerve (e.g., both nerves will receive either active
      cryoneurolysis or sham/placebo, and not a mix of the two possible treatments).

      Optional crossover treatment. Four to 6 months following the initial treatment, subjects may
      return for an optional repeated intervention procedure ("crossover") with the alternative
      treatment (either active cryoneurolysis or sham/placebo), again in a double-masked fashion
      using the same protocol as described for the initial intervention. The crossover treatment is
      not required for study participation, as the primary analyses will include a parallel study
      design for the initial intervention evaluated prior to any crossover treatment. This
      crossover will not affect the primary analyses, which will involve a parallel group study
      design and investigate the effects of cryoneurolysis within 4 months of the initial
      intervention.

      Outcome measurements (endpoints). The primary end point will be the difference in average
      daily phantom pain intensity at baseline and 4 months following the initial intervention
      (measured with the NRS as part of the Brief Pain Inventory). The primary analyses will
      compare the two treatments (inter-subject comparisons) during the initial treatment period in
      which half of the subjects will receive active cryoneurolysis and the other half a
      sham/placebo treatment. Endpoints will be evaluated at baseline and post-treatment (Day 0),
      Days 1 and 7; and Months 1, 2, 3, 4, and 12. These same time points through Month 4 will be
      evaluated following the optional second (crossover) treatment.

      Data collection. The questionnaires for all subjects-regardless of enrolling center-will be
      administered by telephone from the University of California San Diego by research
      coordinators specifically trained in these instruments' application, minimizing inter-rater
      discordance. Staff masked to treatment group assignment will perform all assessments.
    
  