
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Prospective epidemiologic studies of cholesterol, blood pressure, and cigarette use have
      provided much of the evidence linking these established risk factors to coronary heart
      disease, for example the Framingham Study, the Western Electric Study, and the Chicago
      Peoples Gas Company Study. Concurrent to these well known studies, was an effort by Dr. John
      Gofman to measure lipoprotein subfraction concentrations in 2,880 male and female employees
      of the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, and to establish prospectively the
      associations of HDL2, HDL3, LDL, IDL, smaller VLDL and larger VLDL to coronary heart disease.
      After 10 years of follow-up, Dr. Gofman presented his findings at the Lyman Duff Memorial
      Lecture on October 13, 1965. The findings were subsequently published in Circulation in 1966.
      He reported an increased risk of coronary heart disease in association with high serum mass
      concentrations of LDL, IDL, and smaller VLDL and low concentrations of HDL2 and HDL3. This
      pioneering effort by Dr. Gofman preceded the recognition of the importance of lipoprotein
      subfractions by nearly a decade, so that more detailed statistical analyses and further
      follow-up of the cohort were deferred indefinitely. Most importantly, in 1952 Gofman used
      essentially the same methodology to measure lipoprotein subfractions that was in practice in
      1988 at the Donner Laboratory for numerous in-house and collaborative studies including the
      study of atherosclerotic progression in the Stanford Coronary Risk Intervention Project, the
      effects of exercise and weight loss on lipoproteins in the Stanford Exercise Training Study
      and Weight Control Projects, and metabolism and genetic transmission as part of the Donner
      Laboratory NIH program project entitled Lipoprotein Subclasses: Structure, Origin and
      Metabolism.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Serum lipoprotein subfraction concentrations were measured in 1,961 men and 423 women who
      were employed or who applied for employment at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory between
      1954 and 1957. Computer files were created by Dr. Gofman at Donner Laboratory for
      epidemiologic studies of lipoprotein fractions. The files included name, age, gender and the
      following medical information: cholesterol, lipoprotein subfraction concentrations, blood
      pressure, weight, smoking history, hemoglobin, red and white blood cell counts, and blood
      proteins. Dr. Gofman provided those computer files for this study. The vital status and the
      history of coronary disease in the cohort were determined through state and national
      mortality surveillance systems, public records, medical and hospital records, autopsy
      reports, and telephone interviews with cohort members. All medical documents were examined by
      a physician and endpoints assigned according to international diagnostic criteria.

      The data were used to extend Dr. Gofman's initial study from 10 to 30 years of follow-up.
      Survival analysis was used to assess the independent contributions of specific lipoprotein
      subclasses to coronary disease while controlling for other risk factors. Other issues
      examined were whether HDL2 and HDL3 showed different relationships to coronary disease,
      whether the relationships of lipoprotein subfractions to coronary disease were independent of
      other established risk factors, and whether measurements of lipoprotein subfraction
      concentrations offered significant improvement over total cholesterol in predicting coronary
      disease risk.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  