
    
      At the time of diagnosis of postoperative ileus and after enrollment and randomization, all
      patients will be returned to NPO status. Nasogastric tubes (NGT) may be placed for gastric
      decompression at the discretion of the surgical team if clinically indicated. In the event
      that an NGT is placed, medications will be given orally or via the NGT, which will be clamped
      for 30 minutes after administration. Patients will continue on standard ERAS pathways with
      the exception of reduction of diet. Antiemetics will be given as clinically indicated;
      however, no prokinetic or promotility agents will be given as scheduled dosages.

      Patients randomized to the study group will be given 12mg of Entereg orally twice a day, from
      the time of diagnosis of postoperative ileus to the time of return of bowel function or for 5
      days.

      Patients randomized to the control group receive standard postoperative care.

      The patient and surgical team will be able to know which arm of the study the patient is in
      based on documentation in the medical record of the administration of Entereg.

      Patients in both groups will remain NPO until the return of bowel function, defined as
      passage of stool, decrease in nasogastric tube output. At this point, the nasogastric tube
      will be removed and a trial of oral diet will be attempted per surgeon's discretion.

      Standard discharge criteria will be applied to all patients, including:

        -  Passage of stool

        -  Ability to tolerate solid food and to drink comfortably

        -  Adequate oral analgesia

        -  Patient's willingness to be discharged.

      Data to be collected The medical/surgical information below will be collected as part of this
      research study and is all information already available as part of the patients medical
      chart.

        -  Patient name, medical record number

        -  Past Medical History

        -  Past Surgical history

        -  Preoperative Medications (including steroids, anticoagulation, opioid use)

        -  Pre-operative Diagnosis

        -  Patient Demographics (age, gender, BMI, ASA score)

        -  Procedure performed

        -  Time of surgery

        -  Wound classification

        -  Estimated blood loss

        -  Intraoperative transfusion

        -  Intraoperative IV fluids given

        -  Conversion from laparoscopic to open procedure

        -  Stoma creation

        -  Time/day surgery to ileus

        -  Time from surgery to medication given

        -  Time from ileus diagnosis to medication given

        -  Was there return of bowel function (flatus or stool, solid or liquid, stoma output)
           prior to ileus

        -  Intra-abdominal infection/anastomotic leak

        -  Time/day of return of bowel function post ileus (flatus and stool- solid or liquid, and
           stoma function)

        -  Time/day of ability to tolerate oral diet (liquid and solid food)

        -  Nasogastric tube placement and daily output

        -  Duration of nasogastric tube

        -  Use and type of anti-emetics given

        -  Total number of Entereg doses given

        -  Post operative complications including reoperation

        -  Length of stay in hospital, defined as time from surgery to discharge

        -  30-day readmissions

      Study Completion Completion of participation in the study will be 30 days after the date of
      surgery. Any readmission up to 30 days post-operatively to the hospital as a direct result of
      their surgery will be followed. The patients will follow-up with the surgeon in the office in
      approximately 3-6 weeks, which is considered standard of care for all patients undergoing
      colorectal surgery and is not considered part of the research study. Any patient for whom
      follow-up documentation is missing or incomplete shall be contacted via telephone. The
      purpose of the call will be to simply determine return to function and outcome. Only a
      co-investigator shall contact the subject and will identify themselves at the beginning of
      the call. Any subject can reserve the right not to participate in the phone call interview;
      they would remain in the study.
    
  