
    
      Weight and height of patients is often recorded in clinical practice, as well as in clinical
      research. They give important informations for medication dosages, e.g., anticoagulants or
      anesthesias. Furthermore, the body mass index (BMI), calculated by weight and height, is an
      easy instrument to estimate a patient's risk for cardiovascular diseases based on obesity.

      In clinical practice, informations about height and weight do often rely on self-reported
      values instead of measured ones. This can be due to limited timely, but also instrumental
      resources, when scales or measuring tapes are not available. Unfortunately, these
      self-reported informations are often inaccurate. Age, education, weight, and sex seam to
      influence and distort them in different ways.

      Former studies have shown, that a lot of patients overestimate their height [1-8] and
      underestimate their weight [1-6]. This might lead to a wrong classification in normal weight
      and overweight using BMI. Among elderly (>60 years) informations relying on measured values
      and on self-reported values seem to be even more divergent [10].

      People with overweight are tending to underestimate their weight stronger than people with
      normal weight. The higher the weight, the more the self-reported information deviates from
      the actual weight [11,12]. Men's informations are more exact than women's, like Niedhammer et
      al. has shown in a study with 7350 participants [9]. Men with a BMI lower than 25 even
      overestimated their weight. Compared to younger ones, elderly men underestimated their weight
      more often, and elderly women's self-reported weight was more accurate [1,9].

      Next to age and gender, socioeconomic variables do influence self-reported measures. The
      higher the education or working position the more accurate the information about height.
      Noteworthy, women in high working positions overestimate their height, when compared to women
      in lower positions, who even underestimate their height [2,5,6,8,9].

      Furthermore, external conditions of data acquisition may impact validity of self-reported
      information, too. Stewart supposed that informations given in an interview are more exact
      than those given in a questionnaire [11].

      Most of the studies mentioned above are not exclusively related to patients with
      cardiovascular diseases. Studies referring to this patient population suggest, that men with
      cardiovascular diseases underestimate their weight less than others [13]. Nevertheless,
      Niedhammer et al. could not confirm this finding [9]. HEnce, the aim of this study is to
      identify factors that influence the validity of self-reported height and weight in patients
      with cardiovascular disease.
    
  