
    
      Malnutrition in hospital patients is a growing problem, with 20-45% of patients already
      malnourished at admission. As 70% of malnourished patients are also frail, early detection
      and treatment of malnutrition is one way to improve the outcomes of frail older adults. To
      improve the detection and treatment of these conditions, the PI developed the Integrated
      Nutrition Pathway for Acute Care (INPAC) that guides hospital staff on when to conduct key
      nutrition care activities to improve outcomes (e.g. screening at admission).

      In More-2-Eat (April 2015-March 2017), 5 Canadian hospital units in 4 provinces received
      funding to implement INPAC. Each hospital, with support from a research team had 1 year to
      implement INPAC. All 5 hospitals were successful in improving detection and treatment of
      malnutrition, and started to screen for frailty. Clinical care was transformed in the study
      units; for example all sites progressed from low baseline or no screening at admission to a
      rate of 75%. Findings also demonstrate improvement in clinical outcomes such as a shorter
      length of stay. An online INPAC Implementation Toolkit was developed to promote mobilization
      of this knowledge. What is not known is whether or not the results can be replicated under
      normal circumstances (i.e., no external funding for implementation at a hospital site).

      To sustain and expand on this success, a Phase 2 knowledge translation project is proposed
      that will involve the five original Phase 1 sites and five further hospitals as Phase 2
      sites. The goal of the second phase is to see if Phase 1 sites can spread success to other
      units within their hospitals and if Phase 2 sites can achieve similar results across a
      broader group of patients.

      The end product will be a sustainable model including a community of practice supported by
      our partner the Canadian Malnutrition Task Force, and a self-serve registry that allows sites
      to collect and report data to change their practice. Investigators will also confirm capacity
      of INPAC activities to improve clinical outcomes across diverse settings. This knowledge
      translation and implementation study will demonstrate the potential to transform clinical
      nutrition care, benefiting all pre-frail and frail older adults.
    
  