
    
      This is a randomized, double-blinded, sham-controlled study comparing sham and continuous
      tDCS combined with repetitive upper extremity functional task training in a virtual
      environment. Subjects will be randomized to 1 of 2 groups: Armeo training with continuous
      tDCS, or sham tDCS through a randomization stratification approach. Subjects will be grouped
      into strata defined by the degree of weakness, and then randomized separately within each
      stratum according to a block randomization of 6 to receive Armeo training-continuous tDCS, or
      Armeo training-sham stimulation. Each subject will receive 10 training sessions over 2 weeks.
      Training sessions will last for 40 minutes and will focus on repetitive tasks using the Armeo
      device that incorporate multidirectional reaching, grasp and release action of the hand. We
      will use a variety of virtual tasks (computer games) in the training. Examples of the virtual
      tasks include 1) picking up objects from shelves placed against different walls of a room and
      placing them in a bin in the center foreground of the screen, 2) picking up eggs from a
      basket and cracking them over a frying pan, 3) picking up objects at a virtual supermarket
      and placing them in the shopping cart, 4) cleaning a stove top. In between training sessions,
      subjects will be encouraged to use the affected arm in daily activities. This will be
      assessed with the Motor Activity Log.

      tDCS will be delivered by positioning the anode over the primary motor cortex (M1) of the
      affected hemisphere, while the cathode will be placed over the unaffected M1 area. The
      electrode localization method will be according to the International 10-20 Electrode
      Placement System for placement of EEG electrodes. This method has been validated with a
      frameless stereotactic system. Direct current will be transferred by a saline-soaked pair of
      surface sponge electrode (35cm2) and delivered by a battery-driven, constant current
      stimulator with a maximum output of 10mA. An intensity of 1mA will be used in this study
      (current density of 0.04 μA/cm2). Continuous stimulation will be delivered at an intensity of
      1mA while the subject undergoes the 40-minute Armeo motor training sessions. For sham
      stimulation, the same parameters will be employed. However, the current will be applied for
      30 seconds only. Current intensity will be gradually increased and decreased to diminish its
      perception.

      Outcome measures will be performed prior to treatment initiation, at day 5, 10, and at
      follow-up week 1, 2 and 4 after the end of treatment. A rater blinded to the treatment will
      assess the effects of the intervention using the Jebsen-Taylor Hand Function Test and Box and
      Block Test.
    
  