
    
      The study will be designed and conducted as a two-arm parallel, open-label, randomized
      controlled trial (RCT) at a tertiary-care hospital.

      No masking will be applied, in order not to expose the control group to sham interventions of
      no benefit or potential harm.

      A blinded research coordinator will randomly assign eligible infants using a computer
      software-based randomization system (default) or sealed, numbered, and opaque envelopes
      (back-up), with a 1:1 allocation ratio, as soon as possible and not later than 24 hours from
      birth.

      Sample size calculation is based on the incidence of NEC, as the rarest of the events that
      will be studied, which is currently about 15% among extremely preterm infants at the
      investigators' unit, as mentioned above. For study power of at least 70%, confidence level of
      5%, and an expected decrease of NEC incidence from 15% to 8%, each study arm should include
      about 100 participants. Each year, the investigators' unit treats about 70 infants born in GA
      22+0 - 26+6. Supposing a participation rate of 70%, it is estimated that the recruitment
      period should last between 3 and 4 years, preliminarily starting during 2018. However, a
      recruitment period of maximum 5 years will be allowed.

      Current feeding regimen and feeding intolerance guidelines will be applied for both study
      arms.

      Intervention The following intervention will be applied to the intervention group: specially
      trained pediatric surgeon will administer 10ml/kg pre-warmed (37oC) normal saline via a
      single-use rectal tube of size 6FR twice per day, aiming at a depth of maximum 10 cm/kg,
      starting after randomization and not later than 24 hours of age, and continued until full
      enteral nutrition of 170ml/kg/day is achieved or NEC diagnosis (Bell stage II or more) is
      established, which one comes first. However, the intervention will be applied at a maximum of
      2 weeks from birth. Besides, the intervention will be withheld in case of suspicion of
      infection or NEC but will be resumed if antibiotics are not introduced and discontinuation of
      feeds does not exceed 48 hours. Early stopping criteria include infection / sepsis or NEC
      suspicion necessitating prolonged discontinuation of feeds > 48 hours and / or antibiotics,
      circulatory instability or adverse events. The intervention will only be applied at the NICU
      of University Children's Hospital in Uppsala and will be discontinued if the infant is
      transferred to another hospital.

      Standard departmental guidelines will be followed regarding ventilation, choice of PN,
      invasive monitoring, and management of sepsis and/or necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC) for both
      the intervention and the control groups.

      Comparison group

      The following guidelines are currently applied at the investigators' unit for extremely
      preterm infants that do not defecate adequately:

      If the child has not passed meconium or has already passed meconium / feces but has not
      defecated for 3-4 days:

        -  If there are no symptoms: continued EN, follow-up of clinical status and defecation
           pattern. If the child has not defecated for another 1-2 days (and remains asymptomatic),
           consider the following treatment strategy to facilitate defecation:

             1. Tactile perineal stimulation is performed by a nurse, using a room temperature damp
                compress

             2. Cautious rectal stimulation is performed by a nurse, using a rectal catheter size
                6FR; depth 1 - 2 cm

             3. Step 1 & 2 is repeated depending on effect and defecation pattern

             4. If Step 1 & 2 does not result in defecation and the clinical status is unchanged,
                enema with 4mL / kg sodium chloride 9mg / mL is given

             5. In case of no effect, a pediatric surgeon is consulted, and consideration is given
                to continued treatment; (1) watchful waiting alternatively repeated enema (2)
                rectal washout with 10 mL / kg sodium chloride 9mg / mL (3) further radiological
                and laboratory investigations

        -  In case of symptoms (cardiorespiratory instability, impaired abdominal status, vomiting,
           bilious residuals, etc.): EN is withheld, pediatric surgeon is consulted and
           radiological / laboratory investigations as well as early treatment with antibiotics
           (tazobactam / piperacillin + gentamicin) is considered.

      Follow-up All extremely preterm infants hospitalized in the investigators' unit are
      discharged home at about GA 35+0. Infants regionally belonging to another hospital are
      usually transferred to the "home hospital unit" not earlier than GA 28+0. After hospital
      discharge, all extremely preterm infants are routinely followed-up according to a nationwide
      schedule, until the age of 5,5 years. Data mostly concerning children's growth as well as
      neurological and psychomotor development are collected, and interventions are made as needed.

      Study participants will be followed-up until full term corrected age (GA 40 +0), and medical
      information including possible treatments as well as diagnosis of NEC or other
      gastrointestinal complication, sepsis, PDA, BPD, ROP, IVH, hyperbilirubinemia, growth
      parameters (weight, length, head circumference) and mortality will be collected by the
      investigators from the treating physicians and electronic medical records. All the clinical,
      laboratory and radiological findings of infants treated at the investigators' unit are
      routinely and continuously registered in detail, with the use of medical computer software,
      during the whole hospitalization period, and these data will be readily accessible to the
      investigators. Besides, data on children's growth and neurological development will be
      collected from the electronic medical records, until the age of 5,5 years. The
      above-mentioned data of study participants that have been transferred to the home or other
      hospital unit will be collected by the investigators though communication with the treating
      physician at the respective hospital.

      Documentation All data relevant to the study collected by the investigators will be
      registered and de-identified in electronic database with password-protected access allowed
      only to the investigators.

      Refuse to enrollment and subject dropouts Refusals to enroll the study and dropouts of the
      study and the respective reasons will be documented and reported in the results. Effort will
      be made to replace each of these subjects with another infant of the same gestational age.

      Completion of the study The study will be completed when the number of 100 subjects per study
      arm is reached (a maximum of 130 subjects per study arm will be allowed), estimated to be
      achieved by the year 2022 (and not later than year 2023).

      Statistical analysis Numerical data with a gaussian distribution will be expressed as means
      (standard deviation), otherwise as medians (ranges). Anderson-Darling test will be used to
      assess the normality of the data. Numerical values will be compared between intervention and
      control groups using t-tests or the Mann-Whitney U test. Categorical variables will be
      compared using χ2 or Fisher's exact tests. Times to achieve full enteral feeding will be
      compared by the log rank test. Multiple Cox regression analysis will be used to adjust for
      covariates, such as gestational age and birth weight. IBM SPPS software (current version at
      the time of publication) will be used for all calculations and a p-value of <0,05 will be
      considered significant.

      Interim analysis will be conducted when 35 infants have been recruited in each study arm
      (estimated about 1,5 years from study start). Another interim analysis will be conducted when
      65 infants have been recruited in each study arm (estimated about 3 years from study start).
      Unplanned interim analysis will also be conducted in case of subjectively estimated too
      obvious difference between the groups regarding the primary outcomes, at any time during the
      study. The study will be discontinued as soon as an interim analysis shows statistically
      significant results regarding the primary outcomes or severe adverse events.

      Ethical considerations The study protocol will be submitted for approval to the Regional
      Ethical Review Board in Uppsala and subsequently registered at the international registry of
      clinical trials, ClinicalTrials.gov. The parents of the infants will be informed about the
      study by specially trained personnel, both verbally and in writing, before the child is born
      or, whenever that is not possible, as soon as possible after birth. Upon agreement to
      participate, written informed consent will be obtained from the parents, before enrollment in
      the study. Additionally, the parents will be clearly informed about the possibility to leave
      the study any time they wish.

      None of the studies published so far reported any adverse events by induced meconium
      evacuation, with the exception of a higher proportion of NEC (although not statistically
      significant), vomiting, nausea and bradycardia with the use of oral gastrografin, and a
      non-significant trend towards increased risk of NEC with the use of glycerine enemas or
      suppositories compared with no treatment. However, in the RCT study described herein, both
      health personnel involved in the participating infants' daily care and the investigators are
      going to closely monitor for possible adverse events. Possible adverse events could be:
      rectal bleeding (including occult rectal bleeding-induced anemia), fluid loss due to
      overstimulation of immature intestines of preterm infants or the opposite effect, namely
      intestinal absorption of given saline, leading to hypervolemia and electrolyte disturbances,
      mainly hyponatremia. A safety monitoring committee will monitor adverse events with
      predefined stopping rules. Early stopping criteria will be applied in case of medical
      instability, as mentioned above. Furthermore, the whole study will be discontinued in case of
      too obvious positive effect, making it unethical to deprive the control group of the
      intervention, or in case of severe adverse events.

      The inclusion of study participants in other interventional studies could intervene with the
      outcomes intended to be investigated in the study herein, rendering it difficult to retrieve
      definitive conclusions. Thus, study participants will not be included in other interventional
      studies at the same time.

      The intervention will be discontinued if the infant is transferred to another hospital, as
      mentioned before. The decision to transfer a study subject to home or other hospital unit
      will only be based on current criteria and will not be affected by the participation in the
      study. Study participation is not expected to delay the transfer to home hospital and prolong
      the stay at our NICU in Uppsala, unless a severe adverse event should occur.

      Reporting and dissemination Following the study, data will be analysed by the research group
      and the results will be published in reviewed medical journals and possibly presented in a
      neonatology conference, hopefully during year 2023. It is difficult to provide a precise time
      schedule. Patient data collection is estimated to last about 4 years. Data analysis
      thereafter is time consuming and may last one more year until the whole project is completed
      and ready for publication. All the principal investigators will have free access to raw data
      and the right to publication.
    
  