
    
      Patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) are at high risk for
      atherosclerotic heart disease, in part because of their nearly universal exposure to heavy
      smoking, and in part to other incompletely understood mechanisms which may include
      inflammation and anti-oxidant status.

      Smoking markedly affects both circulating inflammatory markers concentrations, and the
      anti-oxidant glutathione peroxidase-1 (GPx-1). We hypothesize that smoking-related
      inflammation and anti-oxidant consumption lead to both cardiovascular (CV) and respiratory
      disease. In a recent study, we (Blankenberg et al) found that higher levels of GPx-1 were
      associated with lower rates af future CV events and death. GPx-1 levels were lower among
      smokers, and the combination of current smoking and GPx-1 levels below the median was
      strongly (HR=5.6) and significantly associated with future CV events and death.

      There is a biological and epidemiological rationale to study selenium supplementation for CV
      protection. GPx-1 is a selenium-dependent enzyme, and data support the hypothesis that
      selenium supplementation increases GPx activity in various diseases. Furthermore,
      epidemiologic studies have discovered an inverse association between selenium content in soil
      and CV incidence and mortality. We hypothesize that selenium supplementation will elevate
      intra-erythrocytic GPx-1 levels in COPD patients and, ultimately, retard CV progression.

      In this study, we will test the first component of this assertion. In a randomized,
      placebo-controlled trial, we will determine whether 12 weeks of selenium supplementation
      increases GPx-1 levels among 120 COPD patients. If successful, this study may lead to future
      large clinical trials to assess whether selenium, an inexpensive and safe mineral, improves
      clinical outcomes in cardiovascular and respiratory disease.
    
  