
    
      OVERALL DESIGN:

      The study is a post-market multicentre non-randomized controlled study. In each
      investigational site, the investigational personnel shall start with colonic resections,
      first 10 patients. When surgeons feel confident using the device and ward personal feel
      confident treating the patient postoperatively, they will initiate rectal resections.

      Eligible patients for C-REX LapAid Cath are those requiring resection of the left colon
      (descending colon and sigmoid) or above the upper rectum (> 15 cm above the anal rim) due to
      malign or benign disease. Eligible patients for C-REX RectoAid Cath are those requiring
      resection of the rectum due to malign or benign disease. The proximal limit is upper rectum
      (< 15 cm above the anal rim) and the distal limit is the anal sphincter.

      Patients will be enrolled in the study after they have provided informed consent, having
      undergone physical examination and been found to meet inclusion criteria. Bowel cleansing
      prior surgery should be performed according to local routines. The intestinal resection and
      anastomosis with the investigational devices, i.e. C-REX LapAid Cath or C-REX RectoAid Cath,
      shall be performed in line with standard procedure of proctocolectomy during hospitalization.
      Surgeons can utilize catheters that allow monitoring of the anastomosis during and after
      surgery.

      The healing period is expected to be approximately 10 ± 2 days. The short-term implant
      detaches via necrosis on the inner part of the intestinal surface and is expelled the natural
      way. The patient can be discharged before expelling of the short-term implant upon
      investigator's discretion.

      The patients will be followed up according to local procedure subsequently. The LARS score
      shall be assessed at 12 months, and healthcare utilization shall be assessed at 12 months
      postoperatively.

      SUBJECTS:

      The aim of this study is to collect post-market data of C-REX LapAid Cath and C-REX RectoAid
      Cath for the purpose of clinical evaluation and risk analysis. No control group is included
      in this study.

      Considering that similar anastomotic devices have been used in clinic for decades, the study
      will include about 200 subjects from at least 3 different sites/hospitals. In which, colonic
      resections shall be applied in 100 subjects, and recta resections in another 100 subjects.
      The device used is either C-REX LapAid Cath or C-REX RectoAid Cath.

      QUALITY CONTROL:

        1. Authorization to apply investigational devices:

           According to CarpoNovum's regulation, clinical investigators must be authorized to
           perform adaptive anastomosis with C-REX LapAid Cath or C-REX RectoAid Cath by performing
           at least one tutor-led surgery on pigs and at least one train-in surgery on patients
           with the trainer. When the clinical investigator is authorized to use the
           investigational devices, he or she receives a certificate.

        2. Investigation site selection:

           Investigation sites will be identified to participate in the study based on current
           experience, referrals from the principle investigator, and training in the use of the
           investigational devices according to the procedure of surgeon accreditation, and in
           accordance with ICH GCP guidelines and ISO 14155. It is expected that the surgeons will
           adhere to and follow protocol of performing adaptive anastomosis provided in the IFUs,
           and relevant study documents.

        3. Monitoring:

           To ensure that the study is appropriately conducted, there is a need for on-site
           monitoring before, during and after the clinical study. Remote monitoring without
           visiting the site may be performed as well. The study will be monitored by CarpoNovum or
           its authorized representatives in accordance the internal procedures of CarpoNovum. The
           frequency of the visit will be determined by the sponsor and scheduled based on
           enrolment and the number of active follow-up visits at each site.

           The responsible monitor will evaluate and summarize the results of each monitoring visit
           in a written report. The reports will be sent to the sponsor and the principal clinical
           investigators.

        4. Traceability and device accountability:

      The investigational devices stored in the investigation site in a locked cabin are only
      accessible to investigation personnel.

      The size of the device used in surgery should be recorded in CRF, the Patient Record Label on
      the device should be pasted on CRF as well. If more than one set of investigational devices
      are opened during surgery, all Patient Record Labels should be pasted on CRF and reasons for
      why the devices have been opened during surgery should be recorded.

      After surgery, the information of used or opened devices should be noted in Device
      Accountability. The used investigational devices or opened but not used devices, together
      with expelled short-term implants should be collected and saved in the investigation site.
      All components of devices, no matter if they have been used or not, as well as expelled
      short-term implants if possible, should be hand over to the sponsor when the study is
      finished. No component of investigational devices should be disposed or lost.

      DOCUMENTATION AND DATA MANAGEMENT:

      The following information should be clearly documented in medical record of subjects:

        -  That the subject is informed about the study and that the subject has signed the
           informed consent forms.

        -  That the subject is participating in the study; the identification code for the subject,
           the name of the study, and the study number.

        -  Which treatment the study refers to.

        -  Name of clinical investigator.

        -  All AEs and device deficiencies.

      The personal data obtained in the course of the study, in accordance with the informed
      consent, and in particular clinical findings are subjected to confidentiality. All generated
      and processed data during the study are protected by subject's identification code. Subjects
      will also provide his/her written approval for concerned investigation personnel,
      representatives of the sponsor, monitor and the medical inspection authority, Swedish or
      foreign, to obtain access to subjects' medical records, to compare them to collected data or
      reported information. This approval will be granted with reservations that information
      concerning subjects that become available is not pursued further. Subjects must also give
      his/her written approval that the study results that concern the subjects can be used in
      reporting on the study as a whole, provided that no records are pursued further.

      For each subject enrolled, regardless of medical device initiation, a CRF must be completed
      and signed by corresponding study personnel. This applies to those subjects who fail to
      complete the study. If a subject withdraws from the study, the reason must be noted on CRF.

      Data and information of subjects derived from the study, for instance medical records,
      imagine reports, surgical notes etc. are considered as source data. To ensure that all data
      are complete and correct, source data verification (SDV) will be confirmed by the monitor.

      Comments in CRF should be made with a ballpoint pen with permanent ink in paper based CRF.

      In both paper-based CRF and eCRF, if comments are missing in CRF, reasons for this must be
      stated. No questions, squares, fields or similar should be left without comments.

      The responsible clinical investigator is obliged to keep the subject identification lists
      with the subject's identification code and identity in a safe place at the investigation
      site, accessible only to the investigation personnel. These source data and subject
      identification lists will be saved for 10 years after the close of the study at the medical
      institution.

      EARLY STUDY TERMINATION:

      CarpoNovum reserves the right to terminate a non-preforming site. Reasons for considering
      early termination or suspension of an individual site may include, but are not limited to:

        -  Non-compliance with study protocol or failure to comply with government or local
           regulations.

        -  Failure to submit data in a timely manner.

        -  Failure to comply with or act upon findings.

        -  Failure to enrol an adequate number of subjects.

        -  Other reasons mentioned in the PMCIP, including that other investigation sites have
           enrolled a sufficient number of evaluable subjects which meets the statistical
           requirements

      CarpoNovum reserves the right to discontinue the study at any time due to, but not limited
      to:

        -  Strategic considerations of CarpoNovum.

        -  Force majeure event which results that the study cannot continue.

      Upon early termination of the study, the sponsor will notify each investigator immediately at
      the time of such a decision. Formal documentation will be provided to the Swedish Ethical
      Review Authority and investigation sites. After such a decision, the investigators must
      contact all participating subjects to notify them of this decision and its impact on their
      follow-up.

      STATISTICAL CONSIDERATION:

      Basic demographic and other baseline characteristics will be analysed for all patients.
      Summary statistics (arithmetic mean and standard deviation / median and interquartile range,
      minimum and maximum for quantitative variables, as appropriate) will be presented for the
      total study population. Frequency tables for qualitative data will be provided. Any deviation
      from specified statistical plan will be in addition to "per protocol" analysis and will be
      reported as such.

      Any deviations from the specified statistical analysis plan will be described in the study
      report.

      Analysis populations:

      ITT (Intention to treat) analysis set - all included researchers who have undergone surgery
      so that they have been exposed to a risk of leakage according to the primary study point,
      including those who withdraw or are excluded during the operation or are excluded during
      follow-up. The primary analysis is based on this analysis set.

      Safety analysis set - all researchers who have undergone surgery. Safety endpoints are
      analyzed with this analysis set.

      Per protocol analysis set - all researchers who completed the study without protocol
      deviations. As a secondary analysis, the primary analysis is also performed on this analysis
      set.
    
  