
    
      According to the World Health Organization (WHO), diabetes is defined as a disease that
      occurs when the insulin hormone which is responsible for regulating blood glucose and
      secreted by the pancreas. It cannot be produced individually or used effectively by the body.
      It is a chronic disease with high morbidity and mortality and adversely affected by diabetes
      complications. Purpose in diabetes treatment; control of the individual's blood glucose
      level, prevention or control of complications. From the moment of diagnosis, healthy
      lifestyle changes are recommended for metabolic control in individuals with diabetes.
      Diabetes is classified as type 1, type 2, other specific causes and gestational diabetes
      according WHO. 90-95% of diabetes cases diagnosed all over the world are type 2 diabetes,
      5-10% is type 1 diabetes and 2-3% is other diabetes types.

      During exercise, oxygen and glucose input to muscle cells increases and regular physical
      activity provides metabolic control. Many studies have shown that physical activity has a
      protective effect on impaired glucose tolerance and prevents the risk of cardiovascular
      diseases and premature death in patients with type 2 diabetes. However, 60-70% of individuals
      with type 2 diabetes can not reach their daily physical activity goal and most of them can
      not maintain their regular exercise program. In order to prevent patients from giving up
      exercise early, it is important to provide personal counseling at certain periods, to
      encourage, support and advice during exercises, and to explain the exercises in a way that
      patients can understand.

      In our study, patients with type 2 diabetes will be randomly divided into 3 groups as
      physical activity counseling and pilates exercise group, only physical activity counseling
      group, and control followed only with family physician recommendations and follow-up. It is
      planned to do the pilates exercises for 50 minutes a day, 2 days a week during 12 weeks with
      physiotherapist. Pilates group patient will make pilates exercise once a week alone.
      Individual exercise sessions will start with 5-10 minutes of warm-up exercises and end with
      cool-down exercises in the same time. Overall in the program; stretching exercises in
      different positions (standing and lying), exercises to increase the flexibility of the trunk
      muscles, upper extremity movements with and without an exercise ball, strengthening exercises
      with theraband will be applied. Types of movements to strengthen all abdominal muscles,
      muscles around the hips, back muscles, muscles in the shoulder girdle (shoulder bridge,
      corkscrew, roll-up, roll down, clam, side kick, staggered legs, scissors, swimming, swan
      dive, breast stroke preparation, Abdominal preparation, oblique preparation) will be used
      alternately in different sessions, from easy to difficult. Pilates exercises will be
      performed with light and relaxing music.

      Within the scope of physical activity, moderate and / or high intensity aerobic exercise
      recommended by cIntegrating physical activity in primary care practice. The American Journal
      of Medicine (ACSM) will be recommended 150 minutes in a week. Care will be taken not to take
      a break for more than 2 days between two exercise days. In addition, strengthening exercises
      that will maintain or increase muscle strength including large muscle groups at least 3 days
      a week will be determined in accordance with the patient's current possibilities.
      Recommendations will be given for possible complications such as hypoglycemia during and
      after exercise.

      During physical activity counseling, considering the current physical and metabolic status of
      the person, the person-based 5A model of ACSM will be adapted to individuals with diabetes
      and physical activity consultancy will be provided. The 5A model consists of assess, advise,
      agree, assist, and arrange subsections.

        1. Assess: The person's level of knowledge about physical activity and diabetes, his
           perspective on exercise, his exercise history, readiness for change, fatigue, personal
           history and family history, and drug use will be evaluated. By asking open-ended
           questions, his attitude towards exercise will be determined.

        2. Advise: The benefits of physical activity and the risks of physical inactivity will be
           explained, morbidities that may develop due to diabetes, the relationship of diabetes
           with physical activity, and exercise types will be mentioned. Short-term and long-term
           effects of exercise will be explained.

        3. Agree: Cooperation will be made with the client in line with the person's wishes,
           interests and physical activity goals. Environmental resources for physical activity
           will be evaluated and appropriate guidance will be made. OMRON HJ 109 brand pedometer
           will be used for determining, monitoring and improving the level of physical activity.

        4. Assist: Misunderstanding situations will be explained by helping the person identify and
           solve their problems with physical activity. Potential resources park, gym, etc.,
           solutions will be produced together for the obstacles on the way to physical activity.

        5. Arrange: A follow-up meeting will be held with the client one day a week, and the target
           will be determined for the next week. At the end of the interviews, the situation is
           summarized and it is aimed to increase clarity. During the interviews, motivational
           interview technique will be applied by the consultant, and a person-centered approach
           will be provided by establishing empathy.

      Before and after the 12-week intervention program of all patients, metabolic control
      variables (body mass index, fasting blood glucose, HbA1c value, HDL, LDL, total cholesterol,
      triglyceride values) will be evaluated. Physical activity levels with IPAQ, exercise capacity
      with 6-minute walking test (6MWT), functional balance with Berg balance test and quality of
      life with SF-36 will be evaluated. Body fat percentage, visceral fat amount, body mass index
      and muscle mass amounts in the trunk and extremities will be calculated with the Jawon
      X-Contact 350 device. Exercise intensity during exercise will be determined by speaking test.

      Metabolic control variables will be analyzed in the Healthy Life Park Blood Collection Unit
      affiliated to Iskenderun District Health Directorate after the permits are taken. Evaluation
      methods, exercise and consultancy applications will be carried out in Iskenderun Healthy Life
      Center. Only the participants in the family doctor follow-up will continue their routine
      doctor checks and recommendations.

      An "Assessment Form" will be created to record the demographic and disease information of all
      cases included in the study. Diabetes year, prediabetes diagnosis time, history, family
      history, treatments taken, medications used, posture analysis with New York Posture Analysis,
      range of motion, muscle strength and shortness assessment and foot examination will be
      recorded in the evaluation form. Semmes Weinstein monofilament will be used for foot
      examination.

      All analyzes will be performed using SPSS (Statistical Package for Social Sciences) for
      Windows 22. The compliance of the data to normal distribution will be evaluated by drawing
      the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test and histogram. Parametric tests will be used for data suitable
      for normal distribution. Data that are not suitable for normal distribution will be analyzed
      with non-parametric tests. Variables will be defined by their mean and standard deviation
      values. Analyzes and correlations between groups will be examined separately with appropriate
      tests. A value of p<0.05 will be considered statistically significant.
    
  