
    
      After approval by the Research Ethics Committee and registration of the project at
      ClinicalTrials (www.ClinicalTrials.gov) 75 patients will be selected from a population of
      obese patients scheduled for laparoscopic, bariatric or cholecystectomy surgery, who
      voluntarily accept to participate in the study. These participants will be distributed
      through an electronic draw in three groups. In the lactate ringer group (LRG), patients who
      will receive only general anesthesia will be grouped. In the real weight group (RWG) will be
      the patients who will receive general anesthesia and magnesium sulfate infused at a dose of
      15 mg.kg-1.h-1 based on the actual body weight. In the corrected ideal weight group (CWG)
      will be the patients who will receive general anesthesia and the same dose of magnesium
      sulfate, but based on the corrected ideal weigh.

      Inclusion criteria: patients aged 18 to 60 years, status I or II of the American Society of
      Anesthesiology, body mass index> 30 kg.m-2, scheduled for laparoscopic, bariatric surgery or
      cholecystectomy. Patients with allergies to any of the components of the protocol, who refuse
      to participate or sign the consent form, presenting neuromuscular impairment, heart block
      greater than first-degree atrioventricular block, using illicit drugs, with neuropsychiatric
      impairment, in blockers calcium channels and with renal impairment will not be invited to
      participate in the study.

      A pre-trial phase will include 10 patients with a body mass index between 20 and 30 kg / m².
      These patients will receive magnesium sulfate infusion at a dose of 15 mg.kg-1h-1, and serial
      samples will be collected (before administration, 15, 30, 60, 120 and 240 min after
      administration) for comparison with the trial patients.

      For this study, the sample size was determined to a level of 95% confidence, power equal to
      80% and effect size of 0.40, a sample of 22 individuals was calculated for each of the 3
      groups, adding a total of 66 participants. We rounded up to 25 participants per group to
      compensate for losses, with a total of 75 participants.

      The result of the group draw will be kept hidden for participants and the team. Each
      participant will have an opaque envelope with their name and number corresponding to the
      order of entry into the study. The group each patient belongs to and the medication to be
      administered according to the group will be described on an identification card inside the
      envelope. A team member will be responsible for opening the envelope and preparing the
      medication to be administered, keeping the secret to the other study participants.

      Participants will not receive pre-anesthetic medication. Upon arriving at the operating room,
      they will be monitored with continuous electrocardioscope, pulse oximetry, non-invasive blood
      pressure and monitoring of the level of consciousness. When the venous catheter is installed,
      the first blood sample (2 ml) will be collected to measure blood magnesium concentration.
      After blood collection, an infusion of the study comparison solution will be started as
      described below.

      LRG - Ringer with lactate 16 ml.h-1 RWG - magnesium sulfate 15 mg.kg-1.h-1 based on the
      patient's real weight CWG - magnesium sulfate 15 mg / kg / h based on the patient's corrected
      ideal weight.

      A professional will be assigned to prepare the syringe and pump to administer the substance
      in a covered manner to the patient and other team members. The infusion will be stopped at
      the end of the surgery. The professional who deals with the pump and substance corresponding
      to the patient's group will not participate in another stage of the study.

      At the time of induction, all participants in the 3 groups will receive dipyrone 10 mg.kg-1,
      clonidine 2 µg.kg-1, cefazolin 2 g, dexamethasone 4 mg, ketoprofen 100 mg, ranitidine 50 mg,
      lidocaine 1.5 mg.kg-1. Pre-oxygenation with inspired fraction of 100% oxygen will be
      initiated for 3 min, followed by propofol in target-controlled infusion (TCI - target
      controlled infusion) with initial target at 4 µg.ml-1 (pharmacokinetic model Marsh, with
      target effect) guided by the monitoring of anesthetic depth. At that moment, the muscle
      relaxation monitor (TOF - train of four) will be calibrated, followed by the administration
      of 0.1 mg of cisatracurium and the start of remifentanil infusion in TCI to an effect
      concentration of 5 ng.ml-1. Anesthesia maintenance will be based on propofol in TCI guided by
      anesthetic depth monitoring, remifentanil (target 3 to 5 ng.ml-1) and cisatracurium 0.03
      mg.kg-1 if TOF ≥ 2. There will be no additional dose of cisatracurium in the last 20 minutes
      surgery, unless necessary by the surgeon. The infusion of remifentanil will be controlled to
      prevent systolic blood pressure from reaching values greater than or less than 30% of
      baseline values, or a maximum of 130 mmHg and a minimum of 90 mmHg. At the end of surgery,
      after TOF> 2, patients will receive atropine 20 µg.kg-1 and neostigmine 40 µg.kg-1. Blood
      will be collected to examine the blood concentration of magnesium in all patients in the 3
      groups at the time of venipuncture and 15, 30, 60, 120 and 240 min after the beginning of the
      covered solution.

      Before extubation, all patients will receive an intravenous dose of morphine 0.05 mg.kg-1 and
      dipyrone 10 mg.kg-1. Five minutes after extubation, and then every 30 min, this dose of
      morphine will be repeated in case of pain greater than 3 on the verbal pain scale (scale from
      0 to 10).

      The following will be recorded and analyzed:

        1. Blood concentrations of magnesium at the moments described

        2. Consumption of painkillers upon awakening and during hospital stay

        3. Cisatracurium latency (from injection to TOF = 0)

        4. Cisatracurium duration 25 (from injection to TOF = 25%)

        5. Total duration of cisatracurium (from injection to TOF = 90%)

        6. Cisatracurium recovery index (between TOF 25% and 75%)
    
  