
    
      Hypoglycaemia is the most serious adverse effect of diabetes treatment. Older adults are at
      the highest risk to develop hypoglycaemia. Several studies have established the important
      positive role of educational interventions on achieving glycaemic control and other clinical
      outcomes, however, there is still a lack in clinical trials that evaluate the impact of such
      type of interventions on hypoglycaemia risk, especially in older adults. Despite the
      increasing prevalence of chronic diseases such as diabetes in Jordan, pharmacists still
      provide traditional services rather than patient-centred services.

      The purpose of this research is to investigate the effect of pharmacist-led, individualised,
      and medications-focused patient counselling on reducing episodes of hypoglycaemia compared to
      the usual care in older Jordanians with type 2 Diabetes Mellitus within 12 weeks.

      This research is a prospective, open-label, randomised controlled trial that is conducted in
      the outpatient endocrinology and cardiology clinics at King Abdullah University Hospital in
      Jordan, with 204 elderly patients who had been diagnosed with type 2 diabetes. Participants
      will be randomised in a 1:1 ratio into either the intervention (SUGAR Handshake) or the usual
      care groups. Each participant in the SUGAR Handshake group will receive a face-to-face
      individualised educational session with a pharmacist at the inclusion visit, a pictogram
      containing the main educational information, and a reinforcement of the educational session
      through a phone call at week 6 of the inclusion visit. They will also receive the usual care
      provided by the health care professionals at the outpatient clinics. On the other hand,
      patients in the usual care group will only receive the routine care provided at the
      outpatient clinics. The duration of the trial for each participant is 12 weeks.

      The qualitative study is performed through phone interviews with 8-12 participants of each
      group at week 6 of the inclusion visit. Participants are to be approached according to
      convenience sampling and the data will be analysed using content analysis.
    
  