
    
      Consent for Child Participation:

      STUDY PARTICIPATION:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will complete 3 paper-and-pencil questionnaires
      that will be used to get information about your health status and overall well being. You
      will be asked how you are feeling at this time, whether you worry a lot of the time, how
      often you feel sad, and how physically active you are, such as with walking and running. The
      study staff is also interested in knowing how well you are keeping up with school activities
      and how often you attend school. Finally, your doctor will provide information about your
      illness and describe how it may affect your participation at home or at school.

      If you are age 8 or above, it should take about 30-45 minutes to complete the questionnaires.
      If you are between age 6 and 7, it should take about 10-15 minutes to complete the
      questionnaires.

      Your parent or caregiver may be present while you complete your questionnaires. However, you
      are encouraged you to give your own answers. The questionnaires may be completed in The
      Children's Cancer Hospital clinic or elsewhere, and a research assistant will assist you, if
      you need help.

      Length of Study:

      Your participation in this study will be over once you have completed the 3 questionnaires.

      This is an investigational study. Up to 106 children will take part in this study. All will
      be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.

      Consent for Medical Staff Participants:

      Child Adjustment to Pediatric Cancer and School Reintegration:

      Researchers want to examine illness-related factors (such as severity of illness and quality
      of life) as predictors or correlates of adjustment to pediatric cancer and predictors of
      school reintegration (such as school attendance) of children with pediatric cancer.

      Study Participation:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will complete one, 7-item paper-and-pencil
      measure that will be used to obtain information about your patient's current health status.
      For example, the first question asks, "On a Likert scale of 1 to 7, describe the degree of
      impairment for this child." One (1) indicates "Independent functioning, requires no
      assistance," and 7 indicates "Requires complete assistance." It should take about 2-5 minutes
      to complete the measure in the clinic or your office, and it can be done during regular work
      hours.

      You will also be asked to describe information on the child's severity of illness. For
      example, you will be asked to describe the degree of impairment, frequency of medical
      procedures/hospitalizations, and your understanding of the child's participation in community
      activities.

      Length of Study:

      Your participation in this study will be over once you have completed the measure. Study
      results will be published and mailed to each medical staff participant.

      This is an investigational study. Up to 24 medical staff members will take part in this
      study. All will be enrolled in this study at M. D. Anderson.

      Consent for Parent or Caregiver Participation:

      Child Adjustment to Pediatric Cancer and School Reintegration:

      Researchers want to learn about illness-related factors (such as severity of illness and
      quality of life) that may show how well children with cancer adjust to the disease and return
      to a traditional school setting (by looking at school attendance, for example).

      Your Study Participation:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will complete 5 paper-and-pencil questionnaires
      that will be used to get information about you and your child's health status. Questions will
      be about your child's physical, emotional, and social functioning as well as how they are
      functioning in school. You will be asked to rate how much of a problem you think your child
      may be having in these areas. You will also be asked about how often difficult events have
      occurred for you as a parent or caregiver of a child with cancer. These questionnaires should
      take about 45 minutes to 1 hour to complete.

      The Child's Participation:

      Your child will also be asked to complete 3 paper-and-pencil questionnaires that will also be
      used to get information about his or her health status, as well as his or her overall well
      being.

      You may be present with your child while he or she is completing the questionnaires, if you
      choose. However, you are encouraged to allow the child to complete the questionnaires on his
      or her own so as not to influence the child's answers. A research assistant will be glad to
      assist your child with his or her completion of the questionnaires.

      Location for Completion of Questionnaires:

      The questionnaires for both you and the child may be completed in a private consultation room
      or examination room in The Children's Cancer Hospital clinic, or they may be completed
      outside of the room or clinic and returned to study staff.

      If they are completed outside of the room or clinic, you can hand deliver the questionnaires
      to the clinic in an envelope, or you can mail them back to study staff in a postage-paid
      return envelope that can be provided to you.

      Length of Study:

      Your participation in this study will be over once you have completed the 5 questionnaires.
      You may receive a summary of the study's findings at the end of the study if you make this
      request to the study researcher who gave the questionnaires to the study doctor.

      This is an investigational study. Up to 106 parents or caregivers will take part in this
      study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  