
    
      From the assignment of the devices masturbation aid Flip Hole by the Japanese company TENGA®
      it was possible to begin to develop the study. To shape the patients sample was used to the
      active search of participants who met with the criteria of incorporation established for the
      participation in the study, from the publication of the study in different social media
      (Facebook, Twitter …) and the review of the database of the Instituto Sexológico Murciano
      patients' (ISM) who had represented previously with problems of premature ejaculation.

      First interview with the participants was carried out where it informed them about the
      collaborative character in the study, together with the informed assent. To determine the
      suitability of the sample one administered ISM's Autobiographical questionnaire, the clinical
      Multiaxial Inventory of Millon-III (MCMI-III), and the Questionnaire of sexual satisfaction
      GRISS (Golombok Rust Sexual Inventory of Satisfaction), beside gathering a medical report of
      every patient to reject pathologies that they could interfere with the study.

      Once established the number of participants, 15 males of ages included between 18 and 65
      years, there was carried out a follow-up individualized for eight weeks from records of the
      IELT. During the first two weeks of research the subjects had to register the ejaculatory
      latency times during the manual masturbation and the intercourse being from the third week
      when they would use the device FLIP HOLE in the manual masturbation either alone or in
      company of the couple but never during the intercourse.

      The subjects had to use the masturbator aid at least five times per week for six weeks,
      during a minimum of five minutes without never overcoming half daily hour and during
      intercourse. The device Flip Hole is a masturbation aid made from Thermoplastic Elastomer (a
      silicone like substance) that the user inserts their penis in to for stimulation.

      The patients had to come weekly to ISM to deliver the weekly records and to be able to take a
      follow-up of the subjects along the process. Once finished eight weeks of the study one
      turned them to administer the questionnaire GRISS to evaluate if changes are produced in the
      sexual satisfaction of the participants.
    
  