
    
      Rationale:

      The past decades have shown an increase in the incidence of small renal masses (SRM). At the
      moment laparoscopic partial nephrectomy is the 'golden standard' in treatment of SRMs.
      Thermal ablation techniques are indicated in patients who are poor surgical candidates or who
      have a predisposition to develop multiple tumours. Recent studies have shown thermal ablation
      techniques to have similar long-term oncologic results. Downsides to thermal ablation are the
      possible damage to vital structures in the vicinity of the ablation zone, e.g. collecting
      system or intestine, and unpredictable results due to difficulty in monitoring the ablation
      zone and 'thermal sink'.

      Electroporation or electropermeabilisation is a novel technique with the potential to
      overcome the main disadvantages of thermal ablation. It utilizes electric pulses, traveling
      between two or more electrodes, to create 'nanopores' in the cell membrane. If the applied
      current reaches a certain threshold these 'nanopores' become permanent resulting in cell
      death. The use of electric current means that IRE is not susceptible to 'thermal sink'
      leading to consistent ablation results. IRE ablation targets the cell membrane, sparing
      tissue architecture and minimizing damage to blood vessels, nerves and the renal collecting
      system.

      The first in human studies have proven the safety of IRE for the ablation of small renal
      masses. However the efficacy of IRE through histopathological examination of an ablated renal
      tumour has not yet been studied, compromising the correct and scientific evaluation of a new
      technology. This is the primary objective of this research project.

      Objectives:

      Primary Objectives:

        -  To determine the efficacy of IRE ablation of renal masses , measured by histopathologic
           examination of the targeted tumour.

        -  To determine the safety of IRE ablation of renal masses, by evaluating device and
           procedural adverse events.

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  To evaluate the efficacy of MRI in the imaging of ablation success, extend of the
           ablation zone, one and four weeks post IRE ablation.

        -  To evaluate the efficacy of CEUS in the imaging of ablation success, extend of the
           ablation zone, one and four weeks post IRE ablation.

      Study design:

      This is a prospective, human, in-vivo pilot study. Study population: 10 patients, age ≥ 18
      years, presented with a solid enhancing RM , who are candidates for radical nephrectomy.

      Intervention:

      Patients will receive IRE ablation of the RM, performed under general anaesthesia, 4 weeks
      before radical nephrectomy. Follow-up at one and four weeks post IRE will be performed using
      MRI and CEUS imaging. After radical nephrectomy histopathological examination will be
      performed to evaluate IRE ablation success.

      Main study parameters/endpoints:

      Primary endpoints:

        -  The efficacy of IRE ablation of renal masses , measured by histopathologic examination
           of the targeted tumour by an experienced genitourinary pathologist. Using
           immunehistochemical staining to evaluate cell viability.

        -  The safety of IRE ablation of renal masses, by evaluating device and procedural adverse
           events using CTCAE v4.0.

      Secondary endpoints:

        -  The efficacy of MRI in the imaging of ablation success, extend of the ablation zone, one
           and four weeks post IRE ablation. By comparing MRI imaging to the histopathological
           examination results of the resected material.

        -  The efficacy of CEUS in the imaging of ablation success, extend of the ablation zone,
           one and four weeks post IRE ablation. By comparing CEUS imaging to the histopathological
           examination results of the resected material.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness:

      There are no benefits for patients that participate in this study. Study participants will be
      exposed to additional risk when compared to standard treatment. They will have to undergo an
      additional procedure under general anaesthesia with muscle relaxation. The exposure to
      ionizing radiation during the procedure has been estimated at 32 mSv. Patients have to be
      informed about the risks of procedural complications. Information on the efficacy of IRE,
      proven histopathologically, is a vital step in order to progress to long term follow-up
      studies without tumour excision. So far no study has investigated the efficacy of IRE for the
      ablation of renal tumours in this manner.
    
  