
    
      Objectives:

      The primary aim of this study is to compare the effectiveness, in terms of intraocular
      pressure (IOP) control, of SLT and topical medical therapy in the primary treatment of
      patients with high IOP secondary to PXF. The secondary aims of the study are:

        1. To examine the relationship between the degree of angle pigmentation and reduction of
           IOP

        2. To examine adverse effects from SLT treatment in patients with PXF

        3. To compare IOP-lowering effects of SLT in patients with PXF to patients with POAG (in
           the LiGHT study, see structure below).

      Study Population: All new patients with PXF who are naïve to treatment (and willing to
      participate) will be recruited after their first hospital consultation. Both eyes will be
      treated but only one eye per patient included in the analysis (eye with the higher presenting
      IOP).

      Structure: The study design mirrors that of National Institute of Health (NIHR-) funded, the
      laser in glaucoma and ocular hypertension trial (LiGHT) in the UK and is a collaborative
      study between a Canadian Institute and Moorfields Eye Hospital in London. This is a
      single-study randomised (unmasked) control trial of a proposed treatment intervention (SLT)
      versus a standard treatment (topical therapy).

      Summary of study design Patients will be randomised to one of 2 trial arms: 'laser-pathway'
      or 'medicine- pathway'. Following initial treatment, SLT patients will be followed up 1-2
      weeks after treatment to check IOP and for potential side effects. The interval of subsequent
      follow-up visits (between 4 and 12 months) will be governed by the level of IOP in relation
      to the target IOP and the severity of glaucoma. Visual field testing (SITA standard, 24-2
      test pattern) and imaging with the Hedidelberg Retina Tomograph (HRT III) will be performed
      at each visit. Target IOP will be set using the Canadian Glaucoma Society guidelines
      depending on the severity of glaucoma and the level of IOP. At subsequent visits, treatment
      will be escalated if the target IOP is not met or if there is evidence of progression.

      Duration of study The study will last 3 years. One year will be allowed for recruitment of
      all study participants, so that a minimum follow-up of 2 years will be available.

      All patients will have a medical history, gonioscopy, central corneal thickness (CCT)
      measurement, IOP measurement with Goldmann applanation tonometry and dilated fundoscopy at
      the baseline visit.
    
  