
    
      Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is a major concern in public health in China. Relatively limited
      information is available about how evidence-based therapies are incorporated appropriately
      into routine clinical practice. In addition, little information is available about the
      practical and applied knowledge from large unselected population and is used to guide
      practice for quality improvement.

      To investigate the treatment pattern and outcomes of PCI in a real-world clinical setting,
      3007 consecutive PCI cases will be selected from January 1, 2010 to October 31, 2014, in a
      large-scale hospital in Northeast China.At first, the investigators identified all PCI
      patients from PACS (Picture Archiving and Communication Systems) of the interventional
      imaging data from January 1, 2010 to October 31, 2014 and assigned each case a unique study
      ID. Then, the investigators abstracted comprehensive clinical data and procedural data.
      Comprehensive clinical data came from electronic medical records, including patient
      demographic characteristics, past cardiac and noncardiac history, patient clinical
      characteristics on hospital admission, laboratory measurements, procedure-related
      complications and use of cardiac medications during the index hospitalization and at
      discharge. CAG imaging will be reviewed by 2 cardiologists through PACS. Other Procedural
      data, including stent type, total stent length and so on, came from operation records of PCI
      cases finished by operators. The first clinical follow-up was assessed in October 2015 by
      direct hospital visits or phone interviews of patient's general practitioner/cardiologist,
      patient himself, or his family for all cases. A secondary clinical follow-up will be assessed
      individually if the three-year-follow-up of the patient was available. A third clinical
      follow-up will be assessed individually if the five-year-follow-up of the patient was
      available. All events were obtained from the patients' medical records. If these data were
      unavailable, status was ascertained by a telephone call to the patient's referring hospital
      physician. All events were adjudicated and classified by 2 cardiologists. By characterizing
      differences in patients' features, comparing the use of medications and procedures, and
      examining the outcomes, we'll define the gaps between clinical practice and guidelines to
      evaluated the treatment pattern and outcomes. New knowledge will be generated about PCI
      management to provide evidence for clinical guidelines, and to improve patients prognosis in
      future finally.
    
  