
    
      The trial comprises 5 Parts, Part A, B, C, D and E. Part A and Part B (Phase 2) have been
      closed in November 2020.

        -  Part A is a randomized, open-label, multi-center, comparative design to assess the
           efficacy and safety in subjects with ACV-resistant mucocutaneous HSV infection, treated
           with oral pritelivir or intravenous foscarnet.

        -  Part B is an open-label, multi-center design to assess the efficacy and safety of
           pritelivir in subjects with ACV-resistant-mucocutaneous HSV and who either:

             1. present with foscarnet-resistance/intolerance, or

             2. developed foscarnet resistance/intolerance during treatment in Part A (no
                improvement after at least 5 days of foscarnet therapy or intolerance to foscarnet
                requiring cessation of foscarnet treatment).

      Parts C, D and E (Phase 3) are currently being set-up.

        -  Part C is a randomized, open-label, multi-center, comparative design to assess the
           efficacy and safety of oral pritelivir in subjects with acyclovir resistent (ACV-R)
           mucocutaneous HSV episodes. Subjects with ACV-R mucocutaneous HSV infection will be
           randomized 1:1 to receive either oral pritelivir or iv foscarnet. The trial is designed
           to show superiority of pritelivir against foscarnet in obtaining clinical cure, i.e.
           number of subjects with all lesions healed within 28 days.

        -  Part D is an open-label, multi-center (performed in the same trial sites as Part C)
           design to assess the efficacy and safety of pritelivir in subjects with ACV-R
           mucocutaneous HSV episodes and who in addition either:

             1. present with foscarnet resistance/intolerance already at Screening for inclusion,
                or

             2. developed foscarnet resistance/intolerance during treatment in Part C (no
                improvement after at least 7 days of foscarnet treatment or intolerance to
                foscarnet requiring cessation of foscarnet treatment).

        -  Part E is an open-label, multi-center (performed in the same trial sites as Part C)
           design to assess the safety and efficacy of pritelivir in subjects with acyclovir
           susceptible (ACV-S) mucocutaneous HSV episodes.

      Pritelivir trial medication will be given orally as single daily doses of 100 mg (following a
      loading dose of 400 mg as first dose) until all mucocutaneous HSV lesions are healed or up to
      28 days, whichever is earlier. A prolongation up to a maximum of 42 days may be possible.

      Foscarnet will be given as intermittent infusions at a dose of 40 mg/kg every 8 hours or 60
      mg/kg every 12 hours (to be adjusted in case of renal impairment) for a minimum of 1 hour
      duration until all mucocutaneous HSV lesions are healed or up to 28 days, whichever is
      earlier. A prolongation up to a maximum of 42 days may be possible.
    
  