
    
      BACKGROUND Patients with advanced chronic heart failure (ACHF) have a short term reduced life
      expectancy with recurrent hospital admissions for clinical exacerbations. ACHF poses a heavy
      burden to cardiology departments, where these patients are referred for the severity of their
      clinical condition, which require a specialist approach, and results in high health care
      costs due to frequent rehospitalizations.

      Patients with ACHF ≥ 2 hospital admissions in 6 months are at high risk of recurrent
      exacerbations. The benefits of strict outpatient follow-up at specialised HF vs standard
      community care in ACHF patients have been consistently demonstrated. The standard approach at
      HF clinics is based on flexible diuretic dose and outpatient iv diuretics as bolus or
      infusion at early signs of decompensation. Although this strategy results in symptomatic
      benefit and prevents approximately one third of hospital admission for acute exacerbations, a
      relevant proportion of patients will still need hospitalization. Predictors of lack of
      benefit are low systolic blood pressure, prior increase in oral diuretics and beta-blocker
      use, which taken together represent markers of severe disease susceptible to evolve in a low
      output state.

      In the HF clinic setting, a novel strategy for these patients, to include early support to
      myocardial contractility, i.e. before compelling criteria for hospital admission become
      manifest, might prevent further prolonged hospitalizations, myocardial damage and impairment
      in renal function TRIAL RATIONALE Levosimendan improved hemodynamics and patients' quality of
      life and decreased natriuretic peptide plasma levels, with no excess mortality, in randomized
      clinical trials of acute heart failure. In SURVIVE an early larger treatment effect of
      levosimendan was apparent in patients with acute worsening of chronic HF treatment than in
      those with de novo disease, possibly because a greater proportion of these patients may be on
      beta-blockers, that are known to interfere with dobutamine or may potentiate the circulatory
      actions of levosimendan. Thus levosimendan may be unattractive first-line agent in
      destabilized ACHF patients on beta-blockers.

      Based on the drug cardioprotective properties, hemodynamic and neurohormonal effects, we
      propose a novel therapeutic approach for the clinically-driven use of levosimendan in
      recurrent acute exacerbations of ACHF.

      Dosing of the drug will omit the bolus to increase tolerability in this severely ill patient
      population.
    
  