
    
      This is a prospective randomized control, crossover trial that will be performed examining
      fertility outcomes in patients after ablative and/or excisional operative laparoscopy at the
      Cleveland Clinic for infertility due to advanced stage (III/IV) endometriosis. Patients will
      be randomized to either receive immediate (three months) clomiphene citrate at 100mg daily
      for SO+IUI or expectant management with timed intercourse for three months. After 3 months,
      patients will cross over to the other treatment arm, receiving either three additional months
      of SO+IUI or three months of expectant management. Monthly fecundity rates and additional
      outcomes will be monitored.

      The study population will include women 18 to 35 years old with a diagnosis of infertility,
      defined as actively attempting to achieve pregnancy for >12 months of unprotected
      intercourse, prior to undergoing operative laparoscopy to treat endometriosis. Using the ASRM
      classification criteria, all patients included will have a diagnosis of stage III or IV
      endometriosis from a surgery performed within the Cleveland Clinic Foundation. Patients who
      present with idiopathic infertility who are found to have advanced stage endometriosis on
      diagnostic laparoscopy will be included as long as ablation and/or excision was performed on
      all visible endometriosis and adhesions. All patients must have at least one patent fallopian
      tube, assessed by hysterosalpingogram, hysteroscopy, or at the time of laparoscopy via
      chromopertubation. Patients with additional conditions affecting fertility will be included
      given the factors are classified as mild. This includes uterine leiomyoma(s) with a normal
      uterine cavity, polycystic ovarian syndrome, and mild male factor infertility (<15 million
      but >10 million motile sperm per ejaculate before washing). Patients who pursue IVF after
      expectant management or SO+IUI will be considered as having a negative pregnancy outcome
      during their participation in the study.

      Exclusion criteria include patients with additional causes for infertility such as male
      factor (<15 million motile sperm per ejaculate), ovulatory dysfunction, polycystic ovarian
      syndrome, age >35 years, and septate uterus. Patients who have had hormonal therapy in the
      three months prior to surgery will also be excluded, as this can impact the staging of
      disease. Patients will also be excluded from the study if they have previously undergone
      treatments for infertility, such as ovulation induction, IUI and/or IVF.

      Potential study participants will be identified by members of the Fertility Center within the
      Cleveland Clinic Women's Health Institute, as well as by chart review performed by the
      research coordinator. Women who present to the Cleveland Clinic for evaluation of infertility
      and are scheduled to undergo surgical intervention will be evaluated for participation in the
      study. A thorough chart review will be performed to ensure that all inclusion criteria for
      the study are met. At this time, a copy of the informed consent will be mailed to any patient
      who meets the study criteria. The primary investigator will call the patient ~1week after the
      consent document was sent to discuss the study with the patient. For patients with known
      stage III or IV endometriosis, contact for enrollment into the study will occur after their
      preoperative visit. Patients with idiopathic infertility who are found to have stage III or
      IV endometriosis at the time of laparoscopy will be contacted in a similar fashion in the
      postoperative period. During the phone conversation with the primary investigator, the
      informed consent process will be described to the patient. Preferentially, patients will
      schedule a time to meet with the research coordinator to sign the informed consent document
      at main campus. A one-time parking validation will be provided for these patients. In an
      effort to accommodate individuals who are unable to travel to main campus to sign the
      informed consent, the patient will be permitted to sign the document and return it to main
      campus by mail. The primary investigator will then sign the document and a copy will be
      mailed back to the patient. The method by which the patient signed the consent, as well as
      the time line throughout the consent process will be documented in the patient's Epic chart.
      After informed consent, patients will be randomly assigned to the initial treatment group in
      the postoperative period. Patients initially assigned to SO+IUI will have a quantitative hCG
      level drawn after three weeks after IUI. Patients initially assigned to expectant management
      will be contacted after 3 months to evaluate whether or not spontaneous pregnancy was
      achieved. As this is a crossover study, patients who do not achieve pregnancy during their
      initial treatment arm, cross over will occur and patients will undergo 3 months of the
      remaining treatment arm.
    
  