
    
      Research has shown some evidence of hypoxia associated with the prolonged use of a surgical
      or N-95 mask. Despite this, the prolonged use of surgical and/or N-95 masks in the clinical
      setting and surgical masks in the non-clinical setting is the current standard due to the
      COVID-19 pandemic. The physiologic cost of wearing a respirator was demonstrated in healthy
      volunteers with mask use during heavy exertion associated with increased respiratory rate,
      blood pressure and heart rate. N95 use during light exercise increases CO2 intake reduces
      inspired oxygen and increases the work of breathing. The physiologic effects of N95 fit
      testing using a hood include higher CO2 levels and lower oxygen levels in the respirator. In
      patients with ESRD, N95 mask use was associated with reduced PaO2 and increased respiratory
      rate. The use of surgical masks for prolonged surgeries is associated with decreased SpO2 and
      increased heart rate, particularly in those over 35 years old. Many studies have suggested
      that there is a physiologic burden and risk of hypoxia associated with surgical and/or N95
      mask use. This pilot study aims to compare baselines with each and both masks and with no
      mask versus short-duration exertion, which has not yet been done per review of the
      literature.

      There is some evidence that the use of surgical masks can induce mild hypoxia with a low
      level of activity (e.g. performing surgery) with prolonged use. There is no evidence that
      this decrease in oxygenation is clinically significant. The degree of hypoxia associated with
      surgical mask use, N-95 mask use, or the combination at rest and with exertion is unclear and
      warrants further investigation, particularly given the current widespread use of both due to
      the COVID-19 pandemic. Our working hypothesis is that there is a decrement in oxygenation
      with the use of a mask with exertion. The general public is being advised to wear a mask,
      including those with pre-existing pulmonary disease and heart disease. If there is evidence
      of a statistically significant decrease in oxygen saturation with short duration mask use
      with exertion, then further studies on patients at risk for decompensation due to
      mask-induced hypoxia is warranted. Our working hypothesis is that there is a decrement in
      oxygenation with the use of a mask with exertion.

      This is a single-site study.
    
  