
    
      Angiographic evaluation protocol:

      Coronary diagnostic angiography is performed according to the routine clinical practice. The
      visual estimate of the diameters stenosis % of the culprit lesion(s) should be input
      prospectively in the modified Syntax segmentation scheme (https://coronart.hu/) where the
      corresponding ventricular segments supply is indicated on a polar map. On the same time, the
      operator is required to record characterize the coronary vessel disease as focal, diffuse or
      mixed type, and to document his plan for angioplasty on the basis of the visual assessment.
      The number and length of stents planned for implantation for each patient should be also
      documented on the basis of visual estimation before the physiological measurements.

      Invasive coronary physiology assessment protocol:

      PressurewireX will be advanced distally to the investigated lesion(s) of a coronary artery.
      Resting and hyperemic average pressures will be determined in this distal position (in FFR
      mode).

      A resting manual pullback with 1-2 mm/s speed will be performed (in RFR mode) under
      simultaneous fluoroscopic control. The "store fluoro" option of the X-ray system allows the
      co-registration of the pressure drop(s) to the epicardial lesion(s) on the basis of the same
      time scale of the pullback and the stored fluoro. The use of marker(s) in the Quantien
      software can enhance the identification of the culprit interval(s) of the pressure pullback
      curve and the related angiographic details.

      A substudy of the register is planned to achieve extended physiological assessment in
      patients with the suspicion of microvascular disease in line with the latest ESC guideline
      stressing the role of microcirculatory dysfunction in the adverse outcome events in patients
      with non-significant coronary stenoses by FFR (class IIa, level B recommendation).

      According to the intracoronary average pressure values the pressure bounded CFR interval will
      be calculated (CFRpb). If the cut-off value CFR=2 lies inside the defined CFRpb interval,
      then a novel CFR calculation based on three-dimensional reconstruction and simple flow
      dynamic modelling will be performed to get the exact CFRp-3D value in order to diagnose or
      exclude microvascular disease. One simple possibility for the characterization of the
      microvasculature is to define the CFR/FFR index. This value below 2 indicate impaired
      microvascular vasodilator capacity. For getting more precise microvascular parameter, the
      flow modeling using the data of the 3D coronary reconstruction and the intracoronary pressure
      values will provide the microvascular resistance reserve (MRR).

      Offline 3D angiographic reconstruction will be performed from the selected two angiograms of
      good quality, with at least 25◦ difference in angle, using dedicated 3D software.

      Statistical Analysis:

      Normal distribution will be tested. Descriptive statistics are planned as mean and SD, median
      (interquartile range), or counts (%) as appropriate. Categorical variables will be compared
      with the Pearson χ2test. Correlation among variables will be determined by calculating
      Spearman ρ correlation coefficient. All analyses will be performed in Medcalc program.
    
  