
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine if the addition of concurrently administered panitumumab to standard
           adjuvant chemoradiation, with 1 of 2 cisplatin-based regimens, significantly prolongs
           disease-free survival of patients with macroscopically completely resected, advanced
           squamous cell carcinoma of the hypopharynx, oropharynx, larynx, or oral cavity at high
           risk of recurrence.

      Secondary

        -  To determine if the pre-surgery dose of panitumumab will alter the RNA expression of
           several genes and that these changes will provide additional prognostic information that
           can be used in future patient management. (Exploratory)

        -  Measure the differences in RNA expression by RNA microarray and the results analyzed to
           create a gene expression classifier that will be checked for outcome prediction by
           association with disease free survival and down regulation of the glucose metabolism as
           measured by FDG-PET. (Exploratory)

        -  To create a European biobank of biological samples which can be used for future research
           projects in this disease. (Exploratory)

        -  To predict radiation-induced normal tissue toxicity based on in vitro lymphocyte
           apoptosis test and SNPs analysis. (Exploratory)

        -  To assess the impact of radiation-induced side effects (swallowing dysfunction and
           xerostomia) on patient's quality of life.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified by treatment center,
      radiotherapy technique (3D-CRT vs IMRT), chemotherapy regimen (European Organization for
      Research and Treatment of Cancer [EORTC]) vs Arbeitsgemeinschaft Radiology Oncology [ARO]
      schedule), tumor location (larynx vs oropharynx vs hypopharynx vs oral cavity), pN-stage
      (pN0-2 vs pN3), pT-stage (pT1-2 vs pT3-4), margin/extracapsular extension (ECE) status (ECE+
      and margin < 5 mm vs ECE- and margin < 5 mm vs ECE+ and margin > 5 mm), biological pre-study
      participation (yes vs no), p16 status (positive vs negative vs indeterminable). Patients are
      randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I (chemoradiotherapy): Within 4-8 weeks of surgery, patients undergo 3D-conformal or
           intensity-modulated radiotherapy once daily 5 days a week in weeks 1-7. Patients also
           receive concurrent chemotherapy comprising either cisplatin IV over 1-2 hours on days 1,
           22, and 43 (EORTC schedule) OR cisplatin IV over 1-2 hours and fluorouracil IV over 24
           hours on days 1-5 and 29-33 (ARO schedule), in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II (chemoradiotherapy plus panitumumab): Within 4-8 weeks of surgery, patients
           undergo 3D-conformal or intensity-modulated radiotherapy and receive concurrent
           chemotherapy (EORTC schedule or ARO schedule) as in arm I. Patients also receive
           panitumumab IV over 1 hour on days 1, 8, 15, 22, 29, 36, and 43.

      Blood samples are collected periodically for biomarker correlative studies and translational
      research. Patients complete quality-of-life EORTC questionnaires QLQ-C30, QLQ-HN35, and
      PSS-HN periodically.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and
      then every 6 months for 3 years.
    
  