
    
      Somatotroph pituitary adenoma is the most frequent cause of acromegaly. A transsphenoidal
      removal of the tumor is used as the first line treatment. Somatostatin analogs are used as to
      whether recovery was not obtained after surgery or pituitary surgery was contraindicated.
      Previous studies with somatostatin analogs have shown a drop in plasma GH and IGF-1 levels
      and a reduction in adenoma size in 75 and 25% of patients respectively. Retrospective studies
      suggest that a treatment with somatostatin analogs performed before surgery may be of
      interest to improve anesthesic conditions and surgical outcome. The aim of present study is
      to prospectively evaluate the interest of a first line treatment with a long-acting
      somatostatin analog (Sandostatin) before performing a pituitary surgery in acromegalic
      patients with either a micro or a macroadenoma to improve peri-operative conditions and
      hopefully surgical outcome. After informed consent, untreated acromegalic patients will be
      included and randomly assigned to one of the following treatment procedures : either
      pituitary surgery or a six month treatment with long-acting Sandostatin 30 mg monthly for 6
      months before performing transsphenoïdal adenoma removal. The patients will be evaluated
      before any treatment, on months 3 and 6 of the treatment with Sandostatin (for the patients
      enrolled in this arm of the study) and on months 3 and 12 after pituitary neurosurgery. Each
      evaluation will include clinical data, hormone testing and radiological (MRI) investigation.
      The main endpoint will be the rate of recovery proved by a normalisation of GH secretion and
      plasma IGF-1 level. Secondary endpoints will include the evaluation of clinical,
      radiological, biological, anesthesic, surgical and pathological parameters. A comparison
      between the two arms will be performed at entry into the study, at the time of surgery and
      then on months 3 and 12 following the transsphenoidal removal of the somatotroph adenoma.
    
  