
    
      Background and Significance Prostate cancer is the most common cancer and the second-leading
      cause of cancer death amongst men in the United States. Initially, tumors biopsy guided by
      detected by conventional B-mode transrectal ultrasound (TRUS). Unfortunately, prostate cancer
      had a highly variable ultrasound echo pattern and may be indistinguishable from normal
      prostate, and the sonographic appearance of BPH overlaps with that of prostatic carcinoma,
      which limited the accuracy of conventional ultrasound, producing sensitivity and specificity
      for prostate carcinoma of only 40-50%. There is therefore an urgent need for better
      localization and more accurate biopsy of prostate cancer.

      Sonoelastography is an imaging technology predicated on reproducible differences in the
      backscattered ultrasound signal produced by compression of tissues of varying stiffness. It
      permits measurement of the elastic properties of tissue. These measurements can be transposed
      onto conventional anatomic ultrasound images, producing a colorized overlay that allows
      direct visualization of the anatomic distribution of tissue stiffness.

      Previously, several studies have reported that the feasibility of sonoelastography to
      distinguish between benign and malignant nodules and thereby guide biopsy. These assessments
      were based on the change in anatomic appearance of nodules after compression with a
      transrectal ultrasound probe. However, these reports did not specify the criteria used to
      determine that lesions seen by elastography were the same lesions seen by histopathology, did
      not assess whether biopsies planned with the assistance of sonoelastography would have
      intersected with the foci of prostate cancer, and did not address the histopathologic
      characteristics of areas of the prostate that were falsely positive at sonoelastography.

      If sonoelastography were to more accurately delineate foci of tumor in the prostate than B
      mode ultrasound, and it could be used to guide biopsy, then there would be fewer missed
      cancers at biopsy. In addition, sonoelastography-guided biopsies may be more representative
      of the ultimate Gleason Score of the tumor.

      Specific Aims:

      Aim 1: To determine whether prostate biopsies planned with sonoelastographic guidance would
      be more likely than random prostate biopsies to intersect with foci of carcinoma in the
      prostate gland.

      Aim 2: To determine whether prostate biopsies planned with sonoelastographic guidance would
      be more likely than random prostate biopsies to yield histopathology representative of the
      final Gleason Score obtained at pathologic assessment of the resected prostate.
    
  