
    
      Study subjects:

      Study subjects (n=5) will be recruited from the pool of patients attending Kuwait University
      Dental Clinic. Informed written consent will be obtained from all subjects. An approval for
      using human subjects in the study will be obtained from the Ethics Committee of HSC, Kuwait
      University.

      Inclusion criteria:

        -  Patient is able to give informed consent

        -  Tooth with moderate size caries lesions, penetrate through ½ of dentine thickness

        -  Suitable for the placement of a Vitrabond lining

        -  Restoration is part of a current and approved treatment plan

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Patient is unable to give informed consent

        -  Teeth had received temporary restoration

        -  Isolation with rubber dam is not possible

        -  Cavity preparation was contaminated due to gingival bleeding

      Clinical protocol The cavity will be restored using materials and methods which has been
      approved by KUDC, the use of Vitrabond liner is essential as part of this study.

      Sample collection: Decayed dentine will be removed by using a sterile dental excavator and
      collected into a sterile microfuge tubes for microbiological analyses before treatment. Using
      a dental three-in-one air syringe, the tooth surface will then be cleaned using sterile
      distilled water and dried for 4 sec. The lesions will be treated with Silver diamine
      fluoride, potassium iodide or their mixture (SDI Ltd., Melbourne, Australia), a product made
      of silver diamine fluoride (38% w/v) and a saturated solution of potassium iodide and an
      oxalic acid based product which contains oxalic acid, potassium salt and water. In parallel,
      Chlorhexidine and sterile saline will be used as control treatment agents. After treatment,
      dentin samples will be collected using a sterile dental excavator. Followed by excavation,
      all three treatment agents will be applied for 30 sec and samples will be collected once
      again after the treatment.

      Microbiological analysis: The samples after collection will be immediately placed on ice and
      brought within 30 min to the Oral Microbiology lab at the Faculty of Dentistry. Standard
      protocols will be followed for microbiological culture. Samples collected in pre-weighed
      sterile microfuge tubes will be weighed again to determine weight of the dentine material.
      Dentin samples will then be suspended in sterile pre-reduced Ringer's solution.. After
      vigorously vortexing for 1 min at maximal setting, samples will be 10-fold serially diluted
      up to 10-6 in Ringer's solution. Initially in pilot experiments, samples will be cultured on
      different media in CO2, aerobic and anaerobic conditions. One hundred microliter from each
      dilution will be spread in two sets in duplicate on the following media and incubated:

        1. Brucella agar plates supplemented with 5% sheep blood for total viable bacterial count.
           Plates will then be incubated in 5% CO2 and anaerobic atmosphere (85% Nitrogen, 10%
           Hydrogen and 5% CO2) at 37 C for 2 days. Anaerobic condition in the jars will be
           monitored using RT Anaero-Indicator (Mitsubishi Gas Chemical Company Inc., Japan).

        2. Mitis salivarius agar (Difco) for Streptococcus spp. count; incubation in 5% CO2 in air
           at 37 C for 2 days.

        3. Mitis salivarius agar supplemented with 20% sucrose, bacitracin (0.2 units/ml) and 1%
           potassium tellurite for Streptococcus mutans count; incubation at 37 C in 5% CO2 in air
           for 2 days.

      After incubation plates will be removed from the jars and colony forming units (CFU) will be
      enumerated from appropriate dilutions. CFUs will be calculated per milligram of the sample
      taken . All experiments will be performed in triplicate.

      Statistical analysis:

      At least three independent experiments, each sample run in duplicates, will be performed.
      ANOVA will be used for comparing bacterial counts before and after the application of the
      treatment agent. testing the effect of the treatment agent. Mann-Whitney U test will be used
      to compare CFU counts between test and control groups. A p value of less than 0.05 will be
      considered statistically significant.
    
  