
    
      Objective: To test the hypothesis that lithium augmentation of enhanced usual care will
      reduce the rate of repeated episodes of suicidal self-directed violence (repeated suicide
      attempts, interrupted attempts, hospitalizations specifically to prevent suicide, and deaths
      from suicide) in participants with bipolar disorder or depression who have survived a recent
      event.

      Background: The hypothesis that lithium can prevent suicide in patients with bipolar disorder
      and depression is based on data from observational studies and randomized clinical trials
      conducted to evaluate other outcomes. The question about the effectiveness of lithium for
      suicide prevention is one of major scientific, clinical, and public health significance.
      There have been no adequately powered clinical trials conducted specifically to evaluate
      suicide behaviors as an outcome. Two recent randomized clinical trials failed to recruit
      adequate numbers of subjects to be conclusive.

      The VHA, as a large national healthcare system with an established program for identifying
      new suicide attempts, evaluating patients for underlying mental health and medical
      conditions, providing needed services, connecting Veterans to state-of-the-art suicide risk
      management, and monitoring outcomes is uniquely able to conduct a large scale clinical trial
      of lithium for suicide prevention.

      The rationale for the study is based on the following:

        -  Data from observational studies and double-blind randomized clinical trials suggest that
           lithium can prevent suicide-related behaviors in patients with bipolar disorder and
           major depression.

        -  The high risk of suicide in Veterans receiving health care services from VHA has
           persisted despite extensive improvements in mental health services and in programs for
           suicide prevention.

        -  Each month, there are over 1,100 unique VHA patients with bipolar disorder or depression
           who attempt suicide and survive.

        -  Surviving a suicide attempt is the most powerful known risk factor for death from
           suicide in VA and elsewhere.

        -  Approximately 15% of VA survivors reattempt or die from suicide within one year.

        -  Evaluating rates of reattempts in those who have survived attempts is an established and
           effective method for testing interventions that may prevent suicide.

        -  Experimental treatment in CSP-590 would supplement usual care for major depression or
           bipolar disorder.

        -  Study procedures for the management of suicide risk would meet or exceed VA standards
           and requirements.

        -  Study procedures optimize the safety of lithium, including the potential risk of
           overdoses, and meet or exceed all published practice standards. The trial will utilize
           multiple strategies to minimize risks including frequent monitoring and assessment,
           determination of lithium levels during titration and at steady state, and dispensing
           medications in limited quantities in blister packs.

        -  The investigator's survey of VA psychiatrists indicates that the question is clinically
           important and compelling and that a clinical trial that demonstrated the hypothesized
           effect would transform the clinical management of suicidality.

      Design: Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial of lithium versus placebo
      augmentation of enhanced usual care.

      Patient population: VHA patients with bipolar disorder or depression who have survived a
      recent episode of suicidal self-directed violence.

      Primary outcome: Time to the first repeated episode of suicidal self-directed violence,
      including suicide attempts, interrupted attempts, hospitalizations specifically to prevent
      suicide, and deaths from suicide

      Duration: Total study duration will be 4.5 years. Recruitment will occur over 3 years.
      Participants will be followed for one year.

      Sample size calculations and number of sites required: The design of the study is based on
      testing for a 37% reduction in the rate of repeated suicidal self-directed violence, a figure
      based on an effect size of approximately 43% observed in recent studies and then allowing for
      attenuation due to non-adherence. Adjusting for potential data loss due to attrition, 90%
      statistical power to detect a significant 37% reduction in reattempt rates at 5% overall type
      I error would require 1862 subjects. With recruitment of 20% of eligible subjects over a
      three year period, this would require approximately 9310 potentially eligible subjects. Based
      on current suicide surveillance data, this could be achieved with 29 sites.
    
  