
    
      METHODS PARTICIPANTS

      The participants are able, legally competent women, 18 years or older, from a national cohort
      of Danish women treated for primary breast cancer between 1st of June 2011 and 1st of Juli
      2014:

      Inclusion criteria: 1) Reported moderate-to-severe sleep disturbances, defined as a score> 5
      on the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI) (32;33) (see below), and 2) are found to be
      disease free. Furthermore, participants 3) are required to have access to the Internet.

      Exclusion criteria: 1) Recurrence of breast cancer, 2) a second cancer, 3) and other serious
      physical or psychological comorbidity (e.g. depression, cardiovascular disease, and COPD), 4)
      shift work schedule, 5) other sleep disorders (sleep apnea, narcolepsy).

      PROCEDURE INFORMATION AND REQUEST TO PARTICIPATE Women who fulfill the inclusion criteria and
      indicate an interest in receiving further information receive an information folder by post
      informing.

      BASELINE MEASURES:

      The baseline questionnaires contains questions about sleep quality, fatigue, depression,
      anxiety, quality of life, sleep habits and sleep-relevant lifestyles, together with use of
      health care services, sleep medication, and use of alternative medicine with the aim of
      treating sleep problems.

      INTERVENTION:

      The intervention program is designed to be completed in 6 weeks. To ensure that all
      participants have opportunity to complete the program they are granted access to the program
      for nine weeks .

      POST-INTERVENTION:

      After the intervention, participants in both groups are asked to complete a post-intervention
      questionnaire package and then to fill in the sleep diary for a 2-week period.

      FOLLOW-UP:

      After an additional 4 weeks both groups complete two sleep questionnaires (PSQI and the
      insomnia severity index) after which the waiting list group is offered the intervention.

      INTERVENTION The Internet intervention offered is the SHUT-i program (Sleep Healthy Using The
      Internet), which is based on the existing consensus concerning non-pharmacological treatment
      of insomnia and builds on previous validated CBT's for insomnia (CBT -I) (34).

      CONTROL GROUP Participants randomly assigned to the control condition are told that for
      practical reasons, they have to wait 15 weeks before partaking in the intervention.

      PRIMARY ENDPOINTS A) Sleep diary (bedtime, sleep onset latency (SOL), number of awakenings,
      total length of awakenings, wake time, arising time, daytime naps, rating of soundness of
      previous night's sleep, rating of refreshed feeling upon morning awakening, and information
      about sleep aids : medication and/or alcohol use).

      B) The Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI) (33). C) The Insomnia Severity Index (ISI) (39).

      NUMBER OF PARTICIPANTS The combined effects found in the meta-analysis of published
      randomized trials of Internet-based treatment for insomnia (30) are: sleep quality (d=0.41),
      sleep efficiency (d=0.40), number of awakenings (d=-0.45), sleep onset latency (d=-0.55),
      total minutes slept (d=.22), time spent in bed (d=.25). If the investigators aim to detect an
      effect corresponding to an average of the effects above (d = 0.38) with 80% statistical
      power, at least 2 x 109 participants are required.

      ETHICAL CONSIDERATIONS The investigators will adhere to the general ethical guidelines for
      human trials. All participants receive oral and written information about the project. They
      are informed that they can withdraw at any time from the study with no consequence for their
      current or future treatment. Participants are advised to continue any medical treatment for
      insomnia, and to consult a doctor before changing medical regimen.

      PRIVACY AND DATA SECURITY The SHUT-I program stores any personal information in a separate
      one-way system that cannot be accessed from the Internet but only locally by the SHUT-i
      administrators. Connections between personal information and other data are encrypted. Data
      is stored physically on servers in locked facilities, in the United States.

      ADVERSE EFFECTS, INCONVENIENCES, BENEFITS, AND RISKS The investigators do not expect
      Internet-based cognitive behavioral therapy to be associated with any adverse health effects
      or risks as no adverse effects has been reported for conventional CBT for insomnia.
    
  