
    
      This is a multi-center project to establish a prospective database of clinical information
      and a repository of blood, and tissue samples from children with diagnoses of neonatal liver
      diseases, such as biliary atresia (BA), idiopathic neonatal hepatitis (INH), and specific
      neonatal presentations of genetic cholestatic disorders in order to perform research in these
      important liver problems. Children will be screened and enrolled at presentation at the
      participating pediatric liver sites. Participants diagnosed with BA will be followed
      intensively for the first year, at 18 months of age, and then annually up to 20 years of age,
      or liver transplantation. Other participants diagnosed with cholestasis will be followed on
      the same schedule; if there is complete (clinical and biochemical) resolution of their
      underlying liver disease off all therapy, there will be one follow up visit within one year
      (preferably scheduled at the time of the next planned follow up visit or at 12 months of age,
      whichever is later) for data collection and to obtain blood samples. The development of a
      serum and tissue bank of specimens from children with various neonatal cholestatic disorders
      will be an invaluable tool for current and future investigations into the etiology and
      pathogenesis of hepatobiliary injury in the infant.

      Detailed clinical data, laboratory investigations, liver and biliary specimens, and long-term
      follow-up of outcomes are part of the normal standard of care with respect to the diagnosis
      and treatment of the subjects with liver problems. This research involves the collection of
      diagnostic, clinical and outcome data concerning the subject, which is kept without
      identification (coded) in a national research database of infants with liver disease. Samples
      of blood will be obtained for later research analysis, whenever possible, at the time of
      clinically indicated blood draws or when there is IV access for a clinical procedure. When
      liver biopsy specimens are obtained for diagnostic purposes, any liver biopsy specimen in
      excess of that needed for diagnostic use will be sent to the tissue repository. When a
      portoenterostomy or liver transplant occurs, sections of the liver and, biliary remnant
      removed in the course of surgery and in excess of that needed for diagnostic use, will be
      sent for the repository. These specimens will be used in investigations into the mechanisms
      and causes of the liver damage that occur in the participant's condition. . All data from
      this study will be kept in a secure research database at the Scientific Data Coordinating
      Center (SDCC) and transferred to the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney
      Diseases (NIDDK) data repository after the study ends.
    
  