
    
      Accumulating evidence from the animal literature, healthy populations, and schizophrenia
      studies suggests that regular exercise positively affects integral functions such as
      neurogenesis, synaptic plasticity and cognition. Likewise, preliminary evidence suggests that
      aerobic activity has been associated with improved quality of life and a lower level of
      symptoms in patients with schizophrenia. Because exercise has been found to stimulate human
      medial temporal neurogenesis, and related abnormalities have been widely observed in studies
      of schizophrenia, physical activity may be in an important intervention. During the psychosis
      prodrome, a period immediately proceeding formal onset of psychotic disorders, adolescents
      experience subtle attenuated symptoms coupled with cognitive deterioration and a global
      decline in socio-occupational functioning and anywhere between 10-35% go on to transition to
      a psychotic disorder such as schizophrenia in a two-year period. Despite the promise of
      exercise interventions, and the critical role medial temporal lobe abnormalities play in
      etiological models of psychosis, there have been no experimental studies of aerobic exercise
      in ultra-high risk youth (UHR). Understanding the potential benefits of aerobic exercise in
      UHR youth is integral as the prodrome is a viable period of intervention in which
      considerable brain development is still occurring. Further, as there have been challenges
      associated with many of the available interventions, and an increasing level of potential
      found in neuroplasticity-based interventions, understanding the effect of exercise on
      respective brain-behavior holds considerable promise. Experimental research is sorely needed
      to determine if prescribed aerobic exercise can stimulate medial-temporal neurogenesis and
      ameliorate cognition and symptoms/functioning in this vital group. In the proposed study, an
      expert team of experienced prodromal and exercise investigators will follow a group of 15 UHR
      adolescent and young adults (ages 16-24) through a 12 week exercise trial to determine which
      level of exercise intensity/frequency is tolerable for participants and optimal for improving
      aerobic fitness (65% of VO2max and 2 sessions per week versus 85% intensity and 3 sessions
      per peek) and if improvements in aerobic fitness (i.e., VO2max, VO2peak, ventilatory
      threshold) are associated with increases in medial temporal structure volume (hippocampus and
      parahippocampal gyrus) and accompanying improvements in cognitive function (i.e., including
      tasks known to recruit heavily on medial temporal structures) as well as symptomatology and
      social/role functioning. If the benchmarks are met, this data will be used to streamline a
      three-year rater-blind controlled trial (15 UHR-exercise, 15 UHR waitlist-control) to
      determine the efficacy of the intervention in promoting medial temporal health as well as
      accompanying cognitive, clinical, and socio-occupational function improvement. Participants
      will be followed up to 24-months to determine if the intervention has an affect on clinical
      course and transition to psychosis. Taken together, this study is important for understanding
      the lessons necessary for planning a future large-scale trial, and has the potential to shed
      light on a promising new treatment for UHR youth.
    
  