
    
      Background:

        -  Chronic graft-versus-host disease (cGVHD) develops in approximately half of individuals
           who undergo allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplant (HCT) and is the leading cause of
           non-relapse mortality.

        -  There are no skin-targeted therapies for cutaneous cGVHD that are directed to the
           pathogenesis of cGVHD.

        -  Many inflammatory cytokines involved in the pathogenesis of cGVHD signal through the
           Janus kinase (JAK)-Signal Transducer and Activator of Transcription (STAT) pathway.

        -  Systemic JAK inhibitors have been studied in GVHD murine models and in humans with
           improvement at the cellular and clinical level.

        -  Topical JAK inhibitors have not been studied in cutaneous cGVHD, but have demonstrated
           the ability to decrease inflammatory markers as well as improve clinical findings of
           psoriasis.

      Objectives:

        -  To determine the safety and tolerability of topical ruxolitinib 1.5% cream in patients
           with cutaneous cGVHD with epidermal involvement (non-sclerotic form)

        -  To determine the efficacy of topical ruxolitinib 1.5% cream in patients with cutaneous
           cGVHD with epidermal involvement (non-sclerotic form)

      Eligibility:

      Inclusion:

        -  Age greater than or equal to 12 years old

        -  Histologically confirmed epidermal cGVHD (including lichen planus-like, papulosquamous,
           erythematous) involving at least 2 separate, non-ulcerated sites that can be delineated
           by body region (e.g. right forearm and left forearm)

        -  Stable systemic cGVHD treatment including immunosuppressant therapy for 4 weeks prior to
           enrollment

        -  Karnofsky or Lansky score greater than or equal to 60%

      Exclusion:

        -  Concurrent use of JAK inhibitors (topical or systemic) , fluconazole, or strong CYP3A4
           inhibitors

        -  Known hypersensitivity to JAK inhibitors or their components

        -  Active infection including CMV, EBV, HIV, HBV, and/or HCV

        -  Recurrent or progressive malignancy requiring anticancer treatment

        -  Patients receiving other investigational agents

        -  Pregnancy

      Design:

        -  This is a Phase II, placebo-controlled, double-blinded study to determine the safety,
           tolerability and efficacy of topical ruxolitinib in patients with epidermal cGVHD.

        -  Participants with at least 2 non-ulcerated sites of epidermal cGVHD will apply topical
           ruxolitinib 1.5% cream to 1 prespecified site and vehicle cream to the second
           prespecified site twice a day for 6 weeks.

        -  Safety will be assessed according to CTCAE v5.0 criteria. Assessments will occur during
           visits and/or phone follow-up every 2 weeks during treatment.

        -  Efficacy will be assessed at 6 weeks. The initial surface areas of the 2 target lesions
           will be measured at baseline, week 2, and week 6 on evaluable patients, with the option
           for an in-person assessment at week 4. The percent decline in the surface area of the 2
           lesions will be determined, and the difference in decline between the 2 lesions will be
           calculated, expressed consistently as ruxolitinib decline minus placebo decline.

        -  A skin biopsy and peripheral blood samples will be collected prior to treatment and at
           week 6 to evaluate the cutaneous immune compartment cellular infiltrate, cytokine
           profiling, STAT phosphorylation, and in situ cGVHD biomarkers.

        -  Pharmacokinetic studies will be performed at week 2.

        -  Up to 15 patients will be enrolled to achieve 10 evaluable patients, defined as
           participants who remain active at the time of the primary endpoint. 10 evaluable
           patients will provide 80% power to detect whether these paired differences in the
           changes from baseline are equal to one SD of the difference of the changes (effect
           size=1.0) using a two-tailed 0.05 significance level paired t-test. In practice, a
           Wilcoxon signed rank test may be used instead of a t-test if the differences are not
           consistent with a normal distribution (p<0.05 by a Shapiro-Wilks test).
    
  