
    
      In Canada, between 1960 and 2009, the proportion of seniors (people aged ≥65 years) rose from
      8% to 14%; it is estimated that this proportion will increase to 23-25% by 2036. The number
      of people in the population aged ≥80 years is projected to more than double between 2009 and
      2036. This population ageing has, and will, have a major impact on healthcare, economics,
      education, employment and social engagement. Many in our society age with long term chronic
      medical conditions; the management of which is partly responsible for the increasing
      consumption of health care resources in later life. There is a pressing need on the part of
      health care providers and policy makers to contain these increasing expenditures.
      Encouragement of lifestyle practices which promote successful or healthy aging and self -
      management techniques to deal with chronic disease are therefore of paramount importance to
      the achievement of this goal. Cost containment, however, is not the sole reason for pursuing
      such practice; there is some evidence that self-management and an increase in health literacy
      leads to an increased sense of empowerment and an improvement in health related quality of
      life for seniors.

      In the presence of chronic disease, self-management is seen as a critical element in
      containing resource demand and in empowering patients whilst increasing their health
      literacy. Self-management training courses have been developed for generic physical long term
      conditions which have led to improved outcomes and some cost savings in chronic care. There
      is therefore an opportunity to educate and empower seniors in both healthy ageing behaviours
      and self-management of chronic disease, which has the potential to contain health care
      resource use, improve perception of self-rated health and quality of life.

      This study aims to explore the use of health coaches, where health coaching can be defined as
      helping patients gain the knowledge, skills, tools and confidence to become active
      participants in their care so that they can reach their self-identified health goals, drawn
      from community dwelling seniors, rather than "expert patients" in educating and supporting
      their peers in healthy aging behaviours and self-management of chronic disease.
    
  