
    
      We propose to transplant feces from thin, disease-free donors into obese patients undergoing
      colonoscopy for screening for colorectal carcinoma.

      We will obtain feces from healthy donors with a BMI of between 21-24, in accordance with the
      Protocol that was approved by the Israel Ministry of Health. The stool sample will be
      prepared as detailed below :

      We will perform colonoscopy on healthy patients with a BMI of 30-40 kg/m2 who have a clear
      indication for a screening examination. These will be people who are above the age of 50 who
      have not had a screening colonoscopy in the last 10 years, or those with a family history of
      carcinoma of the colon who are over the age of 40 years.

      All patients will undergo a screening colonoscopy and will be allocated to receive either 250
      ml of diluted fecal material prepared from a screened donor, or an equivalent volume of
      normal saline (sham transplantation). The material will be injected in the amount of 50 ml at
      five locations- the terminal ileum (or the cecum if the terminal ileum cannot be intubated),
      ascending colon, transverse colon, descending colon and sigmoid colon- during withdrawal of
      the colonoscope from the cecum. The stool will not be delivered to the endoscopy suite until
      the patient is sedated and only the endoscopist performing the procedure will know what
      treatment arm the patient is in.

      In addition, all patients participating in the study will receive standard advice regarding
      weight loss and physical activity (at least 90 minutes of walking for week) from a staff
      dietitian.

      Stool samples will be obtained from the donor( from the stool donated for transplantation)
      and the patients at baseline (prior to transplantation), 1 month and 12 months and frozen at
      -80 C for high throughput analysis by standard techniques.

      The patients will be reviewed at 1 3 6 and 12 months. At this time note will be made of their
      weight, BMI and waist circumference. In addition note will be made of their fasting glucose
      and lipid profile.
    
  