
    
      The treatment of flexor tendon transection consists of surgical apposition of the lacerated
      tendon ends using non-absorbable sutures. Main complications which result in poor outcome of
      the tendon repair are the rupture of the tendon apposition or substantial adhesion formation
      between the two tendons or the tendon and the fibro-osseous canal. Adhesion formation is
      presumed to be a byproduct of the tendon healing. In the course of last 70 decades, the
      preventive effects of several pharmacological agents and mechanical barriers on adhesion
      formation have been investigated with some promising findings. One of the mechanical barriers
      that has been proposed to be suitable for adhesion prevention is human amniotic membrane
      allograft. However, there are no clinical studies evaluating the use of amniotic membrane in
      flexor tendon repair.

      This is a pilot study for the forthcoming randomized controlled study. The objectives of the
      pilot study are: 1) to test the handleability of the human amniotic membrane allograft in
      flexor tendon sheath reconstruction in conjunction with flexor tendon repair, 2) to elucidate
      the possible adverse effects related to the use of amniotic membrane in flexor the sheath,
      and 3) to gain observational insight into potential preventive features of amniotic membrane
      transplantation in the adhesion formation. The hypothesis of the pilot study is that the
      application of the human amniotic membrane allograft in tendon sheath reconstruction in
      flexor tendon injury patients is technically feasible and results in no adverse effects to
      the patient.

      A total of 10 patients with an acute flexor tendon injury will be included in the pilot
      study. After conventional tendoraphia, the amniotic membrane will be wrapped around the
      tendons and its borders will be fixed to the remaining tendon sheath. The primary outcome
      measure is total range of movement after 6 months of the surgery.
    
  