
    
      Androgen receptor signaling inhibitors (ARSi) have become available in the past years for the
      treatment of patients with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) and have
      significantly improved their survival. Despite this improvement, initial or emerging
      resistance to ARSi poses a major challenge in the treatment of these patients. There is
      therefore an urgent medical need for early detection of treatment resistance.

      Liquid biopsies - blood samples containing circulating tumor cells (CTCs) and nucleic acids
      from the tumor - can provide information about such resistance. The investigators of this
      study and others have shown that liquid biopsies can be used to detect the messenger RNA
      (mRNA) of AR-V7, a splice variant of the androgen receptor (AR) that is insensitive to ARSi,
      in whole blood, and that high levels of AR-V7 mRNA in mCRPC patients are predictive to
      non-response to ARSi. Several liquid biopsy approaches involving different blood compartments
      such as CTCs, exosomes, and whole blood have been used so far to detect AR-V7. However, it is
      unclear which liquid biopsy approach or which combination of approaches is best to predict
      resistance under ARSi therapy in the clinical setting. In addition, current approaches
      explain only about half of resistant cases, suggesting that there are important
      non-AR-V7-mediated causes of resistance.

      In this study, the investigators aim at determining the optimal liquid biopsy approach to
      detect AR-V7 and exploring novel ones for best possible prediction of resistance to ARSi. To
      this end, the investigators will systematically explore relevant blood compartments in a
      prospective cohort of mCRPC patients, quantify AR-V7 mRNA levels in each compartment, and
      determine the diagnostic value of compartment-specific AR-V7 mRNA levels for predicting
      response to subsequent ARSi therapy. The investigators will further explore the clinical
      relevance of AR-V7 protein subcellular localization in CTCs for prediction of ARSi
      resistance. In addition, novel other, AR-V7 independent mechanisms of resistance and their
      predictive value for proper treatment will be explored. These are based on further AR splice
      variants, and on neuroendocrine differentiation of prostate cancer cells.
    
  