
    
      Recent advances in the endovascular treatment of arteriovenous malformations (AVMs) have
      increased the number of patients with brain AVMs for whom embolization therapy may be
      appropriate. The permanency of obliterated nidi and occurrence of procedural complications
      are thought to be at least partially influenced by the characteristics of the material used,
      with liquid agents more likely to reach and occlude the AVM nidus compared to particulate
      embolic agents.

      The only liquid embolic agent approved in the U.S. for the presurgical embolization of AVMs
      is TRUFILL®. TRUFILL n-butyl cyanoacrylate (n-BCA) is a liquid adhesive that polymerizes into
      a solid material upon contact with blood fluids or tissue, via an anionic mechanism. TRUFILL
      Ethiodized Oil is mixed into the n-BCA monomer as a radiopaque polymerizing retardant.
      TRUFILL Tantalum Powder may also be added for radiopacity. The TRUFILL n-BCA Liquid Embolic
      System received U.S. FDA premarket approval on September 25, 2000 (P990040) for use in the
      embolization of cerebral AVMs, when presurgical devascularization is desired.

      Onyx™ is a non-adhesive liquid embolic agent comprised of ethylene vinyl alcohol (EVOH)
      copolymer dissolved in dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO), and of micronized tantalum powder. Onyx
      precipitates into a solid on contact with blood fluids, due to rapid diffusion of the DMSO
      solvent. The Onyx Liquid Embolic System received the European "CE mark" in July 1999, and has
      been available outside of the U.S. since September 1999 for use in the embolization of AVMs.

      The purpose of this randomized-controlled study is to obtain prospective clinical data on the
      performance of Onyx (investigational device) and TRUFILL (control device) in the presurgical
      embolization of brain AVMs. Device safety will be assessed by comparing overall and
      device-related morbidity and mortality. The primary efficacy endpoint is the angiographic
      reduction in AVM size (volume) achieved. The objective is to demonstrate that Onyx is no
      worse than TRUFILL within a specified clinical tolerance. Study results will be used to
      support a premarket approval application for Onyx in the presurgical embolization of brain
      AVMs.
    
  