
    
      Study design: We will enroll subjects from clinics of National Cheng Kung University
      Hospital.

      Subjects will be then divided to two groups by their left ventricular ejection fraction
      (LVEF) ratio: preserved LVEF (EF>40%) and impaired LVEF (EF<40%). All subjects will initially
      receive 10mg of enalapril and be gradually titrated up to 20mg with blood pressure tolerance
      for 6 months. Before and after 6 months, echocardiography and blood sample will be assayed
      for biomarkers and rho kinase activity, respectively.

      Outcomes and measurement: The outcomes will include the mean changes in the Rho-kinase
      activity in leukocytes before and after periods of treatment. Leukocyte Rho-kinase expression
      and activity will be measured in cells isolated from peripheral blood samples and frozen at
      -80 °C. The other outcomes are the correlation between the mean changes in Rho-kinase
      activity in leukocytes and cardiac function measured by 2D and M-mode echocardiography. In
      addition, we will calculate the association of ROCK activity and B-type natriuretic peptide
      (BNP), high sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP) as well as its relation with clinical
      characteristics. The demographic, relevant clinical data and laboratory results will be all
      collected from patients and/or medical records.

      Primary Outcomes and measurement: The primary outcomes are the mean changes in the Rho-kinase
      activity in leukocytes before and after periods of treatment. Leukocyte Rho-kinase expression
      and activity will be measured in cells isolated from peripheral blood samples and frozen at
      -80 °C. Western Blot assays will be performed to measure Rho-kinase activity .

      Secondary Outcomes and measurement: The secondary outcomes are the correlation between the
      mean changes in Rho-kinase activity in leukocytes and cardiac function measured by
      echocardiography and tissue Doppler to measure systolic and diastolic function. In addition,
      the association of Rho kinase activity and BNP, hsCRP as well as its relation with clinical
      characteristics will be measured.

      Besides, we will check the renal and liver function deterioration, changes in serum potassium
      levels, need for kidney replacement therapy and postural hypotension or dizziness or shock
      events to monitor the safety issues. Other parameters of adding medication will be recorded,
      including side effects like cough, angioedema, skin rash, intolerance to the medication.
    
  