
    
      P-DQIP is an intervention to improve prescribing safety in primary care. The 'intervention'
      is a health board quality improvement programme that will be implemented across all practices
      in NHS Tayside. The study is therefore a service evaluation of an NHS Tayside-led initiative,
      which comprises the following components:

      i. Case finding. The P-DQIP informatics tool will be added to medicines management software
      (the Scottish Therapeutics Utility), which is already installed in all general practices in
      NHS Scotland. The P-DQIP tool can be accessed by General Practitioners (GPs) and other
      clinicians in the practice including Health Board employed primary care pharmacists
      'attached' to practices. The core of the tool is a set of indicators of high-risk prescribing
      to identify patients at high risk of drug related harm. The indicators have been developed by
      The Scottish Government's Polypharmacy working group.

      ii. Decision support. The P-DQIP tool provides structured information on patients' medical
      and medication histories and highlights specific drug therapy risks for consideration by the
      reviewing clinician. All decision making remains at the discretion of the reviewing
      clinician.

      iii. Pharmacist support. Teams of practice pharmacists working in practices within the same
      locality will be invited to participate in a half-day workshop, in which they will be trained
      on the use of the P-DQIP informatics tool. A total of 8 to 12 workshops will be conducted.
      The workshop will be facilitated by the P-DQIP project team. As part of the workshop,
      locality pharmacist teams will be encouraged to plan the P-DQIP work and to agree targets.
      They will be instructed to introduce the P-DQIP pogramme in a stepwise fashion, targeting
      patients at risk of bleeding and hypoglycaemia first.

      iv. Ongoing performance feedback. Practices and locality pharmacists will be able to access
      reports on the number of reviews conducted and the numbers of patients with targeted
      high-risk prescribing via the P-DQIP informatics tool.

      v. Promotion of the P-DQIP tool and intervention among GP practices. GP clusters will be
      offered a visit by the lead pharmacist for the programme, who will provide background and
      rationale for the P-DQIP programme, demonstrate the functionalities of the P-DQIP informatics
      tool and encourage collaboration in reviewing and managing targeted drug therapy risks with
      pharmacists.
    
  