
    
      Although extensive research has explored the involvement of subcortical structures in
      arousal, arousal symptoms are only one facet of the symptom profile shared across anxiety
      disorders. Much less is known about the cognitive symptoms (i.e. difficulty concentrating)
      experienced by anxiety patients. Accordingly, there is a critical need for mechanistic
      research into the CNS mechanisms that mediate the cognitive symptoms experienced by anxiety
      patients. Without such research, treatment development for these disorders will continue to
      make slow progress. The objective of this application is to determine the key neural
      mechanisms that mediate the cognitive symptoms of anxiety. The central hypothesis is that the
      right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (dlPFC) regulates emotion through top-down inhibition of
      emotion-related regions. The approach will be to use repetitive transcranial magnetic
      stimulation (rTMS) to study the effect of right dlPFC activity on objective and subjective
      measures of induced anxiety, anxiety-related working memory deficits (WM), and TMS-evoked
      blood oxygenation-level dependent (BOLD) responses during simultaneous TMS/fMRI (i.e. target
      engagement). The rationale for this approach is that by experimentally manipulating right
      dlPFC activity using rTMS, this research will be able to causally demonstrate involvement of
      this region in anxiety regulation, which could translate to future targeted rTMS treatments
      for anxiety. The first aim will be to determine the effect of a 1-week course of rTMS
      treatment (1 Hz vs. 10 Hz; right dlPFC target) on anxiety using the threat of unpredictable
      shock paradigm. The second aim will be to determine the effect of a 1-week course of rTMS
      treatment (1 Hz vs. 10 Hz; right dlPFC target) on anxiety-related WM-deficits using the
      Sternberg WM paradigm during threat of shock. The third aim will be to demonstrate target
      engagement by measuring BOLD responses evoked by TMS pulses to the right dlPFC during threat
      of shock. The work is innovative because it will combine advanced neuromodulatory techniques
      (fMRI guidance, electric-field modelling, neuronavigation, active-sham control) with a
      translational threat of shock paradigm. PUBLIC HEALTH RELEVANCE: Once completed, this
      research should yield direct evidence for a causal role of the right dlPFC in anxiety
      regulation, complete with evidence of target engagement, and a novel application to anxiety.
    
  