
    
      Flexible ureteroscopy (URF) is being widely used for the treatment of kidney stones up to 20
      mm. The assessment of residual fragments must be done because they could cause pain and
      additional surgical interventions. However, nor the timing or modality of image study for
      this assessment is standardized yet.

      Computed Tomography (CT) has become the standard for diagnosing urinary stones. Stone-former
      patients are submitted to many CT studies during life due to stone-related events. However,
      the cumulative exposure to the ionizing radiation of CT may induce tumors. Therefore, efforts
      to reduce radiation exposure are recommended such as better selection of the timing to submit
      the patient to CT, low radiation dose protocols and restriction of body region to be
      examined.

      Up to 38% of the patients have residual fragments more than 2 mm assessed by CT after URF.
      The investigators goal is to predict witch patients should be submitted to CT for the
      assessment of residual fragments after URF and to evaluate the clinical significance of
      residual fragments and URF complications.

      Method

      115 consecutive symptomatic adult (>18 years-old) patients diagnosed by CT with kidney stone
      more than 5 mm and less than 20 mm or less than 15 mm in inferior calyx are going to be
      submitted to URF. Residual fragments are going to be assessed by CT, ultrasound and plain
      radiography during post-operative period. The study protocol is approved by our hospital's
      ethics committee, and written informed consent is going to be obtained from all patients
      according to the Declaration of Helsinki Ethical Principles for Medical Research Involving
      Human Subjects.

      Sample size

      Sample size was calculated based on the percentage of patients with residual fragments more
      than 2 mm by CT of 38% and by plain radiography of 17%. Therefore, sample size for a bicaudal
      test with significance level of 5% and test power of 95% is 115 subjects.

      Exclusion factors

      Patients with kidney malformations, ureteral stenosis, previous ipsilateral kidney surgery,
      hydronephrosis, indwelling double J stent and contraindications for URF are going to be
      excluded.

      Flexible ureteroscopy

      The procedure is going to be performed in a radiation proof operating room under general
      anesthesia.

      A pyelography is obtained and a Nitinol 0.035" guidewire and a PTFE 0.035" guidewire are
      inserted up to the renal pelvis under radioscopy guidance.

      Semi-rigid ureteroscopy is performed for active dilation of the ureter. Ureteral sheath
      10/12F x 35 cm is than placed up to the upper ureter and the flexible ureteroscope is
      inserted through the ureteral sheath for direct identification of all renal calices and
      kidney stones before lithotripsy.

      Laser lithotripsy will be performed with a 200-270 micron Holmium laser fiber until complete
      stone dusting or basketing of stone fragments > 2 mm with < 1.9 F tipless basket. Stone
      fragments < 2 mm are acceptable. Pyelography through ureteral sheath will be done to search
      for perforation of the urinary tract and to help proper positioning of 6 F double J stent in
      the renal pelvis. The ureteral sheath is going to be removed under direct ureteroscopic
      vision to care for ureteral lesions and ureteral stone fragments.

      Follow-up

      The clinical evaluation will be held by the same urologist in pre-operative consultation, 7
      days after the procedure, 30 days after the procedure and 100 days after the procedure. The
      assessment of residual fragments will bem ade through CT, urinary tract Ultrasound (US) and
      X-Ray of the abdomen (Rx) in 90 days postoperatively in all patients. After the procedure,
      patients receive guidelines and prescribing for household use standardized pain control.

      Evaluated parameters

      The parameters evaluated in each patient will be: demographic data like gender, age, race,
      body mass index, waist circumference, kidney stone size with 3 measures diameters for
      calculation of maximum diameter, area and volume, measured in Hounsfield units of kidney
      stone, number of stones, position of the stone in the kidney, kind of ureteroscope used,
      operative time measured from the beginning of the cystoscopy to withdrawal of all endoscopic
      equipments and from start to finish the insertion of the flexible ureteroscope into the
      kidney, lithotripsy technique (basketing without fragmentation, dusting or combined
      technique), endoscopic inspection at the end and presence of residual fragments > 2 mm in
      postoperative CT, composition of urinary calculi, 2 blood and urinary metabolic evaluations
      of each patient to be made between 45 and 90 days of the procedure, including: total calcium,
      parathyroid hormone (PTH), uric acid, urea, creatinine, venous blood gas, urine pH, urine
      culture, 24 hours urine dosage of calcium, sodium, citrate, oxalate, cystine, creatinine,
      urea, uric acid and phosphate. Other authors (8) demonstrated in a retrospective study that
      the size of the stone (p < 0.001), location (p< 0.001), multiplicity (p = 0.003), surgical
      time (p = 0.008) and exclusive use of flexible ureteroscope (p = 0.029) are associated with
      the presence of residual fragments.

      Sensitivity and specificity of the combination US + Rx for identification of residual
      fragments on postoperative CT, predictive parameters for the best accuracy of the combination
      US + Rx and endoscopic end inspection and the occurence of complications such as ureteral
      lesion, renal dilatation, visits to the emergency room for pain control, need for additional
      procedures are going to be determined.

      Statistics

      The comparison between the methods of assessment of residual fragments will be done with
      Cochran test and prediction of parameters to avoid CT will be made with multiple logistic
      regression, using the IPSS 16.0 program, with a significance level of 5%.
    
  