
    
      This is a Phase 2B double-blind placebo-controlled crossover study evaluating the efficacy of
      intravenous fosaprepitant for chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting in patients undergoing
      high-dose interleukin-2 (HD IL-2) therapy (720,000 IU/kg per dose intravenously; 14 doses, 2
      cycles per course) for metastatic melanoma and metastatic renal cell carcinoma. A total of 22
      subjects will be enrolled in the study. On study entry, patients will be randomized to
      receive either IV fosaprepitant (150 mg on Day 1, Day 3, or Day 5) or matched placebo during
      first admission of HD IL-2 therapy (cycle 1). All subjects will crossover and receive the
      opposite treatment during cycle 2. All patients will receive ondansetron 24 mg by mouth daily
      per standard protocol every 24 hours during Days 1-5 of admission starting 30 minutes prior
      to first dose of HD IL-2. During the treatment phase, subjects will receive Patients will
      receive IV fosaprepitant 30 minutes before first dose of HD IL-2 therapy and every 48 hours
      until completion of HD IL-2 therapy. Upon study entry, the subjects will be given a dairy to
      report episodes of vomiting, use of rescue therapy, and nausea assessments using the 1-100
      scale within the visual analogue scale (VAS). The subject will be instructed to complete
      entries from baseline assessment (prior to first dose) until 5 days after last dose of HD
      IL-2 for endpoint analysis. During inpatient admissions, subjects will complete diary entries
      before each dose (q8 hours). As an outpatient, subjects will complete diary entries on a
      daily basis. Recording of whether or not pruritus was observed will also be collected within
      the subject diary. If a patient reports pruritus, the severity of pruritus on the 1-100 scale
      visual analogue scale (VAS) will also be collected. The study team will record any episodes
      of vomiting and the use of rescue therapy and ensure completion of patient diary during
      inpatient portion. Assessments will be made via telephone contact to determine onset of any
      episodes of CINV during outpatient portion. Safety assessments including adverse events (AEs)
      monitoring will be performed and assessed using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse
      Events (CTCAE) version 4.0.
    
  