
    
      Breast cancer is the most common cancer among US women, with more than 230,000 new diagnoses
      and 40,000 deaths each year, along with decrements in quality of life. Half of all
      newly-diagnosed patients are affected with estrogen-receptor positive, early-stage disease.
      Clinical guidelines for these women integrate genomic tumor profiling tests such as the
      Oncotype DX® Recurrence Score to refine recurrence estimates and systemic therapy selection
      when combined with existing markers. Thousands of women receive testing each year. While
      these women should all receive hormonal therapy, guidelines suggest that the 25% with a high
      Score benefit from additional chemotherapy and the 50% with a low Score can safely avoid
      chemotherapy. Appropriate treatment for the 25% of women with intermediate Recurrence Scores
      remains unclear until clinical trial (TAILORx) results are released in the next year.

      Despite continuing dissemination, many challenges remain to maximize the benefits offered by
      testing and refined treatment selection. TAILORx results will continue to strengthen the
      evidence for clinical utility and increase testing rates. An effective intervention should be
      ready to respond to this increasing need. Communication can influence more proximal outcomes,
      including patient comprehension of their disease and its treatments, treatment preferences
      and satisfaction, involvement in care decisions as well as longer-term outcomes of treatment
      adherence and quality of life. This trial will test the feasibility and impact of a patient
      activation intervention to support effective integration of the Recurrence Score into
      clinical encounters and treatment decisions. Patient activation interventions utilizing a
      question prompt list (QPL) can impact proximal outcomes of preferences, comprehension,
      satisfaction and involvement. In Phase 1, investigators will further refine a draft QPL based
      on in-depth interviews with patients (N = 20) and medical oncologists (N = 10). In Phase 2,
      women with newly-diagnosed breast cancer will be recruited to a single-arm trial (N = 75) to
      demonstrate feasibility and preliminarily assess the impact of the QPL on key outcomes. Aims
      are to:

      Aim 1. Examine intervention feasibility. Feasibility will be examined in 3 areas: 1) patient
      and oncologist acceptability, 2) participant recruitment and retention, and 3) intervention
      dosage and fidelity.

      Aim 2. Evaluate intervention effects on comprehension and treatment preferences. 2a:
      Participants will demonstrate significant increases in comprehension about their disease and
      its treatments from pre- to post-QPL. 2b: Participants will be more likely to report
      Score-concordant preferences from pre to post-QPL.

      Aim 3. Assess potential intervention mechanisms on comprehension, preferences and
      satisfaction. 3a: Patient comprehension and satisfaction will be higher following encounters
      with greater shared decision making, greater perceived communication quality, and more
      frequent discussion of risks/benefits of treatments. 3b: Patient preferences will likely be
      more Score-concordant following encounters with greater shared decision making, greater
      perceived communication quality, and more frequent discussion of risks/benefits of
      treatments.

      Variation in outcomes will be explored across Aims 1-3 based on patient and provider
      sociodemographics, patient-provider concordance (gender, race), and patient's language
      preference.
    
  