
    
      1. Introduction:

           In the surgical management of breast cancer, a conservative approach is the "gold
           standard" for the mammary region. For the axillary region, however, this depends on the
           results of the sentinel lymph node biopsy (SLNB) with axillary lymph node dissection
           (ALND) continuing to be an indispensable procedure when the disease reaches this level.

           The complications that arise from this procedure can be divided in two groups: 1) early:
           seromas and nerve lesions and 2) late: lymphedema, functional disorders in shoulder
           movement and post-mastectomy pain syndrome.

           Seromas are the most frequent complications after an ALND. In themselves, they do not
           carry a high risk of morbidity. However, they delay healing of the surgical wound,
           increasing the risk of infection and number of ambulatory visits and furthermore,
           resulting in a deferral in the start of adjuvant therapies such as radio and
           chemotherapy.

           Aspirative drainage continues to be the "gold standard" for the management of this
           post-surgical complication, even though it can lead to complications such as obstruction
           of the drainage, peritubal leakage of the seroma, etc. This may result in pain and
           reduction in mobility of the affected arm.

           Hemopatch® is a hemosthatic sealer made from reabsorbable collagen. It comes in the from
           of patch, with CE marking that is already being used in the clinical setting in Spain
           and the rest of Europe.

           Taking into account the factors that reduce seroma formation after ALND and the
           characteristics of the patch, its application after surgery could be useful in
           preventing seroma formation. More specifically, the patch has proven to act as a

             -  Hemosthatic, improving the first phase of inflammation

             -  Adhesive, reducing the dead space left after ALND

             -  Sealer, decreasing the exudate

        2. Rationale Based on this premise and in the context of a clinical protocol after the
           introduction of the patch in daily clinical practice, it was used on 28 patients that
           underwent ALND, obtaining favourable clinical results. This is a multicentric,
           randomized controlled clinical trial, with the objective of comparing the Hemopatch®
           with the usual technique used (aspirative drainage) in terms of efficacy and safety.

        3. Hypothesis Placing a Hemopatch ® instead of an aspirative drainage in women after
           undergoing ALND during breast cancer surgery may reduce the appearance of seroma and
           consequently the need for a puncture, as well as the complications related to aspirative
           drainage.
    
  