
    
      With the exception of patients with brainstem gliomas, all patients should have the maximal
      surgical resection that can be safely performed prior to study entry. Submission of frozen
      tumor is strongly encouraged. After recovery from neurosurgery, all patients will start
      valproic acid and radiation therapy.

      Valproic Acid (VPA): VPA will be started at 15 mg/kg/day divided into three doses a day,
      ideally 48 hours prior to first day of radiation therapy, but no later than the first day of
      radiation therapy. Patients may also begin VPA sooner if they have post-operative seizures
      and require an anti-convulsant.

      Radiation Phase: Radiation therapy should begin within 30 days of definitive surgery or
      radiographic diagnosis, whichever is the later date. Date of surgery or radiographic
      diagnosis is considered day 1, and radiation should start no later than day 31. VPA will be
      continued daily without interruption during radiation therapy. VPA doses will be adjusted in
      increments of 5 mg/kg/day every 3-5 days to achieve and maintain trough concentrations
      between 85 to 115 mcg/ml. During this time patients will receive standard radiation therapy.

      Post Radiation Phase: Patients will continue to receive VPA as during radiation. If
      necessary, patients who had delays in radiation (e.g., secondary to schedule holidays or the
      need to have a new mask made) will complete their radiotherapy to the total prescribed
      protocol dose.

      Maintenance Phase: Maintenance therapy will begin 4 weeks after completion of radiation or
      week 11, whichever comes first.

      Patients will continue VPA daily during maintenance therapy. All patients will start
      bevacizumab, 10 mg/kg by vein every two weeks, at the start of maintenance therapy.
      Maintenance therapy will continue uninterrupted if all laboratory tests continue to meet
      on-study criteria. In the absence of unacceptable toxicity or disease progression, patients
      will continue to receive protocol treatment for a maximum total duration of two years
      (including the radiation phase).
    
  