
    
      Vitamin E (a-tocopherol) is essential for humans but determining human dietary requirements
      has proved difficult. The recommended dietary allowance (RDA) for vitamin E is not met by 96%
      of American women, without apparent harm. Because vitamin E is an antioxidant, optimum
      consumption of vitamin E may improve the health of obese women who experience high levels of
      inflammation and oxidative stress. We hypothesize that vitamin E functions as an antioxidant
      is related to its tissue stores, and that delivery to tissue stores can be calculated from
      plasma vitamin E turnover kinetics from slow release pools. We propose turnover kinetics as a
      new means to estimate vitamin E recommended dietary allowance. We will study vitamin E
      pharmacokinetics using dual stable-isotope labeled (deuterium) a-tocopherols administered
      orally and intravenously to healthy nonobese, overweight and overweight non-insulin requiring
      diabetic women. Blood samples will be collected at intervals and vitamin E measured by mass
      spectrometry. Because ascorbic acid (vitamin C) concentrations may alter a-tocopherol
      pharmacokinetics, subjects will be studied first at low and then high steady state plasma
      vitamin C concentrations. Before this main study, two preliminary trials will be performed.
      In preliminary trial 1, fat content for optimal absorption will be assessed because
      fat-content of a meal may alter vitamin E absorption. The fat content in preliminary trial 1
      will be 0 - 40% of calories in the breakfast meal during which vitamin E will be
      administered. In preliminary trial 2, optimal fat content from preliminary trial 1 will be
      used, and the vitamin E dose will be varied. Vitamin E dose amount could non-specifically
      alter vitamin E kinetics. We will therefore determine the largest dose (2-30 mg) that does
      not non-specifically increase vitamin E turnover, with fat held constant. Additionally, we
      will measure vitamin E pharmacokinetics as a function of lipid peroxidation biomarkers to
      provide direct data that can be used to predict vitamin E requirements for women, and to set
      new recommendations for vitamin E intakes. We will explore new a-tocopherol functions,
      specifically whether gene transcription in human subjects is regulated by vitamin E status in
      relation to vitamin C status. Because vitamin E turnover may be affected by vitamin C
      concentrations, we will use a vitamin C depletion-repletion study design to investigate the
      relationship between vitamin C status and vitamin E turnover.
    
  