
    
      We plan to do a randomized controlled trial to study impact of multimineral supplement with
      antituberculosis drugs in freshly diagnosed pulmonary tuberculosis in children. Plan to enrol
      400 children at two sites in Delhi. The diagnosis and treatment of pulmonary tuberculosis
      will be based on recommendations of Revised National Tuberculosis Control Program (RNTCP).
      The outcome will be measured in form of weight gain and improvement in x ray film of chest.
      The secondary outcome variables will be as follows:

        1. Effect of micronutrient supplements at 2 and 6 months on anthropometric parameters by
           comparing means of anthropometric parameters in different groups.

        2. Improvement in radiological findings at 2 months: Comparing the proportion of children
           showing clearance of X ray films at baseline and 6 months by two paediatricians
           independently using same protocol.

        3. Resolution of symptoms at 2 and 6 months: By comparing proportion of patients having
           resolution of presenting symptoms (fever, cough, appetite improvement) as reported by
           parents

        4. Proportion of children requiring extension of intensive phase of therapy: Comparing
           proportion of children in different groups requiring extension of intensive phase of
           therapy at 2 months due to the treating physician's decision.

        5. Interferon gamma responses to M. tuberculosis antigens ESAT6 and CF10 by quantiferon
           assay at baseline, 2 months and 6 months of treatment

        6. To study effect of zinc supplementation on ocular toxicity in children receiving
           ethambutol by VER

        7. To document drug resistance (S, I, R, E) patterns among children with culture confirmed
           TB

        8. To document genotypic strain diversity among children with culture confirmed TB, also
           associations between strain type and disease severity and/or drug resistance

        9. To document the spectrum of mycobacterial species by culture in children clinically
           suspected of having pulmonary tuberculosis.
    
  