
    
      This is a randomized cross-over trial, composed of three groups that will receive LED therapy
      at three different times. Initially an anamnesis will be held, where participants will answer
      questions about personal data, injury history and training time. The Recovery-Stress
      Questionnaire for Athletes questionnaire (RESTQ-Sport-76) will also be applied in order to
      evaluate recovery and psychophysiological stress. The RESTQ-Sport-76 questionnaire will be
      answered before each weekly intervention session, in order to qualify the level of stress of
      the pre-exercise athlete. After responding to the questionnaires, the participants will have
      their height, weight, skin fold, heart rate, blood pressure and threshold measured pain, and
      collecting a blood sample to standardize baseline individual values (creatine kinase and
      lactate analysis). Upon completion of these, a light jog warm-up will be performed for five
      minutes. Then, the modified Star Excursion Balance Test (SEBTm), Single Hop Test (SGHT),
      Triple Hop Test (THT) and Side Hop Test (SDHT) will be performed randomly. After this the
      familiarization protocol will begin with the Bangsbo Sprint test (BST). Upon completion of
      these, a light jogging warm-up will be performed for five minutes. Then, the modified Star
      Excursion Balance Test (SEBTm), Single Hop Test (SGHT), Triple Hop Test (THT) and Side Hop
      Test (SDHT) will be performed randomly. After that the familiarization protocol with the
      Bangsbo Sprint test (BST) will begin, with the participants positioned near the starting
      marker (photocell) and the signal, they should run 34.2 meters at the most, performing seven
      repetitions , with twenty-five seconds of active recovery between sprints. At the end of the
      seventh sprint the athletes will remain in rest for 10 minutes and then will undergo the
      Yo-Yo intermittent recovery level 1 (Yo-Yo IR1) test. At the end of this test, participants
      will remain in rest for 10 minutes and then will be submitted to the same tests (BST and
      Yo-Yo IR1) again. Will be measured at the end of the second battery of tests, heart rate,
      blood pressure, subjective perception of effort, muscle pain threshold, blood samples
      collected and repeated functional tests.

      In the following three weeks, all groups will initially respond to the RESTQ-Sport-76
      questionnaire and will measure heart rate, blood pressure, muscle pain threshold, subjective
      perception of effort, blood sample from participants and functional tests, prior to
      performance testing and recovery method applications. The exercise protocol will be the same
      as described earlier in the first week and will be familiar to participants. However, during
      the next three weeks the participants will receive the LED therapy at three different times
      grouped into: before (Lpré), in the range (Lin) and after (lpos) performance tests. All
      participants will receive the LED therapy at the three moments, only the sequence of the
      application that will be randomized. The LED therapy will be performed on two points on the
      quadriceps, two on the hamstrings and two on the gastrocnemius bilaterally. At each point,
      irradiation will be applied for 60 seconds, with a wavelength of 850nm (± 20nm) and energy
      density of 8 joules per square centimeter (J/cm2).
    
  