
    
      Background.

      WHO has included retinal diseases between conditions treatable by acupuncture and Traditional
      Chinese Medicine (TCM) has been used for retinal diseases in hospitals of China and in other
      parts of the world many years ago. Acupuncture and periocular massage act stimulating the
      vital energy to restore the normal function of the body.

      Currently, most common treatments in Western Medicine, anti-VEGF, only are indicated for less
      than 10 percent of cases, which are the wet form or neovascular of AMD (NV-AMD) and they have
      restrictions for use, additionally, their cost and requirements are limiting for populations
      in all countries.

      Objectives. The primary purpose of this study is to confirm the objective response among
      subjects with macular diseases treated with acupuncture and massage. The results of
      conventional treatment are published in similar trials and some of our patients have had
      intraocular injections previously.

      It is important to feature the affordability of this therapy for low-income populations that
      do not have specialists or facilities nearby or for many governments that complain about the
      huge burden of the treatment of there diseases. In Colombia, the average cost of each
      intraocular injection by the time of this trial was about US 3.500 and it can be repeated
      every month, it requires a retina specialist and a surgical room, that is out of reach for
      many people in the country.

      We did not calculate the costs of our treatment because the research team did voluntary
      labor, and the devices are at a very low cost, about US 0.50 in each session. Acupuncture
      treatment does not require special facilities as surgical rooms required in treatments with
      intraocular injections. The participants were not paid, they came from different economic
      conditions, some better, others from poorest neighborhoods or some from the rural areas.

      This study includes 3 phases: Selection, Treatment, and Follow-up phases.

      The selection phase included confirmed diagnosis by clinical register and OCT, Ophthalmologic
      assessment, and consent of the patient.

      Macular diseases. In this trial, some patients had NV AMD in one or both eyes, dry AMD,
      myopic maculopathy or Stargardt disease. For TCM it is possible to treat all as damage of
      similar category.

      Why no control group. There was no control group due to ethical reasons, leave the impairment
      without treatment in these mostly very sad persons. The second reason is the well-known
      difficulty to mask a procedure like acupuncture. another third reason is the possibility to
      contrast the results of this trial with those of similar studies conducted in eyes with
      conventional treatment.

      In the phase of treatment, Patients received a session of acupuncture according to a standard
      protocol of points, and a periocular massage that was taught to the patient to be
      self-performed daily. The acupuncture sessions were scheduled every week initially, the
      evaluation of response was realized every 2 months by ophthalmologic exam and was asked to
      participants an optical coherence tomography (OCT) that would be realized every 6 months.
      Depending on the results of ophthalmologic assessment the sessions were extended gradually to
      every 2, 3, 5 until 13 weeks. Although tomographic assessments had been scheduled every 6
      months, only a few of the participants accomplish with that due to economic limitations.
      Treatment continued until 24 months

      All patients in the follow-up phase of this trial were monitored according to the Safety
      Follow-up protocol and the defined procedures and evaluations.

      The final results were collected and analyzed.
    
  