
    
      Emerging stroke rehabilitation therapies have shown promise for improving motor recovery
      after stroke and involve elements of high-intensity and repetitive task-specific practice,
      which might be the essential elements of treatment success. Two prominent examples of
      advances in innovative rehabilitation therapies after stroke include robotic rehabilitation
      (RR) and mirror therapy (MT). Based on the development of mechanical and biomedical
      engineering, RR has emerged that incorporates therapeutic elements for success in motor
      rehabilitation: high-intensity, repetitiveness, task-specificity, feedback, and bilateral
      training into its design. MT has been proposed in the light of translational research of
      mirror neurons. In MT, patients place a mirror beside the unaffected limb to block their view
      of the affected limb, creating the illusion that both limbs are intact. The motor visual
      input from MT facilitates the activations in the premotor, primary motor and somatosensory
      areas, which enhance sensory, perception and motor abilities. The MT may be used to restore
      sensory functions, improve grip/grasp strength and motor function. In addition, an innovative
      technology, functional electrical stimulation (FES), is proposed as an adjunct to assist in
      movement execution and increase the electric activity of muscles for movement and the active
      range of motion in patients with low functioning. Robotic rehabilitation that emphasizes
      muscle strengthening and motor restoration may be implemented in combination with the FES to
      improve treatment outcomes in stroke patients with moderate-to-severe motor impairments in
      movement performance and functional outcomes. Despite these promises, research studies that
      investigate comparative efficacy of the rival therapies and the effects of combined therapy
      relative to mono-therapy are lacking. An additional gap in contemporary neurorehabilitation
      is the lack of sufficient information on the threshold values of clinically significant
      change in a variety of functional domains relevant for individualized medicine. In addition,
      research on the potential vales of biomarkers (eg, level of oxidative stress) for use in
      outcomes study in intense rehabilitation falls far behind disciplines of basic sciences. This
      proposed research project will be devoted to comparative efficacy trials and clinimetric
      study to promote evidence-based neurorehabilitation and translational research in stroke.

      It has been called for comparative effectiveness research of the innovative treatments to
      promote evidence-based practice and translational science in stroke motor rehabilitation.
      Scientific evidence for comparative effectiveness research of RR versus MT on functional
      outcomes (e.g., motor, muscle, sensory, and daily functions) and adverse physiological
      responses (e.g., fatigue and oxidative responses) in stroke patients is limited. More
      rigorous studies are needed to compare the efficacy of RR and MT with control intervention
      (CI), to identify the predictors of treatment success, and to study change in functions
      (motor, muscle, sensory, and daily) and level of fatigue and oxidative stress after intense
      training in order to promote translational science in movement therapy. Therefore, this
      comparative efficacy research aims at performing a randomized controlled trial (RCT) to (1)
      verify the efficacy and motor control mechanisms of dose-matched RR, MT, and CI; (2) examine
      whether RR combined with FES will enhance the effect of RR; (3) study the predictors of
      treatment outcomes and clinimetric properties of the outcome measures. We hypothesize the RR
      and MT groups would produce better performance in motor control, muscle function, sensory
      function, daily functions, and quality of life than the CI group. We further hypothesize that
      there will be a differential improvements in movement performance and sensory functions
      between the RR and MT. Combined therapy of the RR and FES (RR-FES) will enhance the effect of
      RR as compared with the RR plus placebo intervention (RR-PI).
    
  