
    
      Background:

      Around 250-300 children and adolescents below the age of 21 years are newly diagnosed with
      cancer in Switzerland every year. Research led to remarkable progress in survival in the last
      decades. The 10-year survival rate in Switzerland is currently 87%. Previous research showed
      that, depending on the treatment exposure, a high proportion of these survivors suffer from
      chronic medical conditions, so called late effects.

      Many studies on late effects in former childhood cancer patients are based on retrospective
      data. However, this type of study design has unavoidable limitations, such as missing data,
      different coding and grading of severity of late effects, and the assessment at different
      time points. Therefore, we need prospectively collected data, including severity coding in a
      standardized way, to overcome these limitations.

      Objectives:

      The overarching aim of "Young Survivors at Kantonsspital Aarau, Switzerland" is to assess
      late effects in childhood cancer survivors prospectively and in a standardized way. These
      data will contribute to the increasing knowledge on long-term outcomes and late effects in
      the future. This new knowledge is important in order to be able to adapt and improve
      long-term follow-up care. In the longer term, survivors will benefit from this extensive and
      prospective data collection.

      Methods:

      "Young Survivors at Kantonsspital Aarau" has a registry-like design. Data produced during
      regular follow-up visits are collected in a comprehensive database and in a standardized way.
      We collect all information generated prospectively from start of the study onwards and
      retrospectively until January 2016. From 2016 onward, all medical records are kept
      electronically. We classify and grade the severity of late effects according to the modified
      National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 4.0 (CTCAE
      v4.03). The outcome variables correspond to results from risk-stratified organ examinations,
      which are performed according to the Children's Oncology Group guidelines v5.0. The exposure
      variables correspond to information from the patients' medical history, including detailed
      information on cancer diagnosis and treatment. The data will be analyzed in an exposure- or
      organ system-driven approach. We start recruitment with patients diagnosed and treated at the
      Kantonsspital Aarau. The design of the study allows the inclusion of other clinics in the
      future.

      Research and significance:

      Research on late effects of former childhood cancer patients often relies on retrospective
      data collection, which is associated with unpreventable limitations. "Young Survivors at
      Kantonsspital Aarau" overcomes these limitations and additionally grades the severity of late
      effects in a standardized way. This allows us to analyze changes in severity of late effects
      over time, within and between survivors. This information will increase our knowledge on late
      effects and contribute to long-term follow-up care.
    
  