
    
      This prospective, randomized controlled study will be conducted when there is a member of the
      research team available to consent patients at a Level I Trauma Center with approximately
      90,000 annual ED visits across all age groups. Each potentially eligible patient will be
      identified by the research team and approached in the ED. Consented and enrolled patients
      will be assigned a study identification number and the enrollment documented by a member of
      the research team in the ED's electronic medical record after subjects are confirmed to meet
      inclusion and exclusion criteria. Subjects will be assigned randomly (by using a computer
      generated sequence) to either the control or intervention study arms.

      Subjects in the control arm will have demographic data collected, a baseline Falls Efficacy
      Scale (FES) and Vulnerable Elders Survey (VES) screening completed and two STEADI Tool Kit
      mobility tests administered (the "TUG" [Timed Up and GO] and the 30-Second Chair Stand test).
      The FES and VES are validated surveys measuring fall concern and functional decline. The
      research team will advise them that they have a risk of falling as identified by inclusion
      criteria and that we are advising them to take action to prevent future falls. They will be
      given the brochure, "What YOU Can Do to Prevent Falls," that is standardized information
      recommended in the STEADI Tool Kit for Health Care Providers by the Centers for Disease
      Control (CDC).

      Subjects in the active arm will also have demographic data collected, a baseline FES and VES
      screening completed, and two STEADI Tool Kit mobility tests administered (the "TUG" [Timed Up
      and GO] and the 30-Second Chair Stand test). Their risk of falling will be reviewed with them
      using a bedside decision aid indicating what they can do to decrease their risk. Particular
      attention will be given to personalizing their fall risk. The fall prevention management
      options will be presented in a value neutral fashion, along with the advantages and
      disadvantages of each option. They will have an opportunity to discuss what outcomes are the
      most important to them and choose the management options from the list provided that are the
      most valuable to them. Study and treatment team members will then work with this agreed upon
      selection to provide reliable intervention and outpatient follow up to improve the gains that
      can be realized in an integrated healthcare system. If the participant chooses to do their
      own home safety evaluation, they will be provided with a checklist to guide them in looking
      for hazards in their home and how to fix them. The patient will keep the original copy of
      their decision aid with their agreed-upon selected treatment options, and a copy of it will
      be placed in the subject's study file. All actions that are in response to the subject's
      selected plan (prescriptions, appointments, etc.) will also be documented in the study file.

      Both groups will have phone follow-up at 6 weeks post ED visit, and then again at 3, 6, 9 and
      12 months to collect self-reported data about goal completion and fall history. The last
      phone follow-up will include an exit FES and VES reassessment. All participants in both arms
      will have data collected about their inpatient and outpatient visits throughout the network
      during the study period to corroborate their self-report (e.g., occupational therapy,
      physical therapy visits, hospital admissions or ER visits for injuries related to a fall,
      etc.).
    
  