
    
      The criteria for inclusion in the research are a) being 18 years of age and over b) not
      having any psychiatric diagnosis c) not having taken a course or lesson about coping with
      anxiety and stress d) not speaking before the community e) volunteering to participate in the
      study .

      Procedure The study will be carried out before the presentations on the prevention of chronic
      diseases within the scope of the Chronic Diseases course. 3 separate halls will be set up for
      the intervention and control groups to make their presentations. Students will start working
      after being taken to the halls set up for them.

      Demographic information form, Subjective Discomfort Unit Scale (SUD), STAI-I and STAI-II and
      Speech Anxiety scales will be applied to the students in the EFT intervention group. Later,
      information about the EFT method to be used within the scope of the research will be given.
      One EFT session (25 minutes) was held once. After applying SUD, STAI-I and STAI-II and Speech
      Anxiety scales as a final test, students in the EFT group will make their speeches in front
      of the community.

      Demographic information form, Subjective Discomfort Unit Scale (SUD), STAI-I and STAI-II and
      Speech Anxiety scales will be applied to the students in the breathing exercise intervention
      group. Later, information will be given about the breathing exercise method to be used in the
      research. Students will be given one breathing exercise session (25 minutes). After applying
      SUD, STAI-I and STAI-II and Speech Anxiety scales as the final test, students in the
      breathing exercise group will have their speeches in front of the community.

      Demographic information form, Subjective Discomfort Unit Scale (SUD), STAI-I and STAI-II and
      Speech Anxiety scales were applied to the students in the control group. No intervention was
      made to the students in the control group. 25 minutes after the pretest application, SUD,
      STAI-I and STAI-II and Speech Anxiety scales were applied as posttest. Then the students in
      the control group made their speeches in front of the community.

      EFT tapping: the basic recipe The EFT application will be implemented by the researcher who
      has been trained in this subject, in the most quiet and calm environment possible, in a
      position where the individuals are comfortable. There are basic steps to be followed in EFT
      application. Thought Field Therapy (TFT), developed by Callahan, based on Craig, uses
      different click points for specific psychological conditions, while EFT has 12 energy click
      points in the same specified order to treat every emotional problem, It is called 'Basic
      Recipe' (Craig, 2004).

      While applying the Basic Recipe, the following steps are followed;

        1. Determination of SUD level (Student makes the scoring of the problem he feels on the
           scale between zero and ten points.)

        2. Installation (The general structure is "I accept myself deeply and completely despite
           this ……….".

        3. Clicking the meridian points in order (The points given in Figure 2 are clicked.)

        4. Nine Gamut procedures (Some eye movements, murmurs and counts are made while clicking on
           the Gamut point in hand.)

        5. Clicking the meridian points in order again

        6. Control of differentiation at the level of discomfort with SUD again (Craig, 2004;
           Church, 2004; Craig, 2017).

      Implementing the batting series: With the index finger and middle finger, EFT points (Figure
      2) are struck without hurt but with precise strokes. EFT points are the end points of the
      energy meridians. These endpoints are close to the surface of the body and are therefore more
      easily accessible than other buried points. Strikes at EFT points compensate for any possible
      disorders. At each point, the problem statement is repeated aloud (if possible).

      Breathing therapy: the basic recipe After applying pre-test forms to students, the hall will
      be quiet and dim. In this study, breathing exercise application will be performed in three
      stages as (1) relax, (2) deep breath and (3) feel yourself. Relaxing music including bird
      sounds and water sounds will be used to ensure the concentration and focus of the
      participants. It will be said to breathe deeply and feel it
    
  