
    
      Nowadays, diet is recognized as one of the most important factors in the development of
      non-communicable diseases. Therefore, nutrition and dietary habits stand out as an invaluable
      tool for preventing diseases. Among these dietary habits, Mediterranean diet is now
      recognized as one of the best models of food patterns providing protection against chronic
      diseases and with beneficial effects on quality of life.

      During the last years, expectation on precision nutrition beyond personalized diet has been
      increasing due to the possibility of adapting diet to the actual needs of the person,
      optimizing the function of the organism. Currently, diet precision in the context of general
      population is mainly addressed to heterogeneous groups of population, depending on variables
      such as age, gender or physical state among others. Beyond this approach, a more accurate
      personalization strategy is based on adapting some components of the diet to the genetic
      profile of the subject while considering a limited number of phenotypical traits.

      Some authors have proposed that a wide array of chronic non-communicable diseases of high
      prevalence in our society have a multifactorial origin, being the result of a sustained
      dysregulation of some physiological processes, such as metabolic stress, oxidative stress,
      chronic systemic low-grade inflammation or psychological stress among others. Since most of
      these processes can be modulated by diet, optimizing them by means of nutritional
      interventions could represent an invaluable approach for preventing diseases. Nevertheless, a
      complete characterization of these physiological processes is needed in order to know their
      real state in individuals and be able to deliver an adequate intervention for their
      restoration when required. Currently, -omics technologies provide the necessary tools for
      accurate assessing the state of these physiological processes.

      In this context, PREVENTOMICS project financed by the European Research and Innovation
      programme H2020 (Call H2020-SFS-2018-2020; DT-SFS-14-2018; Project title : Empowering
      consumers to PREVENT diet-related diseases through OMICS sciences) and with a consortium of
      different companies and public entities, including EURECAT, aims to assess the most relevant
      metabolic processes which dysregulation leads to the onset of disease and to integrate
      individual's metabolic signature with genetic, biological, nutritional and psychological
      aspects through Information and communication Technologies (ICTs) to deliver preventive
      personalized nutrition tools in order to correct early deviations.

      The main concept behind the PREVENTOMICS project is to provide personalized recommendations
      based on a multi-level classification after clustering the different users according to their
      dietary habits and preferences, their levels of physical activity, shopping preferences,
      possible allergies and phenotypic (i.e. metabolomics and proteomics-based multivariate
      approach) and genotype characterization.

      To achieve the main objective, the PREVENTOMICs project consortium has developed a
      personalized nutrition strategy based on a recommender system in order to provide
      personalized nutrition tailored to the actual status of the subject.

      To do that, the physiological processes considered in PREVENTOMICS have been selected
      according to their relevance with health and disease, to nutritional status and, therefore,
      their ability for being modulated by nutritional interventions.

      These processes are:1) oxidative stress; 2) systemic inflammation; 3) carbohydrate
      metabolism; 4) lipid metabolism; 5) microbiota status through the measurement of microbiota
      generated metabolites.

      In order to define the status of these physiological process, classically accepted biomarkers
      already used in clinical assessment and intervention studies will be determined, including
      blood triglycerides, cholesterol, C-reactive protein, glucose or urine isoprostanes among
      others. Moreover, the recommender system developed in PREVENTOMICS combines these
      measurements with other biomarkers that have been sufficiently well characterized as
      surrogates for studying specific metabolic processes.

      With the above information, the PREVENTOMICS recommender system also integrates a panel of
      single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs).

      Besides, behavioural research shows clearly that the provision of knowledge and advice as a
      means to help people make changes in their lifestyles does not necessarily result in the
      desired behavioural change. Therefore, in order to achieve sustainable long-term lifestyle
      changes, people need to be prompted to behave in new ways that do not rely on their willpower
      or conscious thinking.

      Therefore, the recommender system will anonymously collect data on analyzed biomarkers,
      habits, mental wellbeing levels, cognitive health, social inclusion and behaviours and will
      translate this using behavioural change algorithms along with digital delivery into a series
      of personalised, goal-orientated, friendly, and achievable actions proposed to the user.

      Thus, to achieve PREVENTOMICS project objectives, a consortium of 19 partners was created
      including:

        1. 4 small medium-sized enterprises (Alimentomica, Carinsa, Do Something Different and
           Practico);

        2. 9 research performing institutions (Eurecat, University of Parma, University of
           Southampton-Southampton General Hospital, Institute of Communication and Computer
           Systems, Maastrich University, Wageningen University, Leitat, Jagiellonian University
           Medical College);

        3. 3 companies with exploitation interests (SimpleFeast, Meteda and Aldi)

        4. A consumer association OCU;

        5. A standardization body, UNE;

        6. Osteoarthritis Foundation International - OAFI.

      The main outcome of the PREVENTOMICS project has been a novel recommender system that can be
      used in a wide array of applications or business models. Within the PREVENTOMIC project,
      three different applications of the system are evaluated:

        1. Personalization of weekly menus delivered at home (catering).

        2. Adaptation of professional tools for nutritionists and dieticians (advanced tools for
           health professionals).

        3. Personalized shopping experience in supermarket (retailers).

      In PREVENTOMICS project, the UTNS of Eurecat in Reus is focused in personalized shopping
      experience together with ALDI supermarkets and will conduct the study with clinically healthy
      adults and using a dedicated ALDI microwebsite to assess application number 3.

      The ALDI microsite uses the personalized recommendations generated by the recommender system
      to provide each user the most appropriate diet-based nutritional and behavioural changes
      recommendations according to the individual's needs, lifestyle and preferences and
      personalizing the shopping experience in ALDI's online supermarket.

      Importantly, despite the proposed use of such workflow might be demonstration of personalized
      online shopping, the pilot carried out in Reus does not support trading. Therefore, users
      will use the ALDI microsite to generate a shopping list navigating through a personalized
      ALDI catalog, but they are free to shop at any retailer other than ALDI.

      The improvement in dietary habits will be based on the Mediterranean diet adherence as a
      reference, as this diet is recognized as one gold standard.

      The hypothesis of the present study is that empowering consumers with tools that adapt
      nutrition recommendations to individual's metabolic state, lifestyle and food preferences
      through the utilization of the recommender system developed in PREVENTOMICS, with or without
      the application of behavioral change programs, will promote favorable and sustained changes
      in personal dietary behavior and food choices at the supermarket, promoting Mediterranean
      diet and beneficial effects on the health status of individuals.

      The main objective of the present study is to assess the soundness of the personalized
      nutrition advice generated by the recommender system and its combination with a behavioral
      change intervention, to improve dietary habits of individuals compared to standard and
      generic nutritional advice, measured through adherence to the Mediterranean diet and
      delivered through a retailer website (ALDI microsite).

      The secondary objectives are to evaluate the effects of using the personalized nutrition
      advice provided by PREVENTOMICS through a retailer website on:

        -  Anthropometric measurements.

        -  Blood pressure.

        -  Metabolic profile.

      After the selection visit (V0), on the first visit (V1), the 180 participants will provide
      urine, stool and saliva samples and will fill different questionnaires (quality of life,
      behavior, frequency of food consumption and physical activity) with the help of
      nutritionists. Additionally, participants will be randomly divided into three groups of 60
      participants as they receive: 1) personalized nutritional advice; 2) personalized nutritional
      and behavior change advice; or 3) general non-personalized nutritional advice. With the
      samples provided in the first visit, a complete analysis of the metabolic and genetic status
      of each participant will be carried out, which will be used for, approximately after a month,
      the participant begins to use the digital environment to generate their shopping list. Users
      will follow the nutritional advice that corresponds to them according to the assigned group
      and through the PREVENTOMICS system for 4 months. After 4 months, participants will make the
      last study visit (V2) where they will repeat the same process described for the first visit
      to assess the effects of the intervention.

      During the study, 3 visits will be carried out:

        -  One selection visit (V0; week 1) to check inclusion / exclusion criteria in the study
           and provide the necessary material for collecting stool and urine samples, as well as a
           three-day dietary record.

        -  A visit start of the study (V1; week 2) in which the participant will bring the
           biological samples, will fill the questionnaires and three-day dietary record, will have
           blood drawn and obtain a saliva sample, and will be included in one of the three study
           groups.

        -  A visit of completion of the study (V2; week 25), in which the participant will bring
           the biological samples, will have blood drawn and will fill out the questionnaires and
           three-day dietary record.

      Monthly, except for the last month of the study, the participant will be followed up by phone
      call. In the last one, there will be a face-to-face follow-up visit to give the volunteers
      the materials for collecting biological samples and the three-day dietary record for the V2
      visit. In addition, the participants will have personalized support by phone and via email
      for any questions or problems that may arise during the study.
    
  