
    
      Enrolment of patients:

      Three hundred patients, with an acute or elective referral to the radiology department at
      Stockholm South General Hospital, Sweden, for any diagnostic abdominal US examination,
      including both patients admitted to in-hospital care and out-patients, were prospectively
      enrolled between October 2011 and November 2012. Eligible patients were identified in the
      radiology department by a study surgeon and informed consent was obtained. Six US educated
      surgeons participated in the enrolment of patients. Exclusion criteria were age <18 years or
      inability to communicate with the examiner. Referrals concerning metastases of the liver or
      contrast-enhanced examinations were considered not suitable for the study and were also
      excluded. The surgeons examined patients consecutively if time was available, but mostly they
      didn't have time to examine every patient referred per day, hence a certain prioritisation
      between referrals was done.

      Data collection:

      Enrolled patients received one US examination by the study surgeon as well as the standard US
      examination by the on-duty radiologist. In a majority of cases the two examinations were
      performed consecutively and the time interval between the surgeon-performed US and
      radiologist-performed US never exceeded 24 hours. The surgeon's examination took place either
      before or right after the radiologist's examination. The examining surgeon and radiologist
      were blinded to each other's findings. The surgeon's US examination followed a standardised
      protocol, which included a full abdominal scan, regardless of the nature of the referral. The
      presence of gallstones was marked as a 'yes' (positive finding, regardless of number or size)
      or 'no' (negative finding) by the surgeon. In cases where a full abdominal scan could not be
      performed, due to urgent patient management, a focused examination based on the referral as
      well as a right upper quadrant (RUQ) scan was advised. The on-duty radiologist performed a
      standard care US focusing on the individual referrals. The radiologist's statement was
      collected from the patient's medical record and transferred to the study protocol by a
      separate radiologist, who was also blinded to the surgeon's examination. Among the
      radiologists the major part of the scans was done by US specialised radiologists with several
      years of training (56% US specialists, 73% specialists in radiology).

      The surgeons used a portable US machine of the model LOGIQ e with a convex (1.6-4.6 MHz) or
      linear (5-13 MHz) transducer, GE Healthcare, WuXi, China. All scans were saved on a separate
      hard drive, which was kept together with the study protocol. The radiologists used Philips
      iU22 with a convex C5-1 or a linear L12-5 transducer.

      US training of surgeons participating in the study:

      Six study surgeons, five in the final years of their specialist training and one specialist
      in surgery, with limited or no previous US training, attended a one-week course, comprising
      US physics, technique, anatomy and hands-on training, led by specialists in US. After
      attending the course the surgeons received three weeks of training in the radiology
      department under the guidance of an US specialist. The surgeons were expected to perform a
      minimum of 50 supervised scans, which was obtained in all cases but one. The training focused
      on detecting gallbladder stones, widened bile ducts, thickened wall of the gallbladder,
      lesions in the liver parenchyma, hydronephrosis, abdominal aortic aneurysms, free abdominal
      fluid and appendicitis. After the training was completed, each surgeon spent a minimum of two
      weeks enrolling and scanning patients during office hours in the hospital's radiology
      department.

      Ethics:

      The patients received oral and written information from the study surgeon and were included
      after informed consent. The study was approved by the Ethical Review Board, at Karolinska
      Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
    
  