
    
      Stage A

      Eligible patients will be randomized and transfused with study RBCs (Test or Control with 1:1
      ratio) according to local practices for up to 28 days of transfusion support. Following the
      28-day acute transfusion support period, patients will be transfused with conventional RBC
      components as indicated by their treating physician unless they are enrolled in the optional
      follow-up extension study.

      Non-bleeding patients at baseline requiring repeated RBC transfusion for congenital or
      acquired chronic anemia (e.g., sickle anemia, thalassemia, other hemoglobinopathies,
      myelodysplastic syndrome, aplastic anemia, chemotherapy or stem cell transplant etc.) will be
      eligible to participate in an extension option for up to 6 months to evaluate patients
      requiring repeated transfusion for chronic anemia. Subjects will receive the same study
      article (Test or Control RBC) as assigned in the initial 28-day study period. Following
      participation in the optional 6-month extended transfusion support period, patients will be
      transfused with conventional RBC components as indicated by their treating physician.

      Screening/Recruitment

      All potentially eligible patients at participating institutions will be approached for study
      consent. Subjects <18 years of age will require subject assent and parental consent. For
      subjects eligible for enrollment into the 6-month extension period option, consent/assent for
      the extension period should be obtained at initial enrollment.

      Patients who consent to the study will be assigned a study ID number and undergo screening.
      Screening data collection and procedures will include:

      Demographics (age, sex), vital signs, height, weight, indication for anticipated transfusion,
      type of scheduled surgery (if applicable), medical and surgical history, transfusion history,
      physical examination, comorbid conditions, concomitant medications, hematology panel
      (including complete blood count), blood type and Rh, Indirect Antiglobulin Test (IAT), blood
      chemistry, coagulation panel, Direct Antiglobulin Test (DAT), immune reactivity to IBS RBCs,
      pregnancy test (when applicable). Once all screening assessments are completed and
      eligibility is confirmed, the subject may be randomized.

      If results from the following assessments are available in the medical record within 30 days
      prior to randomization, those data may serve as the screening data and the assessments do not
      need to be repeated unless the subject has an RBC transfusion in the 30-day period:

        -  hematology panel (complete blood count), blood chemistry and coagulation panel

        -  blood type and Rh

        -  IAT, DAT, and immune reactivity to IBS RBCs

        -  physical examination

      If a RBC transfusion occurs after the study specific blood draws and assessments to determine
      eligibility are taken but prior to randomization, the subject may be randomized and the tests
      listed above should repeated prior to the first study transfusion.

      A pregnancy test (when applicable) must be performed within 7 days of randomization.

      Randomization and Blinding

      For Stage A, potentially eligible patients will be consented and begin screening in the study
      in order to be considered for randomization. An Interactive Web Response System (IWRS) will
      be used for electronic randomization of eligible patients.

      Randomization will be at a 1:1 ratio of Test: Control and stratified by site, baseline
      bleeding status [indication for RBC transfusion due to active bleeding (WHO Grade 3 or 4,
      APPENDIX 5) or for anemia without active bleeding], and non-bleeding patients' participation
      of the optional extension period (yes/no). Anticipated surgical bleeding and planned blood
      loss/replacement through red cell exchange at baseline should be included as active bleeding
      (Grade ≥3) by definition. Randomized patients who do not receive any study RBC transfusions
      through 28 days after randomization will be withdrawn from the study and replaced. Additional
      data will not be collected for these patients. These subjects may be reassessed for
      eligibility and re-enrollment after withdrawal.

      At the end of screening, the patient's eligibility status will be entered into the electronic
      data capture system (EDC). If eligible, the patient will be randomized. Only appropriate
      blood bank staff will be able to access the treatment arm assignment. Study RBC unit labels
      will be indistinguishable for Test and Control products. Medical staff, and others caring for
      participating patients, as well as the sponsor (and delegates) will be blinded to treatment
      assignment. Unblinded delegates will monitor the production of the RBC components at
      designated blood centers.

      Stage B has an open-label, single-arm design, hence no randomization or blinding procedures
      are required

      Treatment

      Randomized patients will be transfused with Test or Control RBC components for up to 28 days
      in the initial acute transfusion period and for an additional 6-months if the subject is
      entered into the optional extension period. Subjects participating in Stage A's optional
      extended study will continue to receive the same study article (Test or Control RBC) as in
      their initial 28-day study period. An RBC transfusion episode is defined to include
      consecutive RBC units transfused with ≤12 hours between transfusions (from the end of a prior
      component transfused to the start of a subsequent component transfused). A confirmed negative
      immune reaction to IBS RBC is required prior to the first study transfusion and at every time
      point a Type/Rh and Screen (IAT) is performed for a patient within the 28-day acute
      transfusion period or during the extension period. Compatibility for RBC antigens will be
      confirmed using site's SOPs prior to transfusion of study RBCs. In case of confirmed
      physiologically active antibodies to IBS RBC or any presumed or documented antibodies to IBS
      RBC that preclude further transfusion with study RBCs, patients will be withdrawn from the
      study treatment and supported with conventional RBC components and followed for safety.
      Patients with antibodies to IBS RBC will be investigated for evidence of hemolysis and
      continue with all planned visits and safety monitoring.

      Study Assessments: Monitoring and Follow-up

      Acute Transfusion Support Period (First study transfusion through Day 28 or death) and the
      optional extension period (if applicable).

      The acute transfusion support period will comprise 28 days from the day of the first study
      transfusion (Day 1) through Day 28, or death of a patient, plus an additional optional
      6-month transfusion period for those patients entered into the extension period. During these
      periods, patients will receive as many study RBCs as deemed appropriate by the treating
      physician. All AEs, SAEs, TRs and unanticipated adverse device effects will be collected
      starting from the initiation of the first study transfusion through 28 days after the last
      study transfusion. The Investigators will assess each AE/SAE/TR and unanticipated adverse
      device effects for relation to the transfused study RBCs. Transfusion reactions will be
      classified by the definitions in the CDC NHSN Hemovigilance Module Surveillance Protocol
      (APPENDIX 1) and will be captured in the eCRF and, if in routine use, in the CDC NHSN
      Biovigilance Component/Hemovigilance Module (www.cdc.gov/nhsn).

      Most proximate vital signs in the medical record will be collected prior to and following
      each study transfusion. The subject's hemoglobin value will be collected from the medical
      record, or if not available, a study sample will be submitted for testing, prior to and
      following each study transfusion episode within 15 minutes to 24 hours after the end of the
      transfusion episode and before the next RBC transfusion.

      Relevant concomitant medications taken during the study and blood products transfused will be
      recorded with indication, total daily dose, and dates of drug administration.

      During the acute transfusion support period, patients will undergo the following assessments
      prior to each transfusion episode: vital signs, AEs, TRs, SAEs and unanticipated adverse
      device effects, comorbid conditions, blood samples for safety labs (complete blood count,
      blood chemistry panel), IAT and immune reactivity to IBS RBCs. Samples may be used for
      additional in vitro research tests as required to confirm transfusion-transmitted pathogen
      mediated infections.

      An immune reactivity to IBS RBCs test will be performed and resulted each time an IAT is
      performed within the 28-day acute and 6-month extension transfusion support period.

      Follow-Up Period (28 and 75 days after last study transfusion)

      For the purposes of the Day 28 (± 7 days) and Day 75 (± 15 days) follow-up visits, Day 1 of
      the follow-up period is the day after the last study transfusion, either in the initial 28
      day acute transfusion period or, if the subject is entered, in the optional extension period.

      Day 28 (± 7 days) After the Last Study Transfusion

      Vital signs will be collected, and blood samples will be collected for:

        1. Routine safety labs (complete blood count, blood chemistry panel, hematology panel, and
           coagulation panel)

        2. DAT and IAT

        3. Immune reactivity test for IBS RBC

      All AEs, SAEs, TRs and unanticipated adverse device effects will be reviewed and recorded for
      the period from the first study transfusion through 28 days after the last study transfusion.

      End of Study Visit (Day 75 ±15 days)

      Day 75 (± 15 days) after the last study transfusion either in the initial 28 day acute
      transfusion period or after the extension period, a blood sample will be collected for a DAT
      and immune reactivity test for IBS RBC.
    
  