
    
      The basic treatment modality of lung cancer is radiotherapy, which has a proven therapeutic
      benefit in radical and palliative indications in up to 76% of all patients. Stereotactic
      robotic radiotherapy reaches maximum precision due to the precise definition of the target
      volume. In some localities, management with images has been solved using modern software
      instruments, which are able to visualize the tumor and monitor it during the whole course of
      respiratory cycle. This is directly associated with minimizing radiation of healthy tissues,
      especially the healthy lung parenchyma. In order to define predictive factors of survival of
      cancer patients, it is necessary to use molecular markers.

      The aim of the study is to verify the feasibility of consolidation SBRT (Stereotactic Body
      RadioTherapy) - CyberKnife, with subsequent maintenance chemotherapy in patients with stage
      IV NSCLC, with max. 10 metastatic nidi. The main focus of the study will be on assessment of
      combination treatment toxicity.

      The project is a phase I/II non-randomized clinical trial. Patients with stage IV NSCLC will
      be treated with 2-4 cycles of chemotherapy - platinum doublet (cisplatinum -
      cDDP/carboplatinum - CBDCA + Pemetrexed/navelibne - NVB). In cases when disease stabilization
      (SD)/partial resection (PR) will be achieved, based upon restaging examinations (CT),
      radiotherapy (RT) of the primary tumour will follow, with lymphadenopathy and SBRT of all
      metastatic nidi (max. 10 intra- or extracranial metastases). Standard fractionation schemes
      for RT and SBRT will be used (RT 40-50 Gy/16-20 fractions, SBRT 30 Gy/1 fractionation, 50-60
      Gy/3-5 fractionations). At 3-6 weeks after the end of RT, maintenance treatment will be
      initiated in all patients treated with Peterexed. Regular restaging examinations are planned
      every 3 months.
    
  