
    
      Schizophrenia is a life-long brain disorder affecting approximately 1 percent of Americans
      each year. Schizophrenia can be extremely disabling, causing people to hear voices,
      experience paranoia or hallucinations, and believe that others are controlling their
      thoughts. Many people with schizophrenia have difficulty with remembering their scheduled
      doctor's appointments and with taking their medication on time because of their mental
      illness. Many approved medications for schizophrenia must be taken several times a day and
      side effects such as drowsiness, dizziness, and even weight gain can deter a person from
      consistently taking their medication on time. Therefore, this study will determine whether a
      2-way pager will help people with schizophrenia to remember their doctor's appointments and
      to take their medication on time.

      Participants in this open-label study will first complete several written tests to assess
      skills such as memory, attention, and problem solving. Participants will also be asked
      questions regarding their current symptoms and medication regimen. Participants will then be
      randomly assigned to receive either treatment as usual or treatment as usual and a 2-way
      pager for 6 months. Participants who receive a 2-way pager will attend approximately four
      information sessions. During these sessions, participants will learn how to program the pager
      and use a specially designed medication bottle cap that will record the number of bottle
      openings and the date and time of each opening. At designated times, the pager will vibrate
      or beep, alerting participants to take their medication or attend a scheduled appointment.
      All participants will meet weekly with a staff member for the first month and then once a
      month for the remaining 5 months to complete several brief questionnaires on pager use,
      assess medication adherence, and discuss any symptoms experienced within the past week or
      month. Participants will be required to bring their medication to each meeting to ensure
      compliance.
    
  