
    
      This study is a 3-arm randomized, prospective trial in which HIV-infected inpatients who
      report substance use at screening will be randomized in 1:1:1 ratio to Patient Navigator (PN)
      vs. Patient Navigator + Contingency Management (PN+CM) vs. Treatment as Usual (TAU).
      Randomization will occur after screening, informed consent, baseline assessment and
      collection of biological (blood) specimens. Participants assigned to the PN and PN+CM groups
      will meet (ideally at bedside if the participant is still hospitalized at the time of
      randomization) with the Patient Navigator interventionist and will complete up to 11
      intervention sessions over the 6-month-long intervention period. Participants assigned to the
      TAU group will receive care as it is typically offered in the inpatient setting. Follow-up
      visits will be conducted at approximately 6 and 12 months post-randomization.

      To minimize patient and staff burden, sites may implement a pre-screening procedure with
      permission from their respective IRBs to determine which inpatients would meet the study's
      AIDS-defining illness/CD4 count/viral load inclusion criteria. Pre-screening, screening,
      enrollment, assessment, randomization and the initial intervention visit will (ideally) occur
      during the participant's stay at an inpatient facility. Recognizing that participants may be
      recruited at various stages of illness during their inpatient visit, however, this may not be
      possible. To allow maximum flexibility, all activities that occur after the screening
      informed consent may be completed after the patient has been discharged from the hospital.
      The intervention duration will be 6 months with sessions ideally occurring weekly during the
      first month, bi-weekly during months 2 and 3 and monthly during months 4- 6. Follow-up visits
      will occur at approximately 6 and 12 months post-randomization. Therefore, the total duration
      of individual participation in the study is approximately 12 months.

      Prior to approaching patients to recruit them into the study, members of the medical teams
      within each hospital (i.e., attending physicians, fellows, residents and nurse practitioners)
      who are involved in patient care and who know the patients' HIV-infected status will assess
      the medical stability of the patients. If a patient has expressed interest in potentially
      participating in research and is deemed medically stable, then a study staff member will meet
      with the patient at bedside to discuss the study. Strict ethical guidelines regarding
      professional conduct and confidentiality will be enforced for all study staff.

      Prior to screening individuals to determine their eligibility to participate, the research
      staff will briefly explain the study purpose, procedures, potential risks and benefits and
      voluntary nature of participation. Individuals willing to be screened to determine
      eligibility will provide written informed consent, including providing HIPAA authorization
      for medical record abstraction. After signing the consent and HIPAA forms, participants will
      be offered copies of the forms to keep for their records.

      After the enrollment process (providing written informed consent and completing a locator
      form) is complete and a brief rapport-building discussion between the interviewer and
      participant has taken place, the research interviewer will administer the baseline assessment
      through a handheld Computer Assisted Personal Interview (CAPI) device. The CAPI system
      displays each assessment question on a computer monitor, allowing the interviewer to read the
      questions and then enter the participants' responses directly into the computer. The baseline
      assessment will include, but not be limited to questions on participant demographics, HIV
      care, medication adherence, substance use and co morbid conditions such as hepatitis,
      depression, etc.

      Collection of Biologic Specimens:

      We will collect blood specimens at the baseline, 6-month and 12-month follow-up visits to
      evaluate the primary outcome, HIV virologic suppression, as well as to measure CD4 count, and
      complete blood count (CBC). Blood specimen processing will be done by sites' local
      laboratories. In the event that a blood specimen cannot be collected for any reason (e.g.,
      vein is "dry", participant is lost to follow-up, etc.) or the result of a collected specimen
      is not available (e.g., not enough specimen drawn, lab processing error, etc.), the study
      team may abstract and use non-study lab results for the purpose of evaluating the HIV
      virologic suppression outcome and measuring CD4 count and CBC. Participants randomized to the
      intervention groups may also provide urine for drug screening.

      Randomization:

      Participants will be randomized in a 1:1:1 fashion to one of the 3 treatment groups.
      Randomization will be stratified by site. The randomization procedure will be conducted in a
      centralized process through the Data and Statistical Center (DSC2). After the baseline
      assessment is successfully completed, a designated study staff member will perform the
      randomization. Randomization for each participant is done over the Internet using the
      Enrollment Module in AdvantageEDC (the study electronic data capture system).

      Study Interventions:

      The 3 treatment conditions/study groups are: 1) Patient Navigator intervention (PN), 2)
      Patient Navigator plus Contingency Management (PN+CM) intervention and 3) Treatment as Usual
      (TAU).

      The patient navigator (PN) approach includes five functions: 1) establishing an effective
      working relationship; 2) encouraging identification and use of strengths, abilities and
      assets; 3) supporting client control over goal setting and the search for needed resources;
      4) viewing the community as a resource and identifying informal sources of support; and 5)
      conducting case management as an active community based activity. Specifically, patient
      navigators will provide the following to all study participants randomized to the PN group:
      1) four initial meetings, ideally having the first one during hospitalization and three
      within the first 3 weeks of hospital discharge, and 2) after the initial four meetings,
      patient navigators will meet with the PN group participants ideally twice monthly during
      months 2 and 3 and once during months 4 - 6.

      Study participants randomized to the patient navigator plus contingency management (PN+CM)
      group will receive the patient navigation (PN) intervention as outlined above and in Section
      11.2 of the sponsor protocol combine with contingency management (CM). For participants
      randomly assigned to the PN+CM study group, patient navigators will: 1) effectively
      communicate the incentive plan to the participant, 2) track each of the seven target
      behaviors that may earn participant incentives, 3) verify occurrence of the target behaviors,
      4) deliver incentives according to the protocol, and 5) maintain a record of incentives
      delivered.

      Participants assigned to the treatment as usual (TAU) group will receive the standard
      treatment provided at participating sites for linking patients to HIV and substance use care.

      Follow-up visits will be conducted at approximately 6- and 12-months post-randomization and
      will involve follow-up CAPIs and blood collection.
    
  