
    
      An increase in individuals with alcohol dependence receiving specialized alcohol treatment
      will be of major importance for society's response to alcohol problems and its consequences.
      The Danish population has a large intake of alcohol. Approximately 20% of the adult
      population are heavy drinkers ( >14/21 drinks/ week (women/men)), 14% are harmful users, and
      3% are dependent drinkers. Untreated alcohol use disorders lead to frequent contacts to the
      health care system associated with considerable human and societal costs. A first approach
      would be to identify and recruit patients from general hospitals, where the proportion of
      inpatients with alcohol use disorders range between 16 % and 26%. A referral model to ensure
      treatment for alcohol dependent patients after discharge is needed.

      The main objective of the study is to develop strategies which increase the likelihood that
      patients report for outpatient alcohol treatment after discharge. It is likely that an
      optimization of the transfer procedure between hospital and outpatient clinic will lead to
      that more patients will be engage in psychosocial treatment for their alcohol abuse, which
      will improve the prognosis, reduce re-admissions and the use of hospital beds and, thus have
      positive economic consequences. We evaluate the Relay Model in order to assess i) efficacy,
      ii) cost-effectiveness and iii) overall societal cost impacts.

      The target group of the present study is patients suffering from alcohol dependence admitted
      to a general hospital located in an urban area and a general hospital located in a rural
      area.

      A single-blind pragmatic randomised controlled trial including patients admitted to Hospital.
      The study group(n=500) receive an Intervention and the control group(n=500) are referred to
      treatment by usual procedures. All patients complete a lifestyle questionnaire with the
      Danish self-report version of the Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test (AUDIT) embedded
      as a case identification strategy. The patients are informed that an alcohol therapist may
      contact them and give feedback on their responses.

      The completed forms are reviewed daily and an AUDIT score of 8+prompts a call to the Alcohol
      therapist, who attends the departments on different days randomly drawn by a computer. The
      RELAY MODEL intervention include a Brief Motivational Intervention. Patients who score AUDIT
      16+ are also offered an appointment at the alcohol treatment clinic.

      Primary measure is health care expenditures 12 months after discharge, according to the
      International Classification of Health Accounts, extracted from population registers. The
      analysis will be repeated on a yearly basis during the following 5 years.

      Secondary outcome: The percentage of the target group, who, 30 days after discharge, reports
      at the alcohol treatment clinics.

      A multiple regression model will be used. Since non-treated alcohol disorders generate a high
      number of societal costs annually for health care, social services, traffic accidents,
      criminal activities and lost productions we believe the Relay Model to be either cost-neutral
      or cost-effective, i.e. low net costs compared to effectiveness. We expect to establish
      evidence that the Relay Model is either cost-neutral or cost-effective, compared to referral
      by usual procedures.
    
  