
    
      Methodology Inclusion and exclusion criteria Fully conscious patients were enrolled from the
      National Hepatology and Tropical Medicine Research Institute (NHTMRI), Cairo, Egypt between
      January 2015 and December 2018. The inclusion criteria were cirrhosis due to HCV infection,
      age 18 to 75 years, experiencing at least one episode of OHE, and a MELD score ≤ 25.13
      Patients with neurological or communication problems, hepatocellular carcinoma, diabetes
      mellitus, active infection, serum creatinine > 2 mg/dl, Hg < 8 g/dL, serum Na < 125 mmol/L or
      serum K < 2.5 mmol/L were excluded. Patients with previous intake of rifaximin as prophylaxis
      or any antibiotic within the last month were also excluded.

      Study Design The protocol of this open label, parallel, prospective interventional study was
      approved by the institutional review board (IRB) of NHTMRI and that of the Faculty of
      Pharmacy, Cairo University (CL(1173)). All patients and/or patients' caregivers for those
      with weak/impaired cognitive and/or thinking ability due to previous episode of HE were
      consulted and explained for provided written informed consent before study enrolment.

      The patients were randomly assigned into either intervention group (rifaximin group) or
      control group (lactulose only group). Both groups received lactulose syrup 30-45 ml three
      times daily while rifaximin 400 mg three times daily was added to the intervention group for
      6 months. Other conventional therapy including diuretics, proton pump inhibitors,
      ursodeoxycholic acid and silymarin were given to the patients in both groups according to the
      hospital protocol.

      Study Follow-up All recruited patients were assessed clinically and biochemically at baseline
      and every 2 weeks for 6 months. Conn score, asterixis grade, complete blood picture with
      differential, serum bilirubin (total and direct), serum aspartate transaminase (AST) and
      alanine transaminase (ALT), alkaline phosphatase, gamma-glutamyltransferase (GGT), serum
      albumin, prothrombin time and concentration, urea and serum creatinine, serum sodium (Na) and
      potassium (K), urine and stool analysis were measured.

      Efficacy outcomes The primary efficacy endpoint was the time to the first breakthrough
      episode of OHE (defined as the time from the first dose of the study drug to an increase from
      a baseline Conn score of 0 or 1 to a score of 2 or more or from a baseline Conn score of 0 to
      a Conn score of 1 plus a 1-unit increase in the asterixis grade.13 The secondary efficacy
      endpoint was the time to the first hospitalization involving HE (defined as hospitalization
      because of the disorder or hospitalization during which an episode of HE occurred).14 The
      percentage of patient's survival during the study was also considered a secondary outcome.

      Safety Outcomes All recruited patients were requested to report any adverse event(s)
      experienced during the study period. Clinic visits occurred every 2 weeks till end of the
      treatment period. On weeks with no clinical visits, patients were followed-up by phone calls.

      Rifaximin Microbial Resistance Isolation of Gram negative bacteria from clinical stool
      samples Stool samples were collected from all the participants before commencing treatment
      and at the end of the study. One gram of stool was suspended in 10 ml saline and vortexed
      vigorously. One ml aliquot of the stool suspension was streaked on the surface of MacConkey
      agar plates to isolate Gram-negative lactose-fermenters. The plates were then incubated at
      37⁰C for 24 hours. Pink colonies were picked and re-streaked one more time then suspended in
      30% glycerol (vol/vol) in Brain Heart Infusion broth (BHI) and stored at -80 ⁰C till further
      analyses.

      Determination of the minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) of rifaximin for lactose
      fermenter isolates A sequential two-fold serial dilution broth procedure was adopted
      according to the Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute (CLSI) guidelines.15 Ten
      dilutions of rifaximin were prepared starting from 256 μg/ml in Muller Hinton broth (MHB) and
      aliquoted in 200 μl aliquots in the wells of a round bottom 96-well plate. A control well was
      included that was prepared using 200 μl MHB inoculated with 20 μl of the prepared bacterial
      inoculum.

      The inoculum was prepared by adjusting cells from an overnight culture to match the McFarland
      standard 0.5 (OD600 = 0.125). The suspension was further diluted 1:20 in MHB and 20 μl of the
      adjusted inoculum were added to each well. The plates were then incubated at 37°C for 24
      hours. The experiment was repeated twice and the lowest concentration of rifaximin that
      resulted in complete inhibition of visible growth represented the MIC value. The MIC values
      were considered different if they differed by more than a two-fold dilution.16
    
  