
    
      The overall objective of the PRECISESADS IMI project is to reclassify the individuals
      affected by SADs into clusters of molecular, instead of clinical entities through the
      determination of molecular profiles using several "-omics" techniques.

      The identification of the clusters relies on a cross sectional (CS) cohort/protocol where
      2666 individuals (2000 patients and 666 controls) including a sub-study of 288 deeply
      characterized individuals (240 patients and 48 controls) are to be recruited.

      In parallel a longitudinal inception cohort/protocol will be started in order to further
      explore the clinical relevance of the identified clusters and their evolution over time.

      The objectives of the CS study and sub-study are:

        1. To identify a systemic taxonomy for patients with SADs by producing the following data
           in individuals with SADs and controls: genetic, epigenomic, transcriptomic, flow
           cytometric (from peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs)), metabolomics and proteomic
           in plasma and urine, exosome analysis, classical serology (antibodies and
           autoantibodies), and clinical data.

        2. To better characterize individual SADs at the omics level.

        3. To perform clustering analyses to determine the groups of individuals who,
           differentially from other groups, share specific molecular features (precision
           medicine).

        4. A deeper analysis will be done in a substudy of 288 individuals.

      The clustering process will be data-driven with the aim to find the most homogenous and
      differentiated clusters of diseases that clearly separate differentiate individuals from
      controls and other patient clusters.

      Aims of the Inception cohort:

      Specifically, this inception cohort aims at:

        1. assign individuals newly diagnosed with an systemic autoimmune disease (SAD) to any of
           the reclassification clusters discovered in the CS study,

        2. to study the development and modifications of OMICS signatures/clusters occurring in
           each individual patient in the course of the disease, including the impact of treatment
           on their individual pattern, and

        3. to perform deep (thorough) OMICs studies to compare their patterns of OMICS as a group,
           with the patterns obtained in the CS cohort.

      The inception cohort will have patient follow up and sample collection at baseline, month
      6(±1 month) and month 18 (±1 month).

      As the newly diagnosed patients we plan to recruit will have minimum or no treatment, we will
      identify differences and similitudes to patients from the cross-sectional study that have
      undergone long-term treatment.
    
  