
    
      A total of 164 patients with persistent atrial fibrillation(AF), who are planned to undergo
      treatment with cryoballoon ablation, will be randomly allocated into two groups.

        1. Each patient randomly allocated into the circumferential pulmonary vein isolation group
           receives circumferential pulmonary vein isolation using cryoballoon ablation, and no
           additional isolation or ablation is performed in the extrapulmonary sites unless the
           patient is diagnosed with right atrial flutter before the operation.The investigators
           will carry out tricuspid isthmus ablation during the operation for patients with a
           preoperative diagnosis of right atrial flutter. All patients will undergo the remodeling
           of pulmonary vein-left atrium under CT before the operation to understand the structures
           of the left atrium and pulmonary veins. Patients who have recurrent atrial fibrillations
           within the first three months during postoperative follow-up will not be considered for
           repeated the operation.

        2. Each patient randomly allocated into the circumferential pulmonary vein and left atrial
           linear isolation group receives circumferential pulmonary vein and left atrial roof
           linear isolation using cryoballoon ablation,no additional isolation or ablation is
           performed in the extra sites unless the patient is diagnosed with right atrial flutter
           before the operation. The investigators will carry out tricuspid isthmus ablation during
           the operation for patients with a preoperative diagnosis of right atrial flutter. All
           patients will undergo the remodeling of pulmonary vein-left atrium under CT before the
           operation to understand the structures of the left atrium and pulmonary veins. Patients
           who have recurrent atrial fibrillations within the first three months during
           postoperative follow-up will not be considered for repeated the operation. Cryoablation
           is performed using a single cryoballoon. The diameter of the cryoballoon (Arctic Front
           Advance™ Cardiac CryoAblation Catheter; Medtronic, Minneapolis, MN) is determined as 28
           mm or 23 mm according to pulmonary venography results. After passing through the
           transseptal sheath, the cryoballoon catheter enters into the left atrium and is
           continuously infused with heparin saline through a 12 French(12F) oriented sheath. The
           circular mapping catheter (Achieve, Medtronic) will pass through the balloon catheter
           and first enter into the pulmonary vein lumen. It is placed as close as possible into
           the pulmonary vein to record original pulmonary vein potentials and carry out
           intraoperative real-time monitoring of the isolation of pulmonary vein potentials.

           The balloon is inflated at the entrance of the pulmonary vein. The mapping confirms that
           the balloon blocks the entrance of the pulmonary vein. After blocking of the entrance of
           the pulmonary vein is enhanced, liquid nitrogen is injected for cryoablation, which
           lasts for 240 seconds each time. Before performing right pulmonary vein ablation, a
           secondary catheter is placed into the superior vena cava during the cryoablation. A
           cycle length of 999 ms is taken to continuously make the right phrenic nerve pulsate. If
           diaphragm movement is weakened or disappears, the cryoablation will be immediately
           stopped. In general, the cryoablation of each pulmonary vein is carried out twice. If
           the cryoablation is unsuccessful for twice, an additional cryoablation can be carried
           out; but the number of times of pulmonary vein cryoablation should not be more than
           five.The patients randomly allocated into the circumferential pulmonary vein and left
           atrial linear isolation group receives circumferential pulmonary vein and left atrial
           roof linear isolation using cryoballoon ablation

        3. Examinations of real-time 3D ultrasound, 2D ultrasound, transesophageal echocardiography
           and Doppler are carried out to measure the left atrial size and function for all
           patients before the operation and at 1, 2, 3 and 4 weeks and 2, 3, 6, 9 and 12 months
           after the operation (iE33 machines equipped with X3, Philips). Measurement of left
           atrial anterior and posterior diameter: the left ventricular long axis next to the
           sternum is taken to measure the left atrial anterior and posterior diameter in the end
           systolic period of the left atrium; mitral e ": apical four-chamber view, sampling
           volume locates in the site of the mitral annular septum, and early diastolic blood flow
           velocity is measured; E peak: mitral valve early diastolic flow velocity; A peak: mitral
           valve late diastolic flow velocity; mitral valve velocity time integral. Measurement of
           left atrial ejection fraction: Five references sites are taken in the atrium, including
           four reference sites located in the front, lower, lateral and septal side of the top of
           the atrium, and one reference site located at the level of the mitral annulus. During
           the cardiac cycle, volumes at three time points will be measured. ① LAMax means that the
           left atrial volume is measured in the end systolic period before the opening and closing
           of the mitral valve, ② LAMin means that the left atrial volume is measured at end
           diastolic period before the closing of the mitral valve, and ③ LApreA means that the
           left atrial volume is measured before the appearance of the corresponding body surface
           ECG P-wave. These are obtained through the following formulas using the surface area
           index and left atrial function: the left atrial ejection fraction (LAEF) = [(LAMax-
           LAMin) / LAMax] × 100% - the active atrial emptying rate; the active left atrial
           emptying rate (LAactive) = [(LApreA - LAmin ) / LApreA] × 100% - passive atrial emptying
           rate; the passive left atrial emptying rate (LA passive) = [(LAmax - LApreA) / LAmax] ×
           100% - the atrial expansion index. The left atrial strain (four chambers, two-chamber):
           three reference sites are placed using Qlab software (CMQ, Philips Medical Systems). In
           four-chamber view, three reference sites are respectively placed in the mitral annular
           septum, the free wall of the mitral annulus and the top of the atrium. In two-chamber
           view, three reference sites are respectively placed in the front wall of the atrium, the
           free wall of the mitral annulus and the top of the atrium. The software will
           automatically track atrial muscle movement and work out the left atrial strain and left
           atrial strain rate. All patients will undergo preoperative transesophageal
           echocardiography to obtain the left atrial appendage (LAA) emptying velocity.

        4. Patients in the two groups of cryoballoon ablation, will be randomly allocated again
           into the statin treatment group and non-statin treatment group. Patients in the statin
           treatment group will orally receive 20 mg of atorvastatin per night (Pfizer) for three
           days before the operation and three months after the operation. Forms are filled in for
           all patients before the operation to record medical histories and related biochemical
           parameters in detail (including all blood routine indicators [Neutrophil%(NE%),
           Lymphocyte% (LY%), NE/LY], International Normalized Ratio (INR), enzymes, troponin,
           blood lipids and D-D dimer). The above-mentioned blood biochemical parameters are
           reexamined for all patients at 1, 2, 3 and 4 weeks and 1, 2 and 3 months after the
           operation. In addition to the above-described echocardiographic reexamination and blood
           samples, the content of the follow-up after ablation also includes symptoms,
           complications, electrocardiogram and 24-hour dynamic electrocardiogram.
    
  