
    
      Based on a review of the literature, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) concluded that
      more data are needed regarding the serious risks of misuse, abuse, addiction, overdose, and
      death associated with the long-term use of extended release/long acting (ER/LA) opioid
      analgesics. Thus, the FDA is requiring that ER/LA opioid analgesic drug sponsors conduct
      post-marketing studies to assess these risks. The four observational post-marketing
      requirement (PMR) studies are labeled Study #2065-1, Study #2065-2, Study #2065-3, and Study
      #2065-4.

      The objective of PMR Study #2065-4 is to define and validate doctor/pharmacy shopping as
      outcomes suggestive of misuse, diversion, abuse and/or addiction.

      Study #2065-4 consists of three sub-studies, Study 4A, Study 4B, and Study 4C. In the current
      study (#2065-4 sub-study, Study 4B), the association between doctor/pharmacy shopping
      behavior and misuse, diversion and abuse will be assessed by surveying patients within the a
      priori defined four categories of shopping behaviors. The four categories of shopping
      behaviors identified and defined in Study 4A will be applied to Study 4B. Asking patients
      directly about their behaviors related to misuse and abuse will provide us with the patient's
      perspective that is unavailable in Study 4A. Surveying patients regarding misuse and abuse
      requires the use of an instrument that has undergone a validation process to ensure that
      misuse and abuse are being measured. Study 4B will utilize the Prescription Opioid Misuse and
      Abuse Questionnaire (POMAQ) that will be validated in PMR Study #2065-2A. An administrative
      claims database will be used to identify the eligible patient population using their pharmacy
      claims for immediate release (IR) or ER/LA opioid analgesics to determine the number of
      prescribers and number of pharmacies they visit. Consenting patients will be asked to
      complete an online survey that includes the POMAQ to self-report their behaviors of misuse,
      abuse and/or diversion. It is hypothesized that as the likelihood of doctor/pharmacy shopping
      behavior increases the risk of misuse, abuse and/or diversion.
    
  