
    
      Background: Exclusive enteral nutrition (EEN) is a well established method of treatment for
      inducing remission in childhood-onset Crohn's disease. It involves placing children on a
      strict diet composed only of a single polymeric formula, as the sole source of nutrition over
      6 to 8 weeks. Use of this treatment method results in clinical remission in 50% to 80% of
      children by week 6-8.

      Partial enteral nutrition (PEN) would be more acceptable to patients than EEN, and might be
      an effective treatment for active Crohn's disease. Moreover, there are studies suggesting
      that PEN may be effective for the induction of remission in pediatric patients with Crohn's
      disease; however, the level of evidence is still low.

      Methods: This is a prospective randomized controlled trial, in patients with active
      childhood-onset Crohn's disease comparing two arms over 6 weeks of therapy.

      Group 1 (PEN group): will receive 75% of their dietary needs from a polymeric formula
      (Alicalm, Nutricia) and a limited (25% of dietary needs = 1 meal per day) whole food AID-CD
      for 6 weeks.

      Group 2 (EEN group): will receive EEN with Alicalm (Nutricia) for 6 weeks.

      Patients will be seen at onset and week 1, 3, and 6.

      This study will evaluate clinical response (a decrease in PCDAI score of ≥12.5 points),
      clinical remission (PCDAI <10) and mucosal healing using SES-CD in both groups, as well as
      the effects of the two nutritional approaches on the patients' nutritional status.

      Antiinflammatory diet for Crohn's disease (AID-CD) is based on reducing exposure to animal
      fat, simple carbohydrates and processed food. We removed foods that previous research has
      shown to induce inflammation and added foods that have been shown to be beneficial in
      reducing inflammation. Our AID-CD is based on Central European and thus Slovenian local and
      traditional cuisine.
    
  