
    
      CABAZITAXEL ADMINISTRATION Cabazitaxel will be administered at dose of 25 mg/m2 every 3
      weeks, administered by IV route in 1 hour, for a maximum of 6 total cycles. The drug will be
      provided by Sanofi -Aventis S.p.A. Concomitant mitotane therapy will not be permitted however
      mitotane will be maintained in patients with hormone secreting tumors. Cycle length for
      cabazitaxel is 3 weeks. New cycles of therapy may not begin until Absolute Neutrophil Count
      (ANC) ≥1500/mm3, platelet count ≥75 000/mm3, and non-hematological toxicities (except
      alopecia) have recovered to baseline.

      A maximum of 2 weeks delay is allowed between 2 treatment cycles.

      PHARMACOKINETIC STUDY Another study aims will be to assess the toxicity of cabazitaxel
      therapy in ACC patients. As mitotane notoriously interfere with the metabolism of several
      drugs (11), an ancillary study will be conducted to assess the pharmacokinetic profile of
      cabazitaxel in the patient population with hormone secreting tumors that will maintain
      mitotane administration vs patients with non secreting ACC in which mitotane will be stopped.
      Blood samples will be collected in lithium heparinized tubes at fixed time points before and
      after drug infusion: Cycles 1 on Day 1 just before infusion, 30 min after start of infusion,
      5 min before the end of 1-hour infusion (Tmax), 24 h, 48h and 96 h post-infusion. Cabazitaxel
      serum concentrations will be measured in plasma using a validated liquid
      chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry method: the Agilent 1260 Infinity LC equipped with an
      Agilent 6460 Triple Quadrupole Mass Spectrometer (QQQ) in electrospray mode systems.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS All data collected at baseline, including recorded and derived variables
      will be described on all patients by means of summary descriptive statistics: mean, standard
      deviation, median, min, max, 25th and 75th percentiles for continuous variables; absolute and
      relative frequency for categorical variables. The relative frequencies will be calculated on
      the total patients with and without missing data. Whenever possible the data will be
      described by visit.

      Chi square ore Fisher test, when applicable will be employed to compare categorical
      variables. Student T-test and analysis of variance for parametric or Wilcoxon's matched pairs
      signed-rank test and Friedman analysis of variance for non parametric data will be used to
      compare paired data. Simple correlation analysis will be performed by Spearman rho
      (coefficient of Spearman's rank correlation) for nonparametric distribution. Two-tailed tests
      will be used for all comparisons and p <0.05. All survival functions will computed using the
      Kaplan-Meier method. Survival curves will be compared with the log rank test.

      CONCOMITANT MEDICATION Concurrent treatment with strong inhibitors and strong inducers of
      cytochrome P450 3A4 is not permitted. For patients who were receiving treatment with such
      agents, a 2-week washout period is required prior to randomization. Concurrent participation
      in another clinical trial or treatment with any other anti-cancer therapy is also not
      permitted. The Investigator may prescribe any other concomitant medications as deemed
      necessary.
    
  