
    
      Arthritis affects over 4.7 million Canadians and the majority of them have hip and/or knee
      osteoarthritis (OA). Analysis by the Arthritis Alliance of Canada estimates one new OA
      diagnosis every 60 seconds. Poorly managed OA results in significant pain and disability,
      reduced quality of life (QOL), limits work productivity and increases use of health care
      resources. Two of 3 people are under 65 years and 10 percent of people report pain and
      functional problems from knee OA by age 60 years. Current evidence indicates that education
      related to OA integrated with exercises targeted to the hip and/or knee joints are effective
      in reducing symptoms and improving patient function and QOL. Unfortunately, in Canada, while
      there are some programs for people with bone and joint problems (e.g. OSTEOFIT, Fit & Strong)
      they are general education and exercise programs and are restricted to people over 60 years.
      In fact, a recent Bone and Joint Canada workshop identified implementation of evidence-based
      programs as the number one priority. Additionally, our research showed that people under 60
      years are looking for strategies to relieve and prevent OA symptom progression. An
      evidence-based targeted program integrating patient education and exercise for people with
      hip and knee OA, Good Life with osteoArthritis in Denmark (GLA:D), was implemented in Denmark
      by collaborator Roos in 2012. GLA:D is delivered by trained physiotherapists and includes
      patient education sessions and group exercise twice weekly for six weeks. Importantly,
      exercises are performed in positions and conditions reflecting daily life emphasizing the
      quality of performance, proper body position and individualized progression based on the
      patient's ability. The practical nature of these exercises improves adherence to the
      exercises in the longer term as they are easily transferrable to daily activities.
      Feasibility, safety and benefit of GLA:D have been demonstrated in individuals with mild to
      severe hip and knee OA. Since 2012, more than 5000 patients have been educated in GLA:D.
      Ongoing benefits for more than 2000 patients with one-year follow-up include pain relief with
      reduced use of medication, improved function and QOL, return to work, and ongoing use of the
      new knowledge and skills. Given its successful implementation and outcomes, pilot testing of
      GLA:D Canada and then potential provincial and national implementation and evaluation is
      highly appealing to address an urgent need for Canadians with hip and knee OA.
    
  