
    
      Injection of contrast agent:

      Indocyanine Green (ICG) is a tricarbocyanine dye that is commonly used for hepatic,
      cardiovascular, plastic surgery and ophthalmology applications. It is usually injected
      intravenously at a dose comprised between 0.1 and 0.5 mg/kg. After administration, ICG binds
      to plasmatic proteins, lipoproteins and lipids, and is thereafter rapidly and completely
      cleared from blood by the liver. ICG is excited and emits fluorescence in the near-infrared
      (around 800 nm).

      In this study, the investigators will suspend ICG in 25 ml pure water and subsequently
      diluted with pure water to reach a final concentration of 0.2 mg/ml. Each subject will
      receive an intradermal injection of 0.5 ml of diluted ICG (e.i. 100µg), using a hypodermic
      needle. The investigators will standardize the injection point and inject ICG intradermally
      in the first interdigital space, according to the injection method used for
      lymphoscintigraphy. In this way, the investigators highlight systematically the same area of
      the superficial lymphatic network.

      Fluorescence images acquisition:

      After injection, the injection sites will be covered with tape to avoid camera
      oversaturation, and to avoid spreading of ICG on the skin and undesirable fluorescent
      background on the images. To obtain fluorescence imaging of leg lymphatic flow, a
      near-infrared fluorescence imaging system will be used (Photo Dynamic Eye, or PDE camera from
      Hamamatsu Photonics - Japan). The camera is maintained in a fix position, 15 cm above the
      investigation field, by a holding system from Noga Tools. The amplified analogic signal is
      transformed into a digital signal by a converter from Terratec (Model Grabster AV 450 MX) and
      transferred to a monitor, which allows to visualize lymphatic network and lymph flow in
      real-time. Images will be recorded on a dedicated external hard disk drive Iomega, model
      MDHDU.

      The session will take place in a dark room, to allow NIR fluorescence images acquisition.

      Specific manual lymphatic drainage, developed by the first author and his team under NIRF
      feedback, is performed immediately after the injection, during the whole experimental session
      in order to be sure that the examined lymphatic vessels permanently contain lymph. The lymph
      is propelled with the hand of the operator from the injection point to a limit line drawn on
      the skin at 5 cm before the distal extremity of the transparent cuff. This optimized manual
      lymphatic drainage will be performed for 3 minutes in order to easily detect the superficial
      lymphatic vessels at the distal region of the leg and to mark the area of interest. The MLD
      is standardized by the first author for this experiment, and composed by a continuous and
      repeated sequence, executed from distal to proximal, of 3 "fill up" maneuvers realized on the
      injection point, succeeded by 2 "wash out" maneuvers realized from the injection point to the
      limit line before the cuff. Then, two fluorescent lines are drawn on the skin in a distance
      of 50 mm in order to limit the space of reference.

      The cuff of the transparent sphygmomanometer is placed on the distal part of the leg, just
      above the ankle.

      The sphygmomanometer is connected to a pressure meter, indicating mm of Mercury (Testo® 510
      Digital Manometer precision 0.1mmHg.).

      The PDE camera will be maintained perpendicularly on the major axis of the leg, at the level
      of the middle of the cuff.

      In order to make sure that observed lymphatic vessels contain lymph, the fluorescent lymph is
      propelled during all the experience with the hand of the operator from the injection point to
      a limit line drawn on the skin at 5 cm before the distal extremity of the transparent cuff.

        -  First step: as baseline we record and observe the lymphatic flow under the un-inflated
           cuff.

        -  Second step: the cuff is inflated at 30mmHg, images are recorded during three lymph flow
           passages.

      Three independent observers are present. They control the three passages of lymph in order to
      give the consent to go over to the next pressure step.

      - Third step: The investigators increase the inflated pressure in steps of 10 mmHg recording
      images at each increase (waiting for three passages of lymph at each step).

      The experiment is completed as soon as the investigators visually note the complete stop of
      lymph progression under the transparent cuff. At that moment, the pressure is reduced by
      10mmHg in order to validate the return of the lymph flow. After this step, the investigators
      observe and record images of the lymphatic vessel from the injection point up to the root of
      the limb.
    
  