
    
      This trial will evaluate the efficacy and safety of SARS-CoV-2 convalescent plasma as
      treatment for confirmed COVID-19 respiratory disease (as defined in the inclusion criteria).
      Participants in both group A and group B will receive COVID-19 convalescent plasma. Group A
      will include hospitalized COVID-19 patients ages ≥18 years with respiratory symptoms,
      requiring >6 L of oxygen to maintain O2 saturation >92%. Patient may not require intubation,
      and may be admitted for no longer than 14 days. Group B will include hospitalized COVID-19
      patients ages ≥18 years requiring intubation. Patients may be enrolled in group A within 14
      days of admission to the hospital and may be enrolled in group B at any time after
      intubation. A total of 300 eligible subjects with significant oxygen requirements and 200
      eligible subjects who require intubation will be included in the study. They will receive
      convalescent plasma from either a patient who has recovered from COVID-19 or from an
      asymptomatic carrier with confirmed IgG against SARS-CoV-2. Subjects will not be randomized.
      The amount of anti-SARS-CoV-2 IgG and IgA in any unit of plasma will not be known when the
      unit is assigned to the patient. This will allow us to examine the relationship between the
      amount of anti-SARS-CoV-2 antibody and outcomes. Analysis will be based on measurement of
      optical density of the IgG level in the unit of plasma the patient is randomly supplied by
      the blood bank. While investigators and patients will be aware the patient is receiving a
      unit of COVID-19 convalescent plasma, both the investigators and the patients will be blinded
      to the antibody content of that unit.

      COVID-19 convalescent plasma (1 unit; ~200mL) will be produced by a blood bank licensed to
      produce plasma using standard screening and safety procedures. The product may be procured
      from patients who have: 1) been symptom free for 14 days and screen negative via
      nasopharyngeal swab or 2) symptom free for at least 28 days or 3) individuals who have never
      had symptoms of COVID-19 but were found to have elevated anti-SARS-CoV-2 IgG by a serology
      test deemed to be of acceptable quality and fitting the current guidance by the FDA.

      Participants at the eight Michigan hospitals comprising the Beaumont Health system may be
      eligible to participate. Study oversight and coordination will occur centrally, from the
      Infectious Disease Research Department at Beaumont's Royal Oak campus.
    
  