
    
      All patients admitted to the clinic of acute geriatric medicine during the first 6 months
      will be enrolled in the study. Included patients will be prospectively studied for
      cardiovascular events for a period of 24 months.

      At admission, patient history, physical examination, prior medications, vital signs including
      heart rate, blood pressure, body temperature, and all comorbidities will be recorded by a
      physician. Blood samples will be collected at the time of presentation. Determination of
      regular laboratory values together with very low circulating troponin T, copeptin,
      MR-pro-adrenomedullin, ANP and endothelin-1 levels will be measured. An electrocardiogram
      will be taken in all patients at admission. An echocardiography measuring the function of the
      heart valves, left ventricular diameters, ejection fraction (LV-EF), and diastolic function
      will be performed in all patients by a cardiologist in order to differentiate other
      mechanisms for the release of troponin. According to the result of the echocardiographic
      exam, the patients will be divided into subgroups with (LV-EF>=55%) and without preserved
      ejection fraction (LV-EF<55%).

      Objectives:

        1. To investigate the incidence of acute coronary syndromes in geriatric patients by
           measurement of very low circulating troponin T and copeptin levels.

        2. To determine cardiovascular events, including cardiovascular death, fatal and nonfatal
           heart failure, and fatal and nonfatal acute myocardial infarction, of these patients
           during 24 months.

        3. To analyze the relationship between very low circulating troponin T and cardiovascular
           events in these patients.

        4. To analyze risk factors in geriatric patients with elevated troponin T for
           cardiovascular events.

        5. To analyze whether the combined measurement of troponin T and copeptin or other markers
           improves the sensitivity for identification of acute coronary syndromes in geriatric
           patients.
    
  