
    
      The investigators propose to fill the research gaps through a Multiphase Optimization
      Strategy (MOST) trial of incentives for walking. A MOST trial is ideally suited for
      situations in which a proposed intervention has many potential intervention components. A
      MOST trial consists of three phases. A screening phase trial is used to efficiently
      identify-through a factorial designed randomized trial-the effective components of a complex
      intervention like incentives. A refining phase trial tests the optimal dose (size or
      duration) of the incentives. A confirmatory phase trial tests the optimal components and dose
      against a usual care control. The goal of the proposed study is to conduct the screening
      phase trial in 128 Veterans to identify the optimal components of incentives for increasing
      walking among physically inactive Veterans. All Veterans in this phase will be given various
      components of incentives for increasing average steps per day to 7,000 steps over a 12-week
      habit-building period, and then maintaining the increase through a 12-week habit maintenance
      period. The specific aims are:

      Aim 1: Conduct a 24 factorial designed screening-phase trial of incentives for increasing
      average steps per day to 7,000 steps over 12 weeks among physically inactive Veterans. Every
      patient in the trial will be given a Fitbit Inspire activity monitor and assigned to a group
      that receives different components of incentives. The investigators will test four different
      incentive factors: 1) lottery vs. loss framed incentives, 2) financial vs. non-financial
      incentives, 3) a pre-commitment postcard reminder of a Veteran's stated intrinsic reason for
      commitment to PA vs. no pre-commitment postcard, and 4) a request for PA advice from a
      Veteran on staying active vs. no request. The first factor has never been tested in a
      population like the VA. Factors 2-4 are designed specifically to sustain the effects of
      incentives after the incentive is removed. Factor 4 is a novel hypothesis that has never been
      tested outside of educational research: specifically, that asking for advice from a Veteran
      is more motivating than giving advice to them, even if that Veteran is struggling with low
      physical activity themselves. The primary outcome is change in steps per week from baseline
      to week 24.

      Aim 2. Conduct cost analyses and qualitative interviews. The cost of administering each
      component and qualitative assessments of the acceptability of each component to trial
      participants will inform the decision of which components to retain for the subsequent
      refining and confirmatory phase trials.

      Aim 3. Convene an expert panel to choose components for the next phases of the MOST trial.
      The panel will weigh each component in terms of its effect on step counts (Aim 1),
      administrative costs and participant-reported qualitative assessments (Aim 2), and the
      strength of the theoretical basis for the component's effect on physical activity.
    
  