
    
      Stroke is the fifth leading cause of death and the leading cause of serious long-term
      disability in the U.S. Post-stroke impairment often presents as weakness of the upper and
      lower limbs and spasticity (muscle and joint stiffness and hyperactivity). This condition
      impacts motor recovery and renders the individual dependent for most activities of daily
      living. Even with aggressive standard rehabilitation, 65 percent of patients cannot
      incorporate their affected hand in functional activities six months after stroke.
      Investigators have previously demonstrated that robotic therapy provides significant benefits
      to upper limb motor recovery after stroke. The treatment has been acknowledged by the
      American Heart Association as an effective form of stroke rehabilitation.

      Neuromodulation techniques such as noninvasive brain, nerve and spinal direct current
      stimulation have been proposed as promising safe tools for augmenting motor learning and
      function after brain injury. Ahmed (2014) demonstrated in a pre-clinical mouse model that the
      use of combined trans-spinal and peripheral direct current stimulation (tsDCS + pDCS) can
      modulate muscle tone and potentially improve motor function. Preliminary clinical trial of
      safety and feasibility (Paget-blanc et al. 2019) suggests that five sessions of
      transcutaneous spinal direct current stimulation paired with transcutaneous peripheral direct
      current stimulation (Doublestim™/ MyoRegulator™ System - PathMaker Neurosystems Inc.)
      temporarily reduce spasticity features such as catch response to slow and fast joint stretch
      and overall stiffness of the affected extremity with optimal reductions in spasticity
      occurring 2-3 weeks post stimulation intervention. Unexpectedly, participants also
      experienced significant improvements in motor function, suggestive that tsDCS+ pDCS may
      provide a therapeutic window to further augment motor outcomes with robotic wrist training.

      The investigators propose a study to evaluate whether two doses of five consecutive days of
      paired spinal and peripheral noninvasive stimulation combined with six weeks of intensive
      (three times a week) robotic therapy will significantly alter the clinical and objective
      measures of spasticity and motor function of the wrist in participants with upper extremity
      spasticity after stroke.
    
  