
    
      Gastrostomy involves creating an opening between the skin and the stomach. It allows the
      administration of nutrition solutes or food directly into the stomach without passing through
      the mouth and esophagus. It is a method widely used since the 1980s for enteral nutrition.

      In the field of pediatrics, gastrostomy is considered in chronic diseases when enteral
      nutrition is necessary in the long term. It allows weight gain and improves nutritional
      status. The percutaneous endoscopic method is nowadays one of the most widespread methods
      that has proven effective on growth and nutrition, with few side effects .

      Few studies have analyzed children's quality of life after gastrostomy. On the one hand, it
      increases the perceived health of the child after the placement of the caregiver's point of
      view. It allows a reduction of the stress of the parents, at a distance from the pose, and
      its insertion would be chosen again by the parents if it were to do again. Meals and
      medication administration would be easier for parents. But on the other hand, its insertion
      is often difficult for families to experience, on the one hand by changing the diet . The
      family dynamics are modified and it would lead to logistical constraints for meals or
      outings. The vision of the body diagram would also be altered. Following a systematic review
      of the literature conducted in early 2018, there are currently only 7 longitudinal
      prospective studies assessing the quality of life of caregivers before and after gastrostomy.
      No study is French. The numbers are relatively small. All of these studies assess the quality
      of life of caregivers only, without assessing the quality of life of the child due to
      age-related constraints and causal pathology. Six of seven studies show an improvement in the
      quality of life of caregivers after the pose. The 7th study, which is the only multicentre
      study, shows no improvement in the quality of life, with an increase in time for care and
      cost. This is a US study in 3 centers comparing 50 children with and without gastrostomy at 3
      assessment points at 0, 3 and 6 months. Children with gastrostomy would require more time for
      care and a cost. This study found no improvement in caregivers' quality of life and mood on a
      depression scale. However, the 2 groups were not similar in terms of pathology with more
      hematological pathologies and fewer degenerative neurological pathologies in the group
      without gastrostomy. The care, devices and materials are paid in the US which is not the case
      in France and should not impact on the quality of life. These studies, with the exception of
      2 who used the SF-36 questionnaire, were conducted with different and non-standardized
      self-questionnaires.

      None of these studies conducted a direct assessment of the child using a questionnaire
      designed for them. This assessment of children can be performed in children of understanding
      age and having a pathology that allows them to communicate. It allows an approach and a
      direct vision of the quality of life. The quality of life of the siblings has also not been
      studied in these studies whereas it is impacted in the chronic diseases in the brothers and
      sisters. Our goal is to study the quality of life of caregivers and children with generic
      questionnaires, validated and used in other pathologies and chronic diseases of the child.
      This will allow reproducibility and comparisons to other populations, general or other
      chronic diseases (acute leukemias ...) This is to conduct a pilot study, preliminary to the
      construction of a larger study, longitudinal with several evaluation times.
    
  