
    
      Scientific Background:

      Large-scale zinc supplementation studies have demonstrated highly significant positive
      effects on growth, morbidity and mortality in infants who are born small for gestational age
      (SGA). This suggests these infants may have higher postnatal requirements compared to
      appropriate for gestational age (AGA) infants, possibly due to inadequate zinc intake from
      breast milk due either to lower volume or to differences in milk zinc concentrations from
      mothers of SGA compared to AGA infants. Alternatively, SGA infants may have lower zinc stores
      at birth, which may reflect a greater postnatal requirement for optimal zinc status. It is
      thus possible that the zinc requirements of the SGA infant exceed the zinc intake that can be
      achieved from exclusive breastfeeding, which is recommended for the first 6 mo of life.
      Estimated rates of infants born with intrauterine growth retardation, including SGA, are
      25-40% of all births in south Asia (Bhutta - 2004a).

      Scientific Scope of the Project (Scientific problems to be addressed with overall and
      specific objectives):

      The overall objective of this project is to compare zinc intake from human milk and other
      fluids and complementary foods in SGA and AGA infants through the first 12 mo of life; growth
      for each group will also be monitored. A secondary goal is to compare the size of the
      exchangeable zinc pool in SGA and AGA infants at birth and at 6 mo, the period of recommended
      exclusive breastfeeding.

      Specific Aims:

        1. Compare longitudinal zinc intake by measuring milk zinc concentrations and volume of
           intake of breast milk between SGA and AGA infants through first 12 mo.

        2. Compare post-natal growth rates for SGA and AGA infants through the first 12 mo of life
           in relation to zinc intake.

        3. Compare size of exchangeable zinc pool (EZP) at birth and at 6 mo of age between SGA and
           AGA infants.

      Expected Outcomes:

      Expected outcomes include longitudinal data from SGA and AGA infants during the first year of
      life, including human milk intake, zinc concentrations in human milk, zinc intake from human
      milk, estimated intake of non-milk fluids and complementary foods, anthropometric
      measurements (length, weight, and head circumference), and size of exchangeable zinc pool;
      cross-sectional data on plasma zinc, ferritin and hemoglobin at 6 mo will also be obtained.
      These outcomes will all be compared between SGA and AGA infants. Relationships among
      variables will also be examined, including relationship of zinc intake and size of EZP to
      observed growth outcomes.
    
  