
    
      This will be a Phase III, multinational, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study,
      assessing the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of intramuscular (IM) administration of
      allogeneic PLX-PAD cells for the treatment of muscle injury following arthroplasty for HF as
      compared to placebo treatment. Both treatment arms will receive standard of care treatment
      per local practice.

      The study will comprise 2 periods:

        1. Main study period - from Screening to 52 weeks post-treatment. During this period, the
           subjects will have the following study visits: Screening, Day 0 (treatment and surgery
           day), Day 1, Day 5, Week 6, Week 12, Week 26 and Week 52.

        2. Safety follow-up period - from Week 52 to Week 104. During this safety follow-up period,
           there will be a phone call visit at Week 104, and only related serious adverse events
           (SAEs) and new malignancy adverse events will be collected.

      The main study period will comprise 4 periods:

        1. Screening and pre-surgery time

        2. Surgery and treatment with PLX-PAD or placebo (Day 0)

        3. Hospital follow-up until Day 5±1, at least

        4. Follow-up period up to 52 weeks following study treatment administration. Subjects will
           be assessed for study eligibility before the emergency surgery for HF. After being found
           eligible, subjects will be randomized using a 1:1 allocation scheme to either 150×106
           PLX-PAD cells or to placebo treatment, respectively. Within 48 hours of admission and up
           to 72 hours following fracture, subjects will undergo HA or THA. During the surgical
           procedure, the subjects will receive the investigational product in accordance with the
           treatment group to which they were randomized. Thereafter, visits will be conducted at
           Days 1 and 5±1, and at Weeks 6, 12, 26, 52 and 104.
    
  