
    
      Anorexia Nervosa (AN) has the highest mortality of all psychiatric disorders. Large part of
      all patients the disorder becomes chronical. Until now, no (bio-) markers which allow a
      prognosis of outcome are known. Recently the function of the intestinal microbiome and its
      effects on food uptake, immunological processes and barrier malfunctions in the intestine is
      discussed. Especially the concept of the "leaky gut", an adsorption malfunction of the
      intestinal wall under starvation for antigens may help to explain the low inflammatory
      response which is commonly found in Anorexia Nervosa subjects and a connection to higher rate
      of autoimmune diseases by Anorexia Nervosa. Furthermore the presence and quantity of specific
      bacteria in the intestine seems to be dependent on patient's sex which would contribute to
      the gender gap of prevalence for Anorexia Nervosa. Stress induced changes of the HPA-axis
      which are well documented in Anorexia Nervosa patients and often persist even after weight
      rehabilitation, play an important part for intestinal wall permeability disorders. In the
      most often used animal model for AN, the Activity-Based Anorexia (ABA) model which combines
      nutrition restriction and weight loss with hyper activity, a malfunction in intestinal wall
      permeability was found. Malnutrition and long lasting dieting have a fast and reproducible
      impact on the intestinal microbiome. Especially animal derived food seems to support
      proliferation of pro-inflammatory bacteria. A substantial intestinal dysbiosis (reduced
      alpha-diversity) was found in AN patients which only partly recovered after weight
      rehabilitation. Reduction in diversity and composition of the microbiome was significantly
      associated with severity of depressive symptoms in patient, where severity is an indicator
      for higher level eating pathologies and poorer prognosis. Aim of this longitudinal study is
      therefore to investigate to interconnections between fecal microbiome and progression of AN,
      including associations with stress, inflammatory markers and metabolic markers in blood sera
      as well as clinical parameters such as severity of depression and eating pathologies.
    
  