
    
      Attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is believed to be neurologically based and
      characterized by enduring attentional problems, motor restlessness, and cognitive and motor
      impulsivity that impact one's ability to function optimally in daily life activities. ADHD is
      commonly diagnosed in childhood at a prevalence rate of 11% and a male to female ratio of
      3:1. The prevalence of adult ADHD varies from 4 to 6% and it is estimated that two-thirds of
      adult ADHD disorders are extensions of childhood ADHD. Researchers have suggested that the
      male to female prevalence ratio is inaccurate and that females experience ADHD at similar
      levels to males but are underdiagnosed. While boys with ADHD are often identified by their
      teachers because of motor impulsivity and inattention, girls with ADHD who may experience
      attentional problems and impulsivity without significant hyperactivity, may fail to be
      identified by teachers as needing evaluation and treatment. Some studies have found that
      female children and adolescents who experience the ADHD symptoms of inattention,
      disorganization, poor time management, and distractibility are more likely to be misdiagnosed
      with depression and anxiety. When depression and anxiety occur in children and adolescents
      with undiagnosed ADHD symptoms, they may result from the inability to manage ADHD symptoms as
      they impact functional performance in the home, school, and community.

      Much of the research exploring ADHD has been devoted to children and adolescents. The
      research examining adult ADHD has thus far largely attempted to describe the phenomenon of
      adult ADHD. Research investigating intervention effectiveness for adult ADHD has primarily
      focused on pharmacological treatment. The small body of research examining
      non-pharmacological treatment has found moderate effectiveness for pharmacological
      intervention combined with cognitive behavioral therapy and psychoeducation.

      Missing from this body of literature is research specifically examining interventions for
      women with ADHD, who present symptoms that are both overlapping with and unique from their
      male counterparts.

      Studies have found that women with ADHD tend to have difficulty maintaining and succeeding in
      employment, school, and parenting and spousal roles. The ability to organize and implement
      tasks associated with each role, follow daily schedules and routines needed to support
      desired roles, prioritize and manage tasks in a timely manner, and regulate internal and
      external stressors to maintain consistent emotional responses may be difficult for with women
      with ADHD.

      In this study, the investigators aim to provide a 7-week tailored intervention for women with
      ADHD who have difficulty carrying out student, worker, spousal, and parenting roles due to
      poor time management, organization of their physical environments, management of internal and
      external stressors, and regulation of internal and external stimulation.

      This intervention effectiveness study will use randomization and control. Twenty-four women
      who self-report diagnoses of ADHD will be recruited to participate and randomly assigned to
      either the intervention group (n=12) or control group (n=12). The intervention group will
      receive the 6-week intervention; the control group will not receive intervention (bit will
      receive an organization toolkit at study end).
    
  