
    
      Objectives: The primary objective of this study is to determine hospital mortality of all
      newcomers admitted to the ICU, and to compare it between patients with HbA1c <6.5% and ≥6.5%.
      Other outcomes that will be measured include ICU and one year mortality, ICU and hospital
      length of stay (LOS), days on mechanical ventilation, serious infection during
      hospitalization and renal failure requiring dialysis during hospitalization and at 6 months.
      The investigators will also determine the prevalence of pre-diabetes (HbA1c 6.0-6.4%) and
      diabetes (≥6.5%) in the critically ill population based on HbA1c levels and monitor glucose
      control and insulin requirements during the first three days of ICU admission.

      Methods: This project is a prospective observational study at the McGill University Health
      Center adult medical and surgical ICUs. HbA1c is measured at the admission to the ICU. The
      data are being collected prospectively using Microsoft access data entry. The following
      parameters will be recorded on admission: admitting diagnosis, sex, age, height, weight, body
      mass index (BMI), Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation (APACHE) II score, previous
      diagnosis of DM, whole blood HbA1c level, blood and plasma glucose levels. With power 80%,
      type I error 5% and with an expected 25% mortality difference between patients with HbA1c≥6.5
      and <6.5, the required sample size is 1800 patients. The data will be presented as mean ± SD
      unless otherwise specified and statistical significance will be set as P < 0.05. All p-values
      presented will be 2-tailed.

      Significance: The investigators want to demonstrate that HbA1c ≥6.5 on admission to an
      intensive care unit is associated with increased 6 month mortality and worse outcomes. The
      investigators will also determine the prevalence of pre-diabetes and diabetes in the
      critically ill based on HbA1c.
    
  