
    
      Treatment of eyes with advanced intraocular retinoblastoma remains a challenge. The historic
      standard of care for patients with unilateral disease is enucleation and for those with
      bilateral disease, a variety of modalities have been tried. These include radiation therapy,
      systemic chemotherapy, periocular administration of chemotherapy, selective intra-arterial
      chemotherapy, and intravitreal chemotherapy. Unfortunately, all of these modalities are
      associated with significant morbidity and investigators are looking for new ways to treat
      these patients either with novel directed drug delivery methods or with new less toxic
      agents. This study will evaluate the feasibility and toxicity of topotecan delivered directly
      to the eye using a novel episcleral implant (also referred to as an episcleral reservoir).
      Children with newly diagnosed unilateral retinoblastoma classified as Group D according to
      the International Group Classification System will be eligible for the study if: (1) they
      have had no previous treatment, and (2) primary enucleation is a treatment recommendation.
      All enrolled eyes during a day-1 baseline EUA will be fitted with one or two episcleral
      implants (reservoirs) containing sustained release formulations of topotecan HCl as the only
      therapy for a four-week study period. Episcleral Topotecan will be supplied sterile and
      requires no manipulation other than placement on the eye. At a two-week EUA on day-15 of the
      four-week study period, if tumor response criteria are not met or if there is DLT, the
      Episcleral Reservoir will be removed and the patient will be off study and alternate
      interventions begun. In the event of enucleation remaining drug concentrations will be
      determined in the reservoir(s) as well as plasma concentration levels (anticipated to be
      below limits of detection based on preclinical studies). If tumor response criteria are met,
      the eye is eligible for continuing for the final two weeks of the study if there is no local,
      systemic or intraocular dose limiting toxicity (DLT) as defined in this protocol. At the end
      of the 4-week study period on study day-29 the third and final EUA will be conducted and
      tumor response and toxicity assessed. At that time, all reservoirs are removed and the eye is
      off study. Drug concentration/levels are determined in the removed reservoir(s), plasma, and
      tumor in the event of enucleation. The child and the eye shall then be treated at the
      discretion of the managing ophthalmologist and oncologist.
    
  