
    
      Detailed Description:

      Ultrasound is widely used in human medicine because it is safe, non-invasive, and painless.
      The same kind of ultrasound that is used for imaging (for example, to visualize babies in
      utero) may be able to treat inflammatory diseases including COVID-19. COVID-19 is a disease
      caused by infection with the SARS-CoV-2 virus. Some COVID-19 patients develop a severe
      respiratory disease called acute respiratory distress syndrome and this disease is caused, in
      part, by a significant increase in inflammatory factors. Clinical therapies that reduce this
      elevated inflammation in the body (e.g., inflammation molecules in your body called
      cytokines) may be capable of diminishing symptoms in severe cases of COVID-19.

      Multiple studies in animals with hyper-inflammation conditions (e.g., inflammatory arthritis
      and sepsis/LPS injections) and recent human studies (e.g., for the treatment of joint
      inflammation in Rheumatoid Arthritis) have shown that ultrasound applied to the spleen can
      suppress blood/genetic markers of inflammation. Similar inflammatory markers, or cytokines,
      are elevated in the lungs of COVID-19 patients and believed to cause severe symptoms. Splenic
      ultrasound can potentially lower these inflammatory cytokines without hindering antibody
      production, leading to clinical improvements in COVID-19 patients.

      This study will employ investigational ultrasound devices produced by SecondWave Systems
      called the MINI System (Miniature Immunotherapy and Neuromodulation Instrument System).

      There will be two groups in this study with 20 participants in each group. One group will
      receive ultrasound application to the spleen, in addition to the standard clinical care. A
      control group will receive standard clinical care without splenic ultrasound. Each ultrasound
      application session will last about 30 minutes per day for 7 days, unless the participant is
      discharged sooner. For ultrasound stimulation, a small wearable ultrasound device is
      positioned on the upper left abdomen area over the ribs. The ultrasound session on the first
      study day includes a period of 5-10 minutes when study personnel use an ultrasound imaging
      device to locate the spleen and to position the wearable MINI device in a proper location
      around the ribs area, and an approximately 18-minute period for application of ultrasound to
      the spleen. Collection of clinical outcome data and daily blood draws will be performed in
      each participant throughout the study through Day 8. Additional data collected from each
      participant during their routine clinical care beyond their study involvement will also be
      analyzed together with the study data to evaluate the specific aims of the clinical trial.

      Study Design Go to sections Study Type : Interventional (Clinical Trial) Estimated Enrollment
      : 40 participants Allocation: Randomized Intervention Model: Parallel Assignment Intervention
      Model Description: The participants will be randomized to two groups: ultrasound group and
      control group. All participants will still receive standard clinical care. The ultrasound
      group will receive daily ultrasound application to the spleen for up to 7 days, in addition
      to the standard clinical care. The control group will receive standard clinical care without
      ultrasound stimulation.

      Primary Purpose: Other
    
  