
    
      Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common abnormality of cardiac rhythm. It is also a
      disease of aging, affecting 3% of adults aged > 45 years and 12% of those aged > 75.
      Individually, AF's rapid and irregular heart beat is most frequently perceived as undesirable
      palpitations, but more threatening impacts are heart failure, catastrophic stroke and
      premature death. AF also markedly impairs quality of life.

      Although patients with AF are at increased risk of stroke, death and hospitalization, many
      patients are not benefiting from evidence-informed, best-care strategies. Gaps have been
      documented in the knowledge, skills and competencies of primary care clinicians concerning
      the management of AF in Canada. For example, a large proportion of AF patients at moderate to
      high risk for stroke do not receive guideline recommended thromboprophylaxis; and of those
      that do, many are not optimally controlled. One Canadian study also found that in patient
      with known AF and a prior stroke, who were then admitted with a second stroke, 15% were not
      on any anticoagulation and only 18% were on warfarin and within the therapeutic range.
      Opportunities certainly exist to enhance the uptake of the Canadian AF Clinical Practice
      Guideline recommendations and best-care approaches in the primary care setting.

      Patients need to be the focus of care services and be actively engaged and empowered to
      manage their care, with the support of health care providers. We believe that health system
      efficiency, care quality and patient safety can be enhanced through the use of innovative,
      integrated, interactive, pro-active and personalized point-of- care solutions targeting both
      providers and patients. This is the premise for the IMPACT-AF study.

      Primary care providers and their patients are anticipated to benefit from enhanced use of
      health information technology regarding the management of patients with AF. A clinical
      guideline-based decision support system (CDSS) will be developed and tested in primary care
      settings across Nova Scotia.
    
  