
    
      Subjects will primarily be recruited from the subjects of protocol 12-1421. Subjects may also
      be identified through chart review of patients seen by Dr. Favus in the Bone Clinic at the
      University of Chicago. These subjects will be mailed a letter describing the study and a
      request to contact us if they are willing to participate in the study.

      We plan to enroll 20 subjects to obtain complete data on 16 subjects. We aim to have 10
      subjects who will have confirmed familial idiopathic hypercalciuria (IH) and 10 subjects who
      will have no family history of hypercalciuria.

      Subjects will be brought into the Clinical Research Center at the University of Chicago where
      blood samples will be collected by phlebotomy to obtain the following screening tests:
      complete metabolic panel; including calcium, phosphate, magnesium, creatinine, aspartate
      aminotransferase (AST), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), and albumin; parathyroid hormone,
      25-hydroxyvitamin D, follicle stimulating hormone (FSH), and estradiol. A twenty-four hour
      urine collection starting with second void of the day will be collected for calcium,
      phosphate, magnesium, citrate, oxalate, sodium, ammonia, sulfate, and creatinine. Subjects on
      diuretics will be screened after a 2 week washout period, provided this can be discontinued
      safely. If subjects have participated in study protocol number 12-1421, these screening tests
      do not have to be repeated and the results from protocol number 12-1421 will be used to
      determine eligibility.

      Screening subjects who meet inclusion criteria can proceed to the observational study.
      Screening subjects who are vitamin D depleted (serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D less than 35 ng/mL)
      may be rescreened after repletion of vitamin D.

      A letter describing the study aims, protocols, and risks and benefits will be sent to their
      primary care physicians and gynecologists. Upon completion of the study, a summary letter
      will be sent as well.

      Prior to the baseline visit a twenty-four hour urine collection starting with the second void
      of the day will be collected for calcium, phosphate, magnesium, citrate, oxalate, sodium,
      ammonia, sulfate, and creatinine. Subjects on diuretics will require a 2 week washout period,
      provided this can be discontinued safely. During the baseline visit a medical history will be
      taken and a physical exam will be performed. Venous blood will be collected for
      1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3, osteocalcin, bone-specific alkaline phosphatase, C-telopeptides of
      type 1 collagen (CTX), procollagen type 1 N-terminal propeptide (P1NP), bone morphogenetic
      protein 2 (BMP-2), and sclerostin. If the subject has had these blood tests performed in the
      preceding four months for protocol 12-1421, the blood tests will not be repeated. 18F sodium
      fluoride PET/CT bone scan will be performed. The protocol for the radionuclide imaging is
      attached.

      All subjects will be started on transdermal 17-beta-estradiol 0.05 mg/d, which is equivalent
      to the standard dose of conjugated estrogen dose of 0.625 mg, for 4 weeks and increased to
      0.1 mg for subsequent 4 weeks. Given the short duration of this study, progesterone will not
      be provided, as 8 weeks is not of sufficient duration to significantly increase the risk of
      endometrial cancer (Strom, Schinnar et al. 2006).

      For the entire study, diuretics will be discontinued if it has been deemed safe to do so by
      the principle investigator or prescribing physician. Throughout the study, subject will
      maintain 900-1200 mg of dietary calcium daily. To monitor dietary calcium intake, a 5 day
      diet diary will be kept from Sunday to Thursday of the fourth week of each medication dose.
      Compliance of the study medication will be assessed by estrogen patch counts.

      The following blood tests will be repeated 4 and 8 weeks after starting estradiol patch:
      complete metabolic panel (including calcium, phosphate, potassium, bicarbonate, chloride,
      magnesium, creatinine, and albumin), 25-hydroxyvitamin D, 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3,
      parathyroid hormone, estradiol, osteocalcin, bone-specific alkaline phosphatase,
      C-telopeptides of type 1 collagen (CTX), procollagen type 1 N-terminal propeptide (P1NP),
      bone morphogenetic protein 2 (BMP-2), and sclerostin. In addition, 4 and 8 weeks after
      starting estradiol patch, 24 hour urine collection will be performed for calcium, phosphate,
      magnesium, citrate, oxalate, sodium, ammonia, sulfate, and creatinine.
    
  