
    
      The aim is to identify determinants of recovery from intensive care unit-acquired weakness
      (ICUAW) and to discover the effects of ICUAW on physical function and health-related quality
      of life (HRQoL) after critical illness. This phenomenon has become more evident over recent
      years and still requires extensive research.

      ICUAW is an umbrella term for more specifically, polyneuropathy and myopathy. Recent research
      has found that 50% of patients undergoing elective cardiac surgery lose significant muscle
      mass (9.6% in the wasters group) within the first seven days. These patients are receiving
      relatively uncomplicated surgery yet still suffering from muscle breakdown, which cannot be
      described by inactivity alone. ICUAW can lead to a significant increase in mortality,
      morbidity, hospital-acquired infections and pressure ulcers. Risk factors for ICUAW include
      neuromuscular blocking agents, hyperglycaemia, inactivity and sepsis. The correlation between
      a relatively homogenous (cardiac surgical) group and patient-centred outcomes during recovery
      such as functional ability and health-related quality of life (HRQoL) has been little
      studied.

      Patients undergoing elective aortic valvular surgery at St Bartholomew's Hospital London will
      be recruited for the study. We have chosen the cardiac surgical model due to being a
      homogenous cohort where the time of insult from surgery from the cardiac bypass, can be
      measured in correlation with ICUAW. Due to the clamped aorta within the operation, prolonged
      periods of reduced blood flow to the body occurs, and therefore an element of ischaemia and
      reperfusion can lead to muscle wasting. Rectus Femoris cross-sectional area (RFcsa) will be
      measured at pre-determined intervals and the images then greyscaled and muscle quality
      assessed. To assess and quantify 'good and bad recovery,' we will correlate these tests with
      functional capacity and HRQoL. Additionally, Blood and urine samples will be taken at
      pre-defined intervals to observe for markers of oxidative stress, organ injury and molecular
      profiles. Muscle biopsies will be taken during surgery and observed for histological and
      fibre profiles.

      The primary objective is to identify determinants of recovery from ICUAW and to discover the
      effects of ICUAW on physical function and health-related quality of life (HRQoL) after aortic
      valvular surgery. Specifically, to observe the cross-sectional area of the Rectus Femoris
      (RFcsa) and correlate this with muscle strength and HRQoL during the recovery phase. The
      RFcsa, hand-held dynamometry, knee straightening dynamometry, Free Fat Mass Index, standing
      and lying vital capacity and the short physical performance battery (SPPB) will be observed.
      Also, HRQoL will be measured using the reintegration to normal living index (RNLI), hospital
      and anxiety depression score (HADS), EQ-5D-5L (EuroQol research foundation). The primary
      endpoint will be once all these data are gathered and analysed.

      The secondary aim is to understand the molecular and genomic profile of blood samples and the
      histology of the muscle biopsies. The secondary objective will be supported with additional
      data from urine analysis (Albumin-creatinine ratio, ACR). The secondary endpoint will be once
      these data are gathered and analysed.
    
  