
    
      A written informed consent will be obtained from patients next-of-kin, before study
      enrollment according to inclusion and exclusion criterias. All consecutive brain-injured
      patients (traumatic brain injury, subarachnoid or intracerebral hemorrhage, postoperative
      neurosurgical procedure) admitted to our neurocritical care unit, older than 18 years and
      requiring sedation and analgesia for mechanical ventilation longer than 48 hours, will be
      eligible for the study. Depending on the absence or presence of lesion which may increase
      intracranial pressure, patients will be included in the "light to moderate" sedation subgroup
      (MLS) or in the "deep" sedation subgroup (DS).

      In the MLS subgroup (RASS 0/-3), sedation and analgesia will be drived by propofol and
      opiates. Once the goals of sedation achieved with usual hypnotic, dexmedetomidine will be
      initiated at a dose of 0.5 μg/kg/h, and then gradually increased or decreased by increments
      of 0.1 μ g / kg / h all hours to a maximum dose of 1.4 μg/kg/h, depending on the target
      sedation achievement. Propofol will be discontinued at study drug initiation. Dexmedetomidine
      infusion will bemaintained at least during 48 hours, evaluation of the efficacy and safety
      will be continuous during this period.

      After these first 48 hours, in the absence of neurological worsening requiring a deep
      sedation and if sedation's levels will are achieved with dexmedetomidine alone (ie without
      requirement of propofol continuous administration) , it will be maintained untill withdrawal
      of mechanical ventilation. Otherwise, study drug will discontinued and propofol will be
      restarted.

      In the DS subgroup, "deep" sedation (RASS -4/-5) will be achieved by propofol infusion. If
      sedation level are not achieved with the maximum recommended propofol dose (5mg/kg/h),
      midazolam will be started to reach target sedation level with a maximum dose of 0.15mg/kg/h.
      Once the goals of sedation will be achieved a dexmedetomidine infusion will be initiated at a
      dose of 0.5 μg/kg/h and then gradually titrated by increase of 0.1 μg/kg/h every hour up to
      the maximum patient-tolerated dose (maximum dose of 1.4 μg/kg/h). Conventional hypnotic doses
      will be adjusted according to the sedation target. In parallel to dexmedetomidine titration,
      midazolam first and then propofol will be decreased. The study drug will be maintained at the
      maximum patient-tolerated dose for a total of 48 hours during which the efficacy and safety
      will be assessed continuously. After this period, dexmedetomidine will be discontinued.
      According to the patient's neurological evolution, either sedation objectives will remain
      identical (RASS -4/-5), or sedation will be decreased. Conventional hypnotic will be used
      again to achieve these objectives.

      The expected result of this study is to confirm that the administration of dexmedetomidine is
      effective and safe for "light to moderate" and "deep" sedation of brain-injured patients
      admitted to intensive care unit. In addition, this feasibility study could provide legitimacy
      if the results are conclusive, to conduct a prospective multicenter randomized controlled
      trial on the potential benefits of dexmedetomidine in neurocritical ill patients.
    
  