
    
      This is a prospective, randomized, double-blind controlled trial with two parallel groups.
      All patients undergoing total knee arthroplasty under regional anaesthesia and sedation will
      be screened for inclusion in the protocol. In the pre-anaesthesia room, after the
      implementation of classical monitoring with an oxygen mask and a peripheral venous catheter,
      all patients will receive an antibioprophylaxy according to SFAR recommendations and
      injection of 10 mg of IV dexamethasone.

      The patients will be then randomized in 2 groups:

        -  Dexmedetomidine group (Dex group) : Two administrations of 1 microg/kg of Dexdor® in 250
           ml of sodium chloride during 30 min. The first injection will be performed in the
           pre-anaesthesia unit and the second in the operating room with a free interval of 60 min
           between the beginning of the 2 injections.

        -  Control group : Two administrations of 250 ml of sodium chloride during 30 min according
           to the same former recommendations.

      Under ultrasonography guidance and with in-plan technic, a quadri-block (femoral, sciatic
      subgluteal, obturator and lateral cutaneous nerve blocks) with a maximum of 225 mg of
      ropivacaine diluted in 70 ml of sodium chloride (ropivacaine 0.32 %) will be performed. If
      needed, sedation with 5 µg of sufentanil and 1 to 2 mg of midazolam will be performed before
      regional anaesthesia.

      In the operating room, under close monitoring, the patients will receive a bolus of Ketamine
      0.3 mg/kg and a propofol bolus of 0.3 mg/kg followed by a continuous infusion if needed. The
      total dose of propofol used for sedation, conversion to general anaesthesia or any
      complications concerning anaesthesia or dexmedetomidine (hypotension, bradycardia,
      arrhythmia, advance cardiac block) will be collected. Postoperative analgesia will be reached
      with IV 1 g paracetamol and 100 mg ketoprofen starting during surgery and following in the
      surgical ward by oral paracetamol 1 g / 6 h and oral ibuprofen 400 mg / 8 h. In post
      anaesthesia care unit all the patients will have oxycodone titration if pain VRS (verbal
      rating scale) >3 and oxycodone 10 mg/ 4 h in the surgical ward if pain VRS (verbal rating
      scale) >3.
    
  