
    
      We will test the hypothesis that a positive incentive for healthy foods (fresh fruits and
      vegetables, F&Vs) will be utilized as effectively in a community without a purchasing penalty
      for unhealthy foods (a sugar-sweetened beverage [SSB] tax) as in a community with a
      purchasing penalty for unhealthy foods (a SSB tax). Our experiment will test the
      empirically-driven hypothesis in a real-world setting through a noninferiority design:
      comparing the impact of F&V vouchers in two counties, one without (Los Angeles) and one with
      (San Francisco) a SSB tax.

      Each study participant will receive four paper vouchers per month for a total of six months.
      Each of these vouchers can be redeemed for fresh or frozen fruits and vegetables at a number
      of specified local corner stores, supermarkets, or farmer's markets.

      Half of these participants will receive and spend these vouchers in an environment which has
      implemented a SSB tax (SF); the other half will receive and spend these same vouchers in a
      non-tax environment (LA).

      Each individual participant will be enrolled in the study for a total of seven months from
      initial orientation and participant consent (M0) to final data collection during final month
      of intervention (M6).

      We are using a non-inferiority trial design. We are aiming to test whether there is a
      significant difference in total cup-equivalents of F&V intake in LA participants as compared
      to SF participants when given F&V vouchers. That is, we aim to test whether the F&V voucher
      is less effective in LA than in SF. This is important to test because it has been purported
      that SF has a unique food environment with high accessibility to fresh F&V through farmer's
      markets and a plethora of corner stores, as well as a SSB tax that discourages less healthy
      foods, potentially leaving more funds for healthier F&Vs. Thus, we aim to determine the
      change in consumption of F&V in LA participants is non-inferiority to that of SF
      participants, when both are given F&V vouchers.
    
  