
    
      The present study will be a clinical trial compounded by two parallel arms, randomized,
      double-blind (researcher-patient), placebo-controlled, with patients with heart failure (HF),
      functional class according the New York Heart Association (NYHA) III and IV. It will be
      included 58 patients, 29 will receive probiotics and 29 will receive placebo. These patients
      will be accompanied during 6 months and should take one capsule every day during the study.
      In the beginning of the study and at the end, venous blood sample will be collected of each
      patient for laboratory measurement of TNF alpha, interleukins 1,6 and 10, LPS, B-type
      natriuretic peptide (BNP) and C-reactive protein (CRP). To establish the normality pattern of
      these markers studied, a control group, with healthy individuals, will be performed.An
      anthropometric evaluation will be performed with measurements of weigh, height, arm
      circumference, triceps skin fold. According to nutritional status, it will be calculated the
      caloric and protein needs of each patient and, to monitor the consumption, in each consult
      will be applied the 24-hour food recall and calculated the consumption from it. In order to
      measure the appetite of the patients, in each consult, an appetite questionnaire will be
      applied. To statistical analysis, the test of Kolmogorov-Smirnov will be used to assess
      whether the distribution is normal for the quantitative variables. If the variable follows
      normal distribution, it will be described as mean and standard deviation, otherwise, it will
      be described as median and interquartile range. The groups will be compared using t-Student
      or Mann-Whitney tests. The categorical variables will be presented descriptively with
      absolute and relative frequencies. The association between categorical variables will be
      analyzed with chi square test or Fisher exact test or likelihood ratio test. For the repeated
      measures, will be used the ANOVA test or Friedman test and Wilcoxon signs. The analyzes will
      be performed according to the intent-to-treat principle and the two-tailed tests. The value
      of p<0,5 will be considered statistically significant.
    
  