
    
      Before the research starts (screening) Many of these tests and procedures are likely to be
      part of regular cancer care and may be done even if it turns out that you do not take part in
      the research study. If you have had some of these tests or procedures recently, they may or
      may not have to be repeated.

        -  A medical history, which includes questions about your health, current medications, and
           any allergies.

        -  Performance status, which evaluates how you are able to carry on with your usual
           activities.

        -  Quality of life survey.

        -  Gold seed (Fiducial) Placement: Placement of at least one (usually up to 3) gold
           fiducial(s) must be placed in or around the tumor by a surgeon or interventional
           radiologist a minimum of one week or more prior to pre-treatment planning simulation.

        -  An assessment of your tumor by X-ray, CT (Computerized Tomography) scan, MRI (Magnetic
           Resonance Imaging) or PET (Positron Emission Tomography) scans.

        -  Blood tests.

        -  Urine test.

        -  You will undergo a simulation of the intervention procedure. It will involve the study
           team helping you position yourself for the study procedure as you undergo a CT scan of
           the abdomen while holding the correct position.

      If these tests show that you are eligible to participate in the research study, you will
      begin the study treatment. If you do not meet the eligibility criteria, you will not be able
      to participate in this research study.

      After the screening procedures confirm that you are eligible to participate in the research
      study:

      You will receive a series of Cyberknife Radiosurgery treatments, with the amount of radiation
      dosing adjusted for the size of your tumor. The treatment will ideally take place over the
      course of 3-4 days, but not more than 14 days overall.

      You will be positioned in a stable position laying on your back, capable for reproducibility
      of positioning and not allowing you to move from simulation to treatment, allowing you to
      feel as comfortable as possible. A variety of systems may be utilized to keep you still;
      including vacuum bag, alpha cradle, or stereotactic frames that surround you on three sides
      and large rigid pillows conforming to your body.

      After the final dosing We would like to keep track of your medical condition for the rest of
      your life. We would like to do this by calling you on the telephone once a year to see how
      you are doing. Keeping in touch with you and checking your condition every year helps us look
      at the long-term effects of the research study.
    
  