
    
      The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of dual task home based exercise program
      on balance, gait and cognitive functions. The study is planned to include 60 patients with
      Parkinson's disease, whose levels are 1-3 according to the Hoehn-Yahr scale and will be
      admitted to Istanbul University Capa Medical Faculty Neurology Department Movement and
      Behavior Disorders Unit between June 2019 and February 2020. The aim of the study, duration,
      possible side effects of treatment will be given to the volunteers to participate in the
      study. The "Informed Consent Form am prepared in accordance with the standards determined by
      the Clinical Research Ethics Committee of Istanbul Faculty of Medicine will be approved and
      the study will be conducted in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki.

      Patients who meet the inclusion criteria of the study will be included in the study and will
      be randomized into two groups. Both groups will be given information with brochures
      containing the importance of exercise in Parkinson's disease and DVD copies where the
      exercises are recorded weekly. The time and activity schedule created at the end of the
      brochures, daily recording of home exercises of the patients will be requested. Home exercise
      training and assessments will be provided by different physiotherapists. The evaluator
      physiotherapist will be blind to the treatment group to which the patient belongs. In the
      balance exercises group; 4 exercise packages which include static, dynamic and functional
      balance exercises will be taught in the first part of exercise period for 4 weeks. After the
      four weeks, the exercises should be progressed in the last 4 weeks in the second training
      session. In the dual task based balance exercises group; 4 exercise packages which include
      static, dynamic and functional balance exercises with cognitive or motor dual task will be
      taught in the first part of exercise period for 4 weeks. After the four weeks, the exercises
      should be progressed in the last 4 weeks in the second training session.

      The number of subjects to be taken for each group in the 95% confidence interval was
      considered to be 26, considering the minimal clinical significant change (Minimal Clinically
      Important Difference, MCID) 3.5 for the Timed Up and Go Test. Considering that the patients
      did not continue treatment, it was decided to take 30 patients to each group and to carry out
      the study with a total of 60 patients. The primary outcomes are Mini Best Test,Timed Get Up
      and Go Test. Also objective datas will be obtained from Biodex Balance System, Wii Balance
      Board and G Walk Sensory Walking System.The secondary outcome measures include activity
      balance confidence scale, Parkinson's Disease Questionnaire-39 and cognitive tests such as
      number range test, verbal memory processes test, mental flexibility and word fluency test.
    
  