
    
      High-risk infants who are thought to have developmental disorders need early intervention,
      but it is not yet unknown which interventions are more effective. In the literature, although
      interventions are generally shown to have a greater impact on cognitive development, their
      contribution to motor development cannot be fully demonstrated. Early physiotherapy and
      rehabilitation in CP includes approaches starting from the neonatal period up to 24 months.
      The main aim is to gain normal functional movements and to provide normal sensory input by
      using the rapid learning ability resulting from brain plasticity. Thus, it is aimed to reach
      the most independent level in terms of physical, cognitive, psychological and social aspects
      within the physiological and anatomical deficiencies and environmental limitations of the
      child. In the literature, there are studies including interventions to preterm infants with
      high risk for developmental disorder. However, although the number of samples in the studies
      is high, there is insufficient information about the rate of CP development. The
      effectiveness of physiotherapy programs in the diagnosis and treatment of CP has not been
      clarified in the past years as a silent period. Therefore, studies involving early
      physiotherapy programs are needed in infants at high risk for CP. Preterm infants have been
      shown to have difficulty in most functional areas due to lower academic success, welfare and
      productivity. These difficulties may arise in childhood and adolescence due to brain damage
      and structural changes. The stress of being away from mother contact has been proven in human
      and experimental animal studies. Physical and emotional environment modifications of the
      babies in the incubator environment can also reduce stress. Parent-centered trainings that
      will increase sensitivity in the intensive care unit by reducing stresses in the brain in
      terms of early intervention; it has been shown to have positive reflections on motor and
      cognitive development in the short term. In the literature, it has been shown that the
      specific motor education programs and the interventions that parents learn how to support the
      development of their babies are the most important ways to increase the cognitive development
      of infants at high risk by reducing motor disorders. It is essential to force babies to
      produce motor behavior on their own, knowing the limits of motor behavior. It is then
      essential to ensure that babies continue this activity and to use stimulations for this.
      There may be positive developmental outcomes in physiotherapy models such as COPCA, where
      parental coaching is performed. However, further studies are needed in this area. These
      physiotherapy approaches are necessary to reduce the risk for motor and cognitive development
      and to achieve normal motor development. In particular, the motor and cognitive development
      of infants at high risk of CP should be monitored. In the literature, an early rehabilitation
      model that includes physiotherapy in family routines has shown that some problems with high
      risk of infants need to be focused on by early physiotherapy approach. In our study, the
      effectiveness of family education and family cooperative physiotherapy programs in accordance
      with NDT-based neurodevelopmental treatment principles applied to infants with high risk of
      CP will be examined. The effect of physiotherapy methods applied to infants on motor and
      cognitive development levels will be investigated according to the risk factors and
      physiotherapy model. In addition, the effects of physiotherapy programs on the possibility of
      decreasing the symptoms of CP or preventing the development of CP will be examined.
    
  