
    
      Primary objective:

      • To determine compliance to artesunate-amodiaquine therapy among patients diagnosed with
      acute uncomplicated malaria in the Kintampo District Hospital.

      Secondary objectives:

        1. To determine patients compliance to each of the two drugs (artesunate or amodiaquine )

        2. To determine reasons for differential compliance to either of the two drugs (artesunate
           or amodiaquine).

        3. To determine patients perception and acceptance of artesunate-amodiaquine therapy for
           acute uncomplicated malaria.

        4. To determine the effect of compliance of artesunate-amodiaquine therapy on clinical and
           parasitological improvement in acute uncomplicated malaria.

      Study design: The study will be a pragmatic randomized control trial. Patients will be
      recruited based on an inclusion criteria stated below. Baseline clinical symptoms of malaria
      and presence of malaria parasite (Plasmodium falciparum) in the blood of eligible patients
      reporting sick at the health facility would be determined. Study patients would be randomized
      into one of two groups, intervention and control groups.

      Intervention:

      The intervention refers to supervisory home visits by a trained community volunteer to ensure
      that paticipants comply to treatment during the artesunate-amodiaquine therapy. Supervisory
      home visits by a trained community volunteer form a major component of the Community Health
      Planning and Services programme being implemented by the Ghana Health Service. The
      intervention group would be supervised during artesunate-amodiaquine therapy and the control
      group would not be supervised during artesunate-amodiaquine therapy. The primary and
      secondary outcome measures below will be determined and compared among the intervention and
      control group

      Primary outcome measure:

      The main outcome is compliance to artesunate-amodiaquine combination therapy. It is defined
      as no artesunate or amodiaquine left on the fourth day after start of treatment of a malaria
      episode. This would be assessed by the investigators direct observation of the blister
      package of artesunate-Amodiaquine tablets.

      Secondary outcome measures:

        -  Reasons for non-compliance would be determined by response of study participants.
           Care-takers of children below 18 years will answer on behalf of their children with the
           child's assent.

        -  Participants' perception and acceptance of supervision: It would be assessed by
           responses given by study participants in an indepth interview.

        -  Parasite clearance rates on day 14 and 28 i.e. the proportion of study participants in
           each group with P. falciparum parasiteamia at day 14 and 28 determined by blood smear
           microscopy.

        -  Clinical cure rates by days 14 and 28 i.e. the proportion of study participants in each
           group with symptoms of malaria on days 14 and 28 determined by a structured
           questionnaire at these times.
    
  