
    
      Magnetic remote manipulation:

      A simple and inexpensive method for manipulation of capsule endoscopes has been developed and
      successfully tested in survival studies in pigs. This has involved modifications of capsules
      which are in clinical use in patients as follows. One of the two imagers in esophageal
      capsules have been removed and replaced with three small magnets which are fixed within the
      capsule casing. This does not alter the dimensions of the capsule which can be reconstituted
      in a conventional casing. The magnetic reed switch which turns the capsule on and off is
      removed and is replaced with a thermal switch which will turn the capsule on if placed in hot
      water above 60 degrees centigrade for 60 seconds. The capsule can be manipulated using an
      external hand held paddle shaped magnet measuring approximately 20 x 20 x 5 centimeters which
      is held and rotated close to the back of the subject when the modified capsule is in the
      esophagus or the anterior abdominal wall when the capsule is in the stomach. The magnets used
      are of neodymium iron boron (quaternary ion magnets). The capsules are modified from FDA
      approved devices by Given Imaging (the company that makes these capsules). The outside of the
      capsule is unchanged but internal modifications, the changing of the switch and the inclusion
      of the magnet, are not FDA approved and are experimental.

      Planned experiment in a human volunteer:

      This study is for one, currently identified healthy volunteer only. The volunteer for this
      study is one of the inventors of the capsule endoscope technology (Paul Swain, MD) Dr. Swain
      will be consented in the usual manner with the current IRB approved consent. Dr. Rothstein
      will perform a physical exam to ensure that he is in general good health, has no esophageal
      or bowel disease or conditions that would contraindicate participation in the present study.
      He will then swallow a magnetically modified capsule as follows. He will be fasted overnight
      for the experiment which will be conducted in the designated endoscopy unit following
      standard endoscopic practise. A cannula will be placed for suitable intravenous access if
      needed, and D5/half normal saline infused to keep the vein open. The experiment will be
      performed with no sedation if possible or light sedation using benzodiazepines and/or
      narcotics (standard medications for endoscopy) at the discretion of the principal
      investigator and the volunteer. Topical anesthetics will be applied in the customary fashion
      for upper endoscopy. The volunteer will lie in the left lateral position and will swallow the
      capsule in a recumbent posture and may aid swallowing by sipping water from a glass through a
      straw. A flexible endoscope will be passed into the esophagus by the endoscopist. Another
      person who is not the endoscopist will manipulate the external paddle-shaped magnet. This
      involves moving and rotating the polarities of this magnet adjacent to the back and abdomen
      of the volunteer. A real-time viewer displaying images obtained from the capsule will be
      placed in a position so both the endoscopist and the paddle-magnet manipulator can view and
      react to the images. The images from the flexible endoscope, room images showing the
      movements of the paddle magnet and the real-time images acquired from the capsule will be
      recorded. The volunteer will be asked to indicate if he can feel the magnet moving the
      capsule in the esophagus and stomach and whether it is at all painful (real-time and via
      follow-up visual analog scale - pain 1 to10, 1 no pain and 10 worst pain).

      The capsule will be manipulated in the esophagus and stomach with both flexible endoscopic
      and real time capsule imaging. Once manipulations in the esophagus have been completed the
      volunteer will be elevated (tilt table, sit or stand) to see if the magnet can hold the
      capsule in the esophagus against gravity. The capsule will then be allowed to pass into the
      stomach where it will be magnetically manipulated. Once the examination is completed the
      capsule will be removed using a Roth snare, a standardly employed accessory with a net which
      can be closed over objects for retrieval and is commonly used for polyp retrieval.
    
  