
    
      The therapeutic use of autologous platelet-rich plasma (PRP) constitutes a relatively new
      biotechnology that has been a breakthrough in the stimulation and acceleration of soft-tissue
      and bone healing In this process PRGF (preparation rich in growth factors) combines the
      advantage of an autologous fibrin clot that will aid in hemostasis as well as provide growth
      factors in high concentrations to the site of a tissue defect. The platelet-rich plasma
      preparation encourages the release and slow delivery of growth factors from harvested
      platelets, activated by endogenous thrombin, and is used as a biological enhancer in the
      healing of fractures, lumbar fusions, cartilage defects, muscle tears and tendon lesions,
      thus promoting initiation and early maturation of bone and soft tissue formation which
      involves a more physiologic repair with less scar tissue.

      Few tubes of whole blood are drowning from the patient in a sterile manner and go through a
      process of centrifugation and laboratory separation of the different plasma fractions. Then,
      to derive benefit from the described natural mechanism, Ca2+ is added to plasma enriched in
      platelets, triggering the formation of a fibrin matrix containing embedded platelets. The
      resulting PRGF allows the slow release of biologically active proteins that initiate and
      modulate wound healing in both soft and hard tissues .

      The objective of this clinical trial is to evaluate the symptomatic efficacy of PRGF
      application in the treatment of OA of the Sub-Talar joint.

      base on that knowledge here is the protocol briefly:

      1st visit: Enrollment of patient

        1. The patient will be given a full verbal and written explanation regarding the trial and
           treatment. by the investigator . The patient will sign the informed consent form and
           will be given a serial number.

        2. The screening form :VAS SCORE and ANKLE-HINDFOOT SCORE will be completed-

        3. Demographic data: date of birth, sex, age and complete medical history, weight, height
           and previous treatments will be recorded.

        4. Clinical examination will be performed.

        5. Blood (4 tubes, 4-5 m"l each) will be drawn from all patients . The blood taken from the
           PRGF group patients will then be used for the preparation of PRGF.

      Intra-Articular injections (PRGF) will then be initiated.

      TREATMENT PROCEDURES AND FOLLOW UP VISITS CLINICAL-RADIOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT

        -  Clinical assessment for all patients shall be made on enrollment, and then 4, 12, 26
           weeks after enrollment.

        -  The clinical assessment will be according to the Ankle- Hindfoot, and the VAS SCORES.

        -  The radiological evaluation will be according to Kellgren and lawrence and will be
           performed on AP and Lateral views of the knee.

      Side effect will be monitored at every visit
    
  