
    
      Parenteral nutrition (PN) therapy is an essential component of medical management of patients
      suffering from intestinal failure. Depending on the underlying etiology and the type of
      intestinal failure, the duration of parenteral nutrition therapy could range from several
      weeks to several years, although a substantial proportion of these patients also require
      lifelong parenteral nutrition support. These patients continue the infusion of PN at their
      homes and are managed by the Cleveland Clinic's Home PN support team. These patients require
      Central Venous Catheters (CVC) for prolonged period of time for infusion of parenteral
      nutrition. The two most commonly used central catheters for TPN infusion are the Peripherally
      Inserted Central Catheter (PICC) and Tunneled CVCs. Catheter related blood stream infection
      (CRBSI) is a major complication of long-term CVCs. CRBSI is associated with high morbidity,
      mortality and healthcare cost. Additionally, CRBSI can also lead to an interruption in
      nutrient delivery, loss of work and productivity, premature vascular access device removal,
      and poor quality of life.

      Prevention of CRBSI is an important component of clinical management of patients receiving
      home PN therapy. Several strategies have been adopted to reduce the incidence of CRBSI. A
      heparin lock solution was used in the past for many years; however, current nutrition society
      guidelines recommend normal saline locks instead of heparin locks. Published data has
      suggested that heparin locks have not proven to have a substantial effect on CRBSI
      prevention, and it paradoxically increases the infection risk due to biofilm production.
      Antibiotic locks have also been used, although this practice is largely not preferred due to
      increased risk of infections with resistant microorganisms. Taurolidine is another lock
      solution which has been studied in the countries outside the United States such as Canada;
      however, it has not been approved for the use in the U.S. yet.1
    
  