
    
      Current pain and anxiety management for children in hospital includes pharmacological
      analgesia (e.g. opioid therapy) with potential negative side effects. In addition, a
      non-pharmacological approach involves various distraction techniques, either passive (e.g.,
      music, movies) or active (e.g., interactive toys, electronic games, storytelling by the
      nursing staff). However, these distraction techniques can often be time consuming for the
      already busy and even over-demanded nursing staff.

      A combination of distraction, extinction learning, cognitive-behavioral principles, mindful
      meditation, stress reduction, gate-control theory, and the spotlight theory of attention is
      believed to be the mechanism behind VR's effectiveness in pain management. Accumulating
      evidence supports VR as a feasible and effective method to alleviate anxiety and pain for
      paediatric patients during lumbar punctures, intravenous injections, burn wound care and
      rehabilitation. In particular, a recent meta-analysis reported that the use of VR was
      significantly more effective in reducing pain (14 studies) and anxiety (7 studies) than care
      as usual (CAU), with large effect size. Moreover, for chest radiography, the use of VR has
      also significantly reduced procedure time, while increasing patient satisfaction. As such,
      adding the use of VR to standard pain and anxiety management methods might improve both
      effectiveness and efficiency of current practice.

      Although on an international level, accumulating evidence supports the feasibility and
      effectiveness of VR for pain and anxiety management, in Belgium, adoption of VR in clinical
      practice is limited and local trials are scarce. In order to improve translation from
      research to practice, the current study will focus on the feasibility, acceptability,
      tolerability and preliminary effectiveness of 'Relaxation-VR', a VR application aiming to
      reduce anxiety and pain for children admitted to hospital, as experienced by both patients
      and clinical staff. This study will take place at the paediatric wards of two hospitals
      interested in adopting this innovative technology for improving both patient care (e.g.,
      anxiety and pain reduction) and staff workload (e.g., shorter procedure times), UZ Brussel
      and AZ Sint-Maarten.
    
  