
    
      The primary purpose of the study is to validate trophoblast retrieval and isolation from the
      cervix (TRIC) as a means of reliable non invasive prenatal genetic diagnosis (for both
      chromosomal abnormalities, as well as single gene defects).

      The study population will be recruited from women, age 18 to 45, presenting to the Center for
      Reproductive Medicine (CRM) for medical care with the desire to become pregnant. Patients
      that achieve pregnancy will be invited by a physician to participate in the study. If
      prospective subjects agree to participate, they will meet with a co-investigator to go
      through the informed consent process.

      Subjects will undergo a one-time non-invasive collection of trophoblast cells (trophoblast
      retrieval and isolation from the cervix, TRIC) at approximately 5-6 weeks of pregnancy as the
      experimental procedure for the study. TRIC is performed with ThinPrep kits using a cytobrush,
      the same method of Pap smear collection which is a routine part of prenatal care. The fetal
      trophoblast cells will then be isolated using immunomagnetic isolation. Once isolated, DNA
      fragmentation, fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH), and single-cell PCR methods will be
      utilized to analyze the fetal genome at single nucleotide resolution. Any abnormal results
      identified by TRIC will be communicated to the subjects' by their physician in the office who
      will counsel them on the potential meaning of the results and recommend follow up testing to
      be ordered by their obstetrician to confirm results.

      The cellular analysis from TRIC will then be compared to results obtained from CVS,
      amniocentesis, preimplantation genetic screening (PGS) and/or preimplantation genetic
      diagnosis (PGD) of the transferred embryo(s), or cytogenetic testing of fetal tissue in the
      event of miscarriage or pregnancy termination for validation. In the event that a patient
      does not undergo any of the aforementioned testing, TRIC results will be compared to birth
      outcomes.

      Subjects will be followed via medical records through the final outcome of the pregnancy,
      whether termination of pregnancy, miscarriage, or live birth. If the pregnancy results in
      termination of pregnancy or miscarriage, cytogenetic testing of the fetus will be completed
      as standard care with the results compared to those obtained through TRIC testing. If the
      pregnancy results in live birth, basic neonatal information will be obtained via medical
      records, specifically whether the neonate is diagnosed with a disorder that can be identified
      through single gene testing (see attached table).
    
  