
    
      The infant mortality rate in the United States (US) is 6.14 per 1000-a rate higher than most
      other developed countries. Sudden Infant Death Syndrome (SIDS) and suffocation account for
      more than half of all Sudden Unexpected Infant Deaths (SUID) and represent the first and
      third leading causes of post neonatal infant death (death in an infant age 28 days to 1 year)
      in the US. The importance of SIDS and SUID is reflected by strategic planning efforts
      conducted by the NICHD over the past two decades. Young, poor, unmarried, and minority women
      are at elevated risk for SIDS. Infants born to mothers aged 15 - 19 are at increased risk for
      infant mortality in general, with a rate of 9.59 per 1000 in 2008. National surveys including
      the National Infant Sleep Position Study and the Pregnancy Risk Assessment Monitoring System
      show that teen mothers are less likely to adhere to recommendations for supine sleeping, bed
      surfacing (including bed sharing on an adult bed) and other environmental precautions. Teen
      mothers present a unique set of challenges in reducing the risk for sleep-related infant
      mortality, in part because they may not be the sole decision-maker for an infant's sleep
      environment and position. Teens often rely on their own mother or other senior caregivers
      (SCG) for information and assistance with child care. For the proposed study, SCG influence
      on a key set of parenting behaviors is especially salient. Several studies have demonstrated
      the important role of SCG on maternal behavior related to infant safety, breastfeeding, and
      sleep environment and practices. Attitudes about sleep position have been found to be more
      strongly associated with appropriate behaviors than knowledge. A mother's beliefs about
      choking risks have been found to be significant determinants of supine sleep positions, but
      those beliefs can be influenced by the source and dosage of advice. The infant's grandmother
      or other SCG can influence a mother's decision on sleep position. Other evidence indicates
      that the SCG to whom a teen mother may turn to for advice may also fail to adhere to
      recommendations for safe sleep. For this study investigators propose to build upon an
      existing, well-received Safety Baby Showers (SBS) educational program. The standardized
      intervention (which is currently utilized in 10 counties in Arkansas to educate pregnant
      mothers) uses engaging activities to educate participants on infant safety topics focused on
      motor vehicle safety, home safety, and safe sleep. The Central Hypotheses are as follows: H1)
      Teen mothers exposed to an intensive educational intervention will be more likely than
      controls to appropriately adopt safe sleep practices (supine position and in an appropriate
      sleep environment) with their infants, and H2) Because teen mothers will model their choice
      of infant sleep position and environment on behavior of their mothers or other significant
      female senior caregivers, they will be more likely to use those safe sleep practices when
      they and their mothers or other significant female senior caregivers also participate in
      tailored education about safe infant sleep. In order to accomplish the NIH funded research
      project investigators will proceed with three phases. Phase 1: Preparatory- Investigators
      will further refine the existing infant sleep safety intervention for pregnant teens and
      their mothers or other identified significant female SCGs and Phase 2: Pilot-Investigators
      will pilot the refined infant sleep intervention, recruitment strategies, and data collection
      methods and refine as needed based on pilot participant feedback. Phase 3: Full Launch-
      Investigators will conduct a randomized controlled trial to determine if the educational
      intervention both with and without SCGs is associated with an increase in both knowledge of
      appropriate safe sleep behaviors and in observed supine infant sleep positioning and
      appropriate sleep environment among teen mothers. Full Launch- Investigators will conduct a
      randomized controlled trial to determine if the educational intervention both with and
      without SCGs is associated with an increase in both knowledge of appropriate safe sleep
      behaviors and in observed supine infant sleep positioning and appropriate sleep environment
      among teen mothers
    
  