
    
      Chronic atrophic gastritis (CAG) is acknowledged as the precancerous stage of gastric cancer
      (GC). Active treatment of CAG is vital in arresting malignant transformation. Traditional
      Chinese medicine (TCM) has been widely used in treating CAG and preventing GC. To date, no
      study has been conducted to assess the risk and syndrome evolution features of CAG malignant
      transformation by establishing models combining both TCM and modern medicine indicators.

      The present study aims to developed risk assessment and syndrome evolution models of CAG
      malignant transformation events combining TCM indicators with modern medicine indicators. The
      proposed study is a registry study based participant survey conducted in 4 hospitals in
      Beijing, China. After obtaining informed consent, a total of 2000 study patients diagnosed
      with CAG will be recruited. 10-year follow-ups are carried out on-site in hospitals and
      off-site by telephone to track malignant transformation events. Comparative analysis of
      prevalence of malignant transformation events and presenting TCM or modern medicine features
      in different groups is conducted using frequency analysis and chi-squared tests, and
      expressed with composition ratios. Correlation analysis of malignant transformation events
      and TCM or modern medicine factors will be performed using logistic regression, and
      multivariate Cox proportional hazard model respectively. Exploratory factor analysis,
      correspondence analysis, association rule analysis, hierarchical clustering analysis, and
      complex system entropy clustering analysis will also be performed respectively for validating
      features of syndrome evolution in CAG malignant transformation process.

      Previous reports on modern medicine indicators based risk assessment model for ischemic
      stroke endpoint events exist, but no studies have been undertaken combining TCM features. The
      risk assessment model combining both TCM and modern medicine indicators has the potential to
      facilitate early warning, early intervention and early control of CAG malignant
      transformation. The syndrome evolution model will help evaluate the core TCM pathogenesis of
      CAG malignant transformation so as to promote optimization of treatment strategies.
    
  