
    
      REM sleep behavior disorder (RBD) is a novel REM sleep parasomnia characterized by dream
      enacting behaviors and sleep-related injuries. Ample evidences have suggested that idiopathic
      RBD (iRBD) is a precursor of α-synucleinopathy neurodegeneration (e.g. Parkinson's disease,
      PD) in which dopamine dysfunction is one of the core pathophysiologies. In recent decade, our
      group has identified a cohort of patients with psychiatric disorders (mainly major depressive
      disorder, MDD) comorbid with RBD (pRBD). While there was a postulation that RBD symptoms in
      this psychiatric population may simply be side effects of antidepressant medication (by
      enhancing REM-sleep related muscle activity), accumulating evidence from case-control and
      prospective cohort studies suggested that pRBD is only partially explained by antidepressant
      usage and is better considered as a variant of typical iRBD in terms of comparable clinical
      presentation with typical iRBD and its close association with neurodegenerative markers.
      Nonetheless, more evidence is needed to substantiate that pRBD is a distinct diagnostic
      entity rather than a symptom secondary to antidepressant use. In this study, the
      investigators will employ genetic epidemiology approach to: 1) determine the familial genetic
      contribution; 2) search for biomarkers and endophenotypes; and 3) validate the diagnostic
      entity of a disease.

      This proposed study will enrich the limited scientific literature of the potential
      pathogenesis of pRBD and its relationship with α-synucleinopathy. In addition, the
      understanding of psychiatric disorders, notably MDD, is often limited by its heterogeneity.
      Our proposed study will, by determining the familial aggregation of pRBD, help us to identify
      certain subtype of the psychiatric populations who may likely harbour an underlying
      neurodegenerative basis. By using a family study design, a number of important aspects with
      regard to the pathogenesis of pRBD will be answered. First, if first-degree relatives (FDRs)
      of patients with pRBD have a higher rate of possible RBD or clinical diagnosis of RBD (as
      confirmed by video-polysomnography) as well as the presence of neurodegenerative diseases
      when compared with FDRs of controls, it will substantiate the argument that pRBD is not
      merely a side effect of antidepressants but rather harbouring a familial and genetic
      predisposition to RBD and, ultimately α-synucleinopathy neurodegeneration. Second, the
      determination of biomarkers of neurodegeneration among unaffected FDRs of patients with pRBD
      will also help to identify high-risk individuals for clinical intervention and prevention.
      Third, the calculation of heritability will help to delineate to which extent the additive
      genetic contribution is responsible for the variance of pRBD phenotypes. Finally, the
      findings from this proposed study will be compared with our on-going family study of typical
      iRBD to determine the extent to which iRBD and pRBD are similar or different to each other in
      terms of genetic and familial associations.

      In this proposed study, the investigators hypothesize that:

        1. FDRs of patients with pRBD have a higher rate of RBD symptoms and its core features
           compared with FDRs of controls;

        2. The unaffected FDRs of patients with pRBD are more likely to exhibit the features
           associated with prodromal markers of Parkinson's disease compared with FDRs of controls;

        3. FDRs of patients with pRBD have a higher rate of Parkinson's disease (and other
           α-synucleinopathy neurodegeneration) compared with FDRs of controls.
    
  