
    
      A double blinded parallel randomized control study over 4 weeks will be conducted to assess
      the effectiveness of a histamine-restricted diet. Neither the subjects nor the medical
      investigator will know which diet is being prescribed.

      The study will only be conducted after ethical approval has been granted and with informed
      consent. If it is a child, informed consent will be obtained from a parent. Subject has to
      pay his/her consultation fee for doctor's and dietitian's consultation and skin prick and/or
      blood tests at the first visit as normal but there will be no charge for subsequent visits in
      relation to the trial.

      A period of 4 weeks on the low histamine diet has previously been shown to be sufficient to
      determine whether dietary manipulation will help in the management of the urticaria symptoms.

      Selection Criteria and sample size calculation 78 subjects who come to Allergy Centre for
      treatment of idiopathic urticaria, with or without angioedema and pruritus (U/A/P), will be
      randomized into two parallel groups; treatment group (TG) will be asked to follow a
      histamine-restricted diet for 4 weeks and the control group (CG) will be asked to follow a
      well-balanced diet instructed by a dietitian for 4 weeks. A well-balanced diet for the CG
      subject is tailor-made by the dietitian according to subject's usual intake to ensure that
      the subject's energy requirement is met and all food groups are consumed. Subjects in both
      groups are also instructed to have adequate water intake during the study period. Both groups
      are asked to record food diary and symptoms during the study period. Consent form will state
      that it is a study to compare the efficacy of both diets. After the study period, subjects in
      the CG will be able to follow a low histamine diet if this is proven to be beneficial, so
      everyone will have the potential to benefit from the low histamine diet and vice versa for
      the TG subjects.

      Low Histamine Diet Histamine is present in almost all foods in small quantities. Its presence
      increases with maturation of the food. High quantities of histamine are found mainly in
      products of microbial fermentation, such as aged cheese, sauerkraut, wine, and processed
      meat. Some oriental foods with high histamine content are also included.The current Low
      Histamine Diet sheet of Hong Kong Sanatorium & Hospital will be used (Appendix I).

      Evaluation of Symptoms When a subject comes for the first consultation (randomization week),
      he/she will be given a 4-point scale questionnaire (see Appendix II) to evaluate his/her own
      symptoms (pruritus severity and number of wheals). This will be completed once every evening
      for a week prior to the 4-week treatment period. The pruritus severity score and the number
      of wheals during this run in week will be averaged and used as the mean baseline score. The
      summation of mean pruritus score (MPS) and the mean number of wheals (MNW) will be the mean
      total symptoms score (MTSS) for the baseline period. Medical investigator will also evaluate
      the subject's global symptoms severity (GSS) at the first consultation (randomization week)
      and second consultation (at the end of week 4).

      MPS and GSS is scored as 0 = none; 1 = mild (present but not disturbing); 2 = moderate
      (disturbing but not hampering day time activities and/or sleep); and 3 = severe/intense
      (disturbing and hampering day time activities and/or sleep). Number of wheals are scored as 0
      = none; 1 = mild (less than 20 wheals per 24 hours); 2 = moderate (21-50 wheals); and 3 =
      severe (more than 50 wheals).

      After the first consultation with the medical investigator, a skin prick test and/or blood
      tests for specific immunoglobulin E (IgE) to eight major food allergens will be tested,
      namely cow's milk, egg, peanut, treenuts, wheat, soya, seafood, shellfish. Subject will
      consult a dietitian for either a well-balanced diet (CG) or low histamine diet (TG) and
      he/she is asked only to start the diet one week after the first consultation. The subject
      will be asked to fax or email his/her completed questionnaire and food diary for checking
      before he/she starts the diet. Dietitian will ensure that the questionnaire and the food
      diary are completed correctly by the subject. Dietitian will then phone the subject not only
      to remind him/her to start on the diet but also to make sure that the subject corrects any
      errors in completing the questionnaire and food diary. If the diary during the run in period
      is done very poorly it may have to be repeated before the formal diet begins. Dietitian will
      conduct subsequent weekly phone follow up with each subject. Each subject will be reminded to
      complete their questionnaires and food diaries every evening.

      For each symptom the scores for each week will be averaged. The sum of MPS and MNW is the
      mean total symptoms score (MTSS) and this will also be averaged for each week period.

      Evaluation of compliance of low histamine diet

      Each subject will complete a food diary, in addition to the symptom score chart, where he/she
      will record his/her dietary intake for each snack and meal during the 4-week study period.
      The food diary will be evaluated by the Allergy Centre dietitians for adherence to the diet.
      Diet compliance score (DCS) is scored as 0 = not comply at all; 1 = poor diet compliance
      (intake of 2 or more high histamine foods daily); 2 = good compliance (intake of 1 or less
      high histamine food daily); 3 = excellent diet compliance (intake of 3 or less high histamine
      food per week).

      Randomization and blinding After provision of informed consent, subjects will be allocated by
      a table of random numbers to either the TG or CG. The number sequence will be generated by
      the computer list prepared by dietitians. Neither the subjects nor the medical investigator
      will know which diet is being prescribed to which subject.

      Power calculations and statistical analysis

      Sample size was determined based on a previous drug study13 as there is insufficient data on
      low histamine diets. To detect a clinically significant mean difference of at least 1 point
      between the active and control groups on the 4 point scale with 80% power at p< 0.05 requires
      35 subjects in each trial arm. Allowing for a 10% drop out rate, the total sample should be
      78 individuals.

      Statistical analyses will be performed by hospital statisticians using SPSS version 18.0.0
      (2009). The primary outcomes will be the change in Mean Total Symptoms Score (MTSS) from
      baseline between groups. Secondary outcome measures will include assessment of (1) the change
      in MPS between groups; (2) the change in MNW between groups. (3) the change in GSS by medical
      investigator between groups; (4) the comparison of area under the curve (AUC for the trend)
      for MTSS, MPS, MNW, GSS and DCS between the groups during the 4-week period; and (5) the
      comparison of total dose of anti-histamine used by each group compared to baseline within the
      study period. All data will be analyzed using paired student's t-test.
    
  