
    
      The present study is a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, crossover clinical
      trial, in which (approximately 30) neurotypical male adults (18 to 30 years old) will
      participate. All participants will perform two sessions (OT and placebo), separated by two
      weeks. For the first session, the participants are randomly assigned to the placebo or the OT
      condition. Syntocinon nasal spray will be used for intranasal administration.

      In each session, we will measure the neural salience/sensitivity for socio-emotional
      information, by recording EEG during FPVS. Participants simply have to press a button when
      the fixation cross turns red, while watching rapidly alternating visual stimuli. Starting 20
      minutes after substance intake, four FPVS paradigms are administered in randomized order:

        1. A frequency-tagging FPVS paradigm, to measure the salience of social versus non-social
           stimuli.

        2. The oddball face detection paradigm, to assess the neural sensitivity to faces embedded
           in a series of objects.

        3. The oddball identity discrimination task, to examine the ability to discriminate between
           faces with a different identity.

        4. The oddball expression generalization task, to investigate the sensitivity for facial
           emotional expressions embedded within neutral faces with varying identities.

      After two FPVS paradigms, a four minutes resting state EEG measure will be performed. At the
      end of the session, emotion recognition will be measures with the Palermo matching task (65
      items).

      The primary aim is to investigate whether the performance on each of these paradigms/tasks
      differs between the OT and the placebo condition. Furthermore, we want to explore whether the
      effect of OT is influenced by the participant's attachment style, social responsiveness,
      social phobia, or mood, which will be assessed via self-reported questionnaires.
    
  