
    
      Rib fractures are a painful and disabling injury commonly found among trauma patients.
      According to the National Center for Health Statistics, approximately 350,000 people with rib
      fractures were treated in emergency and ambulatory care departments in the United States in
      the year 2006. The Healthcare Cost and Utilization Project's Nationwide Inpatient Sample for
      the year 2003 indicated that 102,000 patients with rib fractures were admitted to U.S.
      hospitals, representing 7 % of all injured patients.

      Within the past decade a subgroup of patients with symptomatic rib fracture non-unions has
      been identified. These are patients who present to primary care physicians and surgical
      clinics more than 3 months, or in some cases several years, following a rib fracture injury
      with complaints of rib pain associated with persistent fracture movement. They are usually
      told by their physician that surgical intervention is either unnecessary or fruitless and are
      treated with chronic pain management regimens. The true incidence and the long-term outcome
      of this syndrome are completely unknown.

      At OHSU, the investigators have had a long interest in the indications for and the outcomes
      of rib fracture repair. One of the first of three nearly simultaneous reports of successful
      surgical intervention of symptomatic rib fracture non-union originated here at OHSU in 2001.
      Two other successful case reports have appeared more recently. The investigators are
      currently being contacted frequently by patients or their physicians, mostly out of state,
      for consideration of rib fracture non-union repair. Our ongoing experience with rib fracture
      non-union repair has been favorable, but the investigators believe that a prospective
      clinical study with at least 6 months of post-operative outcome is necessary. In addition,
      because the insurance company approval process for surgical intervention for rib fracture
      non-union is often 2 - 3 months and occasionally longer, the investigators have an
      opportunity to follow the intermediate-term natural history of rib fracture non-unions for
      several months prior to surgical intervention.

      The rationale for conducting this study is to demonstrate in a prospective study that the
      RibLoc ® repair system is durable and safe in a population of patients with rib fracture
      non-union. Although this clinical outcome data is not required by the FDA to market and
      implant this prosthesis, the investigators believe that to establish the clinical benefit of
      the RibLoc ® device for non-union repair, prospectively collected outcome data are necessary.
      Investigators may use other FDA approved devices (i.e. BioBridge ™ Bioresorbable Bone
      Fracture Plate), or determine that no device is indicated (i.e. rib resection without
      hardware). The investigators expect to learn about clinical outcomes for surgical care in
      this group of patients, both with the use of a device, and without.
    
  