
    
      This protocol outlines a proposal to investigate whether the use of a dark-coloured nail
      polish or OnicoLife nail drops, compared to standard care, from commencement of taxane based
      chemotherapy until three months after completion, is effective in preventing or minimising
      chemotherapy-induced nail problems.

      In the UK, taxane based chemotherapy is used within neo-adjuvant, adjuvant and metastatic
      settings. Taxotere (docetaxel) is provided in an neo-adjuvant and adjuvant setting every
      three weeks, taxol (paclitaxel) and taxotere are provided in the metastatic setting either
      weekly or three weekly.

      Taxane based chemotherapy with Taxotere has been shown to improve progression-free, disease
      free and overall survival in the metastatic setting. TACT, a large phase III adjuvant,
      open-label randomised controlled trial of sequential taxotere following anthracycline
      chemotherapy did not show any overall gain from the addition of Docetaxel to standard
      anthracycline chemotherapy. There are many common side effects associated with chemotherapy
      such as nausea and vomiting, alopecia and neutropenia but with correct management, these are
      generally tolerated. There is evidence that while taxane chemotherapy improves clinical
      response and reduces troublesome side effects such as nausea and vomiting, it is also
      demonstrated to result in more nail toxicity/ changes than AC (adriamycin-cyclophosamide)
      therapy (92% versus 32% respectively).

      It has been suggested that nail problems associated with chemotherapy are under reported in
      terms of the incidence and severity. Evidence of chemotherapy-induced nail changes was found
      in studies that involved randomisation to taxane or non-taxane-containing regimens and /or
      combination therapy.

      Case study reports in oncology journals also highlighted nail toxicity and abnormalities
      following treatment with taxane therapy and associated challenges with continuation of
      therapy in breast cancer and patients with lung cancer.

      Nail toxicity can occur on some or all of the hands and/ or feet, and may vary in appearance,
      severity and function. Reported problems vary from pigmentation, discolouration, and thinning
      or ridging of nails to Beau's lines, Mee's lines, oncycholysis, sub-ungual hyperkeratosis,
      acute paronchyia, sub-ungual haemorrhage, and loss of nail plate. These are thought caused by
      the direct effect on the nails from the drugs and is hypothesised as an effect mediated by
      the drug stabilising chemicals. There is evidence that taxanes appear to stimulate the matrix
      melanocytes, which the authors suggest as independent of ACTH (adrenocorticotropic hormone),
      MSH4 (MutS protein homolog 4), and UV (ultraviolet) light. Others suggest taxane-induced
      thrombocytopenia and vascular abnormalities as a precursor to sub-ungual haematomas and
      haemorrhagic onycholysis.

      Nail changes may appear in temporal relationship with drug intake and vary depending on the
      structure of the nail affected. Nail toxicities related to chemotherapy are significantly
      higher in weekly compared to 3-weekly regimens. In one study, more frequent and severe toxic
      effects occurred in dose-dense regimens than in the standard TEC5 regimen, with grade 3-4
      nail changes occurring in 73% of patients receiving EC-T6 therapy. Fifty-eight percent of
      cancer patients treated with EGFRI developed nail abnormalities, typically after 6-8 weeks of
      treatment, including paronychia. Cumulative dose in chemotherapy appears significant in the
      incidence of nail toxicity, the median cumulative dose of the anthracycline doxorubicin,
      reported as 22.5 mg/m² and mean cumulative dose of taxane docetaxel as 810 mg/m². Most
      cutaneous/ nail changes have a tendency to develop after a number of treatment cycles,
      typically after cycle 4 but occurring as early as after the first cycle or second cycle. In
      one study, of the 75% of patients who had developed grade 2 nail changes, 68% had received
      more than 4 cycles of treatment. Concomitant, rather than sequential treatment with docetaxel
      was associated with more nail changes.

      Most of the nail changes that have occurred in studies have tended to be grade 1-2, but in a
      few studies as much as grade 3 or grade 4. Certain combinations of chemotherapy drugs are
      also associated with more severe nail destruction than others such as docetaxel and
      transtuzumab and dose-dense docetaxel followed by dose dense doxorubicin / cyclophosphamide.
      Not surprisingly, nail toxicity may impact on a patient's quality of life, particularly in
      females and may affect body image, pain, and function, any or all of which has a wider impact
      on the individual's normal daily activities. In one study, more than two-thirds of the sample
      who developed changes (86.8%) were significantly limited in activities of daily living. A
      retrospective study of 425 medical notes, based in the SERIES clinic in New York, examined
      the range of dermatological toxicities on quality of life (QoL) using the Skindex-16. This
      tool measured 3 separate domains: symptoms, emotional and function. The authors found 9.2%
      incidence of nail toxicities, with 32 cases where the individual possessed 3 or more
      different or associated dermatological toxicities. These identified patients had
      significantly higher symptom, emotional and function scores than those who had less than
      three toxicities.

      There are reports that nail changes resolve over time, usually after discontinuation or
      completion of treatment. However, there were a few reports where only partial resolution
      occurred and residual nail problems persisted. There remains poor understanding of the
      pathogenesis of nail damage.

      It has been demonstrated all 20 participants in a study of patients with metastatic breast
      cancer had only partial response, irrespective of severity or type of nail change (50% grade
      1 and 25% grade 2). One study described a case study of a 66 year old male who developed a
      grade one, taxane-induced nail problem as persisting for months after completion of treatment
      but which did eventually improve over time. A further case report of a female who developed
      hyperpigmentation and sub-ungual haemorrhage after 2 of 4 cycles of docetaxel had residual
      problems after 12 months of discontinuation of treatment, developing a fungal paronychia
      which necessitated removal of the nail. An earlier case study demonstrated the gradual
      resolution of nail conditions despite continuation of treatment. The findings thus far
      indicate that early recognition is imperative to alleviate symptoms and complete treatment.

      The use of filgastrim and/ or erythropoietin prophylactically, prior to treatment, appears to
      reduce not only the rate of febrile neutropenia but also reduces nail changes and increases
      compliance with treatment and improvement in quality of life.

      In the studies reviewed, prior to trial intervention usual advice to patients receiving
      taxane therapy is to use a nail hardener at the first sign of nail weakness, keep nails
      dirt-free, use nail polish, avoid oil baths and wear gloves during household tasks which
      involve soaking the hands in water. Others suggest that nail changes in individuals receiving
      taxanes and anthracyclines may be precipitated by sunlight or UV exposure. It has been
      reported that one patient on weekly paclitaxel for intra-ductal breast cancer who developed
      both photo-distributed erythema and onycholysis after sun exposure to the affected area and
      reports associated photosensitivity conditions in nine female oncology patients in total.
      Therefore, there is some evidence that the use of a nail covering, or UV protective, may at
      least provide some protection.

      Patients have searched for products that may help prevent deterioration of their nails while
      on chemotherapy treatment. OnicoLife drops are available to purchase online and anecdotally,
      patients receiving chemotherapy have reported this product reduced soreness, ridging and
      detachment from the nail bed. The active ingredient in this product is Adelmidrol, a
      semisynthetic derivative of azelaic acid and analogue of the anti-inflammatory compound
      palmitoylethanolamide (PEA), which has shown efficacy in the local topical treatment of pain
      and inflammation. However there is no current evidence based research to support the use with
      breast cancer patients receiving taxane based chemotherapy.

      Vascular abnormalities that predispose to nail changes have also been considered as a way to
      manage occurrence using cooling interventions. One study used a frozen glove to reduce nail
      problems, which was then extended to the use of frozen socks in a further study, with
      significant benefits in both studies. Both studies used the right hand/ foot for the
      intervention and the left hand or foot as the control. However, no information was provided
      as to the site of venous access in relation to the intervention and/or if avoidance of the
      dominant hand was ever considered. The only caveat to using a frozen glove during treatment
      is therefore venous access problems, and some patients were not able to wear the glove for a
      predetermined period due to cold intolerance.

      Rationale:

      Nail problems pose substantial problems for patients with breast cancer undergoing
      chemotherapy in terms of quality of life. It is a difficult challenge for health care
      professionals to manage and provide advice, mainly due to the lack of evidence on effective
      solutions. There is a need to look at the options that may have potential benefit to
      patients, including toxic-free formulation of dark nail polish and OnicoLife drops ® which
      appear to be useful, however, there is no research based evidence to support their use.
    
  