
    
      Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) is characterized by non-reversible chronic
      airway obstruction associated with co-morbidities and is the third leading cause of death
      worldwide. Its evolution is punctuated by successive exacerbations precipitating the
      progression of the disease and its co-morbidities. The most severe exacerbations are the
      source of frequent hospitalizations that strongly affect the patient's quality of life and
      are associated with increased mortality. The diagnosis of exacerbation is mainly clinical but
      patients frequently consult their doctor too late which may lead to delays in care. However,
      the early detection and management of these exacerbations can reduce their impact and in
      particular avoid hospitalization or shorten their duration.

      In France, long term Non-Invasive Ventilation (NIV) is a widely used treatment modality in
      COPD patients with chronic alveolar hypoventilation who have frequent exacerbations. In
      France, 7000-10000 COPD patients are currently treated with NIV. Recent NIV respirators are
      fitted with embedded software that provides details on treatment adherence (daily use, number
      of sessions/day, number of days of use over a given period etc) and on a number of
      ventilatory parameters measured during treatment (minute ventilation, tidal volume,
      respiratory rate, leaks, cycles triggered by the patient, etc.).

      In a preliminary study, including more than 60 COPD patients treated with NIV, the
      investigators demonstrated that the analysis of parameters from software embedded in the NIV
      device can reliably predict the occurrence of an exacerbation in following five days.

      The investigators hypothesize that the daily transmission via a telemonitoring platform of
      the ventilation parameters of patients, together with an ad hoc warning system, would reduce
      the rate of hospitalization for COPD patients treated at home with NIV thanks to the early
      detection and early treatment of these exacerbations.

      The physiological and symptomatic changes that accompany an exacerbation can be detected by
      daily questionnaires, monitoring devices worn by the patient or easy to use appliances
      (respiratory rate sensor, touch pad for daily symptoms). These expensive devices require
      active patient involvement and a certain degree of skill by the patients, which limits their
      use. The main innovation of this project is that patients already have NIV treatment
      reimbursed by their health insurance and no further action will be required on the part of
      the patient to detect worsening. Changes recorded by the ventilator settings will trigger an
      alert and if needed early and appropriate patient care can be initiated.

      Main objective:

      The purpose of the study is to compare if a program of telemonitoring using the parameters
      stored by the NIV impact the rate of hospitalization for worsening of cardiorespiratory
      symptoms in COPD patients versus standard care over a one year period.
    
  