
    
      Postoperative activity restrictions minimize the risk of surgical complications and prevent
      stress on the operative site. In the pediatric population, surgeons may restrict school
      attendance, participation in playground or gym, and participation in contact sports or heavy
      lifting. Currently, surgeons give pediatric patients postoperative restrictions following
      routine pediatric procedures (laparoscopic appendectomy and inguinal hernia repair) without
      evidence-based clinical practice guidelines. However, there is considerable variability
      amongst surgeons. It is common practice to provide some level of postoperative restrictions,
      which are primarily based on the surgeon's experience.While many surgeons prescribe specific
      postoperative instructions, some recommend self-directed restrictions. Self-directed
      restrictions instruct that the child return to school and normal physical activity when they
      and parents feel they are able to do so. There is no evidence that this practice is
      associated with any adverse outcomes.

      This study will utilize a convenience sample of pediatric patients treated at Beaumont Royal
      Oak and Troy for routine inguinal hernia repair and laparoscopic appendectomy. There will be
      two populations: patients undergoing the procedures (Patient population) and their
      parents/guardians (Parent population) who will be completing the postoperative survey.

      The Principal Investigator will review the operating room schedule and identify patients who
      are scheduled for either of the two procedures.Parents and patients who are eligible to
      participate in the study will be approached, the study explained and voluntary consent
      obtained. The participants will be provided an information sheet detailing the study, the
      risks, and the benefits. The researchers will describe the two groups the participant can
      enroll in. If the parents decide to enroll their child in the study they will then choose to
      be in either the control group (physician-directed) or the variable group (self-directed).
      The control group will be those individuals who choose physician-directed instructions which
      detail that they can resume all normal activity 2 weeks after their procedure. The
      experimental group will be those individuals who choose self-directed instructions which
      specify that they may return to full activity when their pain is improving and the parent
      feels comfortable with them doing so. For each group, the family will be provided with
      discharge instructions, a copy of these discharge instructions are provided in the study
      documents. A parent or guardian will complete a postoperative survey 1-3 months post
      procedure. The survey will assess: time of pain medication, time to return to school, time to
      resume full activity, wound healing, postoperative complications, changes in pain, compliance
      with instructions, patient satisfaction, time parent took off from work, if additional
      childcare was needed following the procedure, and parental satisfaction with the procedure
      and postoperative instructions.
    
  