
    
      Main objective of the trial:

      The main objective is to investigate whether DaTSCAN with subsequent SPECT can detect
      elevated DAT levels in at least a lesion identified with CT in patients with clear cell renal
      cell carcinoma, as assesed by pathologist? DaTSCAN signal will be seen as positive,
      displaying intensity ≥3ggr higher than the background and correlating anatomically with at
      least one lesion found with CT. DaTSCAN is used routinely to detect the loss of dopaminergic
      neurons in the striatum of patients with clinically uncertain Parkinsonian Syndromes. The
      active substance in DaTSCAN, Ioflupane specifically binds to DAT. By analyzing the focal
      uptake of Ioflupane (123I) with SPECT / CT the progression of the disease may be clarified.
      In light of our findings that clear cell renal cancer express significantly elevated levels
      of DAT, we postulate that DaTSCAN can be used for detection of clear cell renal cell
      carcinoma.

      Protection of trial subjects:

      Very few adverse effects are reported for DatSCAN use. In this study we used the same dose
      and route of administration as is praxis for DaTSCAN when used for diagnostic investigation
      of Parkinsons disease. Albeit uncommon, pain at the injection site has been previously
      reported when the solution was injected into a small vain. To minimise the potential for pain
      at the injection site during administration in this study, a slow intravenous injection (not
      less than 15 to 20 seconds) via an arm vein was therefore applied. The injections were
      performed by routined staff at Skåne University Hospital, Department of Clinical Physiology /
      Nuclear Medicine in Malmö, where usual clinical preparedness for allergic reactions after
      injection was available.

      Background therapy:

      Patients underwent appropriate thyroid blocking treatment prior to injection of DaTSCAN, to
      minimise thyroid uptake of radioactive iodine. In this study, this was achieved by oral
      administration of 2x 65 mg potassium iodide tablettes on the night before the DaTSCAN
      investigation and another 2x 65 mg potassium iodine tabletts 1 hour prior to injection of
      DaTSCAN.
    
  