
    
      The PI on this proposal has been studying BEST1 and the protein encoded (Best1) since its
      discovery in 1998. Best1 is an integral membrane protein that in the eye is expressed only by
      retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells where it is localized to the basolateral plasma
      membrane.

      Methods: Once a subject has been identified as a potential candidate, a study coordinator
      will meet with the subject, to discuss the study prior to sample collection. The study
      coordinator will review the consent form with the subject and spend as much time as necessary
      answering any questions. Once the subject has signed the consent form, study procedures will
      begin.

      Following the consent process, a skin sample will be obtained from subjects using a (4mm)
      dermal punch biopsy method. This will be accomplished in a single visit to the Regenerative
      Medicine Consult Service or other approved clinical examination room. A suture may need to be
      placed following this skin biopsy. A health care provider (either at Mayo Clinic or a local
      health care provider's office) can remove the stitches, or the subject can remove them with a
      provided disposable suture removal kit.

      Subjects will also be asked to undergo venipuncture; all subjects will be asked to have the
      venipuncture and have the option to refuse. 10ml of blood will be collected for RNA and DNA
      extraction.

      Once the skin biopsy is obtained,skin fibroblasts will be isolated, which will be
      reprogrammed into iPSCs. RPE cells will be derived from the iPSCs.

      Remuneration: If subjects make a special trip only for the research procedures, they may be
      reimbursed for travel expenses including: airfare, mileage, parking, and hotel. In order to
      receive reimbursement, they must provide a copy of the original receipts for those expenses.
      Reimbursement will not exceed $1000.00.
    
  