
    
      The specific aims of the current research protocol are as follows: Aim 1: To test the
      hypothesis that SIP training of individuals with ABI will improve processing speed. This
      study is expected to demonstrate that individuals with ABI that receive SIP training will
      improve on neurocognitive measures of processing speed. Aim 2: To test the generalizability
      of SIP training of individuals with TBI to other cognitive domains beyond information
      processing speed. This study is expected to demonstrate increases in working memory,
      attention and executive functioning in the group that receives the cognitive training. Aim 3:
      To test the hypothesis that SIP training of individuals with TBI will improve mood. This
      study is expected to demonstrate that self-reported levels of depression will improve in the
      group that receives cognitive training. Aim 4: To examine if changes in the neural integrity
      of white matter pathways of the brain occur in individuals that undergo the SIP training.

      All participants will undergo a set of baseline cognitive exams/tests, which will take
      approximately two hours. Participants will be randomly placed in either the experimental
      group or the control group. The experimental group will undergo approximately 40 hours of
      training on the Brain Fitness Program over an eight week period. The control group will be
      contacted once a week for eight weeks about their cognitively stimulating activities (i.e.
      reading, working on the computer, and puzzles). At approximately the thirteenth week
      participants from both groups will undergo post-baseline cognitive exams/tests. This
      evaluation will take approximately two hours. In addition there is an optional neuroimaging
      study which participants may elect to participate in. Participants who agree to take part in
      the neuroimaging portion of the study will undergo a baseline MRI scan. At approximately 13
      weeks later participants will undergo a post-baseline MRI scan. Both scans will take
      approximately one hour.
    
  