
    
      Reducing youth suicide in the U.S. is a national public health priority. A supportive and
      safe school environment is pivotal to preventing youth suicide, and schools are now widely
      accepted as part of the de facto mental healthcare infrastructure for adolescents. Lesbian,
      gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer (LGBTQ) youth are at elevated risk for suicide. Safer
      school environments decrease this risk. The school nurse is well positioned to implement
      evidence-based (EB) strategies to enhance school environments and improve the mental health
      of all students, particularly members of this vulnerable population. These strategies include
      the creation of "safe spaces," adoption of harassment and bullying prohibitions, improved
      access to community health and mental health providers experienced in working with youth and
      LGBTQ people, school staff development, and incorporation of LGBTQ-specific information into
      health education curricula. These strategies promote positive mental health outcomes for
      LGBTQ youth, and their cisgender, heterosexual peers as well.

      The investigators of this nursing intervention model is called "RLAS" (Implementing School
      Nursing Strategies to Reduce LGBTQ Adolescent Suicide). The model builds on the Exploration,
      Preparation, Implementation, and Sustainment conceptual framework and the Dynamic Adaptation
      Process (DAP), a structured methodology for implementing the EB strategies. The DAP accounts
      for the multi-level context of school settings, facilitates appropriate expertise and
      feedback to make them "implementation ready," and provides for targeted training of school
      nurses. Per the DAP, the nurses and other school professionals will convene and lead
      Implementation Resource Teams (IRTs) consisting of counselors, social workers, health
      educators, and youth. With the guidance of coaches, the IRTs will engage in an iterative
      process of assessment and planning to build school capacity and implement the EB strategies.
      To evaluate this model, the investigators will combine qualitative methods with
      population-based surveys and pursue three specific aims.

      First, the investigators will utilize the DAP to enable specially-trained nurse champions and
      IRTs to implement and sustain EB strategies to address the needs of LGBTQ high school
      students. Second, the investigators will conduct a cluster randomized controlled trial (RCT)
      to assess whether sexual minority students and their peers in RLAS schools report reductions
      in suicidality, depression, substance use, and bullying, and increased safety compared to
      those in usual care schools. Third, the investigators will examine the individual, school,
      and community factors influencing both implementation and outcomes. The RLAS keeps with
      national priorities to: (a) improve school-based services for pediatric populations; (b)
      focus on LGBTQ youth mental health; and (c) revolutionize the role of nurses in U.S.
      healthcare. Through its collaborative processes to refine, improve, and sustain EB strategies
      in these systems, the RLAS also represents a novel and innovative contribution to
      implementation science.
    
  