
    
      Aging can be characterized by an organic and functional decrease, which is not related to
      disease, that is, a process that happens naturally over time. One of the markers of the aging
      process is telomeres, which consist of a complex of DNA sequences located at the ends of the
      chromosome, composed of protective proteins that have the function of protecting information
      from the DNA (genome), that is, telomeres are responsible for reconstructing the information
      lost during cell division due to the wear and tear of the chromosome ends. The telomere
      length may be shorter in some diseases, such as heart failure with reduced ejection fraction
      (HFREF) compared with healthy subjects.

      The HFREF is a complex clinical syndrome of poor prognosis and high prevalence. Its
      characteristics include fatigue, dyspnea and intolerance to physical exertion due to
      reduction in cardiac output, concomitant with respiratory changes, weakness in peripheral
      muscles and incidence of depression. Exercise as a strategy for the treatment of heart
      failure (HF) can be effective in improving the quality of life, functional capacity and
      prognosis of the disease. In sedentary individuals who do not have HF, a natural reduction of
      telomeres occurs, which is associated with the early development of the aging process.
      Increasing or maintaining the size of telomeres can be a way to intervene in the aging
      process and thus slow the progression of HF, since one of its main functions is to protect
      the chromosome from cellular aging.

      One of the most promising strategies for intervening in aging is the practice of physical
      exercise. However, the effects of physical exercise on the telomere length of individuals
      with HF are unknown. However, we know that physical exercise for HF shows positive results in
      relation to functional capacity, as measured by peak oxygen consumption (VO2peak). In
      addition, the improvement in functional capacity, increase in peak oxygen consumption
      (VO2peak), is directly related to the increase in telomere length. However, there is a lack
      of concise results in the literature regarding the chronic effects of aerobic exercise on the
      telomere length in subjects with HFREF.

      Therefore, the aim of the present study will be to analyze and compare the chronic effects of
      aerobic exercise in subjects with HFREF on telomere length.

      The specifics aims of this study are: to analyze and compare the chronic effects of aerobic
      exercise in individuals with HFREF in the following variables: Functional Capacity
      (Cardiopulmonary Exercise Testing); Echocardiographic Variables by Doppler echocardiogram;
      Endothelial Function measured by Flow-Mediated Dilation (FMD) of the Brachial Artery; Walking
      Ability measured by a Self-Selected Walking Speed Test (SSWST)

      This is a randomized clinical trial, with two intervention groups that will be assessed pre
      and post intervention. The randomization sequence will be generated by REDCap and it will be
      performed by a participant not involved in the other study phases (principal investigators
      will be blinded).

      For significance level of 5%, power of 80%, difference to be detected equal to the standard
      deviation of 0.0026, the sample size calculated is 10 patients for each group (20 in total).
      Considering 20% loss, it will be necessary to include 12 patients per group (24 patients in
      total).
    
  