
    
      Diabetes, one of the most prevalent chronic disease (~ 9% worldwide), represents a major
      public health burden in terms of morbidity, disability and mortality. Caring for patients
      with diabetes requires effective collaboration between healthcare providers, teamwork,
      self-management education and use of evidence-based medicine. However, these processes of
      care are complex and often suboptimal. Improving quality of diabetes care is thus needed to
      reduce the health and societal burden of this disease.

      In the canton of Vaud, a state in Switzerland with more than 700,000 inhabitants, a recent
      population-based study has shown that the prevalence of diabetes was around 7%. Data on the
      quality of diabetes care is scarce and quality of care data are still infrequently and
      unsystematically collected in Switzerland. In addition, when data are available, they focus
      on intermediate outcomes as well as clinical and biological cardiovascular risk factors.
      Population-based data on patient-reported outcomes are not considered.

      In 2010, the Public Health Department of the canton of Vaud initiated the development of a
      regional diabetes program entitled "Programme cantonal Diabète" (PcD). It aimed both at
      decreasing the incidence of diabetes and improving care for patients with diabetes.

      To tailor the program to the healthcare needs of patients and healthcare professionals
      involved in diabetes care, an exploratory study using qualitative methods was conducted in
      2010. This was followed by a population-based survey conducted in fall 2011 and summer 2012.
      The objectives of the survey were to characterize patients with diabetes and assess the
      quality of the care they received. In addition, the results of the survey were used to help
      targeting unmet needs and possible areas of improvements, and constituted the patients'
      baseline measurement for the evaluation of the PcD.

      The CoDiab-VD cohort emerged from that initial project; its specific objectives were 1) to
      follow over time the quality of diabetes care, 2) to explore topics that the PcD needed for
      its development, 3) to assess the impact of the PcD on the care of patients with diabetes,
      and 4) to evaluate the coverage of the PcD in the canton of Vaud.

      Patients with diabetes were recruited by community-based pharmacies in the fall of 2011 and
      the summer of 2012. Participating community-based pharmacies, randomly contacted among those
      registered in the canton of Vaud, were asked to recruit non-institutionalized adult patients
      with diabetes (disease duration of at least 12 months), who were visiting the pharmacy with a
      prescription for oral antidiabetic drugs, insulin, glycemic strips or glucose meter.

      At baseline, patients filled in a self-reported paper questionnaire that targeted the
      following areas:

        -  diabetes characteristics (type, disease duration, treatment, complications)

        -  receipt of diabetes care: recommended process of care indicators (such as annual eye
           examination by ophthalmologist, foot examination, microalbuminuria…) , and specific
           outcomes of care (such as HbA1C levels, generic and specific (health-related) quality of
           life (SF-12 and ADDQoL))

        -  congruence of care with the chronic care model (PACIC)

        -  healthcare utilization

        -  health behaviors (smoking and drinking habits, physical activity) and health status
           (comorbidities)

        -  self-management support (for example glycemic self-monitoring, self-efficacy,
           information level about diabetes)

        -  sociodemographic characteristics (age, gender, nationality, place of residence,
           education, employment, marital status, family size, family income, insurance status).

      Participants were also asked to give the contact details of their family doctor and/or
      diabetologist. With the consent of the patients, treating physicians were contacted and were
      asked to fill a brief paper questionnaire requesting some clinical and laboratory data.
      Physicians were contacted in 2011, 2012 and 2014; physicians' follow-up was not repeated
      thereafter due to financial and logistic constraints.

      Patients were contacted annually using paper follow-up questionnaires, consisting in a core
      set of questions similar to the baseline questionnaire. New questions were added and
      developed yearly according to the development and needs of the PcD. This allowed us to
      investigate these specific topics: diabetic foot in 2013; psychosocial outcomes related to
      diabetes and diabetes care in 2014; eyes and diabetes, as well as coordination and continuity
      of care in 2015; multimorbidity and needs for patient education in 2016; and pharmacy care in
      2017.

      A second recruitment, requested and financed by the funders, has been organized in 2017, in
      order to obtain a new population-based picture of diabetes in the canton of Vaud. It will
      allow 1) to compare data obtained at both recruitments, 2) to compare data obtained in 2017
      from the second recruitment and from the annual follow-up of the first recruitment, and 3) to
      increase the number of patients with diabetes included in the CoDiab-VD cohort.

      If requested by the PcD, additional follow-ups will take place in 2019 and in 2021.
    
  