
    
      New technologies continue to be launched in the field of dental esthetics, especially for
      whitening, and many products advertise their efficacy. One new approach is the use of LASER
      technology which has been purported to be the most powerful font light for bleaching Diverse
      studies by different designs find different efficacies for LASER whitening Randomized
      clinical trials (RCT) are needed for the most rigorous confirmation of efficacy. RCT are able
      to control for characteristics that can cause bias, including factors related to dental care
      such as diet and cleaning behavior after the bleaching procedure. The investigators therefore
      conducted an RCT to make a side by side comparison of a LASER whitening technique with
      chemical bleaching versus chemical bleaching without LASER.

      Intervention: After the patient was informed and sign the consent; a dental prophylaxis was
      done. Three days later the bleaching procedure started following the same protocol regarding
      to the time and product used (35% Hydrogen Peroxide Whitening HP, 40 minutes divided in two
      phases of 20 minutes each one) from premolar to premolar in superior and inferior teeth. The
      difference was that one of the intervention groups used the Laser for ten minutes (starting
      at the minute 5) and the other did not.. The Laser used was the Whitening Lase II (DCM
      EQUIPMENTS).

      The measure of the color was done to the superior canines by just one evaluator in three
      stages: before bleaching (baseline), 15 minutes after bleaching, and three days after. It was
      done with the Vita Easyshade Spectrophotometer.

      The dental sensitivity also was asked at the three time points; however, as an exclusion
      criterion the level had to be 0 to be entered into the study.

      All the patients received verbal and written instructions about eating and cleaning behavior.
      Cleaning materials for the three days after procedure were given.

      As the clinical endpoint, the difference in color was calculated using the international
      accepted system CIELCh (11,18-19). The formula is ∆E* = [(∆L*)2 + (∆C*)2 + (∆h*)2] ½; were L
      is Luminosity, C is Chroma and h is Hue.

      A verbal numeric scale was used to determine the dental sensitivity with values from 0 to 3.
      The evaluator used the water and air from the dental chair syringe. The patient reports 0 for
      no sensitivity; 1 for slight sensitivity, 2 for moderate sensitivity, and 3 for severe
      sensitivity.
    
  