
    
      Background

      AIM OF THE STUDY The aim of the study is to investigate if exogenous GLP-2 can overrule
      CCK-induced gallbladder contraction

      STUDY DESIGN The study is a randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled, crossover study
      enrolling 15 healthy participants. Each participant will undergo four separate study days in
      randomized order. Each study day encompasses two intravenous (iv) infusions, one with CCK
      (0.4 pmol × kg^-1 × min^-1) or placebo (saline), and one with GLP-2 (10 pmol × kg^-1 ×
      min^-1) or placebo (saline): Day A, CCK + GLP-2; Day B, CCK + placebo; Day C, placebo +
      GLP-2; Day D, placebo + placebo.

      METHODS For each participant, the study consists of an information visit, a screening visit
      and four experimental days within a time period of minimum 2 months, and with a minimum of
      three days between each experimental day with procedures explained below.

      RECRUITMENT OF PARTICIPANTS Relevant persons, who have previously participated in trials at
      the investigators research facility and at that time accepted to be contacted again regarding
      other research projects will be contacted by telephone or e-mail. Alternatively,
      advertisements regarding the project will be published at www.forsoegsperson.dk, other
      relevant internet / social media pages and/or local or national newspapers. Persons
      responding positively will receive the written information. A couple of days after receiving
      the written information, the potential participant will be contacted and, if the person is
      still interested in participating, an information visit will be arranged. If the person
      decides to participate, written consent will be obtained. Obtaining of written consent will
      be postponed if the potential participant requires more time for consideration. After
      obtaining written consent the date for the screening visit is planned.

      EXPERIMENTAL DAYS All experiments are carried out at the investigators research facility at
      Center for Clinical Metabolic Research at Gentofte Hospital, where all the necessary
      equipment and expertise are available. If participants have any ongoing medical treatment,
      the participant will be informed to pause the treatment one week prior to each experimental
      day. The duration of each experimental day will be approximately 5 hours.

      After arriving at the research facility after an overnight (10h) fast (including water,
      coffee and medicine), the participant will be asked to empty the urinary bladder and two
      urine samples are collected. Two intravenous (iv) catheters will then be inserted in the
      cubital veins (one in each arm). One for collection of blood samples and one for
      administration of CCK/placebo and GLP-2/placebo. The forearm from which blood samples are
      drawn will be wrapped in a heating pad (40-45°C) throughout the experiment for
      arterialisation of venous blood. The participant will rest approximately 30 minutes before
      start of the experimental procedures. At time 0 min, CCK/placebo infusion will be started. At
      time 30 min, the GLP-2/placebo infusion will be started. At time -15, 0, 15, 30, 45, 60, 75,
      90, 105, 120, 150, 180, 195, 210 and 240 min, gallbladder height, width and length will be
      determined by ultrasonography scans for evaluation of gallbladder volume (calculated by the
      ellipsoid method). Blood samples will be collected at time -15, 0, 10, 30, 40, 50, 70, 100,
      140, 180, 210 and 240 min. Blood pressure and heart rate will be measured at time -15, 0, 30,
      60, 90, 120, 150, 180 and 240 min. The appetite of the participants will be assessed by
      Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) at time -15, 0, 15, 45, 75, 105, 135, 180, 210 and 240 min. At
      time 180 min the CCK/placebo infusion will be stopped. At time 240 min the GLP-2/placebo
      infusion will be stopped. At 240 min, the participants receive a standardized ad libitum meal
      consisting of minced meat, pasta, corn, carrots, peppers, cream and salt and pepper.
      Participants are instructed to eat as much as they can until they feel comfortably full. The
      meal is to be consumed within 30 minutes, and before and after the appetite of the
      participants will be evaluated by VAS. After the meal the participant will again be asked to
      empty the urinary bladder and two urine samples will be collected.

      Data from the study days will be recorded in Clinical Report Forms.

      LABORATORY METHODS For bedside measurement of plasma glucose, blood will be sampled into
      sodium-fluoride-coated tubes, centrifuged immediately at room temperature and analysed on a
      glucose analyzer. For analysis of plasma concentrations of gut-derived hormones degraded by
      DPP-4 blood will be collected in chilled tubes (on ice) containing EDTA and the specific
      DPP-4 inhibitor valine-pyrrolidide (0.01 ml of 1 mmol/l valine-pyrrolidide solution - 4.3 mg
      in 20 ml sterile water/ml blood). For analysis of serum concentrations of other secondary
      endpoints blood will be sampled in plain tubes with clot activator for coagulation (10
      minutes at room temperature). EDTA and plain tubes will be centrifuged for 15 minutes and
      4°C. Plasma/serum samples will be stored at -20°C or -80°C until analysis.

      STATISTICS AND CALCULATIONS Data will be processed and presented with the use of standard
      descriptive statistics. Area under the curve (AUC) will be calculated by use of the trapezoid
      rule. Results will be reported as mean and standard deviation (SD) and as baseline subtracted
      AUC (bsAUC). Normally distributed data will be compared using one-way repeated measurements
      analysis of variance. Repeated measurement analysis of variance will be used for statistical
      analysis of repeated measurements in the same participant. Data that are not normally
      distributed will be analyzed using non-parametric tests. P values <0.05 will be considered
      statistically significant, i.e. significance level (α) of 5%. Power of the study (1-β) is set
      to 80%, where β (20%) is the risk of accepting a hypothesis that is false.

      The population size (N) has been calculated using the formula:

      N = (Za + Zb)^2 × (SD^2)/(MIREDIF^2), where Za is a table value according to a two-sided
      standard normal distribution (1.96), Zb is a table value according to a one-sided standard
      normal distribution (0.84). MIREDIF is the minimum relevant difference. SD and MIREDIF are
      assessed as bsAUC for gallbladder volume.

      The investigators plan to enroll 15 participants. In a previous study with CCK-induced
      gallbladder emptying bsAUC (0-120) for gallbladder volume was -1791 ml × min and SD 795.2 ml
      × min. Based on these values a 30 % difference in bsAUC for gallbladder volume can be
      detected.
    
  