
    
      This is a Prospective, Vehicle Controlled, Double-Blind, Multicenter, Randomized Phase II
      Trial, comparing the effect of twice daily B244 applications for 4 weeks vs vehicle
      applications on treatment of mild to moderate pruritus associated with atopic dermatitis.

        -  Approximately 576 subjects may be enrolled.

        -  The total duration of the study will be approximately 11 weeks. Participants will report
           for a Screening visit and if all inclusion/exclusion criteria are met, subjects will go
           through a two-week washout phase before reporting for a Baseline visit.

        -  After screening and baseline, participants will be randomized to one of two doses of
           B244 or vehicle application for 4 weeks.

        -  Randomization will be 1:1:1 so that an equal number of patients will be treated in each
           Arm of the study.

        -  All B244 randomized subjects will be treated at the dose of O.D. 5.0 or O.D. 20.0

        -  Subjects must be willing and able to complete diary within a consistent time frame on a
           daily basis and to comply with restrictions on allowable therapies for the duration of
           the study.

        -  All subjects will attend a screening visit not more than 21 days prior to Baseline (Day
           0).

        -  Subjects will be required to return to the clinic at Baseline, Day 14 (Week 2) and Day
           28 (Week 4) visits. All subjects will be asked to attend a Week 8 follow-up visit 4
           weeks (28 (±3) days) after the last dose of study medication.

        -  Subjects will apply a total of 10 pumps of IP per application across all affected areas
           twice-a-day (i.e. 10 pumps in the morning and 10 pumps again at night) for 4 weeks.

        -  Safety evaluations will consist of review of participant's medical history at screening
           and on-going assessment of adverse events reported throughout the study duration.
    
  