
    
      Up to 29% of Community Living Center (CLC; VA nursing homes) residents may not require
      nursing home levels of care and could successfully reside in the community with appropriate
      rehabilitative services. Many older adults prefer to remain in their homes, though living
      independently in the community is not always possible or safe. According to the model of
      person-environment fit (P-E fit), older adults are at risk for poor outcomes when the demands
      and resources available in the living environment are not in balance with the individual's
      everyday competence (the ability to solve problems associated with everyday life).
      Community-dwelling older adults with low levels of everyday competence and little support are
      at risk for nursing home transition. Conversely, older adults with higher levels of everyday
      competence who live in more restrictive environments (e.g., nursing home) may experience
      declines in functioning resulting from a lack of stimulation. Often, transitions into nursing
      homes occur during a time of crisis (e.g., after acute hospital stay), leaving little
      opportunity for appropriate consideration of the individual's current and future level of
      everyday competence.

      In VA, a major focus is to minimize the time spent in the CLCs by providing rehabilitation
      services and transitioning Veterans back into the community. The mission for the CLC program
      is to return the Veteran to his or her highest level of well-being, thus maximizing P-E fit.
      Despite this, CLC staff and Veterans face many barriers to facilitating transitions to the
      community (e.g., caregiving needs, housing, etc.). Currently no standardized process exists
      to assure that treatment planning includes processes to maximize P-E fit (e.g., assessing
      everyday competence, setting resident-directed goals around rehabilitation needs, and
      developing care plans to transition the Veteran to the community whenever possible).

      The investigators' team has developed an instrument to allow providers to assess everyday
      competence for safe and independent living in the community. However, to ensure successful
      transitions, assessing everyday competence without intervention is not sufficient. Once CLC
      interdisciplinary team members have an understanding of the resident's everyday competence
      and barriers to transition, goal-setting must occur, focused on rehabilitation goals and care
      planning around transitioning to the community.

      The objective of the proposed research is to develop an effective and feasible toolkit the
      CLC interdisciplinary team can use to 1) assess the Veteran's everyday competence for safe
      and independent living; 2) develop personally meaningful rehabilitation goals that facilitate
      successful transition out of the CLC based on everyday competence; and 3) conduct structured
      care planning to support resident goals around transitioning back into the community. With
      the innovative consideration of everyday competence and goal-setting in this context,
      Veterans will have optimal P-E fit upon returning to the community, thus ensuring a
      successful transition outcome (i.e., not readmitted to the CLC within 90 days).
    
  