
    
      This is a prospective, multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled parallel group study in
      subjects aged 2 months and older with SITL, including secondarily-infected lacerations,
      sutured wounds or abrasions. A laceration or sutured wound cannot exceed 10 cm in length with
      surrounding erythema not extending more than 2 cm from the edge of the lesion. Abrasions
      cannot exceed 100 cm2 in total area, or up to a maximum of 2% total body surface area for
      subjects <18 years of age, with surrounding erythema not extending more than 2 cm from the
      edge of the abrasion.

      There are four study visits occurring over a 12-14 day period. At the Baseline visit (Visit
      1, Day 1), subjects will be randomized to receive retapamulin or placebo ointment in a 2:1
      (retapamulin:placebo) ratio. The 2:1 randomization is included to minimize the number of
      subjects exposed to treatment with placebo. Both active treatment and placebo will be dosed
      topically twice daily (BID) for 5 days. All subjects will receive a telephone call from the
      investigator or appropriate designee appointed by the investigator on Day 2. The subject will
      be interviewed to determine if there is any evidence of worsening infection. Subjects who are
      thought to be worsening will be instructed to come in to the clinic for an assessment.
      Subjects will be monitored and clinically evaluated at the On-therapy (Days 3-4), End of
      Therapy (Days 7-9), and Follow-up (Days 12-14) visits.

      Randomization will be center-based and performed using an appropriate Interactive Voice
      Response System (IVRS), an automated telephone system. The block size will remain
      confidential.

      Subjects are considered to have completed the study if they meet all inclusion/exclusion
      criteria, are considered compliant with study medication, and attend all study visits as
      defined by the protocol.
    
  