
    
      Cardiac surgical patients enrolled in the SHARP study will be randomized to 5% human albumin
      or 6% HES on entrance to the operating room. Anesthetic and Surgical management will follow
      protocol established by SHARP study including administration of a blinded study solution
      which contains 5% human albumin or 6% HES following separation from cardiopulmonary bypass.
      Blood will collected for measurement of baseline syndecan 1 and endocan following arterial
      line and urinary catheter placement before surgical incision. At 1 and 24 hrs following
      surgery completion, blood will be collected for measurement of syndecan 1 and endocan. Within
      two hours of ICU arrival, assessment of endothelial function will be performed.

      In a subset of patients (patients who consent for multiple measurements), assessment of
      endothelial function will be performed preoperatively (baseline) and 24 hours after surgery.

      Vasoactive substances may influence EndoPAT measurement. Thus the investigators will collect
      data on use of preoperative antihypertensive medications that have direct or indirect effect
      on arterial smooth muscle relaxation. Use of epinephrine, norepinephrine, vasopressin,
      milrinone, nitroglycerine, nitroprusside, and sedatives such as propofol, dexmedetomidine and
      others will be recorded and adjusted for in the analysis. Data on packed red blood cells
      (PRBC) and blood component transfusion will be collected from Anesthesia Record Keeping
      System. Indications for PRBC transfusion include hematocrit (HCT) <22% on cardiopulmonary
      bypass and <24% off cardiopulmonary bypass, and hypovolemia with anemia (HCT<25% with mean
      arterial blood pressure <60 mmHg or heart rate >100 bpm). Blood component transfusion
      (platelets, fresh frozen plasma, cryoprecipitate) may be administered as necessary following
      institutional standard of care. Imbalances in blood product transfusion between study groups
      will be adjusted for in the analysis.
    
  