
    
      Background: The increasing prevalence of Alzheimer's disease and other forms of dementia
      causes new challenges in primary care. Indeed, primary care providers point to a need for
      more training to care for this population, especially seniors presenting behavioural and
      psychological symptoms of dementia. They also find the inter-professional nature of care, and
      the need to communicate with community services and families, very challenging. Moreover,
      patients living with dementia and their caregivers consistently report their need for more
      information about dementia. Therefore, in a recent survey, the investigators sought five
      difficult decisions that patients living with dementia and their informal caregivers often
      face in primary care settings. In the current study, they propose to tailor and evaluate an
      e-learning professional training program on shared decision making, comprising evidence
      summaries on the health options to consider before making these five difficult decisions.
      This tailored training program is expected to improve shared decision making between
      clinicians and patients with dementia and their caregivers, and in turn improve patient and
      caregiver empowerment in relation to their own health care.

      Methods: In two phases, the aims of this study are to (1) design and tailor the intervention,
      and (2) implement and evaluate it. In the first phase, theory and user-centred design will be
      used to tailor a multifaceted intervention comprising a distance professional training
      program on shared decision making, and five shared decision-making tools dealing with
      difficult decisions often faced by seniors with dementia and their caregivers. Each tool will
      be designed in two versions, one for clinicians, and one for patients/caregivers. Forty-nine
      clinicians and 27 patients/caregivers will be invited to participate to three cycles of
      design-evaluation-feedback of each intervention components. Besides think-aloud and interview
      approaches, they will also complete questionnaires to identify the factors most likely to
      influence their adoption of shared decision making after exposure to the intervention.
      Thereafter, the intervention will be modified by adding/enhancing behaviour-change techniques
      targeting these factors. In the second phase, the effectiveness of this tailored intervention
      will be evaluated before/after implementation, in a two-armed, clustered randomized trial
      with a three-month follow-up. A convenience sample of primary care clinics and home care
      services will be enrolled in the province of Quebec (Canada), and health care providers who
      practice there will be recruited (mostly family physicians, nurses, and social workers). We
      will record participants' access to training component, and conduct telephone interviews with
      a purposeful sample of participants, half of whom completed training and the other half whom
      did not. The participants will also complete a survey before and after training, to assess
      their knowledge, and intention to adopt shared decision making. Three researchers will
      conduct a thematic qualitative analysis of the interviews, as per the theory of planned
      behaviour. We performed bivariate analyses with the survey data.

      Discussion: The results of this study will allow modifying the training program to improve
      participation rates and, ultimately, uptake of meaningful sjared decision making with
      patients living with dementia.
    
  