
    
      Oscillations in different frequency bands like theta, alpha, beta, gamma and high gamma are
      thought to underlie processing of cognitive and emotional information. For example, theta (3
      - 7 Hz) and alpha (8 - 12 Hz) oscillations are known to underlie working memory as well as
      attentional processing. Theta oscillations are known to differentiate emotional and neutral
      stimuli while gamma oscillations (30 - 50 Hz) are known to underlie rapid integration of
      information. The fact that these oscillations are also disrupted in neuropsychiatric
      disorders underline the importance of these oscillations.

      A lot of our understanding of these oscillations come from non invasive methods in humans
      like electroencephalography (EEG), magnetoencephalography (MEG) and invasive methods in
      animal models. However, EEG and MEG measure oscillations that are generated by collective
      firing of large cortical patches thereby losing spatial resolution. Also activity from deeper
      structures like amygdala and hippocampus cannot be picked up in these modalities. Animal
      models often suffer from the poor translation of behavior from animals to humans and vice
      versa. Intracranial EEG or Electrocorticography (ECoG) helps overcome the drawbacks described
      above.

      Studies using ECoG have become widespread and have been helpful in elucidating the functional
      roles of different brain regions in cognition and emotion. The investigators aim to utilize
      these established procedures to study the role of oscillations recorded from different brain
      regions in cognition and emotion.

      Patients with medically refractory epilepsy undergo long-term invasive monitoring for
      surgical resection planning. Electrodes are implanted subdurally over seizure focus to
      identify seizure onset zone and patients are often in the epilepsy monitoring unit at the
      Neuroscience hospital for approximately a week. During this period, intracranial EEG is
      constantly acquired for clinical investigation. The investigators plan to recruit these
      patients while they undergo long-term monitoring to leverage the rare access to direct brain
      recordings and study the role of oscillations in cognitive and affective processing. Patients
      who provide informed consent to participate in the study will perform computer based
      cognitive and emotional processing tasks.
    
  