
    
      Participants will be recruited from outpatient neurology clinics at Queen Square. Those who
      consent to take part will complete baseline outcome measures (Time 1) before being randomised
      to either a Treatment as Usual control group or the Intervention group.

      Treatment as Usual group -

        1. Participants will be directed to online patient information resources
           (www.neurosymptoms.org)

        2. Participants will be placed on the waiting list to be assessed for the inpatient
           treatment programme for functional symptoms at The National Hospital for Neurology and
           Neurosurgery. The waitlist is currently greater than 12 months.

        3. A referral is made to local community therapy services (which may include physiotherapy,
           occupational therapy and psychological therapy). If the participant has had contact from
           their community therapy services in the previous 12 months, a letter summarising the
           participant's diagnosis and physiotherapy needs will be sent.

        4. Participants will be asked to return at 4 weeks to complete outcome measures for a
           second time (Time 2)

      A referral to community therapy for such patients is usual practice in the UK, although the
      form in which the community therapy is provided tends to be inconsistent across the UK. In
      most cases it will entail between 1 and 8 outpatient or domiciliary physiotherapy
      appointments. Some communities will have access to Occupational Therapy, which may entail
      supported practice and advice to increase independence with functional tasks and the
      provision of equipment. The provision of community therapy to participants will be monitored
      through the CSRI.

      Intervention Group -

      For participants allocated to the intervention group, a 5 day admission on the Day Hospital
      at the National Hospital for Neurology and Neurosurgery is arranged. The physiotherapy
      intervention will take place in the physiotherapy department. Participants will be admitted
      individually (and not in groups). Outside of physiotherapy times participants are encouraged
      to rest in the day hospital and complete a workbook. A single independent physiotherapist
      will be trained to deliver the intervention.

      The participant (+/- family member) will attend an initial meeting with the consultant
      neurologist and the treating physiotherapist. The neurologist will perform a brief
      neurological assessment and confirm the diagnosis.

        1. The diagnosis will be explained again to the patient, using the word "functional" to
           describe the diagnosis.

        2. Physical signs of FMS will be demonstrated to the patient. This includes
           distractibility, Hoover's sign and entrainment.

        3. The treatment programme will be explained to the patient, linking resolution of symptoms
           with treatment rationale.

        4. The participant will attend 8-9 physiotherapy sessions over the 5 days. The intervention
           is a combination of education on functional motor symptoms, movement retraining and
           development of a self management plan.

        5. After the final physiotherapy session, the participant will complete the outcome
           measures (Time 2) and a feedback form.

      Both groups will be followed up at 6 months after recruitment to the study (Time 3). An
      independent assessor will administer the outcome measures.
    
  