
    
      This is a small study of 19 participants conducted over only two days. All data for this
      study is collected by the study.

      Tourniquet application:

      All tourniquet applications conducted with the participant seated on the edge of an exam
      table with one leg hanging off the side, and the leg for tourniquet application extended
      outward, with the mid calf resting on a support. This position permits access to the
      popliteal artery for ultrasonography while the investigator has access to apply the
      tourniquet. The lower edge of each tourniquet is aligned just above the middle of the thigh.
      All tourniquets are applied over the pressure mapping sensor. The sensor is slightly thicker
      than denim jeans. Extra care must be taken to ensure that the material of the sensor does not
      interfere with removing the slack from the windlass tourniquets before turning the windlass
      to apply final pressure.

      When a second windlass tourniquet is to be applied it is applied just above or proximal to
      the first windlass tourniquet. The windlass of each tourniquet are located as far from each
      other as possible. Meaning that if the windlass of the first tourniquet is the twelve o'clock
      position then the windlass of the second tourniquet is positioned at the six o'clock
      position. The strap of each tourniquet cannot slip over the windlass of the other. This 6 and
      12 positioning prevents the strap of the second windlass tourniquet from slipping over the
      first as it is tightened.

      When the tape tourniquet is applied, it is elongated, stretched as it is layered over the
      preceding layer with at least one half over lap. The tape tourniquet used in this study is
      similar to, but not the same as the product called manufactured by Entrotech, called "Battle
      Wrap." Results similar to this study should not be expected with the "Battle Wrap" product.
    
  