
    
      1. Name: whole body vibration BW-750

        2. Dosage form: frequency 4-10 Hz, 10-15minutes with rest for 3-5 minutes * 2 days in
           standing position

        3. Dose(s): post-op day2, WBV 4-10 Hz, 10-15minutes with rest for 3-5 minutes, post-op day3
           WBV 4-10 Hz, 10-15 minutes with 3-5 minutes in standing position

        4. Dosing schedule: whole body vibration 4-10 Hz for 10-15 minutes with rest 3-5 minutes on
           post-op day 2 and day3

        5. Mechanism of action: passive muscle contraction, improve swelling, increase blood flow,
           and improve muscle strength

        6. Pharmacological category: N/A

      IV.Study design 1. ■ Control: ■ placebo 2. Blinding: ■ double blind 3. Randomized: ■ yes □ no
      4. ■ Parallel 5. Duration of study:from IRB approval ~to 31 , Dec. , 2019 6. Number of
      subjects: 52 persons 7. Is there any of the followings included DSMB, Data Safety Monitoring
      Board:

        -  no V.Assessment criteria 1. Efficacy: pain (VAS)，swelling circumference，knee range of
           motion，knee extensor muscle strength，time up and go，and Activities of Daily Living 2.
           Safety: The duration and frequency of whole body vibration is relative low. The risk of
           damage is very low 3. Pharmacokinetics: Not apply 4. Quality of life: Through facilitate
           muscle contraction, improve blood flow, and decrease pain could improve muscle power,
           increase range of motion and ADL VI. Selection criteria

             1. Main inclusion criteria: knee osteoarthritis, post-operation of total knee
                arthroplasty, single leg

             2. Main exclusion criteria: vital signs unstable, uncontrolled blood pressure,
                diabetes mellitus, neoplasm, neurological disorder, fibromyalgia, cardiac
                pacemaker, bilateral TKA, musculoskeletal involvement other than TKA VII.Study
                procedures(summary)

             1. Written informed consent must be obtained before any study specific procedures are
                undertaken.

             2. The process of the experiment (brief describe)

             1. Randomized distribute participants into two groups, "whole body
                vibration(experimental group)+ traditional physical therapy" group and "placebo
                group with traditional physical therapy+ whole body vibration (placebo without
                turn-on vibration)".

             2. Post-TKA day 1 (not op day) Pre-test (baselin data) include pain(VAS), leg
                circumference, knee ROM, knee extensor strength (JAMMAR), sit to stand average
                duration, 6 meters ambulatory test.

                Both groups receive traditional physical therapy and passive continuous passive
                motion (CPM).

             3. Post-TKA day 2 Both groups keep traditional physical therapy and CPM.

           (1) The experimental group perform pre-test before the treatment. After the pre-test,
           participants receive 10-15 minutes WBV exercise in standing position, amplitude 2mm,
           frequency 4-10Hz, with rest about 3-5minutes. After the treatment, perform
           post-treatment test 1.

           (2) The control group standing on the WBV machine without turn-on for 10-15 minutes and
           then post-treatment test 1.

           4. Post-TKA day 3

             1. The experimental group participants receive 10-15 minutes WBV exercise in standing
                position, amplitude 2mm, frequency 4-10 Hz, with rest about 3-5minutes. After the
                treatment, perform post-treatment test 2.

             2. The control group standing on the WBV machine without turn-on for 10-15 minutes and
                then post-treatment test 1.

                Statistical analysis 1. Statistical Method for Efficacy / Safety measurements:
                Demographic data were collected on age, pre-TKA Osteoarthritis X-ray
                Kellgren-Lawrence classification, sex, weight, height, side of involvement. The
                investigators use t-test, or chi-square test to confirm homogeneity.

                On the other side, measurement the circulation of the affected limb above knee 15
                cm, knee and below knee 5cm for swelling evaluation. Pain scale with Numeric Rating
                Scale; NRS) before intervention, post-test 1 and post-test 2. Muscle power of knee
                extensor by the duration with holding knee extension in sitting position before
                intervention, post-test 1 and post-test 2 Knee range of motion with goniometer in
                sitting (prone position) The duration of time up and go，6 meter ambulation test
                with walker usage. ADL evaluation with Barthel Index including transfer score,
                ambulation score, and up/down stairs score. Paired t-test is applied for
                statistical significance between these measurements.

                Discussion The investigator expected that post treatment, the patients in the
                vibration group got increases in knee extensor strength, improvement in calf
                swelling and functional performance when compared to the control group.
    
  