
    
      The Study Drug:

      Nelarabine is designed to interfere with DNA (the genetic material of cells) and stop the
      growth of rapidly dividing cells, such as cancer cells.

      Study Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be assigned to a dose
      level of nelarabine based on when you joined this study. Up to 8 dose levels of nelarabine
      will be tested. Three (3) to 6 participants will be enrolled at each dose level. The first
      group of participants will receive the lowest dose level. Each new group will receive a
      higher dose than the group before it, if no intolerable side effects were seen. This will
      continue until the highest tolerable dose of nelarabine is found.

      Study Drug Administration:

      You will receive nelarabine as a non-stop infusion through a needle or catheter in your vein
      on Days 1-5 of each 4 - 6 week cycle. You will remain in the hospital for this infusion.

      You may receive ondansetron or a similar drug by vein over about 30 minutes before you
      receive nelarabine. This is given to help prevent nausea. You will also take ondansetron or a
      similar drug by mouth every 12 hours for the next 7 days as needed. If you are still having
      nausea, you will be given additional drugs.

      If you are not allergic, you may receive allopurinol by mouth on Days 1-10 of Cycles 1.
      Allopurinol is given to help reduce the risk of too much uric acid in the blood. If the level
      of uric acid in the blood is too high, you may receive additional drugs.

      You may also be given drugs to help reduce the risk of infection.

      Study Visits:

      On Day 1 of Cycle 1 only, blood (about 2 teaspoons each time) will be drawn for
      pharmacokinetic (PK) and pharmacodynamic (PD) testing 1 hour before, then again 2, 4, 6, and
      between 10-18 hours after the study drug infusion. PK testing measures the amount of study
      drug in the body at different time points. PD testing measures how the level of study drug in
      your body may affect the disease

      On Days 2, 3, 4, and 5 of Cycle 1 only, blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for PK and PD
      testing.

      On Day 1 of each cycle:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs.

        -  You will be asked about any drugs you are taking and about any transfusions you may have
           had.

        -  You will be asked about any side effects you may have had.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  Measurements of your lymph nodes, spleen, and liver will be taken.

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn to test the levels of antibodies and T-cells (a
           type of white blood cell) in your blood.

      One (1) time each week, or more often if the study doctor thinks it is needed:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs.

        -  You will be asked about any side effects you may have had.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  Blood (about 4 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

      After every 3 cycles:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs.

        -  You will be asked about any drugs you are taking and about any transfusions you may have
           had.

        -  You will be asked about any side effects you may have had.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  Measurements of your lymph nodes, spleen, and liver will be taken.

        -  Blood (about 4 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  You will have a neurological exam (tests to check the functioning of your nerves,
           including tests of your balance and reflexes).

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn to check the number of T-cells in your blood.

        -  You will have a bone marrow aspirate/biopsy to check the status of the disease.

        -  If you have NHL, you will have CT scan of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis to check the
           status of the disease.

      Length of Participation:

      You may continue to receive nelarabine for as long as the study doctor thinks it is in your
      best interest. You will no longer be able to receive the study drug if the disease gets worse
      or intolerable side effects occur.

      This is an investigational study. Nelarabine, given as an injection, is FDA approved for the
      treatment of refractory or relapsed T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia or T lymphoblastic
      lymphoma. The use of nelarabine as a continuous infusion is investigational.

      Up to 35 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  