
    
      Baseline Tests:

      If participant agrees to take part in this study, within 60 days before participant's
      surgery:

        -  Participant will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 8 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  Participant will complete a questionnaire about the quality of recovery. Participant's
           responses before surgery will be compared to participant's responses after surgery. It
           should take about 5 minutes to complete.

      Study Groups/Procedures:

      Participant will be randomly assigned (as in the flip of a coin) to 1 of 2 study groups on
      the morning of participant's surgery. This is done because no one knows if one study group is
      better, the same, or worse than the other group.

        -  If participant is in Group 1, participant will receive standard-of-care TEA before
           participant goes to sleep.

        -  If participant is in Group 2, participant will receive the 4Q-TAP block injections after
           participant is asleep.

      If participant is in Group 1, participant will have a catheter placed in participant's back
      before surgery so that the TEA can be infused. If needed, participant may receive an
      injection of numbing medication and/or pain medication before the catheter is placed.
      Participant will sign a separate consent for the placement of the catheter.

      If participant is in Group 2, participant will receive up to four (4) injections of 4Q-TAP
      block directly into different parts of the abdomen. These injections will take place after
      participant has been given general anesthesia. An ultrasound will be used to guide these
      injections. Participant will not be awake for these injections.

      Both groups will sign a separate consent for the surgery that explains the procedures and the
      risks. Participant may receive standard drugs during surgery. The study staff can tell
      participant about the risks of these drugs and how they are given.

      For both groups, information about the surgery will be collected while participant is in the
      operating room.

      Post-Surgery:

      After surgery, participant will receive standard drugs for pain as needed. Participant will
      be asked to complete a questionnaire about the quality of participant's recovery on the
      following days after surgery:

        -  Days 1-3

        -  Day 5

        -  Day 7

        -  Day 10 and

        -  Day 30

      The questionnaire should take about 5 minutes each time. Participant will complete the
      questionnaire in person or participant will be called on the phone to complete it if
      participant has already left the hospital.

      On Days 1, 2, and 7 after surgery, blood (about 8 teaspoons each time) will be drawn for
      routine tests.

      After participant leaves the hospital, researchers will collect information from
      participant's medical record about participant's standard follow-up visits.

      Length of Study Participation:

      Active participation in this study will be complete 30 days after the surgery.
    
  