
    
      Endometriosis is a common disease with an incidence rate of 15% in women of childbearing age,
      and is a chronic disease that significantly affects women's quality of life by causing two
      problems: pain and infertility. The usual treatment for ovarian endometrioma is surgery, and
      the most common surgical method is laparoscopy. Surgery has the advantage of reducing the
      pain of ovarian endometrioma and lower recurrence rate compared to other treatment methods,
      but it also has the disadvantage of deteriorating ovarian function. This is because healthy
      ovarian tissue adjacent to the ovarian tumor are damaged at the time of surgery, and damage
      to the ovarian tissue while using an electric cauterizer for hemostasis when removing the
      ovarian tumor. Therefore, various surgical methods have been studied to minimize damage to
      the ovarian tissue during the surgical procedure including local vasopressin injection into
      the surgical site.

      Vasopressin is a peptide hormone secreted by the posterior lobe of the pituitary gland, which
      promotes reabsorption of water in the kidney when administered systemically, but when
      administered locally, it constricts blood vessels and prevents bleeding such as in esophageal
      variceal therapy or myomectomy. There are previous studies that demonstrated, vasopressin
      injection prior to endometrioma resection, the interface between the endometrioma and normal
      ovarian tissue is dissected, and the amount of deterioration in ovarian function after
      surgery is reduced compared to the group without vasopressin by reducing the amount of
      bleeding through vasoconstriction.

      Endometriosis is the most common disease that interferes with pregnancy, and is known to have
      a significant decrease in ovarian function after surgery compared to other benign ovarian
      tumors. Currently, the best way to evaluate ovarian function is to measure AMH
      (anti-mullerian hormone). In a paper published in JMIG in 2014, the degradation of ovarian
      function was not evaluated as AMH. The purpose of this study is to investigate the effect of
      vasopressin on ovarian function in endometrioma surgery.

      Patients who have obtained consent in advance are divided into a test group that injects
      vasopressin and a control that excises it without injection. In the test group, everything
      except the administration of vasopressin at the surgical site immediately before the
      endometriosis was performed is the same as that of the control group. In this study,
      antimullerian hormone (AMH) will be used as an indicator of ovarian function evaluation, and
      will be evaluated before surgery, 6 and 12 months after surgery Aim of this study is to
      compare the anti-mullarian hormone (AMH) change in vasopressin-administered patients after
      unilateral endometrioma surgery. In this study, subjects were allocated randomly with
      stratification of AMH level 3.0mg / ml. When α (type 1 error) = 0.05
    
  