
    
      Background: Chronic pelvic pain syndrome (CPPS) is highly prevalent, yet its etiology and the
      treatment approach are not clear. Painful bladder syndrome (PBS), a subtype of CPPS, is
      commonly treated by Myofascial physical therapy (MPT), however its efficiency is limited to
      portion of patients. The relative contribution of local factors such as pelvic anatomical and
      physiological function compared with systemic pain- related psychological and psychophysical
      parameters in the prediction of MPT outcome has not been illumined yet.

      Hypothesis and aims: Assuming that MPT has mainly local effect its treatment success can be
      predicted by local impairment of pelvic anatomical and physiological function assessed
      pretreatment.

      Study aims to: (1) evaluate the role of morphological and physiological characteristics of
      the pelvic floor, pain-related psychological and -psychophysical variables in prediction of
      MPT success, (2) to assess the effect of MPT on these parameters.

      Methods: PBS patients will be evaluated for symptoms severity prior to MPT by: (1) pelvic
      physical examination for identification of trigger points, (2) self-report of pelvic pain
      intensity on visual analogue scale (VAS), (3) filling a questionnaire for urinary urgency
      symptoms, (4) evaluation of morphological and physiological characters of pelvic muscles
      floor by ultrasound and Doppler, respectively, (5) assessment of pain-related psychological
      variables (depression, somatization and pain catastrophizing) by questionnaires, and (6)
      psychophysical tests of experimental pain perception. Following 3 months treatment of MPT,
      patients will be reevaluated for the same tests. Treatment success will be determined by 30%
      reduction in pain and urinary urgency.

      Expected results: Patients with shorter levator muscles and reduced blood flow in the pelvic
      region will benefit from MPT compared to patients with augmented pain sensitivity and higher
      depression, pain catastrophizing and somatization scores. MPT will elongate levator muscles
      and increased blood flow to the pelvic region that will be associated with the improvement in
      PBS symptoms.

      Importance: The significance of the proposed study stems from its potential to extend
      conceptualizing of mechanisms associated with PBS and its treatment success.
    
  