
    
      An open label, non-randomised, single arm, sequential phase (two sequential cohorts) study,
      evaluating the preliminary efficacy of Pembrolizumab in Cancer of unknown Primary (CUP).

      Cohort 1:

      Cohort 1 will enrol a maximum of 20 patients, who have had at least one prior line / regimen
      of chemotherapy (at least 2 cycles) appropriate for CUP and who have not had a RECIST
      response to first-line chemotherapy, or are progressing after an initial response, or are
      treatment intolerant to first-line chemotherapy, due to unacceptable toxicity.

      As soon as there has been one documented response in cohort 1, the study then proceeds to
      enrol cohort 2 in parallel. Cohort 2 will not be initiated, if have been no cohort 1 (0/20)
      patients who have benefitted and 20 cohort 1 patients have completed at least 12 weeks of
      therapy. Benefit for this study is defined as either a RECIST or irRECIST response; stable
      disease for a minimum of 12 weeks. This allows a go / no-go decision to proceed/ not proceed
      to enrolling cohort 2 by the trial management group

      Cohort 2:

      Cohort 2 will enrol a maximum of 57 patients who are chemo-naïve (first-line setting) for
      CUP*, with a PS 0-2. Benefit for this study is defined as either a RECIST or irRECIST
      response or stable disease at 12 weeks.

      *Previous chemotherapy for other cancers is allowed

      For both cohorts, patients will undergo screening procedures during a standard 28-days time
      window from initiation of the study, under standard Good Clinical Practice (GCP) and informed
      consent. Restaging will be performed by computerized tomography using ir-RECIST criteria at 3
      months from initiation of systemic treatment and on an 8 weekly basis thereafter until
      radiological proven disease progression or intolerance or patient choice.

      The EORTC Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ-C30) questionnaire (to assess the quality of
      life) will be done at baseline after 3 months and then at discontinuation of study treatment.

      Correlative translational study samples (blood) and tissue (used for histological
      confirmation and to document Programmed Death-Ligand 1 (PD-L1) expression) will be collected
      at baseline, and blood and serum samples monthly (after an informed optional consent and
      banked for retrospective immune-modulating and other biomarkers for future research and
      analysis).
    
  