
    
      The cultivation of almond (Amygdalus communis L.) has always been a hallmark of the
      Mediterranean, representing a resource both food and economic. To traditional uses, mostly
      related the confectionery industry, they are added other in cosmetics.

      The plant is perfectly adapted to the Mediterranean climate, characterized by hot, dry
      summers, and is often associated to olive, carob and fig trees, species with similar climatic
      requirements. Almonds are a nutrient-dense food. They are high in fat (55.3%), mainly (39.4%)
      they consist of monounsaturated fatty acids (MUFA). Moreover, almonds are an excellent source
      of vitamin E, manganese, magnesium, copper, phosphorus, fibre, riboflavin and protein. In
      addition, almond proteins are unusually high in arginine and possess good digestibility.
      Recent studies have shown that almonds also contain a diverse array of phenolic and
      polyphenolic.

      Numerous studies correlate the moderate and regular consumption of nuts with an important
      role in health. In particular, habitual almond consumption does not lead to weight gain, and
      their inclusion in low-calorie diets appears to promote more weight loss than a comparable
      carbohydrate-based low-calorie diet. Also, almonds have a low glycemic index and do not
      adversely impact insulin sensitivity. So they reduce certain risk factors linked to diabetes
      and cardiovascular disease. Almonds are an excellent source of bioavailable α-tocopherol, and
      increasing their intake enhances the resistance of LDL against oxidation. In addition, the
      polyphenolic constituents of almonds have been characterized recently and found to possess
      antioxidant actions. Some studies show as consumption of almonds has been shown to be
      associated with lower levels of serum cholesterol and triglycerides thanks of their
      polyunsaturated fatty acids.

      They are also indicated in the diet of elderly people by helping to increase bone mineral
      density. Important is also the antibacterial and antifungal power of almond oils shown in
      recent years.

      Despite Mediterranean countries (particularly Spain and Italy) have dominated world trade for
      a long time, from the '80 years, Italy underwent a strong production crisis, mainly due to
      the lack of new plants conducted according to the most modern techniques of cultivation and
      competition from other crops considered more profitable (eg. wine, horticultural and citrus).
      The United States currently control more than a third of the world production of almond,
      using different cultivars and agronomic practices, based on more modern systems. Californian
      industry is characterized by much larger companies than Italian and modern mechanized
      harvesting systems linked to the condition of serious shortage of manpower. This allowed it
      to create a standardized product with no impurities, selected and beautifully packaged who
      conquered large segments of trade, while not offering a high standard from the point of view
      of the qualitative composition.

      In Apulia, almond of Toritto has spread on the border between pre-Murgia and Alta Murgia
      which takes its name from the country where it is produced. Here various native cultivars
      have been developed such as "Filippo Cea", the "Antonio De Vito" and "Genco", which have
      resisted the invasion of the most productive varieties of California. Almond of Toritto is a
      product of excellence, recognized as typical Apulian product, entered in the list of Italian
      traditional food products of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry.
    
  