
    
      Loss of manual dexterity significantly impacts Warfighter effectiveness and lethality on the
      cold-weather battlefield. Identifying countermeasures that improve hand and finger
      temperatures, hand and finger blood flow, manual dexterity, and thermal comfort may lead to
      better Warfighter performance. A primary purpose of this study is to test the efficacy of a
      commercial off-the-shelf cocoa-rich bioflavanol product on hand/finger blood flow and
      temperature, manual dexterity, and thermal comfort during whole-body cold exposure. Another
      primary purpose is to determine the effect of bioflavanols on the finger cold-induced
      vasodilation (CIVD) response to cold-water immersion. Secondary purposes are to determine if:
      a) cocoa-rich flavanols stimulate the growth of beneficial gut bacteria and b) impact
      attention and effort perception during dexterity task completion in the cold. Two
      experimental studies (n = 20 in each study, 10 women and 10 men, 18-49 yr) will be conducted.
      Experiment #1 consists of immersing the middle finger in cold water (4°C) for 30 minutes;
      experiment #2 consists of whole-body cold exposure (8°C air, 90-min exposure, wearing
      cold-weather clothing but bare-handed). In both experiments, outcomes will be measured after
      both acute flavanol or placebo ingestion and chronic ingestion of flavanol/placebo (8 days of
      supplementation). Daily flavanol ingestion will be 900 mg/day. Volunteers will serve as their
      own controls in this crossover, double-blind research design. The washout period between
      flavanol and placebo treatments will be at least 2 weeks (longer for women who will be tested
      only during the follicular phase). Measurements during these tests include skin temperature,
      skin blood flow, fine and gross motor dexterity, thermal comfort, and effort perception.
      Fecal samples, in both experiments, will be collected before and after 8 days of cocoa-rich
      bioflavanol supplementation to examine if bioflavanol supplementation increases the number of
      beneficial bacteria in the gut microbiome. Information from this study will inform combat
      nutrition developers about the efficacy of cocoa-rich bioflavanols and possible inclusion
      into cold-weather field rations.
    
  