
    
      Over the past decade there have been increasing calls for the scale-up of evidence-based
      interventions in order to reduce the risk of violence against children in low- and
      middle-income countries (LMICs). In particular, group-based parenting programmes for families
      with young children have been shown to be effective in reducing the risk of child
      maltreatment and improving child wellbeing with promising evidence emerging from low- and
      middle-income countries. These group-based programmes typically aim to strengthen
      caregiver-child relationships through positive parenting and help parents to manage child
      behaviour problems through effective, age-appropriate, nonviolent discipline strategies.

      Despite the emerging evidence of the effectiveness of parenting interventions in reducing
      violence against children, many local governments and service providers in LMICs face
      multiple challenges in implementing evidence-based parenting programmes in resource poor
      contexts. Parenting programmes are often too expensive to deliver effectively at scale in
      low-resource settings due to their complexity, intensity, and length. Parenting programmes
      developed and evaluated in other contexts also may not fit the local service delivery context
      and may require adaptation to be relevant to the local culture of families. Additional
      programme content may also be necessary to address acute economic deprivation, high community
      violence, and parental distress. The process of delivery may also need to be simplified to
      improve participant engagement and the quality of delivery.

      As a result, it is essential that programmes implemented in LMICs are

        -  Effective at reducing violence against children,

        -  Integrated within the existing service delivery system of the country,

        -  Feasible and culturally acceptable to service providers and families, and

        -  Scalable in terms of their affordability, replicability, and sustainability while
           reaching a maximum number of beneficiaries.

      However, there are currently very few parenting programmes that meet these criteria in LMICs
      (such as North Macedonia, Republic of Moldova, and Romania), where the need is the greatest.

      The Parenting for Lifelong Health (PLH) initiative is focused on the development, evaluation,
      and dissemination of parenting programmes to reduce violence against children and improve
      child wellbeing in LMIC. It was established to address the need to develop low-cost,
      evidence-based parenting programmes that can be integrated within existing service delivery
      systems in LMIC. The PLH for Young Children from 2-9 y. (PLH-YC) programme includes general
      content like one-on-one time/child-led play; praising and rewarding children; instructions,
      household rules, and routines; managing difficult behaviours: ignore and consequences;
      reflection and moving on. Core activities during sessions include group discussions
      illustrated vignettes, role-plays, collaborative problem solving, practicing skills at home.

      The overall RISE project has two general objectives: (1) the first objective relates to the
      adaption, optimisation and evaluation of selected best practice intervention condition
      (MOST), while (2) the second objective relates to implementation issues (RE-AIM).

      The primary objective of the overall project is adapt, optimise and test a parenting
      programme so that it meets the specific needs and constraints of families in three LMIC in
      Southeastern Europe. The design is informed by the Multiphase Optimisation Strategy (MOST)
      and is conduced over 3 distinct phases: 1) Preparation, 2) Optimisation, and 3) Evaluation.
      In Phase 1, the feasibility of the intervention and research methods was tested in a small
      pilot study in North Macedonia, Republic of Moldova, and Romania. In Phase 2, 8 different
      programme components were tested in a factorial experiment to identify the most effective and
      cost-effective combination. In the present Phase 3, the optimised intervention (identified in
      Phase 2) will be tested in a randomised-controlled trial.

      A secondary objective of this project is to carefully assess barriers to implementation,
      integration with existing service delivery systems, and scale-ups from the outset to
      facilitate sustainability and real world applicability at the end of the project. When
      introducing such an innovative intervention in resource-limited settings, it is important to
      focus on the implementation processes that increase reach, efficacy, adoption, and
      sustainability of culturally-adapted and optimized versions of the programme in addition to
      evaluating programme effectiveness. The theoretical model for the implementation framework in
      the RISE project is RE-AIM (Reach, Efficacy, Adoption, Implementation, Maintenance, Glasgow
      et al., 2011). As a result, investigators will examine the adoption (defined as the
      proportion of settings willing to initiate the intervention), reach (the proportion of
      eligible individuals that participate in the intervention) and implementation (the fidelity,
      adherence, dosage assessed with multiple measures) as well as on effectiveness and
      sustainability of the RISE project at the organizational and participants' level. In
      addition, it will be examined how implementation factors influence programme effectiveness,
      and how potential population characteristics might affect outcomes (e.g., moderators such as
      baseline parent mental health, for details see study protocol, Taut et al., in preparation).

      The first two Phases have been successfully completed. For details of Phase 1, see trial
      registration (https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03552250) and study protocol (doi:
      10.1136/bmjopen-2018-026684). For details of Phase 2, please refer to the trial registration
      (https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03865485) or the study protocol
      (https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cct.2019.105855).

      This presently registered study relates to the Evaluation Phase (Phase 3). This
      randomised-controlled trial ist to test the effectiveness and the cost-effectiveness of the
      optimised intervention (identified in the factorial experiment, Phase 2) in the three LMIC
      North Macedonia, Republic of Moldova and Romania. More details can be found in the study
      protocol for Phase 3.
    
  