
    
      Objectives: This is a single arm study evaluating whether or not the dexamethasone pellet
      (Ozurdex®, Allergan, Irvine, CA) can replace oral corticosteroid (e.g. prednisone) in the
      treatment of active sight-threatening, noninfectious intermediate or posterior uveitis in
      which immunosuppressive drug therapy is indicated.

      Background: Intermediate and posterior uveitis are thought to be severe intraocular
      inflammation that may lead to permanent visual loss. It is estimated that these forms of
      uveitis comprise the fifth or sixth leading cause of blindness and tend to affect working
      class age patients, thus causing loss of work hours and diminished productivity and quality
      of life. Because the posterior segment of the eye is not adequately treated by corticosteroid
      drops often systemic drug therapy is used including oral corticosteroids or prednisone.
      Prednisone can have a myriad of side effects in approximately one-quarter to one-third of
      cases treated in tertiary care centers such as ours, additional medications such as
      immunosuppressive drugs are required to control the disease and/or to allow for appropriate
      tapering of oral prednisone to subsequent levels that have a low side effect profile when
      delivered over a long period of time. Typically, chronic prednisone therapy in doses of 7.5
      mg daily or less are thought to have a low enough side effect profile to be amenable to
      long-term therapy. However frequently immunosuppressive drugs are required to get the dosing
      to this level. There are occasions when patients are intolerant of any dose of oral
      corticosteroids or are intolerant of the higher doses of oral corticosteroids (30 - 60 mg
      daily) and therefore this treatment modality is avoided due to prednisone's attendant side
      effects. Although periocular and intravitreal corticosteroids injections may be performed,
      with these modalities the standard of care is to wait until the disease reactivates before
      instituting such therapy and therefore a chronic suppressive dose is not obtained. The
      fluocinolone acetonide implant (Retisert®, Bausch and Lomb, Tampa, FL) is FDA-approved for
      the treatment of intermediate and posterior uveitis and it is equally effective in
      controlling uveitis as high-dose oral corticosteroids but avoids the systemic side effects
      associated with the use of high doses of oral corticosteroids. However, this form of local
      therapy has high rates of ocular side effects, including ocular hypertension causing glaucoma
      and/or requiring glaucoma surgery and cataracts. Furthermore, every two and half to three
      years the implant is exhausted of corticosteroid and therefore repeat surgical insertion of
      another implant may be required. A useful potential therapy for the treatment of these
      patients would be a shorter-acting local corticosteroid that could be delivered in
      conjunction with systemic immunosuppressive drug therapy that would have a lower ocular side
      effect profile but still would be effective enough to replace the use of high-dose systemic
      corticosteroids in the treatment of active intermediate or posterior uveitis. It is possible
      that the dexamethasone pellet could fill this unique role in the treatment of uveitis.
      Investigators propose this study to evaluate dexamethasone pellet for this specific use among
      patients with active intermediate and posterior uveitis.
    
  