
    
      Pneumonia is a frequent complication of stroke, particularly within the first few days. The
      risk of pneumonia is increased in patients who are older, have a more severe stroke and in
      those who have swallowing problems as a result of their stroke. Patients who develop
      pneumonia have a higher risk of death and longer hospital stay. The diagnosis of pneumonia is
      not always easy, but it is important to identify pneumonia early in order to begin the most
      appropriate treatment in a timely fashion and avoid giving antibiotics unnecessarily. Chest
      x-ray, the standard test undertaken when pneumonia is suspected, infrequently shows changes
      and is of limited value.

      Pulmonary Computed Tomography (CT) scans can be used to image the lungs in more detail than a
      standard chest xray. The Investigators plan to assess if it is feasible to perform pulmonary
      CT imaging in stroke patients within 48 hours of symptoms and who may be acutely unwell. The
      Investigators will also investigate how reliable CT is at diagnosing pneumonia by asking
      different x-ray doctors to review the scans. Comparing the result of the pulmonary CT imaging
      to the chest x-ray will allow assessment of their utility for the diagnosis of pneumonia. The
      Investigators will also record whether the CT informs clinical management e.g. stopping
      antibiotics if pneumonia is excluded.

      Blood samples will be collected for measurement of inflammatory markers and mouth swabs will
      measure types of bacteria. The analysis will be conducted at Salford Royal NHS Foundation
      Trust (SRFT) and using new cutting-edge techniques performed by collaborators at ThermoFisher
      and Manchester Collaborative Centre for Inflammation Research. The Investigators will assess
      how useful these inflammatory proteins are in pneumonia diagnosis compared to the pulmonary
      CT scans. This research will help the Investigating team design larger studies to diagnose
      pneumonia earlier and more accurately, enabling more effective use of antibiotics.
    
  