
    
      Allogenic Blood transfusions are associated with numerous complications from simple uticaria
      to serious transmissible diseases. While improved testing has significantly decreased the
      incidence of AIDS and hepatitis C to approximately 1:2,000,000 units tested; hepatitis B
      approximately 1:200,000 units tested, more frequent complications occur secondary to
      immunomodulation, which results in making infections more common. These are not due to
      infected blood, but develop because of changes in patients' immune system after having
      received an allogenic red blood cell transfusion. The relative risk for developing an
      infection is 1.6 for 1-3 red blood cell units and 3.6 for patients who receive more than 3
      red cell units. Patients who receive transfusions have a 52% greater risk of developing
      pneumonia and a 35% greater risk of developing a urinary tract infection. On average,
      hospitalization costs $14,000 more for patients with a serious infection. These infections
      prolong the length of hospitalization after surgery and may even result in death.2 Other
      complications of transfusion include Transfusion Related Acute Lung Injury which causes at
      least 5300 TRALI reactions per year in the US alone, and approximately 500 deaths. In fact,
      just one donor whose blood triggered a TRALI death was found on review of records to have
      caused 14 previous cases of TRALI. Other serious complications include Adult Respiratory
      Distress Syndrome, and transfusion reactions. As a group, these complications of transfusion
      result in increased morbidity and mortality. Therefore, it is in the best interest of
      patients to decrease the amount of allogenic blood transfused (from other individuals). To
      prevent this, surgeons employ the use of a Cell Saver (CS) during surgery which collects the
      patient's own blood from the operative field and washes it. This blood is then re-infused
      into the patient's intravenous, minimizing the need for transfusion of blood from the blood
      bank.

      Despite the benefits of the cell saver, it is not used in patients who have malignancy due to
      concern that the tumor cells may spread systemically via the blood. Due to the nature of
      musculoskeletal tumor resections there is often significant blood loss. Dissection is
      regularly through the muscles rather than around muscular intervals, which can result in
      significant bleeding. The goal of this study is to determine the presence or absence of tumor
      cells in the blood suctioned from the surgical field. Pending the outcome, consideration will
      be made to go forward with a second study to determine if cell saver could be used in
      patients with malignancy undergoing surgery.

      It is unclear whether tumor cells are present in the blood suctioned from an extremity
      malignancy resection. It is also unknown if the processing of blood suctioned would remove
      tumor cells from the blood to be transfused. If no tumor cells are found in the blood after
      processing then transfusion of this blood would likely be safe. This could result in
      decreased blood transfusions in this patient population. This would not only decrease risk to
      these patients, it would also improve the blood supply, ensuring that blood is available for
      other patients who require it. This work is highly significant as it would both improve
      safety in this patient population and improve the blood supply. Data collected will include
      the patient's diagnosis, the presence or absence of metastatic disease, whether they have
      been previously treated with chemotherapy or radiation and the dates of that treatment.
      Patients will undergo surgery and anesthesia in the usual manner. Three sets of specimens
      approximately 4mL each would be taken; one from a peripheral line prior to opening the skin,
      the second sample will be taken from the surgical field or suction canister during the tumor
      resection the third from the surgical field or suction canister shortly before the tumor is
      removed. These samples will be taken to Dr. Fitzhugh's laboratory for slide staining.

      Patients who are determined by their surgeon and/or anesthesiologist to require blood will be
      administered blood processed by the University Hospital Blood Bank using standard transfusion
      protocols. No blood taken from the patient or the operative field will be transfused.

      There are no significant risks in this study. Roughly 2 ml of blood is required for the total
      number of slides (2-4) that would be prepared per tube. This amount of blood 12 mL is less
      than one tablespoon and does not pose significant risk to the patient nor does it increase
      the likelihood of transfusion. Slides will be stained using the Diff-Quik staining method, a
      method similar to the Wright-Giemsa staining used in hematology laboratories. The technique
      is rapid (requires only 3 minutes per submitted sample) and inexpensive. Slides will be
      reviewed by Dr. Fitzhugh.
    
  