
    
      Depression is a prevalent and debilitating mental health condition that is relatively common
      in almost all countries around the world, including Vietnam, and is one of the largest
      burdens of health. Although effective treatments exist, many with depression do not receive
      appropriate care. In Vietnam, numerous barriers exist to implementation of evidence-based
      mental health services but recently there has been growing recognition of the need to address
      the treatment gap. In order to close the treatment gap for depression, within the health care
      system, effective depression care needs to be scaled up to a wider network of community
      health stations that are supported by the local psychiatric hospitals. However, it is unclear
      what the best implementation model is for supporting depression care in primary care
      settings.

      The aim of this project is to compare three different models of implementation support for
      depression care in two Vietnam provinces: 1) Supported Implementation when implementation
      support is provided and 2) Sustainment Phases, when study funded implementation supports are
      withdrawn. The providers in select community health stations (CHSs) within these two
      provinces) will receive training workshops and varying levels of implementation support based
      on the implementation models (described below) to provide depression care to their patients.
      The three models are : 1) Usual Implementation (UI) - a basic depression workshop, limited
      technical assistance to set up the program, and implementation toolkits 2) Enhanced
      Supervision (ES) - UI + ongoing structured supportive supervision; and 3) Community Engaged
      Learning Collaborative (CELC) - ES + community collaborative learning.

      The three models will be evaluated based on the RE-AIM framework, which will be assessed
      using implementation and patient outcomes across supported implementation phase and
      sustainment phase. Both implementation and patient outcomes will be assessed during the
      sustainment phase after resources are withdrawn to evaluate the sustainability of the
      program. Knowledge gained from this project will be used to inform implementation of
      depression care services across Vietnam, and help increase access and quality of depression
      care.
    
  