
    
      AIM Verified if the first stage of the Train the trainer (TTT)plan could improve the young
      endoscopist's ability to detect the early gastric cancer.

      GROUP The control group five young endoscopist not accepted the TTT The experimental group
      five young endoscopist accepted the TTT CRITERIA The entry criteria (A) retrospective part
      (1) The gastroscopy patients was operated by the ten doctors in 2014: (2) painless
      gastroscopy(intravenous anesthesia); (3) age: 18-70 years old; male or female (B):
      prospective part

      (1) consistent with gastroscopy indications: (2) painless gastroscopy(intravenous
      anesthesia); (3) age: 18-70 years old; male or female (4) signed the informed consent.

      Exclusion criteria ( retrospective part and prospective part)

        1. those patients who underwent gastrectomy

        2. the emergency gastroscopy, such as, esophageal foreign body, gastric foreign body, upper
           gastrointestinal hemorrhage. ;

        3. serious gastric hemorrhage or food residue that influence endoscopist's observation;

        4. those had been diagnosed outside the hospital before gastroscopy this time;

        5. those took oral anticoagulants and can't do biopsy examination;

        6. those were not suitable for endoscopic contraindication for endoscopic examination or
           endoscopic biopsy;

        7. do not fit into the experiment;

        8. don't do as the test plan demand.

      METHOD

        1. a retrospective analysis of the ten young endoscopist's painless gastroscopy examination
           from January 1, 2014 to December 31, 2014. According mainly to the endoscopic report and
           pateint's History, quantity of gastroscope, gastric cancer and the early gastric cancer.
           In addition, for early gastric cancer patients, it was record,(1) the patient's name,
           (2)gender, (3)age, (4)the location of the lesion- longitudinal (upper, middle and
           lower),(5) the location of the lesion -circumferential (lessor curvature, Greater
           curvature, anterior wall, posterior wall),(6) lesion size, (7)conventional white-light
           imaging (red, white, no change), (8)EM-NBI VS type (boundaries, microvascular pattern
           and microsurface pattern; don't do it), (9)microscopy types (uplift type, flat type,
           concave type or IIc I/IIa or IIb), (10)histological type (differentiated and
           undifferentiated type) and (11) pathological (low grade neoplasia, high-level neoplasia
           etc.). For the treatment of ESD patients, further pathological results were recorded
           after ESD, including the pathology, edge and basal conditions.

           Note:

           (A) those had been diagnosed outside the hospital before gastroscopy, withhold, listed
           separately.

           (B) for anesthesia, or not to determine whether anesthesia, withhold, separately listed;
           (C) considering the actual clinical situation, in the absence of pathological report,
           endoscopy reports generally will not report "early gastric cancer", but will use
           descriptive language diagnosis as "erosion" "apophysis" " ulcer". The investigators will
           find out the suspected early gastric cancer, then go on to confirm the diagnosis by the
           pathologic findings.

           (D) considering the actual clinical situation, the investigators often wrote the
           Malignant tumor （MT） instead of the gastric cancer in patients' report. Don't miss the
           descriptive language as "ulcer" patients. Found out the suspected patients and confirmed
           by pathology.

        2. the first step of the train the trainer plan(TTT) activised in March 19-20,2015,which
           including the diagnosis and operation "hand in hand" teach by Professor Yano
           Takeshiin,and the case discussion,and so on. Core: First, a detailed examination by
           white light is used to look for an irregular margin or a depressed spiny area.Then
           narrow-band imaging is used to look for a demarcation line, an microvascular pattern and
           microsurface pattern .five young endoscopist accepted the TTT plan and the other five
           not accepted.

        3. The five doctors who accepted the TTT do the gastroendoscopy in accordance with the TTT
           content (for the T1 period),.(1) the patient's name, (2)gender, (3)age,(4)past medical
           history (HP, gastritis, gastric ulcer, oral drug operation, etc.),（5）gastroscope
           operation time,(6)the location of the lesion- longitudinal (upper, middle and lower),(7)
           the location of the lesion -circumferential (lessor curvature, Greater curvature,
           anterior wall, posterior wall),(8) lesion size, (9)conventional white-light imaging
           (red, white, no change), (10)EM-NBI VS type (boundaries, microvascular pattern and
           microsurface pattern; don't do it), (11)microscopy types (uplift type, flat type,
           concave type or IIc I/IIa or IIb), (12)histological type (differentiated and
           undifferentiated type) and (13) pathological (low grade neoplasia, high-level neoplasia
           etc.). For the treatment of ESD patients, further pathological results were recorded
           after ESD, including the pathology, edge and basal conditions. The other five doctors do
           the gastroendoscopy as they do before. (300 cases / person)

        4. second TTT activity (2015 July -8 months),;

        5. The five doctors who accepted the TTT do the gastroendoscopy in accordance with the TTT
           content (for the T2 period),.The other five doctors do the gastroendoscopy as they do
           before. (300 cases / person)

        6. third TTT activity (2015 November -12 months);

        7. The five doctors who accepted the TTT do the gastroendoscopy in accordance with the TTT
           content (for the T3 period),The other five doctors do the gastroendoscopy as they do
           before. (300 cases / person)

        8. fourth TTT activity (2016 February -3 months);

        9. The five doctors who accepted the TTT do the gastroendoscopy in accordance with the TTT
           content (for the T4 period),The other five doctors do the gastroendoscopy as they do
           before. (300 cases / person)

       10. Statistics the number of early gastric cancer have been found by the five young doctors,
           and how mang gastroscopy they have done.

      (A) List the general condition of patients before and after TTT; found the location of the
      tumor, whether the same type? (B) The rates of EGC detection before and after the TTT? Is the
      rates of Gastric cancer(GC) detection increasing? (C)The rates of EGC detection between the
      doctor accepted the TTT and not? (D) is the rates of EGC detection different among T1, T2,
      T3, T4 ? Is the rates of Gastric cancer detection increasing? (F) early cancer patients was
      found after TTT training, comparison the endoscopic diagnosis with Pathology, and pay
      attention to accuracy, sensitivity, false positive rate and false negative rate （ME-NBI）. And
      the reason analysis.
    
  