
    
      This study will be conducted according to the standards of Good Clinical Practice and in
      compliance with the principles set out in the Declaration of Helsinki, with the
      UNI_ISO_14155_2011 standard, and with all relevant local laws and regulations applicable to
      clinical trials that use patients as the research object. This clinical investigation in the
      various centers involved cannot begin before having received the favorable written approval
      of the Ethics Committee of the coordinating center and the respective Ethics Committees. The
      medical assistance provided to the subject is the responsibility of adequately qualified
      doctors, as all the centers involved in this study are centers specialized in the treatment
      of the pathology object of the clinical trial (Diabetology units or Diabetic Foot clinics).

      During this trial, the patients' right to physical and mental integrity, the right to
      privacy, and the protection of data concerning them will be respected following Directive
      95/46/EC.

      This clinical investigation has been designed in such a way as to cause as little pain,
      discomfort, fear, and other foreseeable risks for the subject as possible and the degree of
      discomfort related to the trial itself or the treatment with the medical device in question
      is almost nil, considered the clinical evaluation report of the device and the safety data
      obtained from post-marketing surveillance.

      The degree of discomfort/pain of the enrolled patients is however subject to continuous
      verification during the clinical trial, through a special questionnaire on the detection of
      discomfort connected to participation in the study in question. The risk/benefit ratio will
      be constantly checked throughout the trial, taking into account any adverse events /
      device-related accidents or non-serious side effects reported by the main investigators, and
      the preliminary assessment of the benefits found on patients who have completed the study
      process.

      The principal investigator of each center is responsible for adequate conduct of the study of
      his own center and the coordination of the personnel involved. Must be responsible for all
      medical decisions relating to the study and ensure that adequate medical assistance is
      provided to the subject in case of adverse events. The investigator should conduct the study
      following the protocol agreed with the sponsor and the authorities.

      To verify that the rights, safety, and well-being of enrolled patients are protected, that
      the data communicated are reliable and solid, and that the clinical investigation is
      conducted in compliance with the prescriptions of current legislation, the sponsor guarantees
      adequate monitoring of the conduct of this clinical investigation. The monitoring of the
      clinical investigation is entrusted to the sponsor's staff adequately trained. To ensure
      compliance with ICH/GCP guidelines and current legislation, such personnel will be
      responsible for ensuring that the Study is conducted in full compliance with the Standard
      Operating Procedures, the Protocol, and other written instructions.

      The main responsibilities of the personnel carrying out the monitoring are to ensure
      adherence to the Protocol, to ensure that data is recorded and reported accurately and
      completely, and to verify that informed consent has been obtained and recorded for all
      subjects before they participate in the study. Researchers will be contacted at regular
      intervals throughout the study period. To check and verify the various documents (Data
      Collection Cards or CRFs and other relevant documents containing the original data) relating
      to the Study to verify compliance with the Protocol and to ensure the completeness,
      consistency, and accuracy of the recorded data.

      Monitoring staff will conduct a center opening visit (SIV), a minimum of three visits during
      the study (MOV) to be scheduled approximately one after 1 or 2 months after SIV based on the
      number of patients enrolled, one at two-thirds of the enrollment and another after the
      observations on the last patient. Finally, once all the open issues have been resolved (open
      queries, clarifications, etc.), we will proceed with the center closing visit (COV). Should
      additional monitoring visits be necessary, the staff will schedule them with the principal
      investigator.
    
  