
    
      Dfusion, in partnership with the RAND Corporation, Allen Interactions and Dr. Loretta Jemmott
      (MPC developer), proposes to develop an online avatar-based virtual training that can make
      MPC training more accessible while still being as effective as in-person. In this Phase I
      STTR, we will develop and test a prototype of the online, avatar-based virtual training for
      activities of MPC and test it with 72 adults who have experience working with adolescents
      (but not with MPC or any HIV/STI/teen pregnancy risk-reduction program). At random, 36 will
      receive traditional in-person MPC training, and 36 will receive avatar-based MPC training.
      The avatar group (n=36) will be compared to the in-person group (n=36) on their STI/pregnancy
      prevention knowledge, teaching efficacy, and teaching skills.

      The scientific premise is that avatar-based virtual training will prepare educators to
      implement the popular evidence-based MPC as effectively as traditional (and expensive)
      face-to-face trainings. The specific aims are:

        -  Aim 1: Develop a prototype for a novel, online avatar-based virtual training for select
           components of the evidence-based STI/pregnancy risk reduction program Making Proud
           Choices.

        -  Aim 2: Using mixed methods (survey, focus groups, observations), evaluate the
           avatar-based training's preliminary impact on facilitator STI/pregnancy prevention
           knowledge, teaching efficacy, and teaching skills compared to in-person training, as
           well as its usability and acceptability.

      By developing novel tools/platforms to improve the dissemination and implementation of
      evidence-based behavioral interventions to prevent STIs/teen pregnancy, this application is
      in line with the priorities of the NICHD Population Dynamics Branch, which supports
      reproductive health research on STIs and family planning. If successful, not only will
      dfusion proceed to Phase II, but the findings could inform other nascent efforts to develop
      avatar facilitator trainings that could make a range of evidence-based programs more
      accessible to community-based organizations.
    
  