
    
      This is a pilot study on imaging strategies for diagnosis of coronary artery disease. The
      pilot trial aims to answer the question "Which non-invasive test (single photon emission
      computed tomography (SPECT), stress echocardiography or coronary CT angiography (CCTA)) is
      the best first test in suspected coronary artery disease with respect to patient outcome and
      downstream health costs?" Patients are randomly assigned to one of the imaging modalities.
      All imaging and therapeutic procedures in this trial are clinically indicated. The only
      change from standard patient management is the selection of the initial imaging test. Instead
      of leaving the selection of the initial imaging test to the referring physician (whose
      decision is not evidence based), patients presenting with chest pain that fall into the
      inclusion/exclusion criteria of the study will be randomly assigned to one of the imaging
      modalities. Patients will also be followed at 1, 6 and 12 months after enrolment to determine
      outcomes. The three imaging strategies will be compared regarding subsequent use of
      healthcare resources over a year. In most large cardiac centres, different imaging modalities
      are performed by different specialists and therefore an operating grant from one imaging
      specialty rarely covers the costs of other imaging specialties in comparative studies. To
      ensure a fair comparison between modalities, all modalities have to be equal. Previous
      comparative trials have been criticized for being biased towards the technique being promoted
      by the principal investigator. This trial is unique in that the directors of nuclear
      cardiology, coronary computed tomography and echocardiography are all specialists in their
      field and are running state-of-the-art services and were all involved in the early planning
      of this trial and their involvement has ensured trial design meets clinical need. The results
      of this trial will give insight into planning of a larger multicentre, multi-national study.
    
  