
    
      The "SR-MRehab: un colegio Emocionante" is a randomized controlled trial, a non-inmersive
      virtual reality system will be conducted through Mrehab tool (39, 40). Children will be
      recruited from several schools from Granada (Spain) and they will be randomly allocated to
      two groups: experimental or control group. Assessment will be conducted before and after the
      intervention as well as 24 weeks after the end of the intervention process. Experimental
      group will receive the intervention using virtual reality. Control group will receive the
      intervention through a standard self-regulation program. Both interventions will be performed
      once a week for a total of 10 sessions (50 min sessions per day). The inclusion criteria are:
      1) have special educational needs; 2) possible oral comprehension, with the possibility of
      fixing the gaze; 3) be able to attend to verbal and visual instructions; 4) maintain
      sustained attention for at least four minutes. Exclusion criteria are: 1) severe motor
      disability; 2) children with major behavioural problems, such as self-harm; 3) children with
      high abilities. Initially, all students of this center with special educational needs will be
      invited.

      2.2. Procedure and Enrollment The implementation of the program covers the period from
      September 2019 to May 2020, divided into six stages: recruitment, pre-evaluation,
      assignation, intervention, post-evaluation and follow-up at 6 months. The initial stage
      corresponds to the acceptance by the management of the centers, and the subsequent invitation
      to the participants by sending a letter to the parents/legal guardians, which contains an
      informative document of the characteristics of the project and the corresponding informed
      consent for participate in it. Children are randomly assigned through the online
      randomization program. The type of allocation to each group will be by simple randomization.
      Recruitment and study procedure is shown in Figure 1 2.2.1. Study Variables The main
      variables of the study can be divided into two main dimensions: 1) executive functions:
      inhibitory control, flexibility, planning, reasoning, and problem solving; 2) socio-emotional
      competences: recognition of emotions, emotional regulation and social competence. These
      variables were and will be evaluated through several questionnaires provided to parents,
      teachers and students and test performed by children, as shown in Table 1.

      Additionally, other sociodemographic data and information on the child's development and
      learning history were collected. Through the "SR-MRehab: un colegio emocionante", in each
      session, the following information will be collected for each task: number of hits, cognitive
      errors, time each participant to complete the task.

      The assessment will be made in the first weeks of December 2020, dividing the assessment into
      three blocks. First, the EQ-i:YV questionnaire (41) and Clocks and Affect Recognition
      subtests from NEPSY-II (42) will be provided to students, and on the other hand, teachers and
      parents will asked to complete the EPYFEI-Escolar (44) and EPYFEI (45) questionnaires
      respectively, they'll have to fill in and come back within the next week. Second, the
      students will complete the assessment corresponding to the subtests of Design Fluency and
      Theory of Mind of the NEPSY-II. Finally, in a third session, they will carry out a final
      block to assess executive functions through Trail Making Test A and B (TMT A-B) and Stroop
      test.

      The same evaluation will be carried out immediately after finishing the program. In addition,
      the acceptability of the technology will be evaluated with the children at the end of each
      session and at the end of the whole program. A combination of methods will be used to assess
      acceptability (46). Firsts, in each session, a visual analog scale will be used to evaluate
      each activity, type Smileyometer, which consists of a visual analog scale with coding based
      on a 5 point Likert scale (Horrible=1; Great=5). In addition, at the end of the program the
      method "This or That" will be used, though five questions, for example: what has been the
      most fun of the program? Or what game would you like to have at home?. To check the
      maintenance of the results of the program, a follow-up will be carried out at 3 months, in
      which the emotional regulation and executive functioning in the children will be re-assessed.

      2.2.3. Intervention 2.2.3.1. Experimental Group Intervention on self-regulation will be
      carried out through a non-immersive virtual reality platform, "SR-Mrehab: Un colegio
      emocionante" in which students must conduct a series of activities designed specifically for
      this purpose. These activities will be performed by the children using mainly their hands to
      manage the virtual objects showed in the screen. To do this, our system make use of a Kinect
      motion sensor connected to the computer to control the body movements of the children.
      Moreover, our system records some relevant data of the execution of these activities for
      further analysis of the children's performance.

      The exercises will be divided into two blocks, emotional regulation (ER) and cognitive
      regulation (CR), in a total of 10 sessions, once a week, performing an exercise of each block
      per session. Each session will consists of 60 minutes. In general, each session will take
      into account the development of the various executive functions: working memory, inhibitory
      control, flexibility, reasoning, planning and problem solving (15) and emotional competencies
      divided into the following dimensions: perception and emotional awareness, emotional
      regulation, emotional autonomy and social competence (47). Table 2 lists the organization,
      description and aims of each session. These sessions will take place from January to April
      2021.

      The MRehab tool allows establishing five levels of difficulty. Before starting the
      intervention program, a database will be created with each participant, assigning each of the
      tasks designed for each child according to the results of the previous assessment.

      The intervention will begin with the explanation of the group session of 3 to 4 children.
      Subsequently, individually in order to record the responses and perform the activities, it
      will be asked to perform different tasks with the support and supervision of the occupational
      therapist and psychologist. The session would end with a small assembly in which each child
      discusses their experience and how and where the skills learned could be generalized in their
      activities of daily living. Each session will be one hour long.

      2.2.3.2. Control Group

      The children from control group will follow a program of emotional education of Primary
      Schools, though group activities in the classroom (5, 49). Each session will last 50 minutes,
      just like in the experimental group. The content of the sessions will include 5 sessions of
      emotional awareness and 5 sessions of emotional and cognitive regulation. The activities are
      similar as those listed in Table 2 for the experimental group, but the virtual reality system
      will not be used. It will be held in parallel in another room of the school, on the same day
      and time, carried out by occupational therapists and students from the students in the last
      year of occupational therapy degree.
    
  