
    
      After obtaining informed consent, patients will be randomly assigned to receive their
      follow-up care via telemedicine or in-office visits. All subjects will complete a MIDAS
      questionnaire and allodynia questionnaire at their initial visit. Follow-up visits will be
      scheduled at 4-6 weeks, 3, 6, 9 and 12 months. In-person follow-up visits will be conducted
      in the standard fashion of the current physician's practice, with the initial intake
      conducted by an ophthalmic technician or resident, followed by the physician visit.
      Telemedicine visits will be conducted by the physician and recorded. Similar information will
      be gathered in both groups including: current medications, interim medical and headache
      history (including visits to the ED or hospitalizations for headache), description of
      headache, response to treatment (including adverse reactions), allergies, blood pressure and
      weight. Subjects randomized to telemedicine will be asked to have their blood pressure and
      weight measured within 5 days of their telemedicine session at a location convenient to them.
      We will record the length of each visit. Subjects in the in-person group, will be queried
      about travel time, and the total amount of time for the visit, and any activities missed to
      attend the visit. We will also ask about other costs associated with attending the office
      visit, such as child care.

      At the one-year follow-up visit, subjects will complete the MIDAS, allodynia questionnaire,
      Modified Group Health Association of America's Consumer Satisfaction scale, and have the
      opportunity to express their views on the aspect of care received in a semi-structured
      interview. The follow-up questionnaires may be completed on line (telemedicine group,
      optional for in-person group) or on paper (in-person group). Headache diaries will be
      provided on line or may be done on paper, a smartphone, or a computer program of the
      subject's choosing.

      All subjects will be able to access the physician by telephone, using MyChart, or with
      additional non-study visits as needed.

      Subjects will be responsible for the cost of the medications, treatments prescribed, and
      laboratory monitoring needed for their condition.

      Support staff will be available to help set up the video system for subjects assigned to the
      telemedicine group who are in need of assistance.
    
  