
    
      Pain post laparoscopic procedures can be divided into access related, operation site and
      distension related. The access type can be attenuated by the use of sub dermal infiltration
      of local anaesthetic and rarely causes significant discomfort. It has been advocated that
      placement of a peritoneal gas drain significantly reduces postoperative pain particularly
      referred to the shoulder tip. Realistically, however, if attention is paid to expelling the
      residual gas at the end of the procedure this complication is rarely problematic. Operative
      site pain however is more difficult to manage. In limited gynaecological procedures it has
      been shown that local installation of local anaesthetic decreased the analgesic requirement
      of patients post operatively. These observations would not be as transferable to more
      extensive colorectal or solid organ surgery as the amount of local anaesthesia required would
      be toxic to the patient. Use of the nebuliser, however maybe able to alleviate pain by
      efficiently using the dosage required.

      This is a prospective randomised double blind trial. Sixty patients will be allocated
      randomly between three groups, 20 patients in each group:

        1. Control group

        2. Nebulised intraperitoneal local anaesthetic (Bupivacaine 0.25%, 3mg/Kg)

        3. Nebulised intraperitoneal normal saline Ward staff will be blinded to which group the
           patients are in. All patients undergoing laparoscopic cholecystectomy who have given
           written, informed consent are eligible for inclusion. Patients with local anaesthetics
           allergy and patients whom pain evaluation is considered unreliable due to chronic opiate
           use or neurological diseases are excluded.

      No pre-medication is to be given and a standardised anaesthetic technique is to be employed
      for all patients.

      Standard 4 ports technique for laparoscopic cholecystectomy will be used with intraperitoneal
      pressure between 12-14 mmHg. This will be achieved using CO2 as the insufflation gas.

      The local anaesthetic (approximately 10mls) will be delivered via a fine sterile catheter
      that will be inserted via the epigastric port under direct vision at the end of the
      procedure. Afterward the pneumoperitoneum will be deflated and the wound will be closed and
      subcutaneous local anaesthetic will be injected in and around the wounds.

      Postoperatively, all the patients will have PCA as the main analgesia supported by NSAIDs
      unless contraindicated. Patients will eat and drink as desired and drips will be taken as
      soon as it is safe to do so.

      Postoperative pain scoring will be stared in recovery and continue on the wards using the
      visual analogue scale.
    
  