
    
      If you choose to take part in this study, we will ask you to sign this consent form before we
      do any study procedures. All participants will come in for a CMR scan prior to their first
      treatment with doxorubicin

      - Visit 1 Visit 1 will take place prior to starting chemotherapy. The visit will take about
      1.5 hours. We will ask you to come to the Shapiro Cardiovascular Center at the Brigham and
      Women's Hospital or Massachusetts General Hospital for your study visit.

      For subjects that qualify, we will bring you for the heart CMR scan, an echocardiogram and
      some blood work.

      Blood testing: Before your CMR scan we will take some blood via the IV cannula. We will take
      about 4 tubes of blood. This is equivalent to 2 ½ tablespoons of blood. From this blood we
      will test for blood markers of cardiac injury and compare these results to your other tests.

      CMR Scan: For the CMR scan, you will be asked to lie still on the scanner table that slides
      into a tunnel-shaped machine. Four electrocardiogram (EKG) patches with wires attached will
      be placed on your chest or your back to check your heart rate. We will place an intravenous
      (IV) catheter in one of your arms. An IV catheter is a thin plastic tube that is put into a
      vein with a needle. The IV catheter will be used to give you a CMR contrast dye (gadolinium).
      The dye will help us to identify subtle changes within the heart muscle. This dye,
      gadolinium, is used routinely in CMR studies. We will also draw a sample of blood from the IV
      catheter to measure your red blood cell count. Then, the scanner table will move slowly into
      the tunnel-shaped CMR machine so the pictures can be taken. The machine is slightly wider
      than your body and there may be little room to move. If you feel any discomfort or need to
      stop the test, you will be able to tell this to the research staff. You will be able to speak
      to them while you are having the CMR and they will be able to speak to you. If you think that
      you might be too anxious about being inside the narrow CMR scanner for a long period of time,
      we may prescribe a drug called to help relax you if you think it might be helpful.

      The CMR scan will take one hour.

      Echocardiogram: An echocardiogram is a test used by doctors to monitor heart function. An
      echocardiogram is a safe test that uses ultrasound to image the heart. After completion of
      the CMR test, you will have an echocardiogram. This test will take place in the same area as
      the CMR test. The echocardiogram test will take 40 minutes.

      - Visit 2: Visit 2 will take place about 2-4 weeks after your last cycle of doxorubicin
      chemotherapy.

      When you come back for Visit 2, you will have the same type of CMR scan, echocardiogram and
      blood testing that you had during Visit 1.

      - Visit 3: At visit three we will perform an exercise test on a bicycle. The test is designed
      to test the oxygen consumption of your body when exercising. It provides a way of quantifying
      the ability of the body to exercise. This test will take 30 minutes. During this test
      subjects sit on the bicycle for at least 3 minutes pedaling at a rate of 60 cycles per minute
      and slowly the work-load is increased until peak exercise is obtained. We define peak
      exercise as being tired or breathless. Heart rate and blood pressure are recorded during the
      test. During the test you will breathe through a mouthpiece from which we will measure oxygen
      levels.
    
  