
    
      Tobacco-smoking causes lung function decline with airflow obstruction, which may be
      accelerated in persistent smokers.This would eventually lead to chronic obstructive pulmonary
      disease (COPD), a leading cause of morbidity and mortality in Hong Kong and globally. Lung
      function decline is gradual and not appreciated by the smoker until damage is advanced, and
      often under-recognised in the early stages of disease by healthcare providers. Spirometry is
      an established lung function measurement tool, and the most simple objective method to detect
      lung function decline. There is literature suggesting that newer spirometric parameters, FEV3
      and FEV6, which are easier to achieve in the measurement process than conventional
      parameters, are comparable alternatives in detecting lung function decline.

      The aims of this study are:

        1. to evaluate and compare lung function decline in persistent smokers and non-smokers

        2. to study the usefulness of FEV3/FVC and FEV1/FEV6 in detecting lung function decline

        3. to correlate symptom scores with lung function parameters

        4. To correlate serum biomarker levels with respiratory symptoms and lung function
           parameters in smokers and non-smokers

      This is a follow-up study on a territory wide cohort including smokers and non-smokers, who
      have undergone lung function testing in 2001-03. Subjects will be invited to have repeat lung
      function assessment.

      The demonstration of excessive lung function decline in the local smoking population would
      reinforce the anti-tobacco message in the community. Establishing the practical utility of
      newer lung function parameters can help to disseminate their utilization for early objective
      health information, which would provide incentives for healthcare professionals as well as
      individual smokers in the pursuance of smoking cessation.

      The hypotheses of this study are:

        1. smokers have significantly greater decline in lung function compared to non-smokers in
           Hong Kong Chinese;

        2. newer lung function parameters are useful alternatives in detecting lung function
           decline

        3. serum inflammatory biomarker (IL-8, TGF-β, MMP9, TIMP-1, CRP) levels correlate with
           respiratory symptoms and lung function parameters in smokers when compared with
           non-smokers

      Subjects In 2001 - 2003, we conducted a multi-center study to recruit 1089 non-smokers for
      establishing local reference lung function values, and 694 smokers for investigating the
      diagnostic definition of airflow obstruction. The cohort was derived from a random population
      sample and the characteristics of the two cohorts have been described in detail in previous
      communications. All subjects will be invited to return for spirometry testing. We would
      compare their lung function parameters 7 years ago with the repeat measurements obtained in
      this study.

      Methods:

      i. Subjects will be interviewed using a questionnaire based on the ATS Questionnaire for
      Chronic Respiratory Symptoms. In addition, a detailed smoking history will be asked; for
      those who have given up smoking in the interval between the previous study and this study,
      the time of quitting will be recorded.

      ii. Spirometry. Spirometry with bronchodilator testing will be performed according to the
      ATS-ERS guidelines, using Sensormedics Vmax 229. All participating centers are experienced in
      lung function testing. Quality control of the tests will be ensured by 1) standardization and
      calibration of the equipments prior to commencement of study, 2) briefing session for all
      involved technicians conducted by a senior technician, 3) technical quality of raw data will
      be scrutinized by a respiratory specialist iii. Seum biomarkers Recruited subjects will be
      invited to give 10 ml blood in the same lung function test session.
    
  