
    
      Patients will receive one of the current standard of care regimens for the treatment of HIV
      infection, i.e. nevirapine (Viramune®) must be administered in conjunction with 2NRTIs, as
      prescribed by the investigator at the study sites. Patients randomized to the nevirapine
      (Viramune®)-arm of the study will receive 1x200mg tablet once daily for the first 14 days
      ("lead in" period) and 1x200 mg tablet twice daily at appropriately spaced intervals
      subsequently, plus their SOC combination of 2NRTIs as prescribed by the investigators
      (without changing their prior NRTIs). Patients randomized to continue their standard
      treatment will receive it as prescribed by the investigators. No dose modification of the
      study drugs is permitted during the trial. The study drug will be dispensed at randomization
      and every four weeks thereafter until completion of 48 weeks. After 6 months at least of
      treatment the switch from PI regimen to NVP regimen will be allowed to all patients included
      in the PI arm according to patient's willingness. In these patients AST and ALT should be
      checked at time 0 (switch) and every 2 weeks for 2 months.

      Study Hypothesis:

      Between treatment comparison of Nevirapine-based regimen versus PI-based regimen will be
      based on a null hypothesis of no treatment difference. The null hypothesis will be no
      difference between the two arms at week 24 (month 6th), against the alternative hypothesis
      that the mean change in physical domain of the QoL will be 10 points score (SD=20) and the
      difference between triglycerides normalized patients will be 20%.

      Comparison(s):

      The primary analysis on physical domain of QoL will be performed on the changes between last
      observation carried forward following the LCOF approach (i.e. visit 6 or in case of premature
      discontinuation visit 5 or 4) and baseline (visit 2) value using fixed-effects ANCOVA model
      with center and treatment groups as factors and baseline value and MMA type interaction will
      be also included in the main model.
    
  