
    
      1. Research Background Most of the bladder cancer (approximately 85%) has histologic
           features of urothelial carcinoma. Approximately 75% of the patients initially diagnosed
           as non-invasive bladder cancer (stage I, CIS) or submucosal stage T1 -muscle invasive
           bladder cancer - NMIBC). However, it has been reported that about 60% to 70% of patients
           experience recurrence and 20% to 30% of relapsed cancers require radical cystectomy or
           chemotherapy It is known to progress to high-grade or high grade cancer.

           There are studies that involve surgical factors such as volatile anesthetics, narcotic
           analgesics, anti-body temperature, blood transfusion, and cancer recurrence. Minimizing
           the use of volatile anesthetics and narcotic analgesics reduces spinal anesthesia before
           and after surgery, It has been reported that there is a correlation with maintenance of
           immune cell function

        2. Research hypothesis and purpose The aim of this study was to evaluate the recurrence
           rate, recurrence - free survival rate, and recurrence - free survival rate of non -
           muscle invasive bladder carcinoma in patients undergoing bladder resection.

        3. Research Method

             -  Preoperative screening: Physical examination, Blood test, CT urography, Urine
                analysis, Urine culture, Urine cytology, Cystoscopy. Enforced

             -  Randomization on the day before surgery: 289 patients were randomly assigned to a
                spinal anesthesia group and a general anesthesia group 1: 1.

      Urine analysis, urine culture, urine cytology, and cystoscopy were performed every 3 months
      up to 2 years postoperatively. CT urography performed once a year

        -  Follow-up procedure: Follow-up procedure according to bladder cancer standard.

           4. Observation items, clinical examination items and observational examination methods

        -  Screening: CT urography, Urine analysis, Urine culture, Urine cytology, Cystoscopy.
           Observe

        -  Follow up: Urine analysis, Urine culture, Urine cytology, Cystoscopy every 3 months
           after the operation, CT urography every year
    
  