
    
      Ataxia-Telangiectasia (A-T) is a devastating genetic syndrome of neurodegeneration,
      immunodeficiency and cancer predisposition caused by mutations in the locus encoding ATM
      (Ataxia-Telangiectasia Mutated). The current standard of care for A-T consists of aggressive
      supportive measures, and the prognosis remains poor. There is therefore a pressing need to
      develop novel experimental approaches and treatments for this disease. In this application,
      we propose to address this need by developing for the first time human stem cell-based
      technologies to: 1) generate novel experimental models for A-T that faithfully recapitulate
      the features of the disease across its complex spectrum of clinical manifestations (Aim 1);
      and 2) start to test the feasibility of regenerative therapies for A-T, via generation of
      autologous stem cells that have been rendered disease-free by correction of the mutation (Aim
      2). Mutations causing A-T are private, resulting in variable reduction in ATM activity and,
      correspondingly, a wide spectrum of clinical manifestations. Although the most severe form of
      the disease ("classical" A-T, with no detectable ATM) has been modeled in the mouse (ATM
      "knock out"), this approach fails to recapitulate the neurological symptoms of the disease
      and its characteristic tumor spectrum. Moreover, we are currently lacking experimental models
      for those patients whose mutations result in reduced ATM activity ("variant" A-T). To address
      these issues, experiments in Aim 1 will test the hypothesis that the genotype-phenotype
      correlation in A-T is maintained in patient-derived induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs).
      To test this hypothesis, we will reprogram fibroblasts from A-T patients with variable
      reduction of ATM levels and determine whether: 1) ATM expression and activity in the iPSCs
      correlate directly with those observed in the patient fibroblasts they are derived from; 2)
      the iPSCs recapitulate the phenotypes observed in the fibroblasts, including impaired cell
      cycle checkpoint activation, defective DNA double-strand break (DSB) repair, radiosensitivity
      and genomic instability; and 3) these phenotypes in the iPSCs directly correlate with their
      level of ATM expression/activity. If we find that the genotype-phenotype correlation is
      maintained in A-T iPSCs, this work would validate a more general use of autologous iPSCs for
      preclinical studies of A-T, including the evaluation of disease biomarkers, drug testing or
      genetic screening. The clinical manifestations of A-T result from progressive cell loss and
      tissue degeneration, making A-T a candidate disease for regenerative therapies. Experiments
      in Aim 2 will test the hypothesis that correction of the ATM mutation in A-T somatic cells
      will rescue their severe reprogramming defect and allow the generation of disease-free iPSCs.
      To test this hypothesis, we propose a series of proof-of-principle experiments using a
      well-characterized compound heterozygous A-T fibroblast cell line. First, we will "repair"
      either one or the two ATM mutations in this line by recombination with an exogenous donor
      plasmid carrying the intact sequence, to generate either "carriers" (one normal allele and
      one mutated allele) or "intact" cells (two normal alleles). To increase the efficiency of
      recombination, we will introduce a DSB in close proximity to the mutation using Transcription
      Activator-Like Effector Nucleases (TALENS) that bind specifically to the mutated region. In
      Preliminary Experiments, we find that we can successfully induce DSBs and site-specific
      recombination at a human "safe harbor" locus as well as at the ATM locus itself. After
      verifying that recombination restores ATM expression and function, we will reprogram the
      corrected cells into iPSCs and characterize their level of ATM expression, activity and
      function with passage. Because the "null", "carrier" and "intact" lines are isogenic, the
      effect of ATM gene dose on reprogramming and iPSC function can be evaluated in these
      experiments. In this regard, approximately 1% of the US general population is an A-T
      "carrier", extending the significance of this work well beyond A-T patients. Overall,
      completion of this Exploratory Project will provide the rationale, expertise and reagents for
      longer-term studies aimed at modeling and treating A-T with autologous iPSCs and/or their
      derived products and optimizing the use of regenerative therapies for the general population.
    
  