
    
      2. INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND 2.1. Study rationale and aim An excellent bowel preparation is
      crucial to perform a high-quality colonoscopy and essential to visualize the entire colonic
      mucosa and to increase the safety of therapeutic maneuvers. Prior studies revealed that
      inpatient setting was associated with higher rate of poor bowel preparation which led to
      lower rate of procedure completion. The addition of Lubiprostone to standard PEG-ELS bowel
      preparation for colonoscopy was evaluated in the outpatient setting and revealed
      significantly better colon cleansing, decrease total length of procedure, and improved the
      overall patient satisfaction with the preparation.

      The aim of this trial is to evaluate the effect of adding Lubiprostone to standard
      large-volume PEG-ELS on the bowel preparation for inpatient colonoscopy.

      2.2. Background Colonoscopy is a procedure that permits direct visualization, examination and
      treatment of the rectum, colon and terminal ileum. It can be used for both diagnostic and
      therapeutic purposes. In order to perform a high-quality colonoscopy examination, the
      American Society of Gastrointestinal Endoscopy/American College of Gastroenterology Taskforce
      on Quality in Endoscopy committee established a pre-, intra- and post-procedural quality
      indicators. Bowel preparation is one of the most important pre-procedural indicators, as an
      excellent preparation is crucial to visualize the entire colonic mucosa and to increase the
      safety of therapeutic maneuvers. Multiple studies revealed rates of incomplete colonoscopy
      between 10-20%, Sidhu et al revealed a rate of 7.8% of incomplete colonoscopies with
      inadequate bowel preparation being the most common culprit. It has been reported that
      inadequate or poor preparation occurs in 20-25% of colonoscopies in the United States. The
      diagnostic yield, safety and quality indicators (adenoma detection rate, withdrawal time and
      cecal intubation rate) of colonoscopy can be inversely affected by inadequate or poor bowel
      preparation, as it can lead to: Increase procedural duration, cancel or repeat procedures,
      increase health costs, a potential increase in complications and increase probability of
      missing neoplastic lesions or adenomatous polyps (28-42% patients had adenomas on repeated
      exam within 3 years).

      Factors that can be associated with inadequate or poor bowel preparation has been evaluated
      by researchers in order to improve this quality indicator. It has been shown that inadequate
      preparation is more likely in the following situations: Inpatient status, prior inadequate
      bowel preparation, advanced age, comorbidities (obesity, cirrhosis, stroke, dementia, and
      Parkinson's), language barrier, polypharmacy, late colonoscopy starting time and failure to
      follow preparation instructions. Ness et al and Almadi et al in their studies found that
      inpatient setting was associated with higher rate of poor bowel preparation which led to
      lower rate of procedure completion and terminal ileum intubation. An ideal bowel cleansing
      preparation should be safe, tolerable, affordable, and can reliably empty the colon in a
      timely fashion without altering the colonic mucosa histology. The large-volume polyethylene
      glycol-electrolyte solution (PEG-ELS) is one of the most used FDA approved bowel preparation
      methods. PEG-ELS is an inert polymer of ethylene oxide formulated as a non-absorbable
      solution which is osmotically balanced with non-fermentable electrolyte solutions. It passes
      through the gastrointestinal tract without net absorption, secretion, or significant effect
      on fluid and electrolyte shift. Giving part of the bowel preparation does on the same day as
      the colonoscopy (termed split-does) results in a higher quality colonoscopy examination
      compared with ingestion of the entire preparation on the day or evening before colonoscopy.

      As no available preparation has all of the ideal characteristics, studies evaluated the
      effect of adding other medications to enhance the quality of the preparation. The routine
      addition of prokinetic agents or bisacodyl to one of the standard regimens (Polyethylene
      glycol-electrolyte solution) did not improve patient tolerance or colonic cleansing.

      Lubiprostone is a derivative of prostaglandin E1 which has been shown to be effective in
      treating Chronic Idiopathic Constipation, Opioid Induced Constipation and Irritable Bowel
      Syndrome-Constipation (IBS-C). Lubiprostone works by stimulating and inducing the secretion
      of chloride by activating chloride channel Type-2 and cyctic fibrosis transmembrane
      conductance regulator chloride channels in the apical membrane of the intestinal epithelial
      cells. Ultimately, the release of chloride ions from the cells into the intestinal lumen
      results in increase fluidity within the lumen itself. Furthermore, the increase of fluid
      contents within the lumen results in increase luminal distention which promotes the
      gastrointestinal tract motility, resulting in an increase in intestinal and colonic transit.
      By increasing the fluid content within the luminal wall and increasing intestinal and colonic
      transit, the resultant benefit is softening of stool and rather rapid and facilitated
      emptying of colonic contents which results in improvement in constipation and efficient
      colonic emptying.

      Joel et al, and Banerjee et al evaluated the addition of Lubiprostone to standard PEG-ELS
      bowel preparation for colonoscopy performed in the outpatient setting. They showed
      significantly better colon cleansing, decreased total length of procedure, and improved
      overall patient satisfaction with the preparation. Grigg et al revealed a trend toward
      improved quality of colonoscopy preparation by adding two doses of Lubiprostone to standard
      PEG in diabetic patients undergoing outpatient screening colonoscopy. Documentation of
      quality of bowel preparation is an important post-procedural quality indicator. The Boston
      Bowel Preparation Scale is one of the most commonly used validated systems in the literature
      for documentation of the colonoscopy preparation. It is a 10-point (0-9) summation score
      assessing bowel preparation quality in 3 segments of the colon after all cleansing maneuvers
      during colonoscopy.

      2.3. Risk/Benefit assessment 2.3.1. Known potential risks Lubiprostone is an approved and
      licensed medication. The Product/Safety Information published on the company website
      (https://www.amitiza.com/hcp/safety-indication/chronic-idiopathic-constipation) was used as
      the primary source of the potential risks associated with Lubiprostone use.

      "Lubiprostone is not for everyone". It is contraindicated in patients with known or suspected
      mechanical gastrointestinal obstruction. It should be avoided in patients with severe
      diarrhea and during pregnancy (unless the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to
      the fetus). Caution should be exercised when it is administered to a nursing woman. These
      were included as exclusion criteria. Syncope, hypotension and dyspnea have been reported
      within an hour of the first dose or subsequent doses of Lubiprostone and generally resolve
      prior to the next dose, but may recur with repeat dosing. In clinical trials of Lubiprostone
      (24 microgram (mcg) twice daily vs placebo), the most common adverse reactions (incidence >
      4%) were nausea (29% vs 3%), diarrhea (12% vs 1%), headache (11% vs 5%), abdominal pain (8%
      vs 3%), abdominal distension (6% vs 2%), and flatulence (6% vs 2%). There was no clinically
      significant changes in serum electrolyte levels in adult patients with CIC receiving
      Lubiprostone.

      Other potential risks associated with PEG-ELS and colonoscopy procedure are not included in
      this study protocol as they are considered part of the standard of care required for patient
      evaluation and not part of this research study.

      2.3.2. Known potential benefits The addition of Lubiprostone to standard PEG-ELS bowel
      preparation for colonoscopy was evaluated in the outpatient setting and revealed
      significantly better colon cleansing, decrease total length of procedure, and improved the
      overall patient satisfaction with the preparation. This would potentially result in reduce
      health costs, decrease complications rate and enhance the accuracy of neoplastic lesions or
      adenomatous polyp detection rates.

      3 STUDY OBJECTIVES AND OUTCOMES 3.1 Objectives 3.1.1 Primary objective The primary objective
      of this trial is to evaluate the effect of adding Lubiprostone to standard large-volume
      PEG-ELS on the bowel preparation for inpatient colonoscopy.

      3.1.2 Secondary objectives

      The secondary objectives of this trial are:

        1. To determine the adverse events related to the addition of Lubiprostone to large-volume
           PEG-ELS.

        2. To determine the overall patient satisfaction with the bowel preparation regimen with
           the addition of Lubiprostone to large-volume PEG-ELS.
    
  