
    
      The use of transradial (TR) access for the purpose of diagnosis and intervention in the
      arterial system is a well-established concept, particularly in coronary angiography, with
      many distinct advantages over conventional transfemoral (TF) access. The first series of 100
      coronary angiographic procedures performed via TR access, published by Campeau in 19891,
      demonstrated 88% technical success rate and a 6% asymptomatic radial artery occlusion rate.
      Further experience and data accumulated with the first TR angioplasty procedure in 1992 and
      the first TR coronary stent placement in 1993. TR access for coronary artery interventions in
      the United States has grown exponentially over the past few years with the proportion of
      transradial percutaneous coronary interventions (PCI) procedures increasing from 1.2% in the
      first quarter of 2007 to 16.1% in the third quarter of 20122. And yet, its usage is largely
      absent in the interventional radiology and vascular surgery communities.

      Reasons for this include a lack of appropriate training and equipment, but the potential
      advantages of TR over TF access are abundant in both coronary and non-coronary applications.
      Firstly, the radial artery is more superficial than the femoral artery without surrounding
      neurovascular structures susceptible to injury. In addition, any sustained arterial damage is
      significantly less detrimental because of the hand's dual arterial vascular supply. In
      addition, the radial artery is readily compressible regardless of the patient's body habitus.
      This compressibility has been shown to decrease the incidence of post-procedural bleeding
      complications as well as cardiac mortality during PCI3,4,5. In addition to patient safety,
      there are numerous benefits to overall patient comfort and convenience. For one, after TR
      access, patients may sit up in bed and ambulate immediately with faster discharge to home. In
      one randomized trial, Cooper et al demonstrated a strong patient preference, improved
      quality-of-life metrics, and decreased hospital costs for TR over TF access during cardiac
      catherization6. These benefits have yet to be empirically demonstrated for non-coronary
      applications like transarterial hepatic embolization. Even so, these potential benefits are
      of even greater importance in the patient population undergoing chemoembolization/bland
      embolization given the chemo/bland embolization's association with nausea and emesis post
      intervention.

      Ultimately, complications with TR approach have proven rare in both coronary and noncoronary
      applications. Most commonly, a local small hematoma may develop with mild pain, usually
      treated with NSAIDS if necessary. Despite meticulous hemostatic technique, radial artery
      thrombosis may occur. Nevertheless, this thrombosis almost always remains asymptomatic7, at
      least partially because a modified Allen's test is performed before all procedures using TR
      access. The Allen's test is a clincal examination technique that determines the presence of
      dual arterial supply to the hand and palmar arch patency in the event of radial artery
      occlusion. Additional possible complications of TR access include radial artery
      pseudoaneurysm, spasm, dissection, digit ischemia, as well as cerebral infarction, but all of
      the following have proven to be extremely low incidence particularly with the usage of
      intraprocedural heparinization and vasodilators, which are included in our procedure
      protocol.

      Finally and increasing more importantly in the modern era of health care reform, TR access
      offers many benefits to hospital costs and patient satisfaction. Many studies have
      demonstrated decreased costs associated with TR versus traditional TF access5,8,9, primarily
      due to the nonutilization of arterial closure devices and decreased readmission for bleeding
      complications. International studies have long promoted TR access as a feasible, safe, and
      well tolerated method for performing hepatic transarterial chemoembolization10,11. In a
      recent series performed in the United States, technical success was obtained in all
      procedures. Furthermore, 100% of patients who underwent both TF and TR access preferred TR
      over TF access12. Our study seeks to further establish TR arterial access as a viable and
      typically preferable method for performing hepatic transarterial embolization as well as
      refine patient suitability criteria for TR access.
    
  