
    
      Study Design:

      This is an open label phase II study of a daratumumab accelerated infusion regimen and a
      fixed pre- and post-medication regimen, in patients with relapsed and refractory Multiple
      Myeloma.

      Patients will receive daratumumab, in the following schedule:

      Daratumumab 8mg/kg in 500 mL over 4 hours Cycle 1 Day 1, Daratumumab 16mg/kg in 500 mL over
      90 minutes (20% of dose given in first 30 minutes and remaining 80% of dose given over 60
      minutes) Cycle 1 Days 8, 15 and 22; Cycle 2 Days 1, 8, 15, and 22, and on Days 1 and 15 for
      Cycles 3-6.

      The study will begin with a 6-patient lead-in phase where safety with regards to the number
      of Grade 4 infusion related reactions with the accelerated infusion protocol will be
      evaluated in real time. Accrual to the study will not stop during this evaluation. The safety
      information obtained will be reviewed and evaluated in the context of previously published
      data. The review will be conducted by a 3-physician panel and if serious safety concerns
      (defined as Grade 4 infusion related reactions and/or death) are identified, the panel will
      make recommendations about protocol modifications if deemed necessary.

      Pre- and post-medication regimen:

      Montelukast 10 mg po x 2 days prior to daratumumab administration and 10 mg po the morning of
      daratumumab administration.

      Cetirizine 10 mg po x 2 days prior to daratumumab administration and 10 mg po the morning of
      daratumumab administration.

      Dexamethasone 20 mg on days of and day following daratumumab administration; starting Cycle 1
      Day 15, dexamethasone 20 mg on day of daratumumab administration only.

      Acetaminophen 975-1000 mg po 1 hour prior to daratumumab administration. Diphenhydramine 50mg
      IV 1 hour prior to daratumumab infusion.

      Individual subjects will remain on treatment as long as there is no evidence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity or until a patient/physician decision to discontinue is
      made. Disease assessments as determined by the Site Investigator will be made according to
      the IMWG response criteria guidelines for MM.1

      As this study is designed to evaluate the IRRs associated with a shortened infusion time of
      daratumumab administration over a 6-month time period, subjects will be followed on study for
      a maximum of 6 months following enrollment. Following this time period, all subjects who
      continue to have a response to daratumumab will be taken off study. Although the study may
      end before subjects progress from their disease, daratumumab treatment will continue until
      disease progression in the absence of uncontrolled side effects or voluntary discontinuation
      of treatment for any reason, although drug will be supplied outside of the clinical trial
      setting.
    
  