
    
      Relapsed/refractory B-precursor ALL in adult patients is an aggressive malignant disease with
      dismal prognosis. Several studies have reported long term survival to be below 10%. Major
      prognostic factors are duration of first complete remission (CR1) and age. With current
      salvage chemotherapy, complete remission (CR) rate is low (20 to 30%) in patients in first
      salvage with short duration (< one year) of first remission, patients relapsed after first
      salvage, or patients aged 60 years and older. Duration of CR is usually very short (median
      disease free survival [DFS]: 2.0-7.5 months). Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell
      transplantation (HSCT) may provide a curative treatment option for patients in CR with a
      satisfactory donor and appropriate clinical status including age, organ function, and
      remission status. Allogeneic HSCT is not an option in most elderly patients with relapsed
      ALL. Additional therapeutic approaches are urgently needed.

      Blinatumomab is a bispecific single-chain antibody derivative against CD (cluster of
      differentiation)19 and CD3, designed to link B cells and T cells resulting in T cell
      activation and a cytotoxic T cell response against CD19-expressing cells. In vitro data
      indicate CD19+ lymphoma and leukemia cell lines to be extremely sensitive to
      blinatumomab-mediated cytotoxicity. Blinatumomab has the potential to provide meaningful
      therapeutic benefits to patients compared with existing treatments for this patient
      population.

      This study consists of a screening period, a treatment period and a follow-up period.
      Participants receive one to five treatment cycles of blinatumomab at a target dose of 28
      μg/day. In the first cycle, the initial dose is 9 μg/day for the first seven days of
      treatment, escalated to 28 μg/day starting from Week 2 of treatment.

      Participants who achieve remission within two cycles of treatment can receive up to three
      additional cycles of consolidation treatment or proceed to allogeneic HSCT. In the event of
      progression or relapse within the treatment period, treatment will be terminated.
      Participants with hematological relapse during the efficacy or safety follow-up period may
      receive up to three additional cycles of blinatumomab (retreatment) for a maximal total of
      eight cycles at the investigator´s discretion.

      Thirty days after end of the last treatment, participants have an end-of-core-study visit.
      Following this, there are efficacy follow-up visits at 3, 6, 9, 12, 18 and 24 months at the
      most after treatment start. Once efficacy follow-up is complete, information on survival
      collected at least every six months until death or at least until three years after treatment
      start, whichever occurs earlier (survival follow-up).
    
  