
    
      The prevalence of HP colonization is about 30% in the United States and other developed
      countries as opposed to more than 80% in most developing countries.

      Essentially, all HP-colonized persons have gastric inflammation, but this condition in itself
      is asymptomatic.

      Upper gastrointestinal (GI) symptoms are frequent in organ transplant recipients. Peptic
      ulcers and related pathologies such as gastritis and duodenitis are known to occur with
      increased frequency (20-60%) and severity in renal transplant recipients. The frequency of
      severe complications is about 10% among transplant recipients and 10% of those might prove
      fatal.

      GI complications might require dose reduction or the discontinuation of some of the
      immunosuppressive medications, affecting graft survival.

      Considering the strong body of evidence supporting causal effects of HP infections on the
      development of peptic ulcers and gastric malignancies, the argumented rate of
      gastrointestinal complaints may bebattributed to increased HP infection rate among this
      population.

      Few studies have investigated the prevalence of HP infection; about 30% to 40% of renal
      transplant recipients shown HP colonization of the stomach There are conflicting data about
      the prevalence of H pylori infection in renal transplant recipients. Most of these studies
      used anti HP IgG to diagnose H. pylori infection that lack consistent sensitivity and
      specificity.

      Nasri and his colleagues in 2013 concluded significant positive association of serum H.
      Pylori IgG antibody titer with renal function in renal transplant patient.

      As kidney transplant recipients have to take immunosuppressive drugs for a lifetime and
      because these drugs have many side effects that may not be differentiated from H. pylori
      infection Thus, in order to reduce the use of medications and subsequently to reduce the drug
      interactions ,proper detection and management of H pylori infection in those patients is
      preferred.

      There are few studies have investigated the prevalence of HP infection; about 30% to 40% of
      renal transplant recipients shown HP colonization of the stomach. There are conflicting data
      about the prevalence of H pylori infection in renal transplant recipients.
    
  