
    
      Total knee arthroplasty (TKA) is the standard of care to manage the pain and disability
      associated with end-stage knee osteoarthritis, with more than 700,000 TKA surgeries performed
      annually in the United States. Knee stiffness, commonly caused by arthrofibrosis, is an
      infrequent, but debilitating complication of TKA, with an incidence upwards of 5%
      postoperatively. As a predominant failure mechanism, knee stiffness accounts for 28% of
      hospital readmissions due to surgical complications within 90 days of discharge, and 10% of
      all revisions within 5 years of initial surgery within the United States. With the incidence
      of TKA projected to reach 3.5 million by 2030, the growing cohort of TKA patients with
      postoperative knee stiffness provides an important target for research.

      Several treatments for knee stiffness have been described including static progressive
      splinting and manipulation under anesthesia (MUA). To date, no studies have compared the use
      of static progressive splinting in the early management of individuals presenting with knee
      stiffness after TKA to more commonly utilized surgical procedures such as MUA. Witvrouw and
      colleagues compared a computer-controlled passive motion device to MUA for individuals with
      knee stiffness after TKA and found that stretching device had similar outcomes to MUA in
      terms of range of motion (ROM) and self-reported pain, stiffness and function. A key
      limitation of this study is that the computer-controlled motion device is not commercially
      available and therefore translation of this technology into practice is unlikely. However,
      this study does demonstrate that conservative stretching techniques may be as efficacious as
      costlier surgical techniques as well as may cause fewer adverse events such as quadriceps
      tendon rupture and fractures. Only one study to date has examined the utilization of static
      progressive splinting after TKA. In this study, they enrolled patients who had already failed
      MUA and conservative physical therapy management strategies. They found that the average ROM
      increase for patients was 25° as well as 92% of patients were satisfied with the results and
      no complications occurred with use of the device. Key limitations to this study are the lack
      of a comparison group as well as static progressive splinting was utilized after MUA had
      already failed. It is unknown how individuals would respond to this treatment compared to
      MUA.

      Therefore, the purpose of our study is to determine the feasibility and initial efficacy of
      static progressive splinting for individuals presenting with knee stiffness following TKA
      within the current surgical practice of Dr. Jared Foran at Panorama Orthopedics & Spine
      Center. Data from this trial will be utilized in a NIH grant application for a larger
      randomized controlled trial directly comparing static progressive splinting to MUA which is
      the current standard of care for knee stiffness after TKA.
    
  