
    
      Rationale:

      The COVID-19 Pandemic presents a unique opportunity to capture information on how a disease
      outbreak affects delivery of high-quality cancer care. ASCO is providing the means for the
      oncology community to rapidly submit data that will inform both current cancer care and
      provide information to help guide decision-making for future disease outbreaks. While other
      entities have launched COVID-19 cancer registries, ASCO's registry collects information about
      patients undergoing treatment for cancer and with confirmed COVID-19 infection based on a
      positive test. Unlike other registries, ASCO's registry collects follow-up information on
      both COVID-19 disease and cancer outcomes at 30-day intervals for the first 90 days and
      90-day intervals thereafter up to one year after COVID-19 diagnosis.

      Project Objectives:

      Capture and describe cancer and COVID-19 status at COVID-19 diagnosis, and cancer and
      COVID-19 outcomes of patients with cancer and COVID-19 from participating cancer
      practices/institutions. Data collected includes treatment approaches, cancer status, changes
      to cancer treatment plans in patients with confirmed severe acute respiratory syndrome
      coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection, status of COVID-19 infection (e.g., severity of
      symptoms, need for ventilator, hospitalization, etc.) and cancer (e.g., cancer progression,
      treatment-related changes/modifications, etc.).

      Research Objectives:

      Objective 1: Describe the distribution of symptoms and severity of COVID-19 among patients
      with cancer (on active treatment or on adjuvant treatment within 12 months after surgical
      resection) who have confirmed infection of SARS-CoV-2 •Objective 1.1: Describe distribution
      of symptoms and severity of COVID-19 stratified according to demographic characteristics,
      including age, cancer type, cancer extent, race, ethnicity, geography, type of therapy
      received, smoking status, comorbidities, etc.

      •Objective 1.2: Identify characteristics independently associated with severity of COVID-19
      in cancer patients.

      Objective 2: Examine SARS-CoV-2 viral infection outcomes (ongoing, recovery, hospitalized,
      not in ICU; hospitalized in ICU; placed on ventilator; death due to COVID-19 disease
      complications) and cancer outcomes (stable, response to treatment, progression, delayed
      treatment, treatment discontinued, and death)

        -  Objective 2.1: Stratify patients with SARS-CoV-2 viral infection according to
           characteristics described in Objective 1.1 to examine whether any of the characteristics
           are independently associated with COVID-19 and/or cancer outcomes

        -  Objective 2.2: Examine the relationship between SARS-CoV-2 viral infection outcomes and
           cancer outcomes and whether SARS-CoV-2 viral infection outcomes are independently
           associated with cancer outcomes

      Objective 3: To describe effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on cancer practices in the U.S.,
      including changes in staffing and resource availability, priorities for patient care, and
      modification of interactions between care providers and patients (including use of
      telemedicine)

      Eligibility Criteria:

      The registry collects data about patients with a cancer diagnosis who have a confirmed
      SARS-CoV-2 infection and are being treated at participating cancer practices/institutions
      within the United States. Patients in one of the four categories are eligible:

        1. Patients with a new cancer diagnosis and in the process of cancer staging and/or receipt
           of initial cancer therapy

        2. Patients with clinically evident cancer receiving anti-cancer treatment,

        3. Patients who are disease free, but receiving any type of adjuvant therapy within 1 year
           following surgical resection (including hormonal treatments), and

        4. Patients with clinically evident cancer receiving supportive care only.

      Statistical Considerations and Reporting:

      ASCO's Center for Research and Analytics (CENTRA) will periodically create reports to share
      with participating practices and the general cancer community, and submit manuscripts for
      publication. Reports will summarize overall data and stratified by patient characteristics,
      such as disease sites and stage, age and comorbidities. Reports or publications will also
      include cancer treatment delay and discontinuation of cancer treatments including surgery,
      radiation and drug-based therapies, due to the patient's COVID-19 disease and to other
      factors, with stratification by other variables as described above. Changes in practice
      patterns of care, staffing, resources, and interactions with patients will also be evaluated
      and summarized.

      As there is no hypothesis testing planned, there is no required sample size and providing
      reports also provided to other registries, with cumulative information, will not affect
      validity of results. Confidence intervals will be provided where appropriate to demonstrate
      precision of estimates.
    
  