
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Previous studies have demonstrated that single-pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS)
      applied to the primary motor cortex (MI) exerts a transient inhibitory effect on the
      contralateral MI. Furthermore, down-regulation of excitability in MI of one hemisphere by 1Hz
      rTMS results in increased excitability in the homologous MI accompanied by performance
      improvements in simple motor tasks performed by the hand ipsilateral to rTMS. It has been
      proposed that this phenomenon relies on interhemispheric disinhibition between both MI.
      Furthermore, interhemispheric disinhibition is also a promising method for boosting
      neurorehabilitation since interhemispheric disinhibition has been successfully applied in
      stroke patients to enhance motor cortex excitability and hand function or reduce aphasia. The
      purpose of this protocol is to test the hypothesis that interhemispheric disinhibition of the
      left MI by down-regulating activity in the right MI can be further enhanced by additional
      up-regulation targeting the left MI.

      STUDY POPULATION:

      We will study a total number of 72 healthy volunteers between the ages of 18-55.

      DESIGN:

      To test the hypothesis, subjects will be randomly allocated to one of 4 experimental sessions
      (parallel design). Subjects will receive different types of combined brain stimulation (1 Hz
      rTMS and Theta Burst Stimulation [TBS]) to the right and left MI. The primary outcome measure
      will be the amount of changes in cortical excitability, as reflected by recruitment curves
      (RC) of motor evoked potentials (MEPs) elicited by single-pulse TMS over the left MI.
      Additionally, we will test changes in short-interval intracortical inhibition (SICI) and
      facilitation (ICF) as well as the modulation of interhemispheric inhibition (IHI) between
      both MI. The secondary outcome measures will include simple motor tasks such as finger
      tapping, pinch force/acceleration and reaction time of the right hand.

      In summary, we believe that this approach might identify additional effective strategies to
      enhance functional recovery after stroke and might provide deeper insight into the neural
      substrates involved in performance improvements after bilateral brain stimulation.
    
  