
    
      Transurethral resection of the bladder tumor (TURB) is the mainstream treatment of bladder
      cancer. TURB may be performed under regional anesthesia or general anesthesia. During
      regional anesthesia for TURB, obturator nerve block should be performed to prevent adductor
      contraction and possible inadvertent bladder perforation. Additionally, some patients prefer
      not to be conscious during the surgery and patients with spinal deformity or previous spinal
      fusion surgery are prone to fail regional anesthesia. Therefore, general anesthesia with
      neuromuscular blockade (NMB) is frequently conducted for patients with TURB.

      During general anesthesia for TURB, NMB is needed for intubation and optimal endoscopic
      surgical condition via obturator nerve block. TURB is a relatively short procedure but
      patients with NMB usually need sufficient time to be reversed with the conventional NMB
      reversal agents (anticholinesterases). Additionally, inadequate reversal from NMB may result
      in respiratory complication during recovery. Sugammadex, a newer reversal agent, is a
      selective relaxant-binding agent that allows for rapid reversal of rocuronium-induced NMB.
      With the introduction of sugammadex, immediate reversal of deep NMB has become possible
      without residual NMB.

      Several previous studies evaluated the effect of NMB on surgical condition for relative short
      surgeries such as laparoscopic cholecystectomy or laryngeal micro-surgery. They suggested
      that deep NMB and reversal with sugammadex improved surgical condition without postop
      respiratory complications. TURB is a urological endoscopic procedure performed in a narrow
      bladder space but the beneficial effects of deep NMB with sugammadex reversal for TURB have
      not been thoroughly evaluated. We hypothesized that deep NMB and the use of sugammadex as a
      reversal agent may be associated with better endoscopic surgical condition compared with
      moderate NMB during TURB. Therefore, this study was designed to compare deep NMB with
      moderate NMB during TURB in terms of surgical condition and recovery profiles in patients
      with general anesthesia.
    
  