
    
      Primary liver cancer, particularly hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a major health problem.
      Curative therapies for HCC are considered hepatic resection, liver transplantation and
      radiofrequency ablation (RFA). Hepatic resection is preferred for patients with limited
      disease, non-cirrhotic livers or selected patients with Child-Pugh A cirrhosis. Unlike
      resection, liver transplantation treats the tumor and the underlying cirrhosis present in the
      liver. Candidates for liver transplantation are preferably those with cirrhosis and tumors
      that comply with the Milan criteria (single tumor <5cm or 1-3 tumors each of ≤ 3cm). Because
      most patients are not amenable to resection or liver transplantation, RFA has emerged as an
      effective treatment option. RFA is limited by the location of the tumor in the liver and by
      the tumor size with best results after RFA achieved for tumors ≤3cm. For patients that are
      not eligible for RFA due to large or multifocal tumors, transarterial chemoembolization with
      drug-eluting beads (TACE-DEB) is the preferred treatment.

      Stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) delivers a highly effective dose of irradiation to
      the tumor while maximally avoiding dose delivery to surrounding healthy structures. SBRT is
      offered as an ablative local treatment with reported high percentages of complete and partial
      responses with limited toxicity.

      An international expert committee on HCC has recommended time to progression (TTP) as primary
      endpoint for phase II randomized trials. Although data is scarce the best published median
      TTP after TACE-DEB was 16 months and after SBRT 36.5months in a more or less comparable
      patient population (Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer stage system A-C).

      The present study will include patients not eligible for resection or RFA. Patients may be
      eligible for bridging or for down staging to transplantation. Well compensated liver
      cirrhosis (Child-Pugh A) and disease confined to the liver (one to three tumors cumulative
      diameter ≤ 6cm) is required. To our knowledge this trial will be the first in the world to
      compare TACE-DEB and SBRT. This trial may have a big impact on the control of the disease and
      may contribute to change the standard of care from a palliative to a more radical/curative
      intention in this patient population
    
  