
    
      This study included 46 individuals aged 18-35 years in the home patient care laboratory at
      Sinop University Vocational School of Turkeli. Priorities were explained and the permission
      of the individuals was obtained. The number of females and males was divided into 3 groups as
      randomized. Participants were evaluated by Numerical pain scale (NPS), pulse rate, blood
      pressure, respiratory rate, and saturation measurement. In addition, the distance travelled
      during the exercise for sportive performance was recorded in kilometers. In the study,
      evaluation was conducted 3 times before the application, after the first and second bicycle
      exercises.

      The study was double-blind randomized. Participants in the whole group were asked to perform
      bicycle exercise with maximum performance under 50 watts for 5 minutes. In all groups
      Vagustim device was used for stimulation. In the above threshold group, biphasic current was
      applied as follows; frequency 10 Hz, in Modulation mode (Modulation mode is a combination of
      pulse rate and pulse width modulation. The pulse rate and width are automatically varied in a
      cycle pattern. The pulse width is reduced by 50% from its original setting in 0.5 second,
      then the pulse rate is reduced by 50% from its original setting in 0.5 second. Total cycle
      time is 1 second.), the pulse width was 300 μs. The current intensity was kept constant where
      the participant felt the current comfortably and applied for 5 minutes. VNS was applied
      bilaterally to transmit current from the tragus and concha parts of the ear. After the first
      bicycle exercise, the participants were re-evaluated. In the second bicycle exercise, it was
      asked to perform for 5 minutes under the same load without any application. The study was
      evaluated for the third time and the study was completed.

      In the subthreshold group, the parameters were the same but the current was reduced to where
      the participant did not feel the current after the threshold value was reached and again
      applied for 5 minutes. It was re-evaluated after the first bicycle exercise. In the second
      bicycle exercise, he was asked to perform bicycle exercise with maximum performance for 5
      minutes under the same load without any application. The study was evaluated for the third
      time and the study was completed.

      In the control group, bicycle exercise was performed under the same load with the
      current-free headset produced for sham applications for 5 minutes. Participants were shown
      that the device was working, but no current was given. It was re-evaluated after the first
      bicycle exercise. In the second bicycle exercise, the device was removed and asked to perform
      bicycle exercise with maximum performance for 5 minutes under the same load. The study was
      evaluated for the third time and the study was completed.
    
  