
    
      Although radical nephrectomy was considered as the only effective treatment for malignant
      kidney tumors and maintained the prime solution for such tumors throughout the nineteenth
      century, partial nephrectomy became the preferred method in managing tumors of solitary
      kidneys, bilateral or hereditary renal tumors and in renal tumors of renal insufficiency
      patients. The shift to preserve sufficient as well as functioning renal volume, the improving
      experience with renal vasculature, proliferation of energy sources that achieved sufficient
      tissue cleavage and haemostatic power and refinements in hypothermia techniques helped the
      shift towards nephron sparing surgeries. Partial nephrectomy aimed at achieving complete
      removal of renal tumor with preservation of renal function, minimizing ischemia time as well
      as operative complications.

      Open partial nephrectomy was the standard management strategy for organ-confined renal tumors
      in many centers worldwide. It is still the preferred method in most situations of complex
      tumors. Yet, open surgery has the inherent problem of poorly cosmetic scar, the need for
      analgesics, long hospital stay and wound related complications.

      Laparoscopic partial nephrectomy (LPN) has largely replaced open partial nephrectomy
      worldwide as it combines the benefits of nephron sparing surgery (preserving the renal
      function) and laparoscopy (decreasing morbidity). The increasing experience of LPN enabled
      surgeons to operate not only small, peripheral, exophytic renal tumors, but also larger
      infiltrating tumors have been managed similarly. On the other hand, LPN still has technical
      difficulties that need steep learning curve to be mastered.

      Robotic partial nephrectomy has become the surgery of choice not only for most renal tumors
      but also for benign kidney lesions. The minimally invasive nature of robotic surgery offers
      numerous advantages to the patient over open surgery including minimal tissue trauma, smaller
      scars, and faster recovery. Unlike laparoscopy, robotic surgeries grantee a three-dimensional
      view. The complex operative steps can be easily done due to the wider range of motion of the
      surgical instruments that the robot provides. Moreover, recent studies showed that robotic
      partial nephrectomy has shorter ischemia time, less blood loss and faster recovery than
      laparoscopy.

      Despite the multiplicity of studies done for comparing between open and robotic partial
      nephrectomy in cases of small renal tumors, there are fewer studies comparing between open
      and robotic partial nephrectomy in management of complex renal tumors, which are not based on
      randomized bases.

      Assiut University Hospitals are intending to be in a leading position in the field of minimal
      invasive surgery by constructing the first robotic surgery center in Upper Egypt. So, in our
      study, although robotic surgery seems to be more expensive, investigators suppose that
      robotic partial nephrectomy will yield better surgical and functional results than open
      partial nephrectomy in managing complex renal tumors. The promising technology will lead to
      decrease the robotic industry cost which, till now, remains the major drawback of robotic
      surgery worldwide spread. Another priority of our intended study is that it will alleviate
      any selection bias between the two techniques by being a prospective randomized one.
    
  