
    
      Pharyngitis is a clinical diagnosis which requires antibiotic treatment only if caused by
      group A Streptococcus (GAS).

      However, it is impossible to identify by clinical signs alone those patients whose symptoms
      are caused by this pathogen.

      Diagnosis demands a throat culture, which requires at least 24 hours to rule in infection and
      48 hours to rule it out.

      Rapid Streptococcal tests (RST) based on antigen identification have been in use for over 10
      years. These allow determination of the presence of GAS within 10 minutes using tests
      designed for point of care use.

      While the specificity of these tests is generally reported as high (90-95%), the sensitivity
      is quoted at between 60% and 90% , depending on author affiliation, place of testing and type
      of test.

      Various protocols have been put forward, these combine clinical signs (Centor criteria) with
      RST or throat cultures in order to lower antibiotic over-use.

      These protocols are often under-used by primary physicians, even when RSTs are available.

      Clalit health services, the largest HMO in Israel, has decided to evaluate all the RSTs
      available in the country in community clinic settings in order to determine the feasibility
      of adopting these tests to improve clinical care.

      The sensitivity, specificity and ease-of-use will be assessed in 25 clinics in various
      settings (urban and rural). Gold standard will be a standard throat culture processed in the
      district laboratory.

      The effect of point-of-care testing will be estimated by requiring physicians to decide on
      antibiotic use before receiving the result of the RST. (They will be free to change this
      decision after the test).

      Clinics were selected by number of throat cultures sent in previous years. The number of
      patients was determined using the positivity rates of 2005. The results of this study will
      enable us to estimate the benefit and cost of adopting RSTs, and to determine in which
      situations they will be most efficacious.
    
  