
    
      This is a multicenter study. Patients eligible for this trial will have completed 5FU based
      neoadjuvant chemotherapy/radiation therapy per the institution's standard of care or IRB
      approved clinical trial. Patients may be registered/randomized anytime after completion of
      neoadjuvant therapy, but surgery must occur within 4-12 weeks (28-84 days) after completion
      of neoadjuvant therapy. Patients are stratified according to the site of the primary tumor
      (high, middle or low rectum), registering surgeon, and planned operative procedure (low
      anterior resection or abdominal perineal resection). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2
      treatment arms. Please see the arms section for more details. The primary and secondary
      objectives are listed below.

      Primary Objective:

      To test the hypothesis that laparoscopic-assisted resection for rectal cancer is not inferior
      to open rectal resection, based on a composite primary endpoint of oncologic factors which
      are indicative of a safe and feasible operation.

      Secondary Objectives:

        1. To assess patient-related benefit of laparoscopic-assisted resection for rectal cancer
           vs.

           open rectal resection (blood loss, length of stay, pain medicine utilization)

        2. To assess disease free survival and local pelvic recurrence at two years.

        3. To assess quality of life, sexual function, bowel and stoma function at scheduled time
           points throughout the trial.

      Patients will be evaluated after surgery to determine the need for subsequent care based on
      the final pathology. Patients should not start treatment on any other investigative trial
      involving intervention or invasive diagnostic procedures ≤ 30 days following surgery to
      enable a complete evaluation of post-operative adverse events and complications occurring
      within 30 days of surgery. Patients are followed periodically for up to 5 years post surgery.
    
  