
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To evaluate the feasibility and impact of a clinic-based intervention protocol in Los
           Angeles county, California, for improving the dietary choices and physical activity
           levels of low-income clinic populations in Los Angeles County, California.

      OUTLINE: The two participating clinics are randomly assigned to provide care as outlined
      below to participants who routinely visit that clinic.

        -  Arm I (clinic 1, intervention program): Physicians provide health advice to the
           participants for 1-2 minutes using a motivational interviewing technique during a
           regularly scheduled appointment. Health messages to motivate changes in diet and
           physical activity levels are tailored to the participant based on information from the
           Patient Health Behavior Priority Assessment (PHBPA). Physicians also create a mutually
           agreed upon self-directed lifestyle change plan (the Health Priority Plan) for the
           participant using information from the PHBPA. Participants undergo a 10-minute interview
           to indicate whether the doctor discussed the plan and their satisfaction with the visit.
           After the first clinic encounter, participants are contacted by a health educator via
           telephone 4 times over a 2-month period. The telephone sessions are designed to identify
           obstacles and challenges in adhering to the Health Priority Plan and help participants
           to persevere with the plan. Participants are followed at baseline, 2 months, and 6 or 12
           months. Participants have blood pressure and weight measured and blood collected to
           determine levels of nutrients and fat and sugar content during these follow-up visits.

        -  Arm II (clinic 2, control program): Physicians provide usual care during a regularly
           scheduled appointment. Participants are followed at baseline, 2 months, and 12 months.
           Participants have blood pressure and weight measured and a subset of participants also
           have blood collected to determine levels of nutrients and fat and sugar content during
           these follow-up visits.

      In both arms, participants also undergo a 30-minute interview about diet and physical
      activity and take a step test to measure heart rate and oxygen level during the follow-up
      visits. All participants undergo an exit interview at the end of the study about their
      perceptions of the program and what can be improved in the study. Participants' medical
      record information is examined for the period of 12 months prior to enrollment in the study,
      during the 12-month study period, and for 12 months after the exit interview date.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 140 participants (40 for arm I and 100 for arm II) will be
      accrued for this study.
    
  