
    
      COVID-19 is a highly contagious virus, causing a global health emergency. A significant
      number (~17%) of hospitalised patients become severely unwell and require admission to an
      intensive care unit (ICU) due to lung failure (acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS))
      and multi-organ failure (MOF). Sadly, 51.8% of COVID-ARDS patients develop kidney failure,
      which has a markedly increased risk of dying (61%). We have learned that kidney failure
      starts several days after lung failure, which suggest an initial viral "attack" on the lungs
      followed by kidney involvement several days later.

      Cytokines are "signalling" molecules made by cells, which in healthy individuals help fight
      disease. It was initially thought that in COVID-19, lung cells release excessive cytokines
      (i.e. cytokine storm), which then cause kidney injury and MOF. However, research has
      demonstrated that cytokine levels in blood are actually very low and not enough to explain
      the extent of organ injury in COVID-19. This perhaps explains why treatment strategies aimed
      at specifically damping down the action of these particular cytokines in COVID-19 have
      failed. Consequently, there remains no cure for COVID-19 MOF, and whilst treatments such as
      steroids, manage symptoms, have a general anti-inflammatory effect and improve mortality, 30%
      of intensive care patients still die. Therefore, urgent research is needed to improve
      scientific knowledge of this condition and identify new therapies.

      Microvesicles (MVs) are extremely small particles released by cells and carry various
      chemicals including cytokines, from inside the cell, packaged securely and safely within
      membranes (cellular envelopes). These vesicles act as 'postmen' delivering chemical
      messengers (e.g. cytokines) between cells and are important in various diseases where
      inflammation is implicated. We have demonstrated that MVs have a fundamental role in the
      development of organ failure in our laboratory models of non-COVID ARDS but we do not yet
      know the role of these vesicles in the development of ARDS/MOF in COVID-19.

      The investigators hypothesise that during COVID-19 infection of the lung, significant numbers
      of MVs are released within the lung (especially in severe COVID-19), which then "transmit"
      signals and inflammation to other organs via the bloodstream, causing organs to fail.
      Furthermore, as chemical messengers (e.g. cytokines) are hidden inside these vesicles, they
      are not measured by standard laboratory techniques and may explain why there are low cytokine
      levels in blood. This may also clarify why treatments inhibiting circulating cytokines (not
      hidden in vesicle membranes) have failed.

      To explore these ideas, the group aim to investigate MVs in blood and urine of ICU patients
      with severe COVID-19 (20mls blood (1 1/3 tablespoons); 10ml urine (3/4 tablespoon)). The
      investigators intend to examine which chemicals are present in these tiny vesicles and to
      relate this information to the clinical progress or otherwise of patients. These data will
      help the scientific community understand the chemical systems involved in severe COVID-19,
      tell us the significance of MVs and whether blocking MV signalling could lead to new
      treatments for COVID-19. Furthermore, analysis of these MVs may allow the investigators to
      identify patients who are likely to become seriously ill, which would help in planning
      treatment.
    
  