
    
      The study is referred to as "Continuous Glucose Monitoring and Management in Type 2 Diabetes"
      also known as The COMMITED Study" and will assess if patients with Type 2 diabetes (T2D) who
      have suboptimal glycemic control using 2 or more multiple oral agents are able to make
      lifestyle changes resulting in improved glycemic control by use of real-time continuous
      glucose monitoring and targeted learning modules.

      At time of enrollment, participants will undergo a run-in period of blinded CGM for a
      duration of 10 days to collect baseline data. Baseline Patient Report Outcome (PRO) surveys
      will be administered at the start of run-in.

      The study design includes a run-in phase, a study phase and a follow up visit. During the
      study phase, participants will be randomized into two groups - CGM Group or SMBG Group. For
      the RT-CGM Group, the study comprises of 4 scheduled clinic visits at baseline (after
      Run-In), week 4, week 8, and week 12 to collect data on episodic RT-CGM use. During these
      visits, RT-CGM insertions will take place at baseline, week 4 and week 8 clinic visits, with
      each wear period lasting a duration of 10 days. For the SMBG Group, the study comprises of 3
      scheduled clinic visits at baseline (after Run-In), week 8 (to collect data on episodic
      blinded CGM use) and week 12. CGM insertions will take place at week 8 with a wear period of
      10 days. Both groups will have HbA1c collected at week 0 and week 12. The same PRO surveys
      administered at start of run-in will be administered again at week 12. There will not be
      therapeutic changes during the study phase unless needed for safety.

      There will be phone/remote visits by a study site clinician at weeks 2, 6 and 10 in both
      groups to review the SMBG or CGM data. During these remote visits, there will be discussions
      about what the subjects have learned from their glucose monitoring and what the study
      clinician has observed.

      All subjects will be scheduled for a follow up visit at Month 9 to obtain local lab or POC
      HbA1c. Diabetes medications (classifications only) will also be collected.
    
  