
    
      With therapeutic hypothermia, it is aimed to reduce the temperature of brain structures and
      basal ganglia to 32- 34 degrees for 72 hours. The mechanism of action of hypothermia can be
      listed as decrease in cerebral metabolism, inhibition of edema, decrease in energy
      metabolism, decrease in cytotoxic amino acid and nitric oxide accumulation, inhibition of
      platelet activating factor and inflammatory cascade, suppression of free radical activity and
      prevention of cell death.

      Perinatal hypoxia not only affects brain tissue, but also all organs. Therefore, the baby's
      respiratory system, blood gases, cardiac functions and liver functions are evaluated.
      Electrolyte, blood sugar and blood pressure are closely monitored due to the possibility of
      adrenal glands being affected. Since gastrointestinal injury is possible, nutrition is done
      extremely slowly and carefully. The useful markers in determining the neurological prognosis
      are the neurological findings of the patient as well as the defect in the aEEG monitoring.

      Cardiac markers (CK, CK-MB, Troponin-I) have been shown to be a sensitive marker for asphyxia
      in term infants. Any interruption in the placental blood supply can cause the fetus to
      undergo hypoxic ischemia with the activation of the 'diving reflex' to protect the most vital
      organs. However, because myocardial tissue has insufficient reserves to tolerate hypoxia,
      myocardial injury may occur and an increase in serum troponin I, CK, CK-MB may occur. High
      levels of cardiac markers are an indicator of ongoing myocardial damage during HIE.

      Diffusion MR imaging performed after hypothermia tries to see the damaged areas in the brain.
      Diffusion MRI and aEEG follow-up have been shown to be prognostic in the literature. Patients
      with hypothermia are followed up in our neonatal outpatient clinic and monitored in terms of
      growth and neurodevelopmental aspects.

      In this study, the correlation of cardiac marker values (Troponin I, CK, CK-MB) measured
      before treatment with the long-term neurodevelopmental score of newborns diagnosed with
      perinatal asphyxia and treated with therapeutic hypothermia with a diagnosis of hypoxic
      ischemic encephalopathy (HIE) will be evaluated.

      Physical examination, laboratory (especially cardiac markers), aEEG findings and diffusion
      MRI findings of babies who have been hospitalized in the neonatal intensive care unit between
      2015-2020 due to respiratory distress and who have undergone perinatal asphyxia but have
      undergone therapeutic hypothermia treatment will be recorded from their files in the hospital
      system. The neurological evaluations and neurodevelopmental scores of the babies in the
      follow-up in the neonatal high risk follow-up clinic after discharge will be recorded from
      their files.
    
  