
    
      Psychological well-being at work is a major public health issue. The number of sick leave in
      hospitals has increased by 10% in five years and the average cost of absenteeism is around
      3000 euros per agent per year. These changes are associated with the increase in turnover
      among nurses, thus raising the question of its impact on the quality of care. Psychological
      suffering at work is one of the main determinants of intention to leave for nurses. We
      hypothesize that an improvement in the quality of work life of nurses could allow greater
      loyalty, greater motivation of nurses and greater attractiveness within the institution.
      Among the works on psychological well-being at work, few have been interested in the
      structural aspects of the organization of care and in particular to the variables specific to
      the caregivers themselves, such as the quality of life at work. Nevertheless, studies carried
      out in industry show significant and positive links between quality of life at work and
      performance at work. Thus, it seems appropriate to identify the factors likely to lead to an
      improvement in the quality of life at work of psychiatric nurses and to determine the
      elements that can help reinforce it. Moreover, it appears that the field of psychiatry could
      constitute an ideal field of experimentation. Psychiatry teams treat patients with chronic,
      severe and disabling conditions, which are subject to significant social stigma, and expose
      nurses to a high rate of burnout. The organization of psychiatric care is also
      multidisciplinary. The various care procedures allow caregivers to carry out activities that
      include more or less significant participation in decision-making. Also, studying the
      determinants of the quality of life at work among psychiatric nurses seems to be an important
      goal in order to implement actions to strengthen psychological well-being at work, and thus
      reduce turnover and to improve the quality of care.

      The main objective is to identify the individual, organizational and managerial factors that
      can explain changes in the quality of work life of psychiatric nurses.

      To study the link between changes in the quality of work life of nurses and the quality of
      care delivered to patients.

      Study the effects of a change in the quality of work life of nurses on turnover.
    
  