
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the efficacy of cisplatin with or without ABT-888 (veliparib) on
      progression-free survival (PFS) in each of the following groups: patients with germline BRCA
      (gBRCA) mutation-associated breast cancer, patients with germline BRCA wild-type breast
      cancer who have evidence of BRCAness phenotype, and patients with germline BRCA wild-type
      breast cancer who do not have evidence of BRCAness phenotype.

      II. To compare the efficacy of cisplatin with or without ABT-888 on PFS in patients with
      triple negative and/or gBRCA mutation-associated breast cancer and brain metastases. (Brain
      Metastases Cohort)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. For patients with gBRCA mutation associated breast cancer (group "i" above) or
      triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) with (group "ii") or without (group "iii") BRCAness
      phenotype, to compare the efficacy of cisplatin with or without ABT-888 on overall survival
      (OS), response rate, and clinical benefit rate.

      II. To compare the differential benefit of ABT-888 across the three groups using both PFS and
      OS as outcomes.

      III. For patients in the brain metastases cohort, to compare the efficacy of cisplatin with
      or without ABT-888 on OS.

      IV. For patients in the brain metastases cohort, to compare the efficacy of cisplatin with or
      without ABT-888 on intracranial and extracranial response rates (intracranial by Response
      Assessment Neuro-Oncology Criteria [RANO] and extracranial by Response Evaluation Criteria in
      Solid Tumors version 1.1 [RECIST 1.1]).

      V. To compare toxicities of ABT-888 to placebo in each of the four groups separately.

      TRANSLATIONAL OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the impact of homologous recombination deficiency score (independent of other
      BRCAness markers) on response rate (RR) and PFS in patients treated with chemotherapy versus
      chemotherapy plus ABT-888.

      II. To evaluate the overlap among various markers utilized to define the BRCAness phenotype.

      III. To evaluate the combined impact of PAM50 basal subtype and BRCAness phenotype on RR and
      PFS in patients treated with chemotherapy versus chemotherapy plus ABT-888.

      IV. To evaluate the impact of BRCA1 mRNA expression (independent other BRCAness markers) on
      response rate (RR) and PFS in patients treated with chemotherapy versus chemotherapy plus
      ABT-888.

      V. Application of somatic BRCAness phenotype markers on metastatic tumor tissue to identify
      patients likely to benefit from platinum-based therapy and ABT-888.

      VI. To determine the overlap of BRCA phenotype (germline BRCA, BRCA-like, non-BRCA-like) with
      tissue PD-L1 status and to determine if ABT-888 (veliparib) benefit in BRCA-like patients is
      maintained when adjusting for PD-L1 status.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive cisplatin intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on day 1 and placebo orally
      (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-14. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive cisplatin IV over 1 hour on day 1 and veliparib PO BID on days 1-14.
      Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 9 weeks for 54 weeks,
      every 18 weeks until progression, and then every 6 months for up to 5 years after
      registration.
    
  