
    
      Setting and sample:

      The study will be conducted among individuals enrolled in an insurance plan offered by an
      insurance company in the state of Nebraska.

      The sample will include a subset of individuals eligible for a program designed to improve
      delivery of care by incentivizing individuals and their dependents to fill "care gaps" - gaps
      in recommended care.

      Interventions:

      The design will entail two overarching interventions for each incentivized care gap:
      Incentives, and Information Only. In addition, there will be a control that receives neither.

        -  Incentives. Individuals receiving the Incentives intervention for a given care gap will
           receive a mailer informing them of that gap, and that they are eligible for a gift card
           if they close that care gap.

        -  Information Only. Individuals receiving the Information Only intervention for a given
           care gap will receive a mailer informing them of that gap, but without information on
           the incentives available.

        -  Control. Individuals receiving the Control intervention for a given care gap will not
           receive a mailer.

      All individuals will be made whole following the intervention period, regardless of treatment
      status; i.e. members will be compensated for closing incentivized care gaps regardless of
      whether they were informed of their eligibility to do so.

      The specific Incentivized Care Gaps include: W34, LSC, IMA, CDC Eye Exam and/or CDC Hba1c
      Screening, CCS, and AWC.

      Randomization:

      A separate letter is sent for each care gap, so that individuals may receive more than one
      letter. The investigators will randomize which letters are sent.

      The process will be as follows: every individual with a care gap in the sample (a care-gap,
      beneficiary pair) will be randomly assigned a study status: financial incentive, information
      only, or no letter. When it comes time to send mailers for each care gap, mailers will be
      sent according to the intersection of eligibility and care gap-specific treatment assignment.
      E.g. if at mailing time a participant is eligible for only cervical cancer screening (CCS),
      that participant will receive the CCS intervention (Control, Information Only, or Incentives)
      as pre-assigned. If the participant is also eligible for an adolescent well-visit (AWC)
      incentive based on her dependent's age and visit status, the participant will also receive
      the AWC intervention as pre-assigned; this intervention may be the same or different from her
      CCS intervention.

      Analysis:

      The investigators will compare the number and rate of care-gap closure at 6 and 18 months
      following the initial mailing. The investigators will also conduct heterogeneity analysis
      according to baseline characteristics of the population.
    
  