
    
      The implementation of quality of life (QoL) concepts in routine care is still an open matter.
      A pathway with QoL diagnosis and therapeutic options for patients with breast cancer and
      colorectal cancer has been designed, implemented, and evaluated as guided by the Medical
      Research Council framework for developing and testing complex interventions. It could be
      demonstrated that patients with breast cancer and colorectal cancer profited from the
      diagnosis of QoL deficits and tailored therapeutic options in their treatment.

      The next step is the long-term implementation of the QoL pathway into routine care. In a
      prospective, single-arm study 200 patients with breast cancer are planned to be recruited.
      QoL is measured (EORTC QLQ-C30, QLQ-BR23) after surgery (baseline) and during aftercare (3,
      6, 9, 12, 18, 24 months). Results of QoL measurements are automatically processed via an
      electronic data processing (EDP)-aided system and are directly presented to the coordinating
      practitioner (physician who cares for the patient during aftercare) and the patient in a QoL
      profile that can be discussed during the current medical appointment. The profile consists of
      eleven dimensions on scales of 0-100. A cutoff score <50 points defines a need for QoL
      therapy. Specific therapeutic options for the treatment of QoL have been identified:
      psychotherapy, social counseling, pain therapy, physiotherapy, nutrition counseling, and
      fitness. To provide continuous medical education, quality circles for each therapy option
      have been founded. Coordinating practitioners receive a list with addresses of all quality
      circle members.

      The primary endpoint of the study is the proportion of patients with a need for QoL therapy 6
      months after surgery as well as the evaluation of clinical relevance of the QoL pathway by
      patients and physicians.
    
  