
    
      Viral infections are normally controlled by T-cell immunity and are a cause of significant
      morbidity and mortality during the period of immune recovery after hematopoietic stem cell
      transplantation (HSCT). Risk for infection is impacted by the degree of tissue mismatch
      between donor and recipient and the immune status of the donor, including the degree and
      length of immunosuppression following transplantation. Reactivation of latent viruses such as
      cytomegalovirus (CMV), Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), and Human Herpesvirus 6B (HHV6) are common
      and often cause symptomatic disease. Reactivations of the polyomaviruses BK virus and JC
      virus are also common and frequently cause renal disease including hemorrhagic cystitis and
      less commonly neurologic disease (pervasive multifocal leukoencephalopathy). Respiratory
      viruses such as adenovirus and human parainfluenza also frequently cause infection. Antiviral
      pharmacologic agents are only effective against some of these viruses; their use is costly,
      and associated with significant toxicities and the outgrowth of drug-resistant mutants. As
      delay in recovery of virus-specific cellular immune response is clearly associated with viral
      reactivation and disease in these patients, cellular immunotherapy to restore viral-specific
      immunity is an attractive option that has already been successfully used to target several of
      these viruses.

      To broaden the specificity of single T cells lines to include the three most common viral
      pathogens of stem cell recipients, the investigators reactivated CMV and adenovirus-specific
      T cells by using mononuclear cells transduced with a recombinant adenoviral vector encoding
      the CMV antigen pp65 (Ad5f35CMVpp65). Subsequent stimulations with EBV-LCL transduced with
      the same vector both reactivated EBV-specific T cells and maintained the expansion of the
      activated adenovirus and CMV-specific T cells. This method reliably produced T cells with
      cytotoxic function specific for all three viruses, which the investigators infused into 14
      stem cell recipients in a Phase I prophylaxis study. The investigators observed recovery of
      immunity to CMV and EBV in all patients but an increase in adenovirus-specific T cells was
      only seen in patients who had evidence of adenovirus infection pre-infusion. A follow-up
      study in which the frequency of adenovirus-specific T cells was increased in the infused T
      cells produced similar results, thus highlighting the importance of endogenous antigen to
      promote the expansion of infused T cells in vivo. Nevertheless, all patients in both clinical
      trials with pre-infusion CMV, adenovirus or EBV infection or reactivation were able to clear
      the infection, including one patient with severe adenoviral pneumonia requiring ventilatory
      support. T cells recognizing multiple antigens can therefore produce clinically relevant
      effects against all three viruses.

      Recent studies have extended the number of targeted viruses, and included HHV6B, BK virus,
      and Varicella-zoster virus (VZV). In a recent study, 11 patients were treated with VST
      targeting 5-viruses (CMV, EBV, Adv, HHV6B, BKV) which were generated using a rapid protocol
      with overlapping peptides encompassing 12 viral protein. VST infusion resulted in a 94%
      antiviral response rate in these patients (complete or partial responses against CMV=3/3,
      EBV=5/5, Adv=1/1, HHV6B=2/2, BKV=6/7). Two of the patients who received 5-virus VST developed
      transplant-associated microangiopathy, which was deemed secondary to HSCT and unrelated to
      VST infusion. One of these patients developed grade II skin GVHD, which improved with topical
      therapy. In another recent study, ten adult patients were prophylactically treated with VST
      specific for CMV, EBV, Adv, and Varicella (VZV). These VSTs were generated using
      donor-derived dendritic cells which were infected with either Ad5f35-pp65 or with varivax
      vaccine, and were then pooled and used to stimulate donor PBMCs. All ten patients were
      protected against EBV, Adv, and VZV. Six patients developed CMV reactivation, but only one
      required antiviral therapy. Of these 10 patients, 7 developed acute or chronic GVHD, though
      compared to a non-treated group at the same institution, the rate of GVHD did not differ
      significantly. Thus, it has been possible to target an extended panel of viruses with a
      single VST product.
    
  