
    
      It is common to have voiding difficulties after prolapse and incontinence surgeries.
      Difficulties in voiding are seen in up to 47% of patients after transvaginal prolapse surgery
      in the immediate hours postoperatively (6). Accepted protocols for voiding trials after
      prolapse and incontinence surgeries do not exist. Traditionally, many surgeons measure
      postvoid residual (PVR) urine volume to assess incomplete bladder emptying by retrograde
      filling the bladder with a predetermined amount of normal saline or water. The catheter is
      then removed and the patient is permitted to void into a collection basin. The need for
      postoperative catheterization is generally based on arbitrarily determined ratios of voided
      urine to PVR. The force of stream trial (FAST) does not prioritize amount voided, but rather
      the patient's subjective force of stream. Using FAST, a patient uses a visual analog scale
      (VAS) scale to quantify her force of stream. If she states that her Force of Stream (FOS) is
      >50% of her baseline prior to surgery, independent of the amount voided, she is discharged
      without a catheter. If the FOS is <50%, a PVR is measured via bladder scan. If her PVR is
      <500cc the patient is discharged home.

      No randomized control trials (RCT) have been performed comparing the FAST method to the
      traditional retrograde voiding trial in subjects undergoing vaginal apex prolapse surgery
      despite the promising findings that FAST voiding trials are as reliable and safe as
      retrograde voiding trials in patients undergoing anti-incontinence surgeries. Standard in our
      practice is to perform a voiding trial on postoperative day 1 on all patients after vaginal
      apical prolapse surgery if they are to be discharged without a catheter. Investigators would
      like to compare the FAST voiding trial to a traditional retrograde fill voiding trial with
      respect to the rate of catheterization among those discharged without a catheter within the
      six-week postoperative period in patients undergoing a vaginal apex prolapse surgery.
      Investigators hypothesize the FAST voiding trial method is not inferior to traditional
      retrograde voiding trial. Subjects will complete questionnaires to examine postoperative
      bladder function, symptom distress and quality of life before and after surgery during their
      routine postoperative visits.
    
  