
    
      Septic abortion is still a major cause of maternal mortality in developing countries.
      According to the WHO, 1 woman dies for every 270 illegal abortion (Ahman E, 2004). Infected
      abortion has an important role in maternal morbidity and mortality (Stubblefield PG, 1994).
      the diagnosis of infected abortion must be considered when a patient presents a history of
      delayed menses, vaginal bleeding, abdominal pain and fever (Brasil, 2000)

      Prompt diagnosis and treatment are paramount steps to prevent complications. At Hospital de
      Clínicas de Porto Alegre, the use of gentamycin plus clindamicin before curettage is
      preconized (Savaris R, 2006). Nevertheless, the time of treatment it is not well established,
      varying from 7-14 days (Brasil, 2000).

      A recent study with post-partum endometritis has shown that it is not necessary to extend the
      treatment to 14 days, after clinical improvement (Turnquest MA, 1998; French LM, 2004)

      A randomized clinical trial comparing placebo with the standard protocol of treatment would
      define weather both treatments are equivalent or not.

      Comparison: The prolonged use of antibiotics, after intravenous use of antibiotics and
      clinical improvement, will be compared to the use of placebo in cases of septic abortion.

      Sample size and ethical issues The study protocol was approved by the ethics committee of
      Hospital de Clínicas de Porto Alegre.

      To compare equivalence between the 2 treatments we calculated the sample size considering an
      alpha error of 0.05, a beta error of 0.1, and difference between the two groups of no more
      than 10%. We expected a 99% clinical cure with the standard protocol, and 95% for the
      alternative one. These figures yield a minimum of 42 patients in each group. Interim analysis
      will performed at 58 for possible early stopping, if clinical cure was < 95%, or for sample
      size re-estimation.

      Randomization and treatment Subjects will be allocated in blocks of four at a time to create
      the allocation sequence. If the patient was eligible for the study, she will be allocated to
      one of the 2 treatments. The allocation will be concealed, coded and obtained from a central
      telephone number. Patients and those who assessed the outcomes were blind to group
      assignment. To avoid bias, both medications were manipulated by the hospital pharmacy and put
      in identically coded blisters and capsules.

      Statistical analysis Student´s t-test, Mann-Whitney test, and Fisher´s exact test will be
      used for statistical analysis. The rates of cure were analyzed by "modified" intention to
      treat (Keech AC, 2003) and per protocol with 95% confidence intervals.
    
  