
    
      Hoarding Disorder (HD) is a chronic, progressive, and debilitating psychiatric condition that
      leads to devastating personal and public health consequences. HD is defined by persistent
      difficulty discarding or parting with possessions due to distress associated with discarding,
      urges to save, and/or difficulty making decisions about what to keep and what to discard.
      Subsequent accumulation of clutter can become so dangerous that it puts individuals at risk
      of falls, fires, infestations, food contamination, medication mismanagement, social
      isolation, nutritional deprivation, and eviction. Medical problems, activities of daily
      living (ADL) impairment, decreased quality of life, and functional disability are associated
      with HD symptom severity. HD starts early in life, does not remit if left untreated, and
      increases in severity with age. The highest rates of HD are seen in older adults, with up to
      25% experiencing HD symptoms. The population of older Veterans is substantial, with 41%
      expected to be over the age of 65 by 2030. Recent research has found that Veterans with HD
      experience more medical and psychiatric comorbidities; thus, Veterans represent a group with
      high needs for effective HD treatment to reduce disability and improve multiple aspects of
      functioning.

      Dr. Ayers' group has developed and evaluated Cognitive Rehabilitation and Exposure/Sorting
      Therapy (CREST) in randomized controlled trials. The CREST intervention provides compensatory
      cognitive strategies to address the executive dysfunction typical of individuals with HD, and
      then uses exposure therapy to reduce the distress associated with discarding items. CREST
      improves HD symptoms and functioning in Veterans with HD, but the intensive nature of the
      program (6-8 months) burdens mental health clinics and slows progress. Given that the home is
      the primary site of clutter and the need for sorting of a large volume of items during
      treatment, a home-based treatment approach is needed. To reduce the burdens and barriers to
      implementation of CREST, the investigators will use a novel approach, referred to as
      Personalized-CREST, designed to reflect a precision medicine approach to evidence-based
      treatment for HD. Personalized-CREST will be more individualized (matching cognitive
      strategies to Veteran needs and priorities), more efficient (shorter timeframe over 12
      weeks), and easier to access (in-home sessions and home-based video telemedicine [HBVT]
      sessions). Recent pilot data suggest that HBVT for HD is feasible, efficacious, requires
      minimal adaptation, and is a preferred. Based on 73 non-Veteran community Personalized-CREST
      completers, results indicated statistically significant decreases in functional impairment,
      disability, and of HD symptom severity.

      The proposed randomized controlled trial will compare Personalized-CREST to a case management
      (CM) control condition for 130 adult Veterans with HD. Personalized-CREST will be delivered
      twice a week in the home (one face-to-face and one HBVT session) for 60 minutes per session.
      A total of 24 sessions will be provided over 3 months. Per the standard of care for CM, a
      social worker will visit the Veteran once a week in their home. A thorough evaluation of
      treatment outcomes, including multifaceted functional and rehabilitative outcomes, including
      quality of life and hoarding severity will be conducted at baseline (0 months),
      mid-treatment, end of treatment (3 months), and 6-month follow-up. The investigators will
      also examine factors that mediate improvement in Personalized-CREST (improved executive
      functioning and reduction in avoidance of discarding items). Individual factors (e.g., age,
      baseline executive functioning, baseline HD severity, gender and economic factors) and
      treatment factors (e.g., attendance) will be explored as moderators. The proposed study will
      generate knowledge to advance the rehabilitative care of Veterans with HD.
    
  