
    
      Introduction

      In recent decades, with the increase in life expectancy, the number of older people and their
      relative rate within the population have risen dramatically. This trend led to increased
      rates of people suffering from a mild cognitive disorder and dementia in developed countries.
      Mild Neurocognitive Disorder or Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) is defined as a transition
      state between successful aging and a state of dementia. This state is characterized by
      cognitive impairment and a decline in memory skills while daily functioning is maintained.

      Older people diagnosed with MCI are at increased risk of developing dementia, particularly
      Alzheimer's disease. This risk is ranked at about 12% every year.

      Since this is a pre-dementia stage, great importance lies in finding methods that could have
      prevented or at least decelerated the progress of MCI to dementia. Among the few effective
      programs are physical and cognitive activity.

      The Feuerstein Program

      This program is designated to prevent mental deterioration and preserve cognitive abilities
      among people aged 60 and above (hereinafter "The Feuerstein Program"). The program is the
      initiative and brainchild of Professor Reuven Feuerstein - Israel Prize Laureate, founder and
      President of the Feuerstein Institute for the Enhancement of Learning Potential.

      The program is an applied practicable program based on the theories of Structural Cognitive
      Modifiability as well as on Mediated Learning Experience. For the needs of this program, the
      tools were suited to the unique characteristics and requirements of the elderly population.

      The program is composed of a variety of tools (hereinafter: instrumental enrichment) that
      offer systematic activities intended to stimulate mental and cognitive development.

      Instrumental enrichment is a set of tools dealing with required thinking skills and it is
      designated to significantly promote learning and thinking processes. The tasks of the various
      tools are free of educational content and they engage in pure learning and thinking
      processes. The tools are delivered through special mediation processes, for which teachers
      and supervisors are trained in specialized courses.

      Objectives of the Feuerstein Program

      The main objective: to enhance the transformation (variability) capacity of a human being.

      The sub-objectives:

        1. Correction and development of defective thinking skills, that are responsible for
           learning difficulties and the absence of transformation (variability).

        2. Equipping the learner with literal and conceptual content that he requires during his
           learning processes.

        3. Creating and establishing proper sound thinking and working habits.

        4. Creating insight and awareness regarding the processes involved in learning.

        5. Creating internal motivation for carrying out tasks.

      The Learning Process

      The instrumental enrichment tools are distributed to the participant as work sheets. The
      teacher creates a "mediating" dialogue between himself and the participants, thus enabling
      them to construct learning skills and essential thinking strategies. In addition, the teacher
      bridges the learning skills that were studied to the daily life of the elderly participant.

      Products

        1. Creating within them awareness to their learning and thinking processes (Metacognition)
           while introducing an optimistic and positive attitude towards the ability to effect a
           significant change in these areas.

        2. Instill the elderly person with control over his thinking skills.

        3. Enhancing the sense of capability of the elderly person.

      The Intervention Focuses of the Instrumental Enrichment Tools that will be utilized in the
      Program

        1. Methodical information gathering.

        2. Orientation and function in space and time.

        3. Comparison and sorting capabilities.

        4. Memory.

        5. Raising hypotheses and their examination.

        6. Perspicuousness (clear wording) and naming capabilities.

      The Control Group

      The Control Group will participate in a program of the Adler Institute involving activities
      aimed at social and emotional development without specific cognitive skill training.

      Research Objective

      To examine the influence of the Feuerstein Program on the cognitive condition of participants
      suffering from Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI).

      Research Hypothesis

      The Feuerstein Program will improve the cognitive and functional condition of the
      participants.

      Methodology

      Randomised controlled intervention study involving subjects with Mild Neurocognitive
      Disorder.

      Research Assessment Tools

        1. Cognitive screening by means of the MoCA (Montreal Cognitive Assessment) Test.

        2. Instrumental daily function assessed by the Lawton and Brody's Instrument.

        3. Depression screening based on the following question: "Are you feeling sad or
           depressed?". A positive response to this question has been found to be an efficient
           screening tool for depression.

        4. Will to live based on the following question: If you could describe your will to live on
           a scale between 0 and 5, would you say that it is: 5 = very strong and 0 = no will to
           live.

        5. CogSym (Cognitive Symptom) Meta-cognition questionnaire composed of ten items related to
           the cognitive ability of the examinee during his daily functioning. The examinee is
           asked to assess for each item, what is his ability level for the function being
           described, on a 5 levels scale (1 = excellent, 5 = inferior).

        6. World Health Organization well-being index questionnaire.

        7. The Neurotrax computerized cognitive assessment battery.

      The intervention

      Participants will be randomly allocated to an Intervention Group using the Feuerstein Program
      and a Control Group of the Adler Institute involving 30 twice weekly sessions each lasting 90
      minutes over 15 weeks. Assessments will be performed at baseline, after session 15 and
      session 30, and finally at 6 months following study commencement.

      Data Analysis The statistical analysis will be conducted as is customary in clinical research
      within the field.
    
  