
    
      Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a common chronic systemic autoimmune disease that primarily
      affects the lining of the synovial joints which symmetrically involves the small joints, can
      cause cartilage and bone damage and associated with progressive disability, premature deaths,
      and socioeconomic burdens .

      In RA, neuropathic pain "which is defined as pain caused by a lesion or a disease of the
      somatosensory system" , could be suggested by :nerve compression, associated comorbidities
      and vascuilitis .

      Despite the recent advancement in RA treatment, neuropathic pain remains a cause of
      persistent pain even in controlled disease activity.

      The prevalence of clinical neuropathy varies from 0.5% to 85% in patients with RA, which can
      cause functional disability . Foot and ankle pain is highly prevalent in RA with peripheral
      neuropathy is a common contributor to it . In previous studies , it was found that the most
      foot neuropathies are of tarsal tunnel syndrome, peroneal nerve entrapment and pure sensory
      axonal neuropathy.

      For evaluation of neuropathic foot and ankle in RA , electrophysiological and imaging
      techniques can be very useful.

      Nerve conduction study (NCS) is the electrodiagnostic evaluation of the function of
      peripheral nerves ,it can provide information regarding the presence, severity and location
      of a lesion, symmetricity of neuropathy, mononeuropathy or disorders affecting the
      neuromuscular junctions. Also, the functional modality most involved (sensory or motor) and
      the predominant pattern of pathology (e.g., axonal, demyelinating, or both.

      Neuromascular ultrasond(NMUS) is a new modality of diagnosis developed in the past 20 years ,
      and it can assess anatomical abnormalities that can't be evaluated by NCS NMUS being
      noninvasive and inexpensive diagnostic modality , it has been introduced as a complement to
      NCS for diagnosis of nerve conditions.
    
  