
    
      Oculocerebrorenal syndrome of Lowe (OCRL) is a rare X-linked disorder characterized by
      congenital cataracts, mental retardation, and renal tubular dysfunction. Patients with known
      or suspected OCRL were enrolled under previous protocol 96-HG-0008 that expired in 1998 and
      was not renewed. We are continuing studies of DNA and cell samples obtained and archived
      under our previous protocol to identify mutations in the OCRL1 gene responsible for Lowe
      syndrome and related disorders in affected males and attempt to correlate these mutations to
      particular biochemical or cellular phenotypes (enzyme activity, protein stability, cellular
      localization and trafficking). Information about genotypes will not be communicated back to
      the patients, their parents (if patient is a minor) or their physicians as part of this
      study.

      We are also continuing our investigations of heterogeneity in OCRL by studying collected cell
      cultures from our collaborator Dr. Steven Scheinman at Suny New York Medical University,
      Syracuse, from a group of patients with mutations in OCRL1 who have Dent disease,
      characterized by renal tubular dysfunction. These data, and the variability in the renal and
      CNS abnormalities that occur in OCRL are evidence for the existence of modifiers. We propose
      to identify genes that are differentially expressed in cells from OCRL patients, patients
      with Dent disease and OCRL1 mutations by gene expression analysis of RNA from patient
      samples.

      As part of our study on phenotypic and genetic heterogeneity in OCRL, mutation analysis
      resulted in the identification of mutations mostly in the second two-thirds of OCRL1.
      However, the OCRL1 mutations in the Dent disease patients have been found in the first third
      of OCRL1. We plan to send samples from Lowe syndrome patients without identified OCRL1
      mutations to a Dr. Steven Scheinman who will look for such OCRL1 mutations. He will be sent
      only coded samples and will look for such OCRL1 mutations. He will be sent only coded samples
      and will not have access to patient identifiers. This information will be used for research
      purposes only.
    
  