
    
      Background The etiology of cervical pain is multifactorial and includes age, gender,
      incongruous postures, repeated efforts. Studies based on the bio-psychosocial model also link
      chronic neck pain to psychological factors. Among them, kinesiophobia has been reported as an
      important determinant. It is debatable whether interventions targeting cognitive processes
      and pain-associated behaviors can lead to clinically significant changes in terms of
      disability, pain and quality of life of these individuals.

      Furthermore, there is uncertainty about the effectiveness of the types of exercises to be
      proposed. This makes it difficult to choose between general exercises (aimed at improving
      cervical muscle and joint skills) and motor-oriented (or task-oriented) exercises (aimed at
      cervical functional recovery in an ecological context). Over time, the use of
      multidisciplinary interventions for chronic vertebral pain (instead of segmental treatments)
      has grown in order to improve disability, pain and proactive behaviors towards the problem
      manifested. To date, the evidence relating to the effects of multidisciplinary approaches is
      inconclusive and lacking. In light of these premises, it appears necessary to deepen the
      conduct of studies aimed at evaluating the efficacy of a multidisciplinary rehabilitation
      program that integrates cognitive-behavioral therapy based on kinesiophobia with specific
      exercises, in the treatment of chronic neck pain of working subjects.

      Hypothesis The hypothesis is that a multidisciplinary rehabilitation program induces
      clinically significant and long-term improvements in the disability, pain and quality of life
      of working subjects with chronic neck pain.

      Objectives of the study Verify the effectiveness of a multidisciplinary program in inducing
      clinically significant and long-term improvements in the disability, pain and quality of life
      of working subjects suffering from chronic neck pain. Evaluate the work discomfort linked to
      the condition of chronic neck pain.

      Study procedure The subjects eligible for the study will be assigned to one of two treatment
      programs (multidisciplinary or general) using a permuted block randomization procedure.

      The interventions will be offered by a psychologist and two physiotherapists of equal
      experience, responsible separately for the multidisciplinary and general groups. Each
      participant will be assessed individually by postural observation, cervical and muscle
      mobility examination. Based on this evaluation, the exercises will be planned and performed
      on a single patient. Patients assigned to the multidisciplinary team will meet with a
      psychologist once a week.

      Description of the interventions of the multidisciplinary program: multimodal exercises to
      improve, through gradual exposure, cervical mobility, postural control and strengthening of
      the cervical muscles; stabilization techniques for the deep neck muscles; task-oriented
      exercises maintaining the activation of the deep spinal muscle. Under the supervision of a
      psychologist, the subjects will also be involved in cognitive-behavioral therapy aimed at
      modifying the fear of movement (kinesiophobia) and the maladaptive behavior of the disease.

      Description of the interventions of the general program: exercises for muscle strengthening,
      regional stretching and spinal mobilization.

      Description of the interventions that will be carried out on both groups: ergonomic
      consultancy. At the end of the treatment, patients will be asked to continue with the
      exercises at home. At the end of each session a control of the program performed will be
      conducted based on a manual that includes the complete list of exercises to be performed.
      Patients' GPs will be asked to avoid referrals for other visits / other treatments while the
      programs are running.

      Type of data collected:

      - Personal and anthropometric data; lifestyle habits; work, pharmacological and pathological
      history; levels of neck disability, kinesiophobia, catastrophism, intensity of pain, quality
      of life, work discomfort.

      Questionnaires will be administered before treatment, ten weeks after (post-treatment) and 12
      months after the end of treatment (follow-up).

      At the end of the treatment, subjects will be asked to rate the effectiveness of the
      treatment using a Likert Global Perceived Effect scale. Using a specific form, patients will
      be asked to report any symptoms they experience during the study that may require further
      treatment.

      The end date of the follow up will be considered that of December 31, 2021.

      The effects of the treatment between the two groups over time will be analyzed through the
      use of linear models with mixed effects for repeated measurements. The differences between
      the two groups relating to measures with non-normal distribution will be analyzed by
      Mann-Whitney U test. The null hypothesis will be rejected for p values> 0.05 (two-tailed
      test).
    
  