
    
      Study Overview: This study will enroll patients requiring prolonged mechanical ventilation to
      identify the presence of newly acquired weakness in the ICU. Eligible patients are those that
      require the use of mechanical ventilation for greater than or equal to five days, because
      this is a significant risk factor for weakness. These patients will be enrolled and followed
      to detect the true relative mortality between weak and strong patients in the ICU.

      To identify patients with relevant and significant weakness, this study identifies weakness
      in patients who survive and return to a state of normal consciousness. As such these
      patients, once enrolled, need to be screened daily for awakening. Once awake an assessment of
      peripheral muscle strength will be performed with a standard bedside neuromuscular exam and
      handgrip manometry.

      Initial Data Collection: After consent, demographic information and risk factors for
      neuromuscular disease for each patient will be recorded. Blood pressure values and other data
      regarding the subjects' severity of illness will be collected. Any previous use of medicines
      during the current hospitalization that are associated with the development of weakness will
      be collected as well. Also any previous history of other chronic disease known to be
      associated with weakness (e.g. diabetes, immune system deficiency, end-stage liver disease or
      kidney disease) will be noted.

      Screen for awakening (SA):Once daily the patient will be assessed for awakening using a
      standard (RASS). When the patient awake and able to follow commands they will be assessed for
      muscle strength exam.

      Medical Research Council Strength Exam:The examiner will perform their exam on the first day
      that the patient is eligible by RASS screening. This same examiner will return at least
      twenty hours, but no more than forty-eight hours later to perform a repeat exam. The exam
      will be based on the Medical Research Council standard exam. Functions assessed:Upper
      extremity: wrist flexion, arm flexion, shoulder abduction. Lower extremity: ankle
      dorsiflexion, knee extension and hip flexion. Handgrip assessment: On the same day as the MRC
      exam the patient will be asked to perform a handgrip maneuver using the Jamar® handgrip
      manometer.

      Clinical outcomes:

      Ventilator use, Re-intubation, Recurrent ICU admission, Tracheostomy use, ICU Length of Stay
      and Hospital LOS
    
  