
    
      In this randomized controlled trial, each patient of participating Group Health Cooperative
      of South Central Wisconsin (GHC-SCW) primary care clinics who is listed in the Cigarette User
      Registry receiving standard telephone contact from their GHC-SCW Tobacco Cessation Outreach
      Specialist (TCOS) to discuss tobacco use treatment options will be reminded of GHC-SCW's
      commitment to helping them improve their health, advised to quit smoking, offered support to
      quit smoking, recruited, screened, consented, and randomized over the phone to one of three
      conditions of financial engagement incentives. Smokers unwilling to participate in the
      incentivized treatment program will be offered entry into the existing GHC-SCW standard
      smoking cessation program. Participants in the research study will also receive smoking
      treatment via the existing GHC-SCW standard smoking cessation program. Participants in the
      research study will be told that they may receive a treatment engagement incentive, with the
      amount consistent with their randomized incentive condition; receipt of their assigned
      incentive amount is dependent upon their setting a quit date and completing two smoking
      cessation treatment counseling contacts. The smoking cessation treatment includes medication
      and 3 quit smoking counseling calls scheduled to occur after the recruitment contact call,
      which is the standard smoking cessation program available to all GHC-SCW patients. This
      program entails a brief counseling call a week (typically 5-7 days) pre-quit i.e., before the
      patient's target quit date (TQD), approximately 5-7 days following the TQD (Week 1), and
      about one month following the TQD (Week 4).

      Research participants will be asked to complete brief (3 to 5 minute) assessments during each
      standard care smoking treatment counseling call by GHC-SCW, plus 15-25 minute research study
      phone interviews 3- and 6-months post-TQD for study purposes. Those claiming abstinence at
      the 6-month post-TQD phone interview will be asked to return to their primary care clinic to
      complete breath, urine, and/or saliva testing to verify abstinence from combustible tobacco.
      This will entail providing breath samples for carbon monoxide testing and/or a urine or
      saliva sample for immediate cotinine testing (no samples will be stored). Participants may
      also be asked to collect a saliva sample at home and return it in the mail if they do not
      attend a biochemical verification visit.

      Primary Aims:

        -  To determine the relations between treatment engagement financial incentive amounts
           offered and likelihood of patient engagement in smoking cessation treatment.

             -  Primary outcome measure: Patient engagement in smoking cessation treatment (defined
                as setting a TQD and completing two phone counseling calls).

      Exploratory Aims

        -  Conduct exploratory analyses on the effects of the different incentive engagement
           amounts on biochemically confirmed point-prevalence abstinence 6 months post-quit-date,
           and determine whether incentive condition affects abstinence via effects on smoking
           treatment engagement (i.e., whether smoking treatment engagement mediates the relations
           between different engagement incentive conditions and 6-month smoking abstinence).

        -  To determine the incremental cost-effectiveness of the different financial engagement
           incentive amounts with regard to total program costs vs. usual care, net monetary
           benefit (NMB), cost per quit, and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs), with
           the last determined with regard to cost of additional smoker recruited and each
           additional individual who quits smoking.

        -  To determine the representativeness of smoking treatment reach and smoking abstinence
           outcomes generated by the various engagement incentive amounts with regard to different
           groups of smokers: e.g., those low in socio-economic status, priority populations,
           different racial and ethnic groups.
    
  