
    
      Bile duct cancer and pancreatic cancer are cancers that cannot be surgically removed. As the
      cancer grows, it blocks the drainage of the bile ducts that carry digestive juices from the
      gall bladder and pancreas to the small intestine. ERCP (endoscopic retrograde
      cholangiopancreatography) is often prescribed during which a tube with a tiny camera attached
      is inserted through the subject's mouth and advanced to a place in the small intestine where
      the bile duct empties. Through this scope the doctor enlarges the ducts with tiny balloons
      and places plastic or metal stents (straws) that help keep the bile ducts open so they can
      drain properly. However, due to the cancer, the stents are blocked eventually.

      The purpose of this registry is to record information and evaluate the impact of
      radiofrequency ablation (RFA) of endoscopic radiofrequency ablation (RFA) probes in improving
      the management of bile duct cancer or pancreatic cancer by ablating the tissue in the bile
      duct(s) before the stent(s) are implanted. By using radiofrequency (RF) energy to heat the
      tissue in the duct(s) prior to stent(s) insertion, the surrounding tissue becomes coagulated
      and this may delay tumor growth and the time before the stent lumen becomes blocked. Thereby,
      allowing increased periods between the need for intervention and further stent
      implantation(s). The registry will evaluate the efficacy and safety of RFA procedures
      conducted for pancreatico-biliary disorders.

      The safety and efficacy of various radio frequency ablation probes have been assessed in a
      series of studies. This multi-center registry has been initiated:

        1. To document the immediate and post procedure clinical performance of radio frequency
           ablation in a 'real world' patient population requiring stent implantation for
           pancreaticobiliary disorders.

        2. To assess the immediate and 6 months post procedure adverse event rate in patients.

        3. To assess the impact of RFA on the life expectancy of patients suffering from
           pancreaticobiliary malignancies.
    
  