
    
      Varicose veins, a very common problem in UK, may cause symptoms including pain, heaviness and
      itching in the lower legs. Overtime, bleeding and damage to surround soft tissues may
      develop, leading to venous ulcer which can be very painful, debilitating, difficult to heal
      and very expensive to treat.

      Newer minimally invasive techniques are preformed using local anaesthetic. The recovery has
      been shown to be more rapid, due to less pain and disability when compared to open surgery.
      These techniques use either heat or a chemical/medicine injected inside the varicose veins to
      close them permanently. In 2013 National Institute of Health and Care Excellence (NICE)
      recommended that methods using heat such as endovenous laser ablation (EVLA) should be first
      choice as the chemical methods have been shown to have a significantly lower treatment
      success rates in closing varicose veins permanently. Chemical methods however do have their
      advantages, as they require far fewer injections of local anaesthetic than the heat methods
      and these injections can be a source of significant discomfort.

      Since NICE guidelines, a new treatment technique known as mechanochemical ablation (MOCA)
      using ClariVein® has been developed. This device injects a chemical into the vein through a
      rotating hollow wire, which causes the vein to narrow and damages the lining of the vein,
      making the chemical more effective. This new treatment technique aims to match the success
      rates of the heat method, but with less pain since it avoids most of the local anaesthetic
      injections. Both treatments are currently used in the UK, however there is insufficient
      evidence as to whether one is better, or the same.

      This trial will randomly allocate volunteer patients to have their varicose veins treated
      with either EVLA or MOCA. The investigators will assess a range of outcomes including pain
      scores, success rates, complications, quality-of-life and costs to see which, if any, of
      these treatments offer better results. Long term follow-ups will occur at 5 and 10 years.
    
  