
    
      A normal pregnancy lasts between 37+0 to 41+6 weeks. Estimated date of delivery is set
      exactly at 40+0 weeks of gestation. Base on this estimation, professional society's
      guidelines have recommended to start inducing the labor from 41+0 to 41+6 weeks after the
      last menstrual period. Clinical practice during the last few decades has been moving towards
      this trend and postponing labor induction.

      But is 40 weeks' gestational age the optimal endpoint of human pregnancy? Recent studies,
      however, showed different results where many of them support induction of labor at 39 weeks.
      A large cohort retrospective study which included information from merely 5.4 million
      non-anomalous live births in the United States from 2012 to 2016, though only modestly, the
      authors have been able to conclude that the rates of composite neonatal and maternal adverse
      outcomes increase from 39 through 41 weeks of gestation among low-risk parous women.
      Stratifying by parity, it seemed that the trend is also similar among all low-risk women no
      matter which parities they are in. When it comes to nulliparous women, results from a large
      prospective randomized control trial (the ARRIVE trial) show that induction of labor at 39
      weeks in low-risk nulliparous women did not lead to significant lower frequency of a
      composite adverse perinatal outcome but it did result in a significant lower rate of cesarean
      delivery. More recently, in a review sponsored by the Cochrane library on induction of labor
      beyond 37 weeks' gestation has found that there is a clear reduction in perinatal death with
      a policy of labor induction at or beyond 37 weeks compared with expectant management, though
      absolute rates are small (0.4 versus 3 deaths per 1000). There were also lower caesarean
      rates without increasing rates of operative vaginal births and there were fewer Neonatal
      Intensive Care Unit admissions with a policy of induction. Base on these evidence, the
      American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists has suggested "it's time to induce of
      labor at 39th week of gestation". It is true that although induction of labor is familiar
      with obstetricians, the procedure is still raising concern from patients' side. Even in the
      United States where patients consulting has been routinely applied, the rate of patients
      refuse to be induced at 39th week of gestation is about 50%. Review from Cochrane library
      also suggested that "Offering women tailored counselling may help them make an informed
      choice between induction of labor for pregnancies" . In some countries where the National
      Guidelines still recommends induction of labor should be considered after 41 weeks of
      gestation and pregnancy related decisions are driven by many identical factors such as:
      knowledge, traditional or cultural ones, the patients' perspective on induction of labor
      before 40 weeks of gestation is a challenge. Thus, the patients' understanding of the
      elective induction of labor and factors contribute to decision-making process towards
      induction of labor should be investigated in order not only to develop appropriate induction
      policies for the future but also scientific studies/randomized clinical trials to come.
    
  