
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The Honolulu Heart Program was initiated to verify reports that men of Japanese ancestry
      living in the United States had a much higher risk of coronary heart disease and a lower risk
      of stroke than Japanese men in Japan. The Honolulu Heart Program was actually a component of
      the larger NI-HON-SAN Study. The NI-HON-SAN Study (from the acronyms Nippon, Honolulu, and
      San Francisco) was initiated in 1965. The populations under investigation included members of
      the Honolulu Heart Program as well as men of Japanese ancestry born between 1900 and 1919 and
      residing in Japan and San Francisco.

      In the Honolulu Heart Program, 11,148 men were identified of whom 8,006 participated in
      baseline examinations between 1965 and 1968. The 1965 - 1968 examination included a detailed
      medical and social history with specific inquiries about smoking, alcohol consumption, diet,
      and physical activity. A physical examination focussed on the cardiovascular system;
      laboratory tests included hematocrit, serum cholesterol, triglyceride, uric acid, glucose
      determination, and urinalysis. A twelve lead electrocardiogram and lung function testing
      revealed that 301 men had evidence of coronary heart disease and 111 had a stroke. The
      prevalence of coronary heart disease was slightly higher than in the comparable population in
      Japan, but the incidence rate during the first two-year period of follow-up was twice as high
      in Honolulu as in Japan. Stroke prevalence was much higher in Japan than in the Honolulu
      cohort, with a threefold difference. The Honolulu Japanese men were more obese, ate a more
      Westernized diet with a higher amount of animal protein, saturated fat, and sucrose and a
      smaller amount of complex carbohydrates. They had higher levels of serum cholesterol,
      triglyceride, uric acid, and glucose than Japanese men in Japan. Cigarette smoking was more
      common in the Japanese cohort, while the proportion of heavy smokers was greater in the
      Honolulu cohort. Alcohol consumption in the Japanese cohort was twice that of the Honolulu
      cohort. There were no differences in mean blood pressure or prevalence of hypertension.
      Repeat examinations were performed near the second and sixth anniversaries of the initial
      examinations. The six year follow-up data identified 294 new cases of coronary heart disease
      and 133 new cases of stroke. Between 1970 and 1972 some 2,800 of the cohort were examined and
      had lipoprotein determinations performed as part of the NHLBI Lipoprotein Phenotyping
      Project. Survivors of the lipoprotein cohort were reexamined between 1975 and 1978 near the
      tenth anniversary of their initial examination and again between 1980 and 1982.

      In 1985, the program was enlarged to make a comparative analysis of the 12-year incidence of
      coronary heart disease in the Japanese and Hawaii study cohort of the original NI-HON-SAN
      Study, to sample 400 offspring of the study cohort ages 45 to 60 years and to complete
      nutrient indicators for association with blood pressure in a manner consistent with the
      United States-Japan study of nutrition and blood pressure. Resulting data were compared with
      a comparable selected group of Japanese men and with the parents of the offspring to examine
      familial associations. Pulmonary function data were recorded and analyzed for association
      with other risk factors, respiratory disease, and other major chronic diseases.

      Beginning in March 1993 and continuing through December 1994, the National Institute on
      Aging, with its own funds, investigated aging and dementia among Honolulu Heart Program
      participants.

      Beginning in March 1997, the study was supported by U01HL56274.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      In this prospective cohort study, the hospital discharge rosters of all general hospitals on
      the Island of Oahu were reviewed twice yearly as part of the morbidity and mortality
      surveillance. The appropriate chart materials were abstracted for review by study physicians
      for evidence of myocardial infarction and stroke. Beginning in 1986, both old and new
      hospital discharge records were reviewed for the additional endpoints of congestive heart
      failure, aortic aneurysm, bronchitis, emphysema, asthma, chronic obstructive lung disease,
      dementia, organic brain syndrome, and Parkinson's disease. Deaths were monitored by following
      obituary columns as well as reviewing death certificates from the State Health Department.
      There was daily contact with hospitals to find out about impending autopsies in which study
      personnel could participate. However, only 20-25 percent of the deaths had protocol
      autopsies.

      The fifth and final complete examination of the surviving cohort concluded in Spring, 1996
      under a contract with the National Institute on Aging. While the emphasis of this exam was
      the investigation of dementia, NHLBI funded the recording of blood pressures and ECGs as well
      as the continued surveillance for morbidity and mortality. A cooperative agreement extends
      the surveillance for an additional five years. As part of the close-out phase of the study,
      frozen blood samples collected since the study's inception have been sent to a repository in
      Rockville, MD. A review board for screening prospective users of this resource holds
      quarterly meetings.

      As the study group includes both migrants from Japan and Hawaii-born men, there is a spectrum
      of cultural lifestyles and varying grades of acculturation which are being examined as risk
      factors for cardiovascular and other chronic diseases. The existing baseline and follow-up
      examination data and the surveillance information on the incidence of most major diseases
      provide opportunities for a great variety of research projects concerning the predictors of
      cardiovascular disease, as well as studies of the broader concepts of health and disease in
      the aging population. The low out-migration rate and the well-defined sources of medical care
      have provided an ideal setting for maintaining disease morbidity and mortality surveillance;
      nearly 100 per cent of hospital discharge episodes have been recorded. As the study
      participants range in age from 75-95 in 1996, the rates of coronary heart disease, stroke,
      and other chronic diseases are increasing rapidly and thus are providing a large number of
      disease endpoints for study. Other Institutes are also currently supporting activities which
      utilize the original cohort.

      Stored sera provide an opportunity to test new ideas and etiologic hypotheses using both
      prospective and case-control study designs. Protocol autopsy information can now be utilized
      to examine relationships among risk factors, clinical manifestations of CHD, and stroke and
      pathological evidence of atherosclerosis.

      Beginning in 1997, a cooperative agreement extends the surveillance for an additional five
      years through February, 2002. As part of the close-out of the study, frozen blood samples
      collected since the study's inception have been sent to a repository in Rockville, Maryland.
    
  