
    
      Aims:

      To determine the effect of habitual and moderate consumption of beer on physical fitness,
      body composition, psychokinetic and cognitive abilities and psychological status in sedentary
      healthy adults undergoing a HIIT training program.

      The primary hypothesis will that a HIIT program will induce an improvement on physical
      fitness, body composition, psychokinetic abilities and psychological responses compared to a
      control group but this positive effect could be blunted by alcohol intake.

      Methods:

      HIIT-BEER will recruit 80 sedentary, healthy, adults (50% women) aged 18-40 years.

      Will be performed a 10-week controlled trial in which the effects of HIIT will be compared to
      a control group without training. The effects of habitual intake of different alcoholic
      beverage will be also compared.

      After completing the baseline measurements, the selected participants will be randomly
      assigned to either the control or the exercise training groups. The participants included in
      the training groups will be asked to choose individual choice about their drinking preference
      for alcoholic or non-alcoholic beverages. The participants who chose alcohol intake will be
      randomly assigned into the training group with alcohol beer intake (5.4% Alcohol-Special
      Alhambra速, Cervezas Alhambra, Spain) or to the sparkling water group with exactly the same
      amount of distilled alcohol added. The distilled alcoholic beverage used for the
      investigator's study will be vodka because of the purity of its composition (37.5% ethanol
      and 62.5% water). The participants who chose non-alcoholic beverages will be randomized into
      the training groups of non-alcohol beer (0.0% alcohol-Cruzcampo速, Heineken Espa単a) or
      sparkling water (Eliges (IFA) Eliqua 2速, Font Salem, Spain) intakes.

      So, eligible participants will be assigned to five groups: (i) a group that will performed
      HIIT and will consumed 330 ml (women) or 2x300 ml (men) of beer with 5.4% alcohol (HIIT-AB,
      n=16); (ii) a group that will performed HIIT and will consumed the same amount of beer
      without alcohol (0.0%) (HIIT-NAB; n=16); (iii) a group that will performed HIIT and will
      consumed the same amount of sparkling water (0.0%) (HIIT-W; n=16); (iv) a group that will
      performed HIIT and will consumed sparkling water with the same amount of alcohol than the
      pre-established beer (5.4%) (HIIT-ASW; n=16); and (v) a control group that will not perform
      any physical training program (CON; n=16).

      The beverage intakes will be programmed from Monday to Friday. There will not specific
      recommendation for Saturday and Sunday, but the participants will be instructed to keep a
      moderate alcohol during the weekend.

      Laboratory measures completed at baseline and 10 weeks later, include physical fitness
      (cardiorespiratory fitness, muscular strength), body composition, hearth rate variability
      (HRV), reaction time, cognitive variables and health-related questionnaires. The
      investigators will also obtain dietary habits data and cardiovascular disease risk factors.
    
  