
    
      Women diagnosed with minor atypia following a routine Pap smear will be randomised into one
      of the three management arms of the study (a) HPV DNA test, (b) Decision Aid (DA) with choice
      of management, or (c) a 6 month repeat Pap smear (conventional management). Women who are
      allocated to the HPV DNA arm and the repeat Pap will receive standard information about their
      management strategy. Women allocated to the decision aid arm will receive information about
      HPV DNA testing and 6 month repeat Pap in a decision aid format as an adjunct to usual
      clinical care and asked to indicate their preference for management. Women in this arm will
      receive the management strategy of their choice (HPV DNA or repeat Pap). The impact of the
      Decision Aid will be assessed and psychosocial impact of each management strategy will be
      followed up over the short, medium and long term.

      Management and Clinical outcomes: Data will be collected on the taking and timing of Pap
      smears, HPV testing and colposcopy as well as findings for each of these tests and any
      subsequent treatment.

      Psychosocial outcomes: Measures will be administered by postal questionnaire at multiple time
      points across the study. There will be 3 questionnaires: (1) Baseline questionnaire - for all
      participants recruited into the study; (2) Decision-making evaluation - to assess
      decision-making in all groups and the impact of the decision aid; (3) Psychosocial impact
      questionnaire - brief questionnaire (taking approximately 10 minutes to complete) sent at
      multiple time points to assess the psychosocial impact over time (2 weeks, 3, 6 and 12
      months).

      Quality of life assessment: Participants will be invited to take part in an interview at 1
      month and 12 months post testing (HPV testing or repeat Pap smear) to assess quality of life
      using standardised validated QOL measures. Interviews will be carried out by an experienced
      female researcher. Study participants will be given the option to participate in the
      interview and will be under no obligation to take part if they do not wish to.
    
  