
    
      Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the second leading cause of cancer death in western countries.
      Conventional polyps were considered the precursor lesions of all cases of sporadic colon
      cancer. Recently, serrated lesions and especially the Sessile Serrated Adenoma (SSA), are
      responsible of interval CRC between 20% to 35% of all CRC cases. These polyps are difficult
      to identify at endoscopy because they are located in the right colon, they are sessile or
      flat morphology and are pale color with mucus capping.

      According to the WHO, SPS is defined with one of the following criteria: (1) at least 5
      serrated polyps proximal to the sigmoid colon, 2 of which are greater than 10 mm in diameter;
      (2) any number of serrated polyps occurring proximal to the sigmoid colon in an individual
      who has a first-degree relative with serrated polyposis; or (3) more than 20 serrated polyps
      of any size distributed throughout the colon. Therefore, patients with SPS are considered to
      be at increased risk of CRC. Considering the substantial risk of polyp recurrence, it is
      mandatory to follow up an annual surveillance.

      Narrow-Band Imaging (NBI, Olympus) selectively uses certain wavelengths of the visible light
      leading to a shift in the excitation spectrum towards blue light. Blood vessels will appear
      dark, allowing an improved visibility and identification of the surface and vascular
      structures. In contrast to conventional chromoendoscopy, it is easily activated by pressing a
      button on the endoscope. A pilot study in patients with SPS showed significantly lower polyp
      miss rate with NBI compared with WLE. Furthermore, the European Society of Gastrointestinal
      Endoscopy (ESGE) has recently published the first Guideline of Advanced Endoscopic Imaging
      for the detection and differentiation of colorectal neoplasia and recommends conventional
      chromoendoscopy or NBI in patients with SPS (strong recommendation, low quality evidence).

      The hypothesis is that NBI could improve the detection rate of serrated polyps compared with
      WLE in patients who do not accomplish the SPS criteria.

      The investigators will perform a randomised, cross-over trial of tandem colonoscopy using NBI
      and WLE. The main goal is to compare the rate of detected polyps between both techniques and,
      if it is necessary, reassessing the diagnosis for an appropriate surveillance interval.
    
  