
    
      3 groups:

      Ketamine group:

      • Patient will receive single dose of intravenous ketamine 0.5mg/kg before incision.

      Dexamethasone group:

        -  Patient will receive single dose of intravenous dexamethasone 8mg before incision
           Control group

        -  Patient will receive single dose of intravenous normal saline before incision.

      Process:

      After obtaining informed consent, patient will be randomly allocated to one of three groups.
      HADS and SF-36 questionnaires will be completed by the patients on admission. Blood for serum
      IL-6 and TNF - α will be taken. 3D laser scanning of the face will be performed.

      The patients will not receive any premedication and will follow other routine preoperative
      preparation. Patients will be educated to use the Numerical Pain Rating Scale for pain
      assessment, where 0= no pain and 10 the most severe pain. P deletion test and mini-mental
      test will be done at ward before operation.

      Before induction, ketamine 0.5mg/kg, dexamethasone 8mg or normal saline of same volume will
      be administrated intravenously according to the study group allocated. Induction of
      anaesthesia will be achieved according to a standard protocol. Regional block with 2%
      lignocaine with 1 in 80000 adrenaline will be performed by surgeon before start of the
      procedure. The surgery will be started once the anaesthesia is effective.

      The patients will be transferred to the recovery area for monitoring for at least 30 minutes
      postoperatively. The vital signs including blood pressure, pulse and SpO2 and the Ramsay
      sedation score (RSS) will be assessed every 5 minutes. Pain score (NRS) will be recorded
      every 15 minutes. The patients will be sent back to general ward when the parameters are
      normal. P deletion test will be done from postoperative hour 2 in the general ward until the
      performance is at least the same as that before operation. Mini-mental test will be done at 2
      hours postoperatively. Hourly blood pressure, pulse, SpO2 and pain score (NRS) will be
      performed for 4 hours. Pain score (NRS) will be assessed 4 hourly afterward. Quality of
      recovery will be assessed after operation with Chinese QoR. Serum IL-6 and TNF-α will be
      taken at postoperative 6th hour and 16th hour. Paracetamol 1 g three times daily and tramadol
      50mg three times daily as required will be prescribed postoperatively.

      The patients will be discharged home at postoperative day 1 if the discharge criteria are
      met. 3D laser scanning of the face will be performed before they are discharged. They will be
      asked the degree of satisfaction of the operation . Paracetamol 1 g three times daily and
      tramadol 50mg three times daily as required will be prescribed on discharge. A diary will be
      given to the patient. From postoperative day 1 to day 3, at each morning, average pain score
      (NRS), analgesic consumption and side effects will be marked on the diary by the patient. At
      the 3rd month after operation, the severity and nature of pain at the surgical sites will be
      asked over phone. The patients will be asked to go to the Oral & Maxillofacial Surgery
      out-patient clinic at the Prince Philip Dental Hospital on postoperative day 2 for 3D laser
      scanning of the face.
    
  