
    
      Sepsis is a clinical syndrome that has physiologic, biologic, and biochemical abnormalities
      caused by a dysregulated inflammatory response to infection. Sepsis and the inflammatory
      response that ensues can lead to multiple organ dysfunction syndrome and death. In the late
      1970s, it was estimated that 164,000 cases of sepsis occurred in the United States (US) each
      year. Since then, rates of sepsis in the US and elsewhere have dramatically increased as
      supported by the following studies, although many of these are derived from academic
      institutions. The increased rate of sepsis is thought to be a consequence of advancing age,
      immunosuppression, and multidrug-resistant infection. It is also likely to be due to the
      increased detection of early sepsis from aggressive sepsis education and awareness campaigns,
      although this hypothesis is unproven. Guidelines should focus on pre-hospital assessment and
      triage. Indeed, respiratory infections represented the most common cause of sepsis in that
      cohort, and postoperative infections were another important part of the problem. Whether
      these conditions apply to patients with shock in low-income and middle-income countries
      (LMIC) is unknown, but the incidence of community-acquired infections would be higher, with a
      greater prevalence of gastroenteritis, septic abortion, and skin and soft tissue infections
      as causes of septic shock. The bacteriology of bloodstream infections across LMICs varies
      substantially depending on regional and population characteristics. In a meta-analysis of 19
      prospective studies on community-acquired bacteraemia in Africa, the most common organisms
      isolated were Salmonella spp (predominantly non-typhi), Streptococcus pneumoniae, and
      Gram-negative organisms such as Escherichia coli.11 Among cases for which mortality data were
      recorded, patients with bloodstream infections had an average mortality of 21.5%. Although
      data are lacking, appropriate antibiotic treatment for these infections on the basis of
      bacterial resistance patterns will ultimately depend on the ecological pressures resulting
      from local antibiotic availability and patterns of use.

      We aimed to evaluate the approach to sepsis in Turkey as a multi-centered study.
    
  