
    
      People with severe kidney disease follow a restricted diet aimed at reducing intake of
      sodium, potassium and phosphate. These dietary restrictions require reducing their intake of
      many fresh fruits and vegetables, which may lead to nutritional deficiency. Although the
      potential for malnutrition in people with kidney disease is well recognized, blood levels of
      most vitamins and trace elements are rarely measured. Instead, most North Americans with
      severe kidney disease are routinely prescribed a "renal vitamin" such as Replavite which
      contains a mixture of B and C vitamins.

      Recent evidence (including our work; see
      http://www.biomedcentral.com/bmcmed/subjects/nephrology) indicates that people with severe
      kidney disease are often deficient in several other biologically essential substances
      (selenium, zinc) that are readily amenable to supplementation. Pilot data from the Northern
      Alberta Renal Program (NARP) indicate that approximately 90% of patients have zinc levels
      below the lower limit of normal; findings for selenium are similar.

      Potential benefits of zinc supplementation include improvements in immune function, taste
      sensitivity (perhaps reducing dietary sodium intake), and improved appetite. Potential
      benefits of selenium supplementation include reductions in the risk of vascular disease and
      infection. Supplementation with vitamin E was shown in a randomized trial to reduce serious
      cardiovascular morbidity in people with kidney failure, but is not routinely used in dialysis
      patients. This suggests that supplementation of zinc, selenium, and vitamin E has theoretical
      benefits in kidney failure. Since patients with kidney failure already take many medications,
      it is logical to combine any new nutritional supplements with the ingredients of the standard
      renal vitamin to reduce pill burden.

      This protocol concerns a novel nutritional supplement consisting of zinc, selenium and
      vitamin E in addition to the contents of the standard renal supplement of B and C vitamins.

      This pilot randomized, double blind trial will compare 2 doses of the new supplement with the
      standard renal vitamin.

      2.0 Objectives: Primary objective: compare two formulations of the new supplement (low and
      medium doses of zinc and selenium) with standard treatment (Replavite or equivalent renal
      vitamin).

      Secondary objective: demonstrate the feasibility of recruitment for a definitive larger trial
    
  