
    
      We intend to conduct an eight weeks, multi-centre, rater-blinded, cluster randomized, and
      parallel-group trial, with follow up after four weeks. We will choose cluster randomizing by
      practical reasons. 920 NH patients were screened and 352 patients with moderate or severe
      dementia and BPSD were included. The treatment period is 8 weeks, with further follow after
      four weeks.

      The primary outcome measure will be reduction in aggression and agitation as well as other
      items which are measured by means of CMAI (Cohen Mansfield Agitation Inventory). Secondary
      outcome are reduction in NPI-NH-subscale agitation/aggression and other items which are
      measured by the Neuropsychiatric Inventory, Nursing Home Version (NPI-NH). Further, we want
      to evaluate the concomitant use of acute medication. Additionally, Activities of Daily Living
      function (ADL) and MIni Mental State Examination (MMSE) will be used as secondary outcome
      measure.

      Pain in patients with dementia will be assessed and followed by the MOBID-2 Pain Scale
      (secondary outcome measure). MOBID-2 Pain Scale is a staff-administered behavioural
      instrument for assessment pain in older persons with dementia with god validity and
      reliability (Husebo 2008, 2009). MOBID-2 is based on patient's pain behaviour in connection
      with standardised, guided movements of different body part, and pain behaviour related to
      internal organs, head and skin. Additionally, pain will be registered by pain diagnoses,
      -etiology, and -duration. The MOBID-2 score is derived from caregiver in a clinical bedside
      situation during morning care.

      Adverse events will be recorded and evaluated throughout the study as the primary assessment
      of safety and tolerability.

      Inclusion criteria: Patients of either gender, 60 years of age or older, living in a nursing
      home (NH) diagnosed moderate or severe dementia measured by the Functional Assessment Staging
      (FAST) and MMSE, and BPSD in form of agitation / aggression as measured by subscale of NPI-NH
      and CMAI.

      Exclusion criteria: Patients without cognitive impairment and without BPSD. Patients with
      hepatic or renal failure or diseases that make it impossible to follow the study schedule.
    
  