
    
      Elbow fractures are complex injuries that often involve the articular surface, are in close
      proximity to critical neurovascular structures, and are prone to post-operative
      complications. Complications following treatment of intra-articular elbow pathology can
      affect over 50% of patients and up to 30% of all patients will require a re-operation. One of
      the most common complications is joint stiffness.1 When a flexion arc of motion is diminished
      to less than 100 degrees, a flexion contracture is present greater than 30 degrees, or
      forearm rotation is less than 100 degrees, functional limitations are frequently present and
      further treatment may be recommended.2,3 In fact, contracture release may be required in
      12-20% of patients after intra-articular elbow fractures and carries a relatively high
      complication rate when performed.

      The relationship of post-traumatic elbow contracture to intra-articular fractures is well
      established and can caused by extrinsic factors such as heterotopic ossification (HO),
      fibrosis and capsular thickening, or by intrinsic factors such as failure of nonunion,
      malunion, arthrosis, or loose bodies.2,4 Recent studies analyzing the acute phase synovial
      fluid cytokine profile after an intra-articular elbow fracture have shown proinflammatory and
      catabolic factors in high concentrations that can lead to contracture through myofibroblast
      differentiation and proliferation.4 Furthermore, HO can limit range of motion in up to 40% of
      fractures and may also result from prolonged inflammation with elevated IL-1β and TNF-α
      levels.

      The purpose of this study is to determine if perioperative glucocorticoid administration (IV
      intra-operative followed by a post-operative oral taper course) improves post-operative range
      of motion in a patient population that has sustained an intra-articular elbow fracture(s)
      (radial head, proximal ulna, distal humerus, or combined) that required operative fixation.

      Primary Study Questions

        1. For adult patients (>18yo) who sustain intra-articular elbow fractures (radial head,
           proximal ulna, distal humerus, or combined) that undergo operative fixation, does
           perioperative glucocorticoid administration (IV intra-operative followed by a
           post-operative oral taper course) improve post-operative range of motion
           (flexion/extension and pronation/supination) compared to a placebo?

           Secondary Study Questions

        2. Is perioperative glucocorticoid administration more effective in improving range of
           motion for certain intra-operative elbow fractures or depending on the mechanism of
           injury (subgroup comparison based on fracture type and high-energy or low-energy
           injuries)?

        3. Do patients that receive perioperative glucocorticoids have a higher surgical site
           infection rate?
    
  