
    
      Objectives We aim to test the feasibility and efficacy of mind-body breathing therapy (MBBT)
      in improving dyspnea and health-related quality of life for patients suffering from
      late-stage COPD. This randomized controlled trial seeks to assimilate a number of
      complementary and alternative (CAM) approaches aimed at breath-centered symptom abatement and
      relaxation into an single therapy and test its efficacy as a palliative care intervention.

      Research Plan Patients will be enrolled from outpatient clinics, primarily pulmonary medicine
      (COPD patients), at the Veteran Affairs (VA) Greater Los Angeles Healthcare System. Patients
      will be randomized to intervention or control arms. Each arm will include a weekly meeting on
      the VA campus for 8 successive weeks. Evaluation will include pre/post measurements, serial
      self-report data, compliance measures, chart abstracted objective data, and follow-up
      evaluations for 2 months following the intervention or until death. Grant and project will
      begin in October 2005 and run for one year.

      Methods The overall design is a randomized controlled trial of the MBBT intervention on
      dyspnea symptoms and health-related quality of life (HRQOL). The study will aim to enroll 120
      patients over a one year period. We will enroll cognitively intact patients with advanced
      COPD and dyspnea. Potential subjects will be identified by flyers or provider invitation;
      screening will ask about enrollment criteria and verified after consent through medical
      record. Subjects will be recruited through physicians though public advertising and
      recruitment within the VA will be used to inform patients and physicians of the trial.
      Patients will be screened at intake during vital signs and offered participation when
      identified with dyspnea of at least 4 out of 10 points on the Borg Dyspnea Scale. Patients
      randomized to intervention arm will attend a 8-week session on MBBT that will include a 15
      minute video designed by Jon Kabat-Zinn for dyspnea, a relaxation response pocket-guide with
      group practice and a daily prescription for practice, and weekly mind-body guided sessions
      for controlled breathing. Control patients will be invited to attend an 8-week session
      consisting of the a support group with equivalent time and attention as well as identical
      measures.

      Results Primary study outcomes are patients' self report of the severity of dyspnea and
      HRQOL. Baseline dyspnea will be quantified with the Baseline Dyspnea Index and Borg scale
      with regular measures of dyspnea using the Visual Analog Scale (VAS). Functional limitation
      will be measured by the 6-minute walk test and followed with the baseline measure of
      post-exercise dyspnea level on the Borg scale. Other symptoms will be identified by the
      Memorial Symptom Assessment Scale (MSAS) and as part of the Saint George Respiratory
      Questionnaire (SGRQ). HRQOL will be measured by the SGRQ, a 76-item self-administered
      questionnaire measuring 3 domains (symptoms, activity, and impact of disease on daily life),
      and in a more general way by the physical health score and mental health score of the
      Veterans RAND 36 Item Health Survey (VR-36).

      Clinical Significance Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is the fourth leading
      cause of death with increasing prevalence throughout the world and within the VA. Dyspnea is
      among the most troublesome symptoms these patients experience. Mindfulness based meditative
      strategies has been shown to improve functioning and quality of life, and palliate pain in
      other populations. However, no trial has specifically evaluated mindful practices or
      mind-body breathing techniques in the palliation of dyspnea. If shown to be effective, MBBT
      may represent an important palliative strategy in the management of conditions prevalent in
      the Veteran population and in medical care in general.
    
  