
    
      -  Background: In recent years Left Ventricular Assist Devices (LVADs) have become the
           devices of choice to treat patients with advanced heart failure. Proper evaluation of
           the cardiovascular function under LVAD support is of key importance especially for the
           preservation of the assisted cardiac function or for the evaluation of an eventual
           cardiac recovery. Cardiac echocardiography, electrocardiography and catheterization, as
           well as exercise testing are the standard clinical methods for the evaluation of the
           cardiovascular function during LVAD support. All these methods require however
           time-consuming procedures, and are therefore unacceptably cumbersome for frequent
           monitoring. On the other hand, a frequent and effective noninvasive evaluation of the
           cardiac status provided by the LVAD itself would have a remarkable impact on LVAD
           patients and their therapy. Previously developed methods to assess the cardiovascular
           status from data available from the LVAD (see references given) will be now investigated
           in a prospective clinical study.

        -  Purpose: The main purpose of this study is evaluate the sensitivity/specificity of LVAD
           based diagnostics when compared to standard clinical diagnostic procedures both at rest
           and during exercise. Secondarily, the physical activity of patients will be evaluated
           following LVAD implantation.

        -  Methods: Seventy-five heart failure patients who had or are about to have a LVAD
           implanted will be enrolled in this study. In these patients, the LVAD data (motor
           current and speed) will be recorded concurrently to the routine clinical examinations
           and during daily life. The routine clinical examinations typically consist of a subset
           of the following procedures: cardiac ultrasound, cardiac catheterization, 24h ECG
           measurement, exercise tests (6-minute walk test and spiroergometry). Parameters from the
           LVAD data that reflect contractile and relaxation properties as well as and aortic valve
           opening will be compared to echocardiography. Parameters from the LVAD data that reflect
           cardiac rhythms will be compared to ECG measurements. Both cardiac hemodynamics and
           rhythms during exercise tests will be assessed using the developed methods based on LVAD
           data. Finally, wristwatch accelerometers will be used for a quantification and
           evaluation of patient daily life activity. This measurements will be compared to
           6-minute walk test and spiroergometry data as well as with the diagnostics methods based
           on the LVAD data.
    
  