
    
      Compassion-focused therapy (CFT) was specifically designed for people with high levels of
      shame, self-criticism and self-directed hostility by helping people to cultivate affiliative
      emotions and compassion.The current research aims to explore changes in levels of
      self-criticism, shame, submissive behaviour, and self-comparison in a severely obese
      population who are awaiting bariatric surgery. As depression symptoms and levels of emotional
      eating can interfere with bariatric surgery success, these constructs are included as
      secondary outcomes for research.

      Research questions

      The research was guided by the following research questions and hypotheses:

        1. Does CFT significantly improve levels of self-compassion and social comparison?

           Hypotheses:

             1. It was hypothesised that CFT would show significant improvements in comparison to
                TAU on self-compassion and social comparison variables.

             2. It was hypothesised that these improvements would be maintained at 3 months follow
                up.

        2. Is CFT effective in reducing levels of shame, self-criticism and submissive behaviour
           for people who are severely obese?

           Hypotheses:

             1. It was hypothesised that CFT would achieve significant reductions in shame,
                self-criticism, and submissive behaviour variables in comparison to TAU.

             2. It was hypothesised that these changes would be maintained at 3 months follow up.

        3. Does CFT reduce emotional eating and depression?

      Hypotheses:

        1. It was hypothesised that CFT would show significant reductions in emotional eating and
           depression variables in comparison to TAU.

        2. It was hypothesised that these reductions would be maintained at 3 months follow up.

      This study will use a prospective, randomised control design using quantitative methods to
      investigate the effectiveness of CFT, using various measures pre-and post-therapy and at
      3-month follow-up.

      91 individuals with severe obesity will be randomly assigned to one of two treatment groups

      - Compassion-Focused Therapy (CFT) plus treatment as usual or Treatment as Usual alone (TAU).

      Individuals assigned to CFT will be introduced to the CFT model taught the main
      compassion-focused exercises in a group setting. Self-report measures will be administered
      prior to the commencement of the CFT group and TAU group, and during the final groups and 3
      months follow up. To reduce the 'demand' effect, scales will be administered by an Assistant
      Psychologist who is not involved in delivering the therapy.
    
  