
    
      Atopic Dermatitis (AD) is a chronic, inflammatory skin disease characterized by dry, red, and
      itchy patches that can become thickened and lichenified with time. Contact Dermatitis, or
      Allergic Contact Dermatitis (ACD), is an eczematous reaction in response to an environmental
      allergen.

      The etiology of Atopic Dermatitis (AD) and Allergic Contact Dermatitis (ACD) has not been
      completely elucidated, and new understandings of underlying mechanisms have expanded and
      focused treatment regimens and paradigms.

      Atopic Dermatitis (AD) is thought to be mediated by Th2 type T cells elaborating a number of
      cytokines which are blocked in vitro by apremilast. The chronic Atopic Dermatitis (AD)
      pathway may involve a change to Th1 cytokines. Genetic factors do not contribute as much to
      the course of Allergic Contact Dermatitis (ACD) as in Atopic Dermatitis (AD). Rather,
      Allergic Contact Dermatitis (ACD) is a type IV, T-cell mediated, delayed-hypersensitivity
      reaction that can be self-limited. Similar to Atopic Dermatitis (AD), a number of
      pro-inflammatory cytokines are involved in recruiting T cells preferentially to the skin: Th1
      cytokines, Th2 cytokines, CD8 cytokines, and T-regulatory cytokines. These pathways in
      Allergic Contact Dermatitis (ACD) are activated by IFN-γ, driven by TNF-α, and as above,
      apremilast has been shown to block these cytokines in vitro.

      Current treatments for Atopic Dermatitis (AD) and Allergic Contact Dermatitis (ACD) include
      skin care, trigger avoidance (especially in the case of ACD), topical corticosteroids,
      steroid sparing treatments, antihistamines, topical and systemic antibiotics, and ultraviolet
      light. For more recalcitrant Atopic Dermatitis (AD) and Allergic Contact Dermatitis
      (ACD)cases, several immunosuppressive treatments exist.

      Subjects with recalcitrant Atopic Dermatitis (AD) or Allergic Contact Dermatitis (ACD)have
      exhausted conventional systemic treatment options because they do not respond to conventional
      systemic therapy or cannot use these agents due to side effects or cumulative toxicity.

      There is an urgent need to evaluate new therapeutic options in recalcitrant Atopic Dermatitis
      (AD) and Allergic Contact Dermatitis (ACD). Very few of the available drugs for recalcitrant
      Atopic Dermatitis (AD) and Allergic Contact Dermatitis (ACD) have reasonable efficacy and
      safety profiles in this condition, are easily available, or easy to administer. A new
      treatment strategy is needed for the treatment of recalcitrant contact or atopic dermatitis
      that would increase efficacy, minimize toxicity for both short and long-term treatment, and
      be easy to administer. The availability of alternative drug treatment(s) offering safe and
      effective short and long-term management would significantly benefit subjects with
      recalcitrant contact or atopic dermatitis.

      This study uses a novel oral agent (apremilast) that modulates multiple anti-inflammatory
      pathways through targeted phosphodiesterase type IV (PDE4) inhibition decreased expression of
      dermatitis. Apremilast has pharmacodynamic properties with a potential therapeutic benefit
      for treating inflammatory autoimmune disorders that involve elevated serum cytokine levels,
      including Atopic Dermatitis (AD) and Allergic Contact Dermatitis (ACD).
    
  