
    
      Ethical considerations This study was designed and conducted according to the guidelines
      Consolidated Standards of Reporting of Trials (CONSORT) for the preparation of randomized
      controlled clinical trials (Altman et al., 2001), after approval by the Research Ethics
      Committee (protocol number CEP-035 -2011- FO / UFPel), Faculty of Dentistry, Federal
      University of Pelotas - RS / Brazil.

      Study design

      Calculation for determining the sample

      Based on the literature, the sample size was obtained assuming an average annual rate of
      failure 6% for Class V restorations performed with conventional adhesive systems (PEUMANS et
      al., 2005b), with 80% power and significance level of 5%. From the recommendations of the
      American Dental Association (2010), we estimated an annual failure rate of 12% for
      restorations in relative isolation. For this, a sample of 28 was determined by monitoring
      patients for a minimum of 5 years, considering possible attrition of 20%.

      Recruitment and selection of patients The search strategy of individuals interested in
      participating in this clinical trial was conducted through the dissemination of the project
      through the display of posters and distribution of pamphlets in FO / UFPEL as well as in
      basic health units (BHU) located in the urban area Pelotas. In addition, the study had the
      collaboration of students representatives of class associations, coordinating teachers of
      clinical activities and dentists the public health system, to increase the receptivity and
      the accession of potential volunteers.

      All patients were referred, or directly sought dental care, with diagnosis of non-carious
      cervical lesion, were scheduled for evaluation exam.

      Two students of the seventh semester, under the supervision of the responsible of this study,
      carried out the consultations on the premises of FO / UFPEL. Initially, the presence of LCNC
      was assessed by visual inspection with wooden spatula aid. If so, we filled out a patient's
      medical record, containing identification data, general and dental history. In addition, the
      dental chart was performed using mirror, explorer, millimeter periodontal probe, clinical
      tweezers, cotton rolls and saliva sucker. From the clinical examination, the LCNC were sorted
      review of its features. The dentin sensitivity was evaluated by applying air jet for 3
      seconds, the distance 2-3 cm of the labial surface, and sensitivity degree record from a
      visual analogue scale. Likewise, the pulpal vitality was visualized using cotton balls
      previously moistened with the gas jet cooling at -50 째 C.

      Patients who met the inclusion and exclusion criteria received an information letter about
      the nature and proposal of the study. After reading, we asked the volunteers to sign a
      consent form and informed about their participation.

      In a second clinic session, the patients underwent a process of adaptation of oral health for
      the prevention, control, removal of plaque and dental calculus. Professional intervention
      consisted in scraping, smoothing and polishing dental, using curettes / periodontal files,
      glass / rubber cone, Robinson brush, prophylaxis paste and contra angle low speed.

      Operator training Six candidates for operators (students between the seventh and eighth
      semester of FOUFPEL) participated in a training process to ensure the standardization of
      clinical procedures and minimize the variation of different operators.

      First stage (theoretical): A lecture was given, lasting about two hours, consisting in the
      presentation of materials and techniques for the removal or modification of hypermineralized
      surface layer of dentin-carious cervical lesions. It was also performed routine detailed
      statement to be instituted during the sessions. A manual containing the material operating
      instructions and the protocol of clinical procedures, was made available to students.

      Second stage (practice): Students went through pre-clinical activities, watching the
      demonstration and subsequently performing Class V restorations on mannequins. Secondly, they
      performed the same procedures for volunteers who, despite presenting LCNC with restorative
      needs, were not included in this study. Therefore, such patients received restorative
      treatment under conditions identical to the patients involved in the study, but not part of
      the sample.

      At the end of training and calibration steps, the functions of the working group delegated by
      using the performance of individual students as selection criteria. Were chosen two
      operators, who have restorative procedures, and two assistants to support operators and
      completion of medical records. The other students were in charge of sterilization of
      instruments, scheduling appointments, molding, photographic record, oral hygiene orientation,
      periodontal treatment, among other dental procedures offered to patients. All the above
      mentioned steps were performed under direct supervision of the responsible for the study.

      Preparation of the patient: Four weeks before the start of the study, the patients were
      subjected to a sweep session, smoothing and polishing supragingival. In addition, patients
      received individualized instruction for mechanical control of dental biofilm, including
      guidance on the brushing technique and flossing. During the monitoring period, was also
      offered dental support to patients involved in the study.

      Clinical Protocol Initially, prophylaxis element to be restored was made with glass and
      rubber based slurry of pumice and water. Then the color of the restoration was selected with
      the aid of a color scale (Vitapan Classical, Vita Zahnfabrik, Bad S채ckingen, Germany). Local
      anesthesia was Also, when necessary. In the same query, the patient received restorative
      action in three LCNC to submit clinical features compatible. Randomization as the technique
      for the surface layer removal or modification hypermineralized to be applied in each place by
      drawing lots. The restorations were initiated by the previous LCNC, with the priority needs,
      the main complaint: aesthetic, functional aspects and / or symptoms such as tooth
      sensitivity, etc. Each patient had to have at least 3 teeth to be restored because of the 3
      types of treatments employed. It draw lots 3 treatments individually for each tooth. For
      example, if a patient possessed the three lesions selected, the drawing is performed to be
      selected for each tooth treatment be subjected to a treatment. If the patient possess more
      than 3 lesions was performed again for the draw element 4 and so on with the other.

      We emphasize also that each operator held the same number of restorative interventions, and
      one was prepared following the protocol recommended by the manufacturer of the materials,
      another increasing the etching time to 30 seconds on dentin and finally the third cavity was
      restored after performing a cavity prophylaxis with ultrasound probe applied for 30 seconds.
      The remaining steps were carried out following the protocol recommended by the manufacturer
      of restorative materials employed.

      The rubber dam was accomplished through the use of lip retractor, wire retractor # 000
      (Ultrapak Cord, Ultradent, South Jordam, UT, USA), cotton rolls and saliva sucker. The first
      element to be introduced in the oral cavity was the lip retractor, printing expulsion lips
      and cheeks. Cotton rolls were positioned in the upper labial sulcus at the lower labial
      sulcus and in the sublingual region, to absorb the saliva flow coming mainly from the major
      salivary glands. The retractor wire is inserted into the gingival sulcus with the aid of
      blunt spatula, without generating excessive pressure in the periodontium.

      Prior to the implementation of restoration, there has been no type of cavity preparation, or
      beveling of cavosurface margins. However, each LCNC dentin surface was subjected to various
      removal or modification of the techniques hypermineralized ultra-surface layer, as follows:

        -  Control Group: Restoration made following the protocol recommended by the manufacturer
           of the materials;

        -  Experimental Group 1: Increase the etching time to 30 seconds, performed with phosphoric
           acid gel at 37%, prior to application of the resin adhesive. The following steps to acid
           etching followed the protocol recommended by the manufacturer of the materials;

        -  Experimental Group 2: Prophylaxis cavity with ultrasound probe, applied for 30 seconds
           on the dentin surface hypermineralized of cervical lesions non-carious. Soon after, the
           restoration was made following the protocol recommended by the manufacturer of the
           materials.

      Both restorative procedures were performed using a conventional adhesive system (Single Bond
      II, 3M ESPE, St. Paul, MN, USA) and composite restorative nanoparticulate (Filtek Z350, 3M
      ESPE, St. Paul, MN, USA), closely following the operating instructions provided by the
      manufacturer. The restorations were placed by incremental technique using about 2 or 3
      increments restorative composite, as the size of LCNC. The increments were taken and adapted
      to the cavity starting with the margin in enamel with spatulas, brushes and siliconadas tips
      for composite resin. An LED device with minimum intensity 1450 mW / cm2 was used for
      polymerization.

      Finally, the finish of the restoration was performed by using # 12 scalpel blade, diamond and
      fine-grained multi-laminated drills, in order to remove excess material and / or improve the
      shape of the contour restorations. The polishing of the same was done with employment
      siliconadas tips, floppies sandpaper (Sof-Lex Pop-On, 3M ESPE, St. Paul, MN, USA),
      felt-specific folders and polishing discs.

      Reviews of restorations Two examiners (graduated in Dentistry) will go through a training
      process and calibration until present intra agreement index and inter-examiner of at least
      80%. In the event of disagreement as to the assessment criteria, the same teri찾o to get a
      consensus through direct revaluation of restorations and / or by means of digital
      photographs.

      After the training phase and calibration, the evaluators 'blind', ie without any involvement
      with the conditions which patients will be submitted, shall proceed independently, clinical
      evaluations of restorations. At this time, the evaluators will use magnifying glass, mirror,
      explorer, millimeter periodontal probe, clinical tweezers, cotton rolls and saliva sucker.
      Data relating to dentin sensitivity and pulp vitality will also be collected through the air
      jet application and application cotton balls have been wetted with gas jet cooling to -50 째
      C, respectively. Digital photographs will also be consulted by the evaluators.

      The properties will be evaluated sensitivity, color change and integrity of the restoration.

      Statistical analysis Clinical evaluations will occur in the following periods: 1 week
      (baseline), six months, a year, two years and three years after insertion of the restorations
      using the evaluated criteria. The data will be tabulated and submitted to statistical
      analysis, considering 80% power and 5% significance level.

      Will be held descriptive analysis with calculation of ratios to characterize the sample and
      dental restorations. To compare outcomes in the pre- and post-intervention according to the
      treatment groups and also the comparison of outcome between treatment groups will be used
      chi-square test and McNemar test. The analyzes will be performed using Stata 12.1 software.
    
  