
    
      Subjects with moderate-to-severe Dry Eye judged by symptoms will be screened following
      signing of informed consent. Screening will involve history and physical examination
      including ophthalmic examination with dilated fundus exam to assess the status of their
      ocular structure and function, and evaluation of tear production and damage caused by
      clinically significant Dry Eye. Blood will be blood drawn for complete blood count, chemistry
      panel including serum glucose, blood urea nitrogen, electrolytes, creatinine, liver function
      studies including total and direct bilirubin, alkaline phosphatase, alanine transaminase
      (ALT), aspartate transaminase (AST), albumin, and total protein. They will also have a
      urinalysis. Pregnancy test will be performed in women of child-bearing potential.

      Subjects will have a two week "run-in" period in which they use artificial tears. Those
      subjects in whom corneal staining is 2 or more (on a scale of 0-4), Dry Eye symptom score on
      the OSDI is 25-75 after two weeks of using artificial tears four times per day, and
      laboratory test results within the accepted ranges will be enrolled and will receive study
      drug, Those subjects in whom dry eye symptoms improve sufficiently (OSDI drops below 25)
      and/or corneal staining is reduced from 2 or more to less than 2, or have laboratory test
      results outside the accepted ranges will not be enrolled.

      Safety evaluation includes assessment of the structure and function of the eyes including
      conjunctival and corneal tissues. Corrected visual acuity will be measured at every visit.
      Patient comfort will be assessed after administration of the study drug and at every visit. A
      retina examination will be performed before and after the treatment period. Slit lamp exam
      including the cornea, conjunctiva, anterior chamber, iris, eye lids and lashes will be
      performed at every visit. Special testing will include fluorescein staining of the cornea,
      lissamine green staining of the conjunctiva, endothelial cell analysis, Schirmer tear
      production, and intraocular pressure measured on all subjects.

      Subjects who meet the inclusion and exclusion criteria will be randomly assigned to one of
      two treatment arms, ST266 or "artificial tears" eye drops. ST266 and artificial tears eye
      drops will be supplied by Stemnion, and both personnel and subjects will be trained in its
      use. The treatment will be prepared in a coded container such that the subject and physician
      are masked as to the treatment. One treatment arm will receive ST266 eye drops in both eyes
      and the other treatment arm will receive artificial tears eye drops in both eyes. Treatment
      arms will be assigned by random. The randomization scheme is 1:1 ST266:artificial tears.
      Subjects will self-administer their eye drops four times each day. Subjects will be asked to
      keep a study diary of when they place the study medication in their eyes.

      Subjects will be seen in the office of the ophthalmologist/optometrist at baseline (week
      zero), one week, three weeks, six weeks and ten weeks. Eye examination will be done at each
      visit. Each subject will complete a patient questionnaire on their symptoms of Dry Eye. The
      baseline eye tests and lab work will be repeated after the treatment phase of the study at
      the end of week six. Following 6 weeks of treatment, the subjects will be followed for 4
      additional weeks.
    
  