
    
      Diaphragmatic atrophy and diaphragmatic dysfunction are described in human resuscitation
      under mechanical ventilation, but this diaphragmatic function has not been studied in
      patients with cardiogenic shock and also under cardiac assistance by extracorporeal
      circulation called ECLS (Extra -corporeal Life support). Diaphragmatic dysfunction in
      intensive care has been described during prolonged stay in intensive care and early sepsis.
      It is associated with dyspnea and delayed weaning from mechanical ventilation. The atrophy of
      the diaphragm muscle is related to both loss of function and also loss of muscle performance.

      Decreases in heart muscle and diaphragm performance may require both cardiac and respiratory
      assistance. Cardiac and respiratory dysfunctions can complicate the weaning of the
      respiratory assistance and also extracorporeal circulatory support supports. These two
      supports, respiratory and circulatory assistance, allow the purification of CO2 and
      respiratory assistance is known to influence the diaphragmatic function. The role of the
      muscular pump function in the withdrawal process of the ECLS, remains largely unknown. The
      aim of our study is to give a description of the physiology of the diaphragm in case of
      cardiogenic shock: we want to evaluate the force of the diaphragm according to the
      ventilation under ECLS. No studies have yet evaluated the influence of ECLS as a CO2
      purification system on the performance of the diaphragm muscle.

      Ultrasound is used in the patient's bed in daily practice to measure cardiac function, vessel
      study and diaphragm muscle. This method is reproducible and non-invasive. It can be
      hypothesized that there is a muscular involvement of the diaphragm under extracorporeal
      membrane oxygenation (ECMO) measurable by ultrasound method. Our main hypothesis is that the
      diaphragm force evolves according to the cleaning of the CO2 by the ECLS during the weaning
      of this one.

      This is a Monocentric Prospective Observational Descriptive study. The objective of this
      study is to evaluate prospectively and consecutively the evolution of diaphragmatic muscle
      stress in cardiogenic shock with ultrasounds during the first ECMO weaning in intensive care
      patients.

      When cardiogenic shock occurs, during the first ECLS weaning, we also will evaluate
      prospectively :

        -  The evolution of diaphragm muscle thickness

        -  The evolution of the function of the diaphragm muscle We will evaluate the impact of
           different risk factors on the diaphragmatic function: respiratory variables, parameters
           and duration of mechanical ventilation, ECLS parameters and duration, number and type of
           associated organ failure, gasometric variables, hemodynamic variables, presence of a
           cardiotomy.

      And we also will evaluate the impact of the diaphragmatic function on the patient's future:

        -  Failure to wean from mechanical ventilation

        -  ECLS weaning failure

        -  Death in intensive care

        -  Length of stay in intensive care Patients will be informed and consents will be
           collected during hospitalization in intensive care.
    
  