
    
      Background:

      Prolonged and excessive narcotic usage in the postoperative setting has been linked to
      multiple complications. Use of complimentary pain management techniques such as regional
      analgesia can reduce postoperative pain and narcotic usage. This can enhance patient recovery
      and improve quality of life in the immediate postoperative period. Previous research
      investigating the benefits of local analgesia during cardiac surgery have been limited by the
      sparse amount of single-center randomized controlled trials, particularly evaluating the use
      of para-sternal injections.

      Of the available studies, the use of local analgesia injections compared to controls has led
      to improved pain scores and overall decreased perioperative opioid usage. Studies have shown
      this efficacy using 0.2% ropivacaine, 0.75% ropivacaine, and 0.53% liposomal bupivacaine all
      compared to control groups receiving normal saline injections in the para-sternal area. These
      studies all used injections just prior to sternal closure and no significant evidence is
      available for the use of ultrasound-guided regional block of the sternum prior to surgical
      incision. Injection of analgesia prior to surgical incision has been shown to decrease
      postoperative pain compared to injection after surgical closure.

      We hypothesize that injection of 1.3% liposomal bupivacaine and 0.5% bupivacaine (20mL dose)
      as a sternal block prior to surgical incision will lead to decreased pain and opioid usage in
      the intraoperative and postoperative setting for patients undergoing upper mini- and median
      sternotomy compared to controls.

      Methods:

      This is an investigator-initiated prospective randomized study with an 18-month patient
      accrual period and patient follow-up period dependent on postoperative length of stay
      following surgery.

      Regional Block: Liposomal Bupivacaine (1.3%) solution (20 mL dose) is proposed for use during
      this study. This solution has demonstrated increased efficacy in prolonged analgesia
      following injection. This solution will be injected as an ultrasound-guided subpectoral
      interfacial plane block.

      Normal Saline: Normal saline (0.9%) will be used as the control solution for patients not
      receiving the liposomal bupivacaine solution. Injection procedure of this solution will be
      identical to that of the liposomal bupivacaine solution.

      Procedures: Patients undergoing a surgical procedure through mini- or full sternotomy will be
      considered for inclusion in this study. There will be no deviation from routine surgical
      procedures following injection of para-sternal solution prior to surgical incision.

      Data elements:

      Patient Characteristics:

        1. Age

        2. Gender

        3. BMI

        4. Tobacco use

        5. Chronic lung disease

        6. Diabetes

        7. Hypertension (HTN)

        8. Hyperlipidemia (HLD)

        9. Ethnicity (Hispanic & not Hispanic)

       10. Race (Caucasian, African Americans, Asians and others)

       11. Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD)

       12. Cerebrovascular accident (CVA)

       13. Chronic home non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) use (excluding acetylsalicylic
           acid (ASA))

      Intraoperative Variables:

        1. Type of procedure being performed

        2. Prior procedures performed

      Postoperative Variables:

      Time to extubation, time to ambulation, time to oral diet, return of bowel function,
      postoperative atrial fibrillation incidence, post op nausea incidence, and intensive care
      unit (ICU) length of stay (LOS) and overall LOS. Maximum incentive spirometer maximum volume
      at 24, 48 and 72 hours, Confusion assessment method (CAM) at 24, 48 and 72 hours, post op
      opioid usage up to 72 hours post op. If additional days of post-op opioid usage is documented
      in the existing medical record, this may be used also.

      Pain scores (Scale 0-10) at 1, 2, 4, 8, 12,24,36,48, 60, and 72 hours after ICU arrival for
      extubated patients and Clinical Care Pain Observation Tool (CPOT)scores (Scale 0-8) for
      intubated patients

      Adverse Events: Allergic reaction, pneumothorax, pericardial tamponade, vascular injury,
      hematoma, intravascular injection, wound infection, paresthesia, persistent numbness

      Protocol Deviations: If certain data elements are not in the existing medical record and were
      not collected, this is not a protocol deviation. Nevertheless, all effort will be made to
      collect these data points.

      Risks and Benefits

      Risks: The risks are the same as the Standard of Care surgery performed outside this study.
      This is discussed in the ICF. A confidentiality breach is a risk associated with research.
      However, all data collection protocols follow HIPAA guidance.

      Benefits: If participants receive the drug, they could experience less pain than those that
      don't receive the drug. However, not all participants are likely to benefit from the proposed
      research. The investigators will benefit from the knowledge gained, as it will provide
      deepened insight on the main challenges, advantages and disadvantages of the procedure.

      Data Analytic Methods

      The mean, standard deviation, median, and interquartile ranges of narcotic usage (in morphine
      equivalent units) will be reported for each group. The difference of narcotic usage between
      the two groups will be reported as a single value. Additional variables analyzed in this
      study include the following:

      Patient Characteristics:

        1. Age

        2. Gender

        3. BMI

        4. Tobacco use

        5. Chronic pain medication usage

        6. Diabetes

        7. HTN

        8. HLD

        9. Race & Ethnicity

       10. CKD

       11. CVA

      Intraoperative Variables:

        1. Type of procedure being performed

        2. Prior procedures performed

      Postoperative Variables:

        1. Time to extubation

        2. Time to ambulation

        3. Time to oral diet

        4. Postoperative nausea

        5. ICU LOS

        6. Total LOS

        7. Return of bowel function

        8. Postoperative atrial fibrillation

        9. Maximum spirometry at 24, 48, 72 hours post op

       10. CAM at 24, 48, 72 hours post op

       11. Pain Scores (Scale 0-10) at 1, 2, 4, 8, 12,24,36,48, 60, and 72 hours after ICU arrival
           for extubated patients and CPOT scores (Scale 0-8) for intubated patients

       12. Post op opioid usage up to 72 hours post op

      Standard descriptive statistics will be used throughout (mean, range, standard deviation, and
      median, IQR), with comparative statistics for normally and non-normally distributed data with
      p<0.05 considered as significant. For categorical variables, 2 Sample t-test or chi-squared
      test will be used to determine statistical significance. For continuous variables, logistic
      regression will be used to determine the value of significance to variables with
      postoperative outcomes. Depending on the enrollment rate, the stratification of data based on
      the type of sternotomy (full or mini) could be performed and analyzed respectively.
    
  