
    
      In the past decade epidemiologic and clinical studies have described the prevalence and
      incidence of disability and have elucidated demographic characteristics, health behaviors,
      diseases, and physiologic impairments that are associated with increased risk of developing
      disability in old age. Mobility disability has emerged as a critical aspect of functioning.
      Mobility, defined as the ability to move independently from one point to another, is a
      critical part of maintaining independence and an essential attribute of quality of life. In
      those age 85 years and older, nearly 60 percent of women and 40 percent of men have
      difficulty walking two to three blocks. Older people who are mobile are more likely to remain
      in the community, have lower rates of subsequent morbidity and mortality, and have higher
      quality of life. Recent work in biomechanics, clinical geriatrics, epidemiology, and clinical
      trials has helped to improve our understanding of the decline in walking ability in old age
      and the influence of multiple intrinsic and extrinsic factors. However, a great deal is still
      not understood about how older persons progressively lose the ability to ambulate. The
      InChianti Study has the potential to make major new advances in our knowledge of progressive
      decline in ambulation in older persons.

      A great deal of information is available from the baseline evaluation in this study and the
      crosssectional analyses that can be done with these data will be very valuable. There are,
      however, limitations in what we can learn from cross-sectional data. The baseline data
      revealed many relationships between factors that were studied and disability, but there may
      be circularity in these relationships that cannot be sorted out if we only have
      cross-sectional data available. For example, abnormalities in certain biomarkers may be a
      cause of disability or may be caused by disability. Only by doing longitudinal analyses that
      begin with non-disabled persons can the temporal sequence be determined. Cross-sectional
      analyses only permit the study of factors that are currently related to disability while
      longitudinal analyses allow for the identification of subclinical markers of risk that
      predict future disability onset. There is therefore much to be gained by performing a
      follow-up evaluation of the cohort to obtain longitudinal data.
    
  