
    
      The sulphur amino acids (SAA) are methionine and cysteine. Methionine is essential and must
      be obtained from the diet whereas cysteine is considered non-essential and is synthesized
      from methionine. They have many other important roles that are secondary to their role in
      protein building. For example, they are needed to make the antioxidant glutathione (GSH),
      which protects the body's cells from damage. However, protein and GSH metabolism have been
      shown to change with age and hence, the SAA requirements may also be changed. Despite this,
      current SAA requirements are based on studies conducted in young adults. Thus, there is a
      need to determine the SAA requirements directly in older adults.

      The purpose of the study is to apply the minimally invasive indicator amino acid oxidation
      (IAAO) protocol to determine the SAA requirements in healthy adults over 60 years of age. The
      requirements will be determined as (1) the total sulphur amino acid requirement as methionine
      only and (2) the minimum methionine requirement by providing methionine in the presence of
      excess dietary cysteine.

      A pre-study assessment will be conducted to assess health status using: medical history and a
      physical exam; and a blood draw (10mL) for fasting blood glucose and hemoglobin A1c to test
      for diabetes, vitamin B and folate concentrations, and urea and creatinine to test renal
      function.

      In order to determine the requirements, each participant will be studied at up to 7 varying
      intakes levels of methionine in random order. Each intake level will be studied over 3-days:
      two adaptation days (day 1 and 2) and one study day (day 3). On the adaptation days,
      participants will be provided with a milkshake diet providing all the protein and nutrients
      they need. Participants will consume 4 meals/day in their usual home environment. On the 3rd
      day participants will come to the Clinical Research Centre at SickKids where they will be
      given hourly meals and breath and urine samples at specified times.A blood sample will also
      be collected for analysis of serum insulin, glucose and secondary parameters (i.e.
      concentrations of amino acids, glutathione, homocysteine and CRP). The mean (estimate average
      requirement) total sulphur amino acid requirement and minimum methionine requirement will be
      calculated with breakpoint analysis using a two-phase linear regression crossover analysis.
    
  