
    
      This study is based on the premise that probationers and parolees must have access to stable,
      drug-free housing to reduce HIV risk, access needed services and avoid rearrests and
      reincarceration. Drug-free housing at the Sober Living Network (SLN) in California are being
      studied as a way to provide a positive living environment for probationers and parolees. The
      houses use a sober living house (SLH) model of recovery that includes a communal recovery
      environment, abstinence from drugs and alcohol, peer support, and encouragement to attend
      self-help groups such as Alcoholics Anonymous.

      The proposed study will improve SLHs for offenders by adding a Motivational Interviewing Case
      Management (MICM) intervention specifically targeted to the problems presented by each
      offender. The list of potential problems that MICM can address is extensive: 1) adapting to
      the SLH environment, 2) complying with parole and probation, 3) finding and maintain work, 4)
      successfully accessing and maintaining retention in services, 5) addressing HIV risk, testing
      and treatment, 6) mobilizing personal and informal resources, and 7) managing setbacks (e.g.,
      relapse, loss of housing, loss of work).

      Men and women involved with the criminal justice system (N=330) entering SLHs will be
      assigned to a condition consisting of a provision of a resources manual where residents can
      seek help for a variety of problems (a control group) or the MICM (intervention).To avoid
      mixing individuals who receive the intervention with individuals who do not within the same
      house, houses are randomized at the house level. Once a house is randomized to a study
      condition, all of the individuals recruited from that house receive the same intervention,
      MICM or SLH as usual. To avoid contamination of study conditions by gender, randomization
      procedures are stratified by houses for men, women, and both genders. Research interviews are
      conducted at baseline (within one month of entering the houses), 6 months, and 12 months.
      Follow-up interviews are conducted whether or not the participant leaves the SLH and at a
      site that is the most comfortable for the participant.
    
  