
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Recent experimental and clinical studies support the concept that vascular inflammation is
      central to the development of atherosclerosis, and that systemic inflammatory markers predict
      a wide array of cardiovascular disease (CVD) events. There is increasing interest in the role
      of genetic variation in inflammation contributing to the susceptibility for CVD. To date
      mostly small case-control studies have suggested that polymorphisms in inflammatory genes are
      associated with subclinical and clinical CVD, but the studies have differed with regard to
      which genes are central. The investigators have previously measured systemic markers of
      vascular inflammation (e.g. CRP, sICAM-1, MCP-1, IL-6) and oxidative stress (isoprostanes),
      in a population-based sample of 3800 middle-aged and elderly men and women of the Framingham
      Heart Study offspring cohort. They now propose to genotype inflammatory candidate genes in
      the Framingham offspring cohort which have been phenotyped for CVD risk factors, subclinical
      CVD.They also propose to measure systemic inflammatory markers in the Framingham Study
      Generation III cohort, who are the children of the offspring cohort.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Dr. Benjamin and colleagues will genotype inflammatory candidate genes in the Framingham
      offspring cohort which have been phenotyped for CVD risk factors, subclinical CVD. They also
      will measure systemic inflammatory markers in the Framingham Study Generation III cohort, who
      are the children of the offspring cohort. The central hypothesis of this study is that
      systemic vascular inflammation represents a complex phenotype that evolves over a lifetime
      and is influenced by both environmental and genetic factors. They further postulate that
      variations in the inflammatory phenotype (marker levels) and genotype predispose to the
      development of CVD. The purpose of this study is to determine the contribution of genetic and
      environmental factors to vascular inflammation, and to define the extent to which
      inflammatory phenotypes and genotypes predict subclinical and clinical CVD, and enhance risk
      prediction models. The specific aims are: Aim 1. To examine the environmental determinants of
      systemic inflammation in the community. Aim 2. To investigate the genetic determinants of
      systemic inflammation. Aim 3. To identify the inflammatory phenotypic and genetic
      determinants of subclinical CVD. Aim 4. To determine the contribution of inflammatory
      phenotype versus genotype to prevalent and incident CVD and to incident hypertension. The
      investigation will increase understanding as to whether inflammation is a core risk factor
      for CVD or is merely a marker of presence and burden of other CVD risk factors. These
      insights will fundamentally contribute to knowledge about the pathophysiology of CVD and may
      lead to improved prevention, risk stratification and management of CVD.
    
  