
    
      This study is being done to see if the radioisotope 99mTc sestamibi scans can locate what is
      causing the elevated serum thyroglobulin in persons with differentiated thyroid cancer who
      have elevated serum thyroglobulin levels and negative diagnostic imaging tests.

      This is for patients with:

        -  Elevated suppressed or stimulated thyroglobulin level (Tg) > 10 ng/ml with or WITHOUT
           thyroglobulin antibodies ,

        -  All NEGATIVE standard diagnostic clinical imaging studies (NSDCIS) = negative ultrasound
           (US), diagnostic radioiodine scan (DRS), chest-x-ray (CXR), computer tomography with or
           without contrast (CT), and 18F-Fluoro-deoxyglucose positron emission computer tomography
           scan (18F-FDG PET) within the last 12 mos.

        -  If EDCIS (extensive diagnostic clinical imaging studies of 18F-sodium fluoride positron
           emission computer tomography scan (18F NaF PET) or 99mTc methylene diphosphonate bone
           scan (99mTc MDP), AND negative brain CT or magnetic resonance (MR) are performed, these
           are also negative.

      Voluntary patients will have sestamibi scan performed in 4 phases:

      Phase 1: receive an injection into their vein of a radioisotope called 99mTc sestamibi.

      Phase 2: wait for 60 to 90 minutes in a waiting room

      Phase 3: imaged lying face up on an imaging table while a camera passes around you from the
      top of the head to approximately the level of knees. This requires approximately 45 minutes

      Phase 4: images will be reviewed by the nuclear medicine physician. This will take ~10-15
      minutes. If additional images are required to clarify an image, then additional images of
      that area will be performed on the same camera or an alternate camera. As earlier, the
      additional images performed lying face up. These images require ~20-45 minutes. The patient
      will then be released.

      Interpretation of 99mTc Sestamibi Study.

      A. A team of two blinded nuclear medicine physicians will interpret the 99mTc sestamibi, and
      any area of radioactivity will be graded as by a standard nuclear medicine grading system:

        1. Normal physiological activity

        2. Probably physiological activity

        3. Indeterminate activity

        4. Probably metastatic disease

        5. Metastatic disease

      B. Criteria for "final determination" regarding whether a finding represents physiological
      activity or metastatic disease:

        1. For findings graded as 1 or 2, they will be defined for this study as physiological
           activity.

        2. For findings graded as 3, or 4, the following will be required:

      i. Biopsy; however, this will only performed if clinically indicated.

      1. Follow-up: It is anticipated that very few biopsies will be performed and because the
      criteria for entering this study is NDCIS or NECIS, the only alternative for confirming
      whether or not a foci of 99mTc sestamibi uptake on a scan is metastases will be follow up,
      which will be performed on a clinical bases. However, if on follow up any of the following
      occur, then the focus will be categorized as a metastases (true positive).

        1. Subsequent biopsy,

        2. Subsequent clinical imaging study(s) (For example, although a lytic bone lesion in the
           area of interested was not present initially on the CT, a lytic lesion indicative of
           metastases may subsequently develop in that area, and for this study this will be
           defined as evidence of metastases of DTC (true positive).

           ii. Blind I-131 treatment** with or without a prefatory scan: If a "blind" I-131
           treatment" is clinically selected and the post I-131 therapy scan demonstrates uptake in
           the same areas as the 99mTc sestamibi, then the finding on the 99mTc sestamibi will be
           classified for this study as a metastases of DTC.

        3. Grade 5 is not anticipated, because unlikely I-131, which can have patterns that are
           very specific for DTC, 99mTc sestamibi patterns are not specific for DTC.

             -  A "blind I-131 treatment" is a potential therapeutic option, and this term means
                that the treating physician or team cannot identify the source of the patient's
                elevated Tg, but because of factors such as the level of elevated Tg, the rate of
                rise of the Tg, and the patient's clinical situation, a therapeutic administration
                of I-131 is give despite being "blind" to the source of the Tg.
    
  