
    
      Each isolate of aspergillosis will be recovered from clinical specimens (sputum,
      bronchoalveolar lavage fluid, lung biopsy tissue) and the identification of species level
      will also be performed in Qilu Hospital by using conventional methods (both macroscopic and
      microscopic characteristics). The aspergillosis strains will be stored in 10 % glycerol broth
      at -80 °C. The in vitro antifungal susceptibility test of aspergillosis strains to
      voriconazole will be performed in the Centre for Medical Mycology and Mycoses, First
      Hospital, Peking University, and the performance will be according to the Clinical and
      Laboratory Standards Institute (CLSI) standard M38-A2 microdilution methods.

      Serum galactomannan (GM) test will be performed twice per week for the first two weeks. A
      double-sandwich ELISA GM assay was used. A cut-off of optical density index (ODI) >0.5 was
      taken as positive.

      Voriconazole serum levels will be measured on day 4, day 7, day 10, and day 14 (all trough
      levels). In brief, quantitative analysis of voriconazole was performed using high-performance
      liquid chromatography coupled with tandem mass spectrometry.

      Genotyping of CYP2C19 will be performed using 3 ml of peripheral blood sampled into EDTA
      (ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid) tubes at day 4. Genomic DNA was extracted from blood
      leukocytes with the use of a DNA extraction kit. Genotyping was confirmed by polymerase chain
      reaction (PCR)-restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis. Individuals can be
      divided into three groups according to the CYP2C19 genotype. Those who inherit two mutant
      CYP2C19 alleles (*2 and/or *3) have a reduced capacity to metabolize CYP2C19 substrates and
      are defined as poor metabolizers (PMs). Individuals who are homozygous (*1/*1) for wild-type
      CYP2C19*1 or 1 wild-type allele and 1 CY¬P2C19*17 have efficient enzymes to metabolize
      CYP2C19 substrates and are defined as extensive metabolizers (EMs). Subjects who are
      heterozygous (*1/*2, *1/*3) for wild-type CYP2C19*1 are defined as intermediate metabolizers
      (IMs)
    
  