
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the ability of response adapted adjuvant chemoradiotherapy to improve the 1 year
      recurrence free survival (RFS) compared to historical data in patients with > 50% remaining
      viable tumor after induction chemotherapy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the rates of symptomatic, endoscopic, and pathologic response to induction
      chemotherapy.

      II. To determine the rate of R0 resection after induction chemotherapy. III. To establish the
      toxicity profile of this tri-modality regimen. IV. To assess the recurrence free survival
      (RFS) and overall survival (OS) of this trimodality therapy regimen for the entire cohort and
      in patients who do and do not achieve a pathologic response.

      V. To assess patterns of failure and assess the rates of distant metastatic control (DMC) and
      locoregional control (LRC) of this tri-modality therapy regimen.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the pattern of Ki-67 expression in patients with LRA esophageal cancer before
      and after induction chemotherapy.

      II. To explore the relationship of Ki-67 expression to clinical and pathologic response
      parameters as well as survival outcomes.

      III. To evaluate the relationship between human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)
      overexpression (based on immunohistochemistry) and gene amplification (based on fluorescence
      in situ hybridization) with clinical and pathologic response parameters and survival
      outcomes.

      OUTLINE:

      INDUCTION CHEMOTHERAPY: Patients receive oxaliplatin intravenously (IV) over 2 hours and
      leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours on day 1, and fluorouracil IV continuously over 44 hours
      on days 1-3. Treatment repeats every 14 days for up to 4 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      SURGERY: Approximately 4-5 weeks after completion of induction chemotherapy, patients undergo
      a surgical procedure. The choice of surgical procedure is at the discretion of the operating
      physician.

      ADJUVANT THERAPY: Within 6-12 weeks after surgery, patients undergo radiation therapy for 28
      days. Patients with a positive pathological response also receive oxaliplatin, leucovorin
      calcium, and fluorouracil as in the induction chemotherapy, beginning days 1, 15, and 29
      concurrent with radiation therapy. Patients with a negative pathological response receive
      paclitaxel IV over 1 hour and carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, 22, 29, and 36
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with locoregional
      disease only after induction therapy but do not undergo surgery may receive chemoradiotherapy
      with carboplatin and paclitaxel as determined by the primary oncologist.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years,
      every 4-5 months for 3 years, and then annually thereafter.
    
  