
    
      Umbilical cord blood is a source of stem cells that can be used for transplantation. The
      major problem with this type of transplant is the small number of stem cells that are
      available in the cord blood. This delays the recipients body's ability to accept the cord
      blood. This may also cause the immune system to slow, making infection more likely. One
      method to help fix this problem is to treat a sample of the cord blood with growth factors,
      which may promote the growth of the needed T cells before they are given to the recipient as
      a transplant.

      For this study, participants will receive high-dose chemotherapy, then an untreated cord
      blood cells transplant, and then 14 days later receive the treated cord blood cells
      transplant.

      The Study Drugs:

      Melphalan is designed to damage the DNA (the genetic material) of cells, which may cause
      cancer cells to die.

      Thiotepa is designed to the damage DNA, which may cause cancer cells to die

      Fludarabine is designed to make cancer cells less able to repair damaged DNA. This may
      increase the likelihood of the cells dying.

      Rituximab is designed to attach to a specific protein on the surface of tumor cells, which
      may cause them to die.

      Etoposide is designed to block cell growth.

      Filgrastim is a drug that helps cells in the bone marrow to divide

      Anti-thymocyte globulin (ATG) is a drug that helps the immune system by attaching to and
      inactivating T cells.

      Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) is a drug that suppresses the immune system.

      Tacrolimus is a drug that helps the immune system to prevent GVHD.

      IL-2 is a protein that is used to help the growth of T cells.

      Placement of Central Venous Catheter (CVC):

      Before you can have back-up stem cells collected or you receive chemotherapy, you will be
      required to have a CVC, which is a sterile flexible tube, placed into a large vein in the
      upper chest while you are under local anesthesia. Children are usually unable to hold still
      for this procedure and will be given drugs to make them sleep for the procedure. Your doctor
      will explain this procedure to you in more detail, and you will be required to sign a
      separate consent form for this procedure. If you are donating back-up cells (as described
      below) the catheter will be placed the day of the collection. If you are not donating back up
      cells, the CVC will be placed a few days before admission to the hospital. This catheter will
      be used to draw blood, give fluids, and give the study drugs.

      Collection of "back up" stem cells:

      Collection of additional stem cells from the donor of the cord blood will not be possible if
      the transplant with the cord blood fails. Back-up blood or additional bone marrow will be
      collected from you and frozen about a week before the high-dose chemotherapy begins. The
      study doctor will decide to collect or not collect this sample based on the status of the
      disease. The sample(s) will be collected by leukapheresis or with bone marrow aspirates.

      Selection of another donor as the alternate source of stem cells If the cord blood transplant
      is not successful, you will receive the back-up cells collected before admission as described
      above. If you are unable to donate these stem cells, for example it they are contamination
      with tumor cells, a family member or a second cord blood transplant will be used. The
      potential family member donor will have screening tests performed to find out if they are
      eligible to donate stem cells.

      Leukapheresis:

      If you are donating back-up stem cells, before the collection of the blood stem cells, you
      will be treated with a drug called filgrastim, which will make the stem cells in the marrow
      easier for the study doctor to collect and help to increase the number of white blood cells.
      This drug is given through a needle under the skin 1-2 times a day for 3-7 days. When the
      white cell count is high enough (usually around day 4), your blood stem cells will be
      collected from your CVC over 3-4 hours/day. The collection process will be repeated daily
      until a enough stem cells are collected. You will continue to receive filgrastim until all
      the stem cells are collected.

      Bone Marrow Collection:

      If the leukapheresis cannot be performed successfully, for example the white blood cell count
      does not increase enough with the filgrastim, you will have bone marrow collected. You will
      go to the operating room and be asleep for this. Multiple small bone marrow aspirates will be
      performed and the marrow collected. Only a small sample of your bone marrow (less than 5%)
      will be taken. To collect a bone marrow aspirate, an area of the hip is numbed with
      anesthetic, and a small amount of bone marrow is withdrawn through a large needle.

      High-Dose Chemotherapy Administration:

      Day 0 is the day of the stem cell transplant, so the negative day numbers are used to
      describe the treatment days before the transplant. All chemotherapy, fluids, and other drugs
      that must be given by vein will be infused through the CVC. After the "backup" stem cells are
      collected, you will be admitted to the hospital on Day -9 to begin receiving fluids.
      Chemotherapy may be stopped if intolerable side effects occur.

      You will be placed in 1 of 2 treatment groups. The study doctors will decide which treatment
      group will be the best treatment for you. If you are in Group 1, you will receive
      chemotherapy and the cord blood transfusion. If you are in Group 2, you will receive
      treatment with chemotherapy, radiation, and the cord blood transfusion.

        -  If you are in Group 1, you will receive melphalan by vein over 30 minutes as a single
           dose on Day -8, thiotepa by vein over 4 hours as a single dose on Day -7, followed by
           fludarabine by vein over about 30 minutes 1 time each day on Days -6 through -3.
           Rituximab may be given by vein over 4 - 6 hours on Day -9 if the doctor thinks it is
           necessary.

        -  If you are in Group 2, you will receive radiation on Days -7,-6, -5 and -4. You will
           sign a separate consent for the total body irradiation. Then you will be given etoposide
           by vein over 1-2 hours as a single dose on Day -3. Rituximab may be given by vein over
           4-6 hours on Day -8 if the doctor thinks it is necessary.

        -  Group 1 will receive anti-thymocyte globulin (ATG) by vein over 4-6 hours on the Days -4
           and -3 of treatment to lower the chances of the cord blood infusion being rejected.

        -  Group 2 will receive anti-thymocyte globulin (ATG) by vein over 4-6 hours on the Days
           -3, -2, and -1 of treatment to lower the chances of the cord blood infusion being
           rejected.

      Cord Blood Infusion:

      After your chemotherapy treatment, and total body irradiation (only for Group 2), your cord
      blood unit will be thawed. The larger portion of the cord blood will be infused through your
      CVC. A small portion of the cells will be expanded as described below.

      Expansion of Cord Blood T Cells:

      On Day 0, the smaller unit of your cord blood will be treated at the M. D. Anderson Stem Cell
      Laboratory with IL-2 and vitamin-like growth factors to produce the needed T cells. At this
      time, clinical beads will be used to help separate and expand the T cells. This will take 2
      weeks. On Day 14, you will then be given the treated cord blood as an infusion through your
      CVC.

      Infusion of Back-Up Cells:

      In case the stem cell transplant is rejected by your immune system, and if researchers were
      unable to collect a sample of your own stem cells, an unrelated donor or a second cord
      transplant will be used. The cord blood will be treated using a CliniMACs processing device.
      Mouse protein antibodies are used in CliniMACs processing procedures. Recipients who have
      pre-existing immunity to these proteins may be at risk for allergic reactions during the
      infusion of the processed cells. Epinephrine and antihistamines will be available at the
      recipient's bedside during the peripheral blood progenitor cell (PBSC) infusion to help treat
      any allergic reactions.

      Graft Versus Host Disease (GVHD) Preventive Therapy:

      GVHD may result from the transplanted cord blood cells reacting against certain tissues in
      your body. In an attempt to prevent or decrease the severity of GVHD, you will receive 2
      drugs (MMF and tacrolimus).

      Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) pills will be given starting 3 days before your cord blood
      transplant, and will be continued until Day 100 after the transplant. If you cannot take
      pills, the drug can be given through your CVC. If you develop GVHD, you may have to continue
      to take MMF after Day 100.

      Tacrolimus will be given 2 days before your transplant as a 24 hour continuous infusion for
      several weeks. After you have the stem cell transplant and are able to eat and drink,
      tacrolimus will be given by mouth 2 times a day for up to 6 months. The number of tacrolimus
      pills may vary depending on the levels of the drug in the blood, but usually you will be
      given between 1-3 pills each time. If you are not able to swallow pills, a liquid form of
      this drug is available. This drug is used for about 6-9 months or longer if chronic GVHD
      occurs.

      Length of Study:

      You will be monitored closely for the first 100 days after receiving the transplant and then
      periodically after that. You may remain on study as long as the disease does not return and
      you do not experience any intolerable side effects. Your participation in this clinical trial
      may be ended at any time for any reason.

      Follow-Up Visits After Transplant:

      After you leave the hospital, you will come back for regular visits in the clinic at M. D.
      Anderson. How often you have follow-up visits may vary, but may be as often as daily.

      Blood (about 1-2 tablespoons) will be collected for routine tests. The number of blood and/or
      urine tests may also vary, but they may be performed daily.

      You will have a bone marrow aspirate collected before the transplant, about 30 days after the
      transplant, and then every 3 months for the first year after the transplant. After that, bone
      marrow samples will be collected 1 time a year for as long as the doctor thinks is necessary.
      To collect a bone marrow biopsy, an area of the bone is numbed with anaesthetic and a small
      amount of bone marrow is withdrawn through a large needle.

      Patients with lymphomas and Hodgkin's disease will need CT scans of the chest, abdomen, and
      pelvis performed within 30 days before the transplant, about 100 days after transplant, and
      then about every 3 months for the first year. After that, it will be done 1 time every year
      for as long as the doctor thinks it is necessary.

      This is an investigational study. The clinical beads that will be used for this study may be
      produced by either the University of Pennsylvania or Invitrogen Corporation. All of the study
      drugs are all FDA approved and commercially available for treatment in adults. These drugs
      alone or in any combination are not FDA approved for this treatment in children and their use
      in this study is considered to be experimental.

      The CliniMACS processing device used to process the cells for backup infusion is not FDA
      approved for this use.

      Up to 18 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  