
    
      The study will consist of 5 visits to the UBC VITALiTY Research Centre. At the screening
      visit subjects will have the following information collected: height, weight, blood pressure,
      heart rate, BMI, medical history and concommitant medications. Approximately 15cc of blood
      will be drawn and analyzed for A1C, CBC with platelets, AST, ALT, alk phos, BUN, creatinine,
      fasting blood sugar.

      The subjects will undergo 4 euglycemic clamp studies at least 30 days apart in random order.
      During one study subjects will receive the insulin injection in the abdomen using the pinch
      technique. In another study the subjects will receive the insulin injection using the spread
      technique. During a third study the subjects will receive the insulin injection in the
      deltiod area using the pinch technique. During a fourth study the subjects will receive the
      insulin injection in the deltoid using the spread technique. Subjects will be randomly
      assigned to the studies. After each injection the subject will complete a questionnaire to
      rate comfort of the injection.

      Subjects will report to the Research Centre at 0700 having fasted since midnight the night
      before. An intravenous line with normal saline will be placed in one hand to facilitate blood
      drawing. This hand will be placed in a heated box. A second intravenous will be inserted in
      the arm for the infusion of glucose.

      Prior to subcutaneous insulin injection, blood samples will be collected at -30, -15, and 0
      minutes. At time 0 the subcutaneous injection of lispro insulin (0.1 u/kg)will be
      administered and the glucose infusion will be started. Glucose levels will be measured at the
      bedside every 5 min and insulin levels every 15 min from 0-360 min. Glucose infusion will be
      adjusted to maintain glucose levels at a constant level for the duration of the study, using
      the glucose clamp protocol.
    
  