
    
      All adult patients reporting to the Stony Brook Medical Center Emergency Department with a
      toothache will be assessed for inclusion criteria. Patients who agree to participate in the
      study and meet the study criteria will be asked to rate their pain using an 11-item verbal
      numeric pain scale from 0 to 10, from none to worst. The patient will then be randomized to
      either two Percocet oral tablets (acetaminophen 325 mg and oxycodone 5 mg), or a single dose
      of Bupivicaine (as a root block for maxillary teeth or as a local infiltration for mandibular
      teeth). The intervention given to any particular patient will be determined using a
      randomization protocol described in Treatment Allocation. The patients will be stratified
      into depending on whether they have mandibular or maxillary tooth pain in order to account
      for any difference in outcome based on method of Bupivicaine administration (local block for
      maxillary teeth and nerve block for mandibular teeth). Half of the included patients will
      have maxillary toothaches and half will have mandibular toothaches. Administration of
      additional prescriptions and recommendations will be given as deemed necessary by the dental
      resident and attending physician (such as antibiotics or additional analgesics).

      Measures and Outcomes Following the administration of treatment, the patient will be asked to
      rate their pain on the verbal numeric pain scale every 5 minutes up to 30 minutes following
      treatment. The pain of injection will also be measured, immediately following injection on
      the same pain scale. If after the first 30 minutes the patient still requires additional
      analgesia, then other analgesic interventions may be given at the discretion of the dental
      resident and attending physician.

      The primary outcome will be the percentage of patients with significant pain relief at the
      end of the study period of 30 minutes. Patients whose pain is reduced from severe (7-10) to
      mild (0-3) will be considered as having a meaningful reduction in pain. Secondary outcomes
      will be the absolute change in pain severity at 30 minutes calculated by subtracting the
      30-minute pain score from the initial pre-treatment pain score as well as the time to a 50%
      reduction in pain severity.

      At the end of the trial patient satisfaction with the method of analgesia will be measured on
      a 5 point Likert scale: extremely dissatisfied, dissatisfied, neither satisfied or
      dissatisfied, satisfied, and extremely satisfied. Patients will also be asked if they would
      choose the same treatment for future toothaches.
    
  