
    
      The pre-season preparation is seen as vital to maximize sports performance. However, there
      has been much debate on what the best strategy to prepare for use. Basketball is a sports
      activity of high intensity and volume of jumps, which are generally likely to cause injuries
      resulting from muscle imbalance and dynamic overload. Primarily in activities with eccentric
      contraction of the knee extensor muscles. A means of preventing injuries and optimization of
      sports performance is through strength training. Neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES)
      has been a physical therapy effective in increasing the recruitment of muscle fibers and
      strength. Another method that has been shown effective in increasing strength and muscle
      hypertrophy is the association of low intensity training and peripheral vascular occlusion.
      Therefore, the purpose of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of neuromuscular
      electrical stimulation associated to vascular occlusion of lower limb muscle recruitment,
      strength and muscle hypertrophy. This will be met recruited basketball athletes of high
      performance, the males, aged between 18 and 30 years and BMI between 20 and 24 Kg/m2. The
      athletes will be randomized into four groups: group control (n = 15), group electrotherapy (n
      = 15) and group electrotherapy + vascular occlusion (n = 15). Will be carried out 12 sessions
      of treatment during the pre-season, and the volunteers evaluated before and after the
      pre-season and in middle the season, through the following instruments: Isokinetic
      Dynamometer, Surface Electromyography, Force Platform, Cross Section Area of Muscle, Vertical
      Jump, Functional Evaluation (Jump, Agility and Balance), Infrared Thermography and Numeric
      Scale of Pain Evaluation. For data analysis, normality test is used to verify the data
      distribution and consistent statistical test for the appropriate comparisons within and
      between groups, and thus considered two factors in the comparisons, time and group. Will
      adopt a significance level of 5%.
    
  