
    
      Helping people living with HIV to remain healthy and reduce transmission to sexual partners
      ('positive prevention') can be accomplished by behavioral counseling and supporting adherence
      to infectivity-reducing antiretroviral therapy (ART). Positive prevention and ART adherence
      approaches that are not staff-dependent are urgently needed in Africa, the region hardest hit
      by HIV and decimated health workforce. Interactive health communication tools offer one
      approach. We will adapt a computerized counseling intervention found to be efficacious in
      reducing HIV-1 viral load and risk behaviors in the US ('CARE+') with the largest HIV
      provider in Kenya, the Academic Model for the Prevention and Treatment of HIV/AIDS (AMPATH).
      Aim 1: Adapt a theoretically driven computerized counseling intervention for use in Kenya
      ('CARE+_Kenya'). Conduct in-depth interviews with n≤ 50 urban and rural AMPATH patients to
      understand HIV support needs, and two staff focus groups to assess counseling practices and
      beliefs about computer use. Modify intervention content; translate and record audio into
      local Kiswahili. Adapt skill-building videos (e.g., on secondary prevention, HIV disclosure,
      ART adherence, reproductive health). Conduct software usability testing with n=20 patients
      and n=8 staff. Perform 3-day test-retest reliability assessment to establish psychometric
      performance of measures.

      Aim 2: Establish biological and behavioral efficacy of CARE+_Kenya. Longitudinal randomized
      controlled trial (RCT) in one urban and one rural AMAPATH clinic. Randomly assign
      HIV-positive adults with any missed ART or unprotected sex in last 6 months, >1 sex partner
      in last year, or sexually transmitted infection (STI)diagnosis in last 3 years, to
      intervention (n=125) or risk-assessment control (n=125) for baseline, 3, 6, and 9 month
      sessions. HIV transmission risk will be measured by self-reported unprotected sex with HIV
      negative/unknown partner, and trends in Chlamydia trachomatis, Neisseria gonorrhoeae, and T.
      vaginalis. ART adherence will be measured by HIV-1 viral load, electronic monitoring,
      pharmacy refill, self-report, and clinic attendance. Aim 3: Establish cost-effectiveness of
      CARE+_Kenya. At baseline, follow 100 patients at each of the two clinics to evaluate standard
      of care counseling, and collect time-spent and facility data to determine costs and unmet
      counseling need. Conduct economic evaluation to compare CARE+_Kenya vs. standard of care. If
      the RCT shows that the intervention reduces viral load and transmission risk behaviors, we
      will use a Bernoulli transmission dynamics model to estimate number of secondary HIV
      infections prevented; then create a cost-effectiveness model to calculate 2 incremental
      cost-effectiveness ratios: 1) cost per HIV infection averted, and 2) cost per daily adjusted
      life year saved. If CARE+_Kenya is efficacious and efficient, we will develop a proposal for
      a cluster-randomized trial to assess translational effectiveness of CARE+_Kenya throughout
      the AMPATH system. This is directly responsive to PA-08-107's call for innovative, integrated
      interventions that leverage ART roll-out infrastructure in international settings to benefit
      people living with HIV.
    
  