
    
      This research is directed at a major stroke source, the carotid artery, a major vessel that
      supplies blood to the brain. It has long been known that carotid narrowing is an important
      stroke risk factor. However, many patients with narrow carotids do not have strokes, and many
      patients with seemingly normal carotids have strokes. MRI research now suggests that the
      carotid wall itself is the stroke source. Using carotid MRI, clinicians can identify
      previously invisible markers of unstable carotid plaque, including carotid wall bleeds
      (intraplaque hemorrhage). The working hypothesis is that patients with these unstable carotid
      plaques may have higher inflammation in both their carotid arteries and brain. This
      inflammation has been implicated in other diseases, including dementia.

      Carotid wall bleeds can easily be seen with carotid MRI, but are often invisible on
      ultrasound and CT scans. By using MRI, the invesigators have found that this silent killer is
      an important stroke risk factor even without carotid narrowing. Now that imaging can detect
      carotid wall bleeds, where do the bleeds come from? Recent research points to inflammation
      within the carotid wall. The invesigators plan to use histology to detect this inflammation
      in the vessel wall. Another question is, does inflammation in the carotid wall lead to
      inflammation in the brain? Using PET scans, the invesigators plan to determine whether
      inflammation in the brain is linked to carotid disease. Lastly, the invesigators hope to find
      out if carotid wall inflammation contributes to memory loss and if surgery is beneficial in
      these patients.

      The invesigators hope to detect this inflammation in the vessel wall and brain before
      patients develop stroke, memory loss and dementia. This will be of huge benefit not only in
      the detection of diseases, but would also allow clinicians to monitor treatment effect on
      both carotid disease and brain inflammation. The invesigators also hope to use these tools to
      detect early treatment response. This research will accelerate the pace of future clinical
      trials to bring important new medications to patients sooner.
    
  