
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Confirm in a single dose phase I (3 to 6 patients [pts]) that 8 infusions of 10^10
      epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) bispecific antibody armed activated T cells (BATs)
      given twice per week in combination with interleukin (IL)-2 (aldesleukin) (300,000
      IU/m^2/day) and granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF) (sargramostim) (250
      ug/m^2/twice weekly) beginning 3 days before the 1st infusion and ending on the day of the
      last infusion is safe.

      II. Perform a phase II clinical trial to estimate the clinical efficacy of 8 infusions of
      10^10 EGFR BATs in combination with IL-2 and GM-CSF in 39 evaluable pts (including the 3-6
      pts in the single dose phase I).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine if infusions of EGFR BATs significantly increase cellular or humoral
      anti-pancreatic cancer (PC) responses by peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) at
      different time points after last EGFR BATs infusion and if those responses persist beyond 2
      months (mos).

      II. Obtain original tumor paraffin blocks prior to treatment and evaluate blocks for cluster
      of differentiation (CD)3, CD4, CD8, programmed cell death (PD)1/programmed cell death ligand
      (PDL)1, monocytes subpopulations, myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSC), and cytoplasmic
      interferon (IFN)-gamma and IL-10 by immunohistochemical staining to quantitate type and
      number of tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) in the tumor microenvironment to estimate
      whether the type and number correlate with clinical responses.

      III. To determine the time to progression (TTP).

      OUTLINE: This is a phase Ib, dose-escalation study of anti-CD3 x anti-EGFR-bispecific
      antibody armed activated T-cells followed by a phase II study.

      Patients receive one of the following standard chemotherapy regimens at the discretion of the
      treating physician: gemcitabine hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes; gemcitabine
      hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes and paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation
      IV over 30-40 minutes; oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours, fluorouracil IV over 46 hours and
      leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours; or fluorouracil IV over 46 hours, leucovorin calcium IV
      over 2 hours, irinotecan hydrochloride IV, and oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours. Approximately 2
      weeks after standard chemotherapy completion, patients receive anti-CD3 x
      anti-EGFR-bispecific antibody armed activated T-cells IV over 5-30 minutes twice weekly for 4
      weeks. Patients also receive aldesleukin subcutaneously (SC) and sargramostim SC on day -3
      before the first anti-CD3 x anti-EGFR-bispecific antibody armed activated T-cells infusion
      and continuing twice weekly until the final infusion.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 18 months.
    
  