
    
      Primary objectives:

      Our primary objective is to determine among patients hospitalized for a myocardial
      infarction, the impact of emotional support on functional outcomes at two years as measured
      by a valid measure of functional health, the SF-36.

      Secondary Objectives:

      Our secondary objectives are:

        1. To determine the types of social support which are perceived as being most helpful to
           patients.

        2. To determine whether women and minority patients have unique views on the types of
           support that are helpful.

        3. To determine among patients admitted for myocardial infarction, the impact of social
           support on length of stay and hospital readmissions.

      Hypothesis:

      Our hypotheses are as follows:

        1. Patients who are hospitalized for a myocardial infarction and who have high emotional
           support will have better long-term functional status compared to those patients who have
           low support.

        2. Patients with high emotional support will be more likely to adhere to protocols such as
           taking their medications, keeping appointment, and enrolling in cardiac rehabilitation.

        3. Patients with high emotional support will have lengths of hospitalization which are
           shorter than their estimated geometric mean as compared to patients who have low
           support.

        4. The types of social support which are perceived as most helpful in disease management
           will be influenced by gender and ethnicity.

      Long-term Objectives:

      The long-term objective is to determine the mechanisms by which social support impacts on
      functional health and to utilize this data to develop future interventions that can be
      targeted toward a culturally and ethically diverse cohort of patients with coronary artery
      disease. Overall, the goal is to use this data to prevent functional disability and improve
      quality of life among patients with coronary artery disease.
    
  