
    
      Surgical method:

      Patient will be operated in axially plexus with a dorsal approach through the 3d and 4th
      extensor tendon compartments. The wrist joint capsule will be opened with a Berger incision.
      After excision of the scaphoid and preparation of the articular surfaces to be fused, the
      bones will be fixated with k-wires. Bone autograft from the scaphoid, crista or radius will
      be used according to the surgeon's preference based on the condition of the fusion surfaces.
      The wrist be immobilized in a short arm plaster cast until the fusions are radiologically
      healed after10-12 weeks. The k-wires will be extracted in local anesthesia after another 2-6
      weeks.

      Sample size:

      This study will have a power of 80% to show that the mean grip strength for LC fusion is as
      least as high as the mean for 4CF (non-inferiority). This assumes that the means for the LC
      fusion and the 4CF are equal (at 70% of the uninjured side) with a common within-group
      standard deviation of 14 (Salzman et al. 2015), that a difference of 10% or less is
      unimportant, that the sample size in the two groups will be 25 and 25, and the alpha (1
      tailed) is set at 0,05.Formally, the null hypothesis is that the mean for lunocapitate fusion
      is 10% lower than the mean for 4CF, and that the study has power of 80,1% to reject this
      null. Equivalently, the likelihood is 80,1% that the 95% confidence interval for the mean
      difference will exclude a difference of 10% in favor of 4CF.

      We aim to include 60 patients to cover for a certain loss to follow-up.

      Assessment:

      Patients will be assessed regarding range of motion and grip strength and complete the DASH
      and PRWE questionnaires before surgery (baseline) and 1 and 2 years postoperatively.

      Radiology:

      Plain anterior and lateral radiographs will be obtained 1 and 2 years postoperatively for
      purpose of the study. According to the standard treatment protocol, clinical and radiological
      healing assessment will be conducted 10-12 weeks postoperatively. Radiographs will be
      analyzed by a radiologist.

      Complications will be recorded 1 and 2 years postoperatively.

      Analyzes:

      The Mann-Whitney and Chi-square tests will be used for non-parametric data (DASH, PRWE and
      presence of arthritis and complications). T-test will be used for numerical data (ROM, grip
      strength).
    
  