
    
      Background The exact circuit of atrioventricular nodal reentrant tachycardia still remains
      unknown despite advances in high-density mapping, tissue histochemistry, and connexin
      genotyping. Theoretical calculations have derived a range of 0.8 to 5.2 cm for the length of
      the slow pathway, whereas that of the fast pathway should be within the range of 2.4 to 11.2
      cm. Recent histology data also indicate that the distance of the right inferior extension of
      the atrioventricular node within the tricuspid vestibule, as judged histologically, and as
      measured from the site of penetration of the conduction axis in 31 hearts, is 8.2±2.4 mm,
      with a range from 5.2 to 13.6 mm. These results are compatible with theoretical calculations
      of the slow pathway previously performed by the investigators. On 3-dimensional reconstructed
      fluoroscopic images, the average distance between the compact AV node and the ablating
      electrode in cases of successful AVNRT ablation, however, is 17.2±1.6 to 17.8±0.9 mm. This
      clearly suggests that successful ablation interrupts the AVNRT circuit at a point beyond the
      identifiable right posterior extension, and at a consistent area on the the septal isthmus
      between the CS ostium and the TV. This site is beyond the histologically identifiable
      inferior extensions of the node.

      There is additional evidence in animal studies that the right inferior extension continues
      within the vestibule of the tricuspid valve as "ring tissue", ie a remnant of the primary
      ring, while the left atrial vestibule is derived from the initial atrioventricular canal of
      the developing heart, which is itself known to be slow conducting but cannot be distinguished
      histologically from the left atrial myocardium. In the human heart, the primary ring extends
      through the atrioventricular node, and includes the bundle of His, which is rapidly
      conducting.

      Hypothesis The investigators hypothesized that, in humans, the extent of ring tissues varies
      in such a way that some subjects are susceptible to atrioventricular nodal re-entry, whereas
      others are not. Thus, the entirety of the tricuspid vestibule, or even part of the mitral
      vestibule, are parts of the re-entry circuit, at least in some atypical forms with prolonged
      His-atrial intervals. The circumference of the right atrioventricular orifice has been
      measured at between 9 and 11 centimeters in patients aged less than 65 years, whereas that of
      the mitral orifice is from 7 to 9 centimeters. The possibility of the vestibules being
      involved in the circuit, therefore, cannot theoretically be excluded. Recently, high-density
      mapping of the re-entry circuit has provided valuable insights into the electrophysiologic
      patterns of this arrhythmia, identifying the circuit in the vicinity of the nodal area. All
      these mapping studies, however, were conducted in patients with typical AVNRT. In this
      setting, the remnants of the ring tissues might be short enough as not to allow proper
      discrimination of the circuit limbs. The investigators propose to apply high-resolution
      electroanatomic mapping in patients with both typical atypical AVNRT in which the circuit may
      contain longer circuit components. Mapping should be focused on both the septal area and the
      tricuspid, and, if feasible, the mitral ring.

      Aims of the Study

      This study, therefore, is aimed at :

        1. Identifying the exact location of the circuit of typical and atypical AVNRT by applying
           high-resolution electroanatomic mapping.

        2. Investigating the possibility that the recently described "ring tissues" participate in
           the AVNRT circuit.

      Methods Clinical Studies Patients Patients with typical and atypical AVNRT will be recruited
      following informed consent. The investigators anticipate to study 30 patients with typical,
      and 10 patients with atypical AVNRT within the next two years.

      Definitions AVNRT is diagnosed by fulfillment of established criteria during detailed atrial
      and ventricular pacing maneuvers. Typical (slow-fast) AVNRT is defined by an
      atrial-His/His-atrial ratio (AH/HA) >1, and HA interval ≤70 ms. Atypical AVNRT is defined by
      delayed retrograde atrial activation with HA>70 ms.

      Mapping Electroanatomic mapping will be performed with CARTO, Rhythmia or Ensite programs at
      the operator's discretion. High-resolution mapping of the atrial vestibules is inherently
      difficult in this setting, nonetheless, because of the problems in separating a large
      ventricular electrogram from the atrial tracing. During atrioventricular nodal reentry, all
      these areas should show a fused signal consisting of nodal activation. Any mapping system
      will struggle to annotate the fused signal appropriately in the window and during
      tachycardia. It may also preferentially annotate the His bundle electrogram because of its
      high frequency (dv/dt). The implication of this error is that a site annotated as
      representing the earliest atrial activity may be representing activity in the His bundle.
      Conversely, a site marked as late may, in fact, be early, being obscured by far field
      ventricular activity. These limitations may also apply to animal models using micro-electrode
      mapping. To overcome this problem, pacing maneuvers with ventricular extrastimuli are used to
      differentiate atrial from ventricular electrogram components where activation appeared to be
      superimposed owing to simultaneous local activation. In addition, the investigators will
      exclude points that result in discrepant activation relative to the surrounding isochronal
      information due to the movement of the CS reference catheter. Activation points from ectopic
      beats will be excluded manually. The voltage map will be automatically acquired according to
      the same criteria. After automated mapping, an offline retrospective analysis will be
      performed by 2 independent observers, in order to manually over-read the sites of earliest
      atrial activation, at an override activation strength of 100 mV in cases in which (1) the
      earliest activation on automated mapping appeared diffuse or (2) automated annotation tagged
      the local ventricular component at the annulus. The His-bundle signal is generally
      automatically annotated by the system.

      Entrainment Entrainment of AVNRT is feasible at sites close to the nodal extensions. Attempts
      will be made to entrain the tachycardia from various points on the TV annulus in order to
      investigate potential participation of the right-sided ring tissue into circuit.

      Catheter ablation Being on the operation discretion, before conventional catheter ablation of
      the slow pathway, at least two 30 sec lesions will be delivered on the TV annulus near the
      isthmus, if this feasible. Interruption of the tachycardia or evoked junctional beats will be
      sought. Conventional catheter ablation of the slow pathway will be performed as previously
      described.

      Histology Studies Databases from human hearts specimens will be examined and
      tissue-characterized in an attempt to identify the presence and extent of "ring tissues" in
      the human myocardium.
    
  