
    
      Validation of data for dental health in the SKaPa registry for children and adolescents.

      Research question: How reliable is the information on dental caries of children and
      adolescents in the SKaPa registry?

      Hypothesis: Data to SKaPa differences minimally compared with medical records and clinical
      status when it comes to deft/DMFT for 6 and 12 year old children. There is an
      underregistration of dental caries due to not registering caries that will not be treated.
      The children that are examined with bite-wings will have a higher score of deft/DMFT than
      other children.

      Method: Tooth decay is examined clinically by trained and calibrated dentists in 170
      6-year-olds and12-year-olds will be included. The registrations are compared with the most
      recently collected data for individuals in SKaPa to evaluate the quality of the information
      in the SKaPa registry. The inclusion of patients for the clinical dental examinations is
      based on cluster sampling (dental clinic in the Public Dental Service) in Värmland. The exact
      number of individuals being examined is determined after power calculation in collaboration
      with a Biostatistician.

      Furthermore, a randomized sample of 500 individuals where data reported to SKaPa for the year
      2014 will included for evaluation of dental records and dental radiographs. Comparisons are
      made between the data in the registry with the original data in the patient record.
      Preliminary calculated 250 6-year-olds and 250 12-year-olds will be included. Study
      population size is determined after power-calculation and in collaboration with a
      statistician. The study would make it possible to detect differences in deft/DMFT at 10% with
      a standard deviation of 30%. The reviews of the dental records are made by two calibrated
      dentists. The consistency of registrations from dental records and radiographs are
      continually evaluated throughout study. Primary outcome measures in both the clinical part
      and the dental record survey are number of teeth and deft/ DMFT.

      The following data are registered:

        -  Status: Number of teeth, which teeth, manifest caries

        -  Radiographs - manifest caries lesions, and quality of radiographs - for example;
           possi-bility to see all interdental spaces, overlaps, marginal bone, quality of
           radiographic exposure

        -  Recordings in the dental records about patient's health status, medications, risk
           assessment

        -  Therapy decisions about diagnosed manifest tooth decay

        -  Undiagnosed manifest caries

        -  Prevention treatments

        -  Which dental profession the child has met (dentist/dental hygienist/dental assistant)

        -  Decision about when the next examination is planned

        -  When the previous examination was done, was X-rays taken (yes/no), diagnosed caries
           initially/manifest/or not
    
  