
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine the morphologic response rate (complete response [CR] + complete response
      with incomplete hematologic recovery [CRi]) following one cycle of treatment with inotuzumab
      ozogamicin in children with relapsed or refractory CD22+ B acute lymphoblastic leukemia
      (B-ALL). (Cohort 1)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the CR/CRi rate following 2 cycles of inotuzumab ozogamicin therapy. (Cohort
      1) II. To determine the safety of single agent inotuzumab ozogamicin administered at the
      adult recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) to pediatric patients with relapsed or refractory CD22+
      B-ALL. (Cohort 1) III. To determine the level of minimal residual disease (MRD) by flow
      cytometry in responding patients. (Cohorts 1 and 2) IV. To determine the incidence, severity,
      and outcomes of sinusoidal obstruction syndrome (SOS) of the liver in patients during
      inotuzumab ozogamicin therapy and following subsequent treatment, including myeloablative
      hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT). (Cohorts 1 and 2) V. To estimate the 3-year
      event-free survival (EFS), 3-year overall survival (OS), and among responders duration of
      CR/CRi for pediatric patients with relapsed or refractory B-ALL treated with inotuzumab
      ozogamicin. (Cohort 1) VI. To describe inotuzumab ozogamicin pharmacokinetics and
      immunogenicity in pediatric patients in the presence of overt leukemia and in remission.
      (Cohort 1) VII. To determine the safe and tolerable dose of inotuzumab ozogamicin in
      combination with the augmented modified Berlin-Frankfurt-Munster (mBFM) consolidation
      chemotherapy backbone. (Cohort 2)

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To describe the levels of leukemic blast CD22 surface expression and site density, and to
      explore the correlation with cytogenetics and clinical outcomes after treatment with
      inotuzumab ozogamicin. (Cohorts 1 and 2) II. To explore potential mechanisms of resistance to
      inotuzumab ozogamicin therapy including CD22 splice variants and intracellular signaling
      pathways. (Cohorts 1 and 2) III. To explore the impact of inotuzumab ozogamicin on humoral
      immune function and peripheral B cell populations. (Cohorts 1 and 2) IV. To describe the
      level of MRD by next-generation high-throughput sequencing (HTS) techniques which may detect
      low level leukemic blast populations that have altered CD22 expression. (Cohorts 1 and 2) V.
      To prospectively explore candidate SOS biomarkers including the endothelial marker of
      inflammation Angiopoietin 2 (Ang2) and the hepatic specific complement marker L-ficolin.
      (Cohorts 1 and 2) VI. To explore the use of prophylactic ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) to
      prevent hepatic damage and SOS during inotuzumab ozogamicin therapy and subsequent HSCT.
      (Cohorts 1 and 2) VII. To describe the interaction between inotuzumab ozogamicin and chimeric
      antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapy before or after treatment with inotuzumab ozogamicin.
      (Cohorts 1 and 2) VIII. To estimate the CR/CRi rate following one cycle of inotuzumab
      ozogamicin plus augmented mBFM consolidation chemotherapy (first 36 days) and following 2
      cycles (72 days) within the confines of a pilot study. (Cohort 2)

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 cohorts.

      COHORT I: Patients receive inotuzumab ozogamicin intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on days
      1, 8, and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. (COMPLETE)

      COHORT II: Patients receive inotuzumab ozogamicin IV over 60 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15.
      Patients also receive cyclophosphamide IV over 30-60 on day 1; cytarabine IV over 1-30
      minutes or subcutaneously (SC) on days 1-4 and 8-11; mercaptopurine orally (PO) once daily
      (QD) on days 1-14; leucovorin calcium PO or IV on days 2, 9, 16, 23 and 37 of cycle 1 and
      days 9 and 37 of cycle 2; pegaspargase IV over 1-2 hours or intramuscularly (IM) on day 22;
      and vincristine IV on days 22 and 29. Patients receive methotrexate intrathecally (IT) on
      days 1, 8 and 36 of cycle 1 and day 36 of cycle 2 for CNS 1 patients, days 1, 8, 15, 22 and
      36 of cycle 1, and day 36 of cycle 2 for CNS 2 patients. CNS 3 patients receive methotrexate
      intrathecal triple therapy (ITT) IT on days 1, 8, 15, 22 and 36 of cycle 1 and days 8 and 36
      of cycle 2. There will be 3 dose levels. If excessive toxicity is observed at dose level 1,
      the dosing of inotuzumab ozogamicin will be decreased for dose level -1. If excessive
      toxicity is observed at this dose, then for dose level -2, vincristine and pegaspargase will
      be omitted. Treatment repeats every 36 days for up to 2 cycles in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, every 3 months for
      1 year, and then yearly for 4 years.
    
  