
    
      Depending on the host immunity and the organism virulence, the respiratory diseases caused by
      Aspergillus are classified as saprophytic (aspergilloma), allergic (allergic aspergillus
      sinusitis and allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis) and invasive (acute invasive pulmonary
      aspergillosis, subacute invasive pulmonary aspergillosis and chronic pulmonary
      aspergillosis). Allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis (ABPA) is a pulmonary disorder caused
      by a complex hypersensitivity response to the antigens released by the fungus Aspergillus
      fumigatus. The disorder clinically manifests as chronic asthma, recurrent pulmonary
      infiltrates, and bronchiectasis. The clinical entity was first described by Hinson et al in
      1952,4 and the clinical and immunologic significance of Aspergillus fumigatus in the sputum
      were reported by Pepys and coworkers in 1959.5 The condition has immunologic features of
      immediate hypersensitivity (type I), antigen-antibody complexes (type III), and
      eosinophil-rich inflammatory cell responses (type IVb), based on the revised Gell and Coombs
      classification of immunologic hypersensitivity. Occasionally, patients can develop a syndrome
      similar to ABPA but is caused by fungi other than A.fumigatus and is termed as allergic
      bronchopulmonary mycosis. The condition remains underdiagnosed in many countries with reports
      of mean diagnostic latency of ten years between the occurrence of symptoms and the
      diagnosis.9 In the past two decades, there has been an increase in the number of cases of
      ABPA due to the heightened physician awareness and the widespread availability of serologic
      assays.

      The diagnostic criteria for ABPA have been recently revised and includes the following: (a)
      history of asthma; (b) pulmonary opacities consistent with ABPA; (c) raised A. fumigatus
      specific IgE >0.35 kUA/L; (d) peripheral blood eosinophil count >500 cells/µL; (e) raised A.
      fumigatus specific IgG levels >27 mgA/L; (f) total IgE levels >1000 IU/mL. The prevalence of
      ABPA in bronchial asthma is fairly high and a recent meta-analysis suggested the prevalence
      of ABPA in asthma clinics to be as high as 13 percent. The global burden of ABPA has been
      estimated to be about 5 million cases. The disorder is highly prevalent in India, and there
      are an estimated 1.4 million cases in India alone.

      Oral glucocorticoids are currently the treatment of choice for ABPA. They not only suppress
      the immune hyperfunction but are also anti-inflammatory. Different regimens of
      glucocorticoids have been used in literature. In a recent study, it was found that lower
      doses of glucocorticoids are as effective as higher doses in the therapy of acute-stage ABPA.
      Unfortunately, numerous toxicities and adverse effects have been attributed to
      glucocorticoids related to both the average dose and cumulative duration of use. The serious
      toxicities include hyperglycemia, increased loss of bone mineral density, reports of
      avascular necrosis, myopathy, excess cardiovascular events or heart disease, increased blood
      pressure, serious cutaneous side effects, upper gastrointestinal ulcers or bleeding,
      pancreatitis, increased risk of infection, psychosis, or mood disturbances. In one study, the
      average daily dose of glucocorticoid was the strongest predictor of a serious side-effect
      potentially attributable to glucocorticoid (prednisone) therapy (odds ratio of 4.5 and 32.3
      for 5-10 mg and 10-15 mg prednisone, respectively). In another study, the risk of adverse
      events with low-dose glucocorticoids (prednisone 5-10 mg/day) was small. However, even with
      low-dose steroid there is an increase in body weight including the appearance of cushingoid
      facies.

      Deflazacort is a heterocyclic glucocorticoid prodrug belonging to the class of oxazoline
      steroids, with demonstrated anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressant effects. The novel
      structural characteristic of deflazacort is associated with substantial lack of
      sodium-retaining activity, lower interference with carbohydrate metabolism and calcium
      metabolism (with lower propensity for bone loss) in comparison with older glucocorticoids
      such as prednisolone. The investigators hypothesize that the occurrence of side-effects,
      primarily weight gain will be lower with deflazacort.

      In this study, the investigators will compare the safety and efficacy of deflazacort in the
      treatment of acute-stage ABPA complicating asthma.
    
  