
    
      Obstructive Sleep Apnea (OSA) is defined by the presence of repetitive episodes of upper
      airways collapse during sleep, leading to nocturnal hypoxemia, sleep fragmentation and
      daytime sleepiness. When untreated, OSA is a risk factor for arterial hypertension ,
      cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases, road accidents and a worse quality of life. The
      application of a continuous positive airways pressure (CPAP) represents the first line
      therapy in patients with moderate to severe OSA. CPAP treatment improves daytime sleepiness
      and oxygen saturation , reduces cardiovascular risk, ameliorates neurobehavioral performance,
      improves quality of life and reduces road accidents. Despite its demonstrated efficacy, CPAP
      effectiveness is significantly limited by poor adherence. A closer follow up could improve
      CPAP adherence but it would take up more work and additional costs for sleep units.

      So on that account, the investigators propose a study to demonstrate that automatic home
      treatment monitoring of patients with OSA is a cost-effectiveness alternative approach to
      patient's management. Moreover, the investigators believe that telemonitoring could improve
      CPAP compliance and patient's satisfaction and reduce follow-up costs.

      Methods:

      Prospective and randomized study during three months. Patients diagnosed as OSA in St.
      Maria's Hospital (Sleep Unit) and requiring CPAP treatment, will be randomized into two
      groups differing in CPAP compliance monitoring and management .

      Group 1 Standard care Patients will be fitted with a mask and given a CPAP and instructed on
      how to use the device. Patients will follow the standard treatment management. All patients
      will be visited at 1 month at sleep unit. Patients will be checked about progress and
      adherence to therapy and any problems with their machine. Information will be downloaded from
      their machines (CPAP adherence, applied CPAP pressure, mask leak, and residual respiratory
      events…).

      Group 2 Telemonitoring Patients will be fitted with a mask and given a CPAP. Each CPAP device
      will be provided with a modem sending daily compliance information (CPAP adherence, CPAP
      pressure, mask leak, and residual respiratory events) to a web database.

      Patients of both 2 groups will be finally visited at 3 months at sleep unit.
    
  