
    
      Following decades of psychosocial treatment research the field has established numerous
      evidence-based practices (EBPs) for mental disorders, but has struggled to widely disseminate
      these practices in community settings. Exposure therapy for anxiety disorders represents one
      of the most glaring examples of this research to practice gap. A well-known barrier to the
      dissemination and quality delivery of exposure therapy is therapists' negative beliefs about
      its potential danger or intolerability for patients. These beliefs are common even among
      therapists who report receiving specialized training; thus, research is needed to develop
      targeted training strategies for reducing negative beliefs and improving delivery quality.
      Preliminary research suggests specific behavioral strategies (i.e., self-exposure) may reduce
      negative beliefs above and beyond standard didactic trainings (Farrell, Kemp et al., 2016).
      Building upon these findings, the investigators propose a novel experimental therapeutics
      approach to developing and testing a targeted behavioral training for augmenting negative
      beliefs in a sample of community mental health professionals. The first phase of the study is
      a case-series analysis for establishing target engagement (i.e., belief reduction) and
      determining adequate dosing of the behavioral strategies. Phase two is a randomized trial of
      the behaviorally-enhanced training strategies (BeTS) against a standard didactic protocol.
      Therapist will complete a day-long workshop followed by weekly consultation while delivering
      exposure for children with anxiety disorders. In-session delivery behavior will be recorded
      and examined using a validated micro-analytic coding system. It is hypothesized that
      therapists in the BeTS condition will evidence significantly lower negative beliefs about
      exposure relative to the didactic condition, at 1) post-workshop, and 2) end of study. IT is
      also hypothesized that the degree of negative belief reduction following the initial workshop
      training will be associated with 1) higher rates of optimal in-session delivery behaviors,
      and 2) lower rates of suboptimal delivery behaviors as measured by both self-report and
      observational coding data. This study will establish an innovative model for developing a
      targeted training intervention capable of increasing the dissemination and quality of
      exposure therapy and other EBPs.
    
  