
    
      Glaucoma is a progressive optic neuropathy and a leading cause of blindness in the United
      States. In glaucoma, vision is lost through apoptosis (programmed cell death) of retinal
      ganglion cells, a type of cell in the retina that transmits visual information to the brain.
      Diagnosis of glaucoma is usually based on a combination of progressive, characteristic vision
      loss (measured using visual field testing) and progressive optic nerve head damage (as
      detected through dilated fundus examinations or disc photography). While a high pressure
      inside the eye (ocular hypertension, OHT) is not sufficient for a diagnosis of glaucoma, it
      is the greatest single risk factor for disease onset.

      Currently, the only effective treatment to prevent disease progression is lowering of the
      intraocular pressure (IOP). IOP is determined by the balance between aqueous production
      (flow) and aqueous outflow through either the trabecular meshwork or uveoscleral pathway.
      Diurnal rhythms in aqueous humor dynamics and nocturnal fluctuations in IOP and aqueous flow
      have been studied in some detail9 but little is known about the nocturnal rhythms of aqueous
      humor outflow.

      Usually, clinical IOP measurement is performed during the day; little is known about
      nocturnal IOP fluctuations in relation to glaucoma management . A recent surge of interest in
      nocturnal IOPs stems from the hypothesis that significant glaucomatous damage may occur at
      night. In response, some investigators have advocated particular classes of glaucoma
      medications based on their nocturnal IOP effects. The most efficacious drug on the market may
      not be the preferred treatment if it is ineffective at night. Therefore, the understanding of
      nighttime IOP and the aqueous humor dynamics that control it has important scientific,
      clinical, and commercial implications.

      Additionally, previous research on glaucoma medications has been limited to the effects
      ocular hypotensive drugs on 24-hour IOP or daytime aqueous humor dynamics; few studies have
      addressed their effect on nocturnal aqueous humor dynamics. Beta-blockers have been proven
      effective in lowering IOP during the day by decreasing aqueous flow. However, limitations
      have been found in their IOP-lowering effect overnight. Prostaglandins, which increase
      uveoscleral outflow, seem to possess a hypotensive effect that is constant throughout the
      24-hour period. Dorzolamide reduces aqueous flow to lower IOP but few studies have addressed
      its effect at night. This study is designed to elucidate the physiological mechanisms driving
      the efficacy of these drugs throughout the 24-hour period, i.e. circadian rhythms in aqueous
      humor dynamics.

      In studies of new glaucoma medications the preferred study population includes ocular
      hypertensive subjects. These people have high IOP but no optic nerve damage and no glaucoma.
      They may be taking prescribed IOP lowering drugs for this condition or they may not. Those
      taking ocular drugs are asked to stop taking them. Since each of the glaucoma drugs affects
      aqueous humor dynamics in different ways, it is essential that no residual medical effect
      remains from these drugs. Standard washout periods of 6-weeks will be utilized in between
      drug assessments. This period of time is based on the methods of other published studies
      which determined a necessary period of 4-8 weeks for ocular washout of prostaglandins. A
      concern for patient safety exists when OHT patients are taken off of glaucoma medications, as
      IOP may rise during the washout. In order to monitor IOP in these patients, most study
      methods utilize a biweekly check of the IOP. If pressure rises above the ophthalmologist's
      preset "target pressure" at any point, then the patient is removed from the study and
      returned to their previous medical regimen.
    
  