
    
      There are a group of neurodegenerative disorders which are often initially diagnosed to be
      Parkinson's disease (PD), but which are biologically and clinically distinct, and follow a
      malignant disease course. The three most common conditions are PSP, CBD and MSA. These
      conditions have a median survival of approximately 6-7 years and unlike PD, do not respond
      well to dopamine replacement therapy.

      PSP and CBD are characterized by tau-pathology and MSA by alpha-synuclein pathology. A great
      deal of pre-clinical work has been carried out on tau and alpha-synuclein disease models, yet
      there are no disease modifying agents for these conditions. There are a number of potential
      therapeutic compounds in development and in order to improve the likelihood of their success,
      there is a pressing need to increase the number of early case patients recruited into these
      new treatment trails. Thus, better methods for improved accuracy of early diagnosis and for
      tracking progression need to be developed. This can be achieved through:

        1. a detailed study of the change in patients' clinical state over time;

        2. studying "biomarkers" such as blood, skin, spinal fluid and brain MRI.

      The investigators will recruit patients with PSP, CBD and MSA who are referred to specialist
      clinics for assessment and treatment. An additional group of Atypical parkinsonian syndrome
      (APS) cases who do not meet criteria for Parkinson's disease or other defined conditions, but
      are considered by the investigator group to be allied syndromes or at risk states will also
      be invited to participate in the study. People unaffected by neurological disease will be
      invited to participate on a one-off occasion.

      Being involved in the PROSPECT-M-UK longitudinal study will involve attending a research
      assessment on 5 occasions over 3 years in our natural history cohort, and for 2 occasions
      over 2 years for our longitudinal cohort. Study procedures consist of: having a neurological
      examination; completing questionnaires to provide details of clinical history, self/carer
      reported functional scales and quality of life; neuropsychology assessment; eye movement
      exam; donating blood and skin samples; some patients will be invited to have a lumbar
      puncture for spinal fluid collection and have a brain MRI scan on two occasions (at baseline
      and after 1 year follow-up). Patients can also agree to be contacted by phone or at a clinic
      appointment for remote monitoring of symptoms after face to face visits have completed.

      In addition, a cross-sectional cohort will be established, to enable participation of
      patients who cannot travel to a study centre. This will involve donating blood
      samples,returning study questionnaires, and being monitored remotely. A CBD European registry
      will also be created which will involve a structured neurological assessment, a medical notes
      review and blood sample donation.

      The primary outcome for the study is duration of disease, with the aim to improve methods for
      early diagnosis and tracking disease progression. Importantly, the study will link together
      centres and researchers from across Europe to establish the infrastructure and create a trial
      ready cohort for future therapeutic study into PSP/CBD/MSA.
    
  