
    
      Knee osteoarthritis is the most common cause of musculoskeletal pain and disability,
      resulting in major disability and pain in affected individuals. It is a chronic degenerative
      disorder of multifactorial aetiology, including acute and/or chronic insults from normal wear
      and tear, age, obesity and joint injury. It nearly affects about one in each eight adults
      worldwide, its prevalence rates vary from 7.8 to 9.3% in Egyptian population.

      Current clinical guidelines recommend non pharmacological conservative strategies including
      physical therapy given their ease of application and relatively low cost with minimal adverse
      effects (e.g.: strengthening exercises, aerobic exercises, stretching exercises,
      hydrotherapy, manual therapy, massage therapy, thermotherapy, electrotherapy, ultrasound
      therapy, external support braces and taping).

      It was reported that therapeutic exercise is beneficial for patients with knee osteoarthritis
      in terms of outcomes of pain, function, performance and quality of life. In addition, it was
      reported that strengthening, flexibility and neuromotor skill exercises have a large efficacy
      over aerobic and mind body exercise.

      Unloading strategies should be proposed as a first line of therapy for the patient with knee
      osteoarthritis before any attempts are made at tissue regeneration, repair or replacement.

      Manual or mechanical knee joint distraction is a conservative technique that provides
      transient joint separation and unloading that aids in improving clinical symptoms of
      patients.

      Addition of mechanical knee distraction to therapeutic exercises helps in gaining the
      positive effects of both exercise and unloading techniques. Although this approach has not
      been used extensively or applied pragmatically, several studies were found showing promising
      results in terms of reducing pain at both rest and movement, improving knee flexion and
      extension range of motion, reducing disability, increasing functional abilities and improving
      the quality of life of patients.

      Forty male and female patients with the diagnosis of primary knee osteoarthritis will be
      recruited in this study. All patients will be assessed and treated in the outpatient clinic
      of the faculty of physical therapy, Cairo University. Patients will be randomly distributed
      into 2 equal experimental groups: the first experimental group will receive therapeutic
      exercises (stretching and strengthening exercise) while the second experimental group will
      receive mechanical traction of the knee followed by therapeutic exercises. All patients will
      be treated for 12 sessions, 3 times per week each other day for 4 weeks. Clinical assessments
      will include assessment of pain severity, functional disability, isometric muscle strength,
      and functional performance.
    
  