
    
      Step-by-Step Methods:

      Pre-screening: Patients meeting the inclusion and exclusion criteria will be approached to
      participate in the study. Informed consent will be taken at this time. These patients will
      receive intravenous loop diuretic per the discretion of treating physician and will be
      closely followed for weight loss and symptoms relief.

      Screening: The patients who don't respond as measured by symptoms relief or <0.5 kg weight
      loss/day

        1. Despite furosemide ≥ 160 mg IV total daily dose or equivalent dose of torsemide or
           bumetanide. (1 mg bumetanide = 10 mg torsemide = 20 mg furosemide). OR

        2. After 48 hours irrespective of diuretic dose.

      will be considered for the study intervention. Patients who have not participated in the
      pre-screening phase and do not respond adequately to furosemide >160 mg iv daily dose will
      directly be enrolled into active intervention part of the study.

      Intervention (High-Dose Spironolactone + Patiromer): Patients will be initiated on
      spironolactone 100 mg orally once daily along with patiromer 8.4 gm orally (if serum K >4.3
      meq/L). The dose of loop diuretic will stay same during rest of the study period. On day 2,
      the dose of spironolactone will be titrated to 200 mg orally once a day depending on the
      diuretic response and lab results. Serum potassium will be monitored twice a day. The dose of
      patiromer will be increased to 16.8 gm in patients with potassium levels exceeding 5.5 meq/L;
      or it will be held for serum K <4.3 mEq/L. Treatment will continue till patients achieve
      euvolemia or get discharged. Euvolemia is defined as resolution of symptoms and signs of
      volume overload.

      Patients will be followed till achievement of euvolemia or discharge. Daily assessment will
      be done for symptoms, and signs of volume overload including shortness of breath, orthopnea,
      paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, abdominal bloating, lower extremity edema, JVD, and body weight
      changes. Serum chemistry will be assessed twice a day and urine electrolytes once a day.
      Neurohormonal analysis will be done at the pre-screening, initiation of active intervention
      and at the end of the study duration.

      Primary Safety Endpoints:

        1. Incidence of hyperkalemia as defined by serum K >5.5 meq/day.

        2. Renal function: assessed by daily serum creatinine

      Primary Efficacy Endpoints:

        1. Weight loss: using same calibrated scale every day in hospital gown.

        2. Symptom relief: assessed using a 5-point Likert scale describing magnitude of shortness
           of breath while the patient is in the supine position.
    
  