
    
      In this study patients recruitment, clinical care and follow-up will be conducted by:

      Dr Flavio Rezende: Principal-Investigator and Dr Radwan Ajlan: Co-Investigator.

        1. Purpose: To evaluate the visual acuity outcomes and macular changes at 6 and 12 months
           of intravitreal aflibercept (2.0 mg) in eyes with persistent center involved diabetic
           macular edema despite intravitreal bevacizumab therapy.

        2. Overall Goal of Study: The goal of this study is to evaluate the effect of aflibercept
           on macular edema in patients with diabetic macular edema resistant to bevacizumab.

        3. Specific objectives: To evaluate the visual acuity outcomes and macular changes after 6
           and 12 months of intravitreal aflibercept (2.0 mg) in eyes with persistent foveal fluid
           secondary to diabetic macular edema despite previous optimum gold standard therapy with
           intravitreal bevacizumab. More specifically, to assess:

             -  Mean change in central subfield thickness (CST) from baseline, 6 month after
                switching to aflibercept.

             -  Mean change in CST from baseline, 12 months after switching to aflibercept.

             -  Mean change in best corrected visual acuity (BCVA) from baseline, 6 months after
                switching to aflibercept.

             -  Mean change in BCVA from baseline, 12 months after switching to aflibercept

        4. Study Design: Phase 4 open label clinical trial. Intravitreal injection of 0.05 mL (2mg)
           of aflibercept will be injected. The intravitreal between the first 5 treatments
           sessions is 4 weeks, and the intravitreal for the following treatment sessions up to
           week 52 is 8 weeks.

        5. Subjects: 40 patients seen in the retinal clinic of the Hospital Maisonneuve-Rosemont
           with foveal fluid secondary to diabetic macular edema despite previous optimum gold
           standard therapy with intravitreal bevacizumab will be assessed for eligibility.
    
  