
    
      The myofascial shoulder pain caused by myofascial trigger points, is one of the main causes
      of medical consultation and functional disability in the general population and particularly
      in the amateur athlete.

      Nowadays, many physiotherapists all over the world, study and practice the dry needling as a
      therapeutic tool for the treatment of myofascial trigger points. The most used modality is
      the technique described by Hong:

        -  This technique introduces an acupuncture needle in the skin until reaching the
           dysfunctional muscle fiber. To do so, it uses maneuvers "fast in" and "fast out" of
           needle, until the extinction of local twitch responses or the tolerance of the patient.

        -  The local twitch response is defined as a reflex and transitory contraction of a group
           of muscle fibers associated with a myofascial trigger points.

        -  The technique eliminates muscle contractile activity by mechanical interruption of their
           muscle fibers, mechanism which finishes with the sensitization of nearby nerves and with
           the start of the nociceptive modulation peripheral, segmental and central.

      The dry needling technique, in its eagerness to obtain local twitch responses, pierces the
      muscle fibers both dysfunctional and normal, the fascial tissue that wraps the myofascial
      trigger points and also neuro-vascular structures. That is, the treatment of myofascial
      trigger points with dry needling, makes reference to a mechanical trauma done with a
      acupuncture needle.

      The myofascial tissue injured can suffer repair or regeneration, which is mainly due to the
      extension of the lesion. The process of healing of a wound is strictly regulated by multiple
      growth factors and cytokines, which are released into the wound. The alterations that disturb
      the healing process, can lead to chronic wounds that do not heal or to an excessive fibrosis.

      The pathobiological processes, in form of fibrosis, would present changes in stiffness and
      elasticity of the neo-tissue. The quantitative elastography, is shown as an effective tool to
      measure the amount of fibrosis, occasioned by repeated percussion of the acupuncture needle
      on the myofascial tissue.
    
  