
    
      This single masked, crossover trial will randomize children with Sensory Modulation
      Dysfunction (SMD) to either Occupational Therapy (OT), alternative treatment (Activity
      Protocol), or delayed treatment (initially the control group). Children are assigned to one
      of the three treatment groups using a random numbers table with block randomization.
      Assignments are made by the research assistant, who is masked to assessments, parent
      priorities, and family needs/characteristics. Using block procedures, the first child is
      randomly assigned to treatment group A, B, or C. The next child entered to the study at that
      age, gender and socioeconomic status (parents' education) is randomly assigned to one of the
      two remaining groups. The third child meeting age, gender and SES criteria is automatically
      assigned to the remaining group. This procedure reduces seasonal confounds and chance
      variation between group characteristics. The order of treatment by group is: GROUP A (OT -
      1st 10 weeks; Activity - 2nd 10 weeks); GROUP B (Activity - 1st 10 weeks; OT - 2nd 10 wks);
      GROUP C (Wait list - 1st 10 weeks; OT - 2nd 10 wks; Activity - 3rd 10 wks). Inclusion in the
      study is based on standardized assessments of physiological reactivity after a "Sensory
      Challenge Protocol", a technique developed by this research group and published in several
      medical journals. Standardized measurements of physiologic, behavioral and emotional status,
      are administered before treatment, after each treatment condition, and after all treatments
      are completed by investigators masked to treatment; and including the following:

      Measurements in the Impairment: The Sensory Challenge protocol is a laboratory paradigm in
      which the child's physiologic reactivity after sensation is tested using electrodermal
      reactivity and vagal tone indices to assess sympathetic and parasympathetic systems.
      Measurements of functional limitations include aggression, withdrawal, impulsivity,
      hyperactivity, inattention, and sensitivity to tactile, movement, taste, smell, auditory and
      visual stimuli. These are measured in the areas: (1) attention (subscales of the
      parent-report Child Behavior Checklist [CBCL],and Leiter International Performance
      Scale-Revised; the Continuous Performance Task, the StopTask and the Go-No Go Task); (2)
      emotion (the CBCL); (3) sensation (the Short Sensory Profile; the Leiter-R; the
      Multidimensional Anxiety Scale for Children; the Stop Task; the Go-No-Go Task; the Auditory
      Continuous Performance Test). Measures of the Disability Dimension include the Vineland
      Scales of Adaptive Behavior, the Goal Attainment Scale, and play and dinner-time paradigms.
      Finally, measures in Societal Limitations Dimension include a parent semi-structured
      interview and the Visual Analogue Scale.

      Occupational therapy is a targeted protocol involving functional and sensory-integration
      activities, supported by family-based activities at home.
    
  