
    
      The study will be a prospective enrollment of patients with CF and rhinosinusitis in a
      double-blind crossover study with nasal nebulized DNASE versus saline. Nebulization will be
      accomplished with PARI SinuStar nasal aerosol system nebulizer set powered by an air
      compressor. This will be a pilot study with each subject serving as their own control. Each
      arm of the study will be 3 months and randomization to active drug versus placebo will be
      generated without the knowledge of subject or researchers. A health care provider not
      involved in the care of the subject will be responsible for medication distribution and the
      randomization scheme. A daily diary will collect data for analysis. Visits will be arranged
      every 4 weeks at which time drug will be dispensed, adherence to daily diary and compliance
      to medication will be assessed. At each visit the SF-12, SNOT-20, Epworth Sleepiness Scale,
      Rhinitis Severity Scale, Nocturnal Rhinoconjunctivitis Quality of Life Specific Questionnaire
      (NRQLQ), Cystic Fibrosis Questionnaire-Revised, and Rhinosinusitis Quality of Life Survey
      will be utilized for acquisition of data (17-23). In addition, a Physician Global Assessment
      and a self administered patient rhinosinusitis VAS score (0-100 with 100 full recovery and 0
      no effect) will be completed at each visit. To obtain objective data patients will have nasal
      endoscopic assessment at 4 different time points and nasal polyps and sinusitis rated on a
      scale as defined by Lund and Kennedy in the Ann Otol Laryngol 1995;104 (suppl 167):17-21.
      (24) Serial sinus CT scans will be avoided to decrease irradiation risk.

      Subjects: A total of 12 patients will be enrolled in this pilot study, and recruitment will
      be through the Cystic Fibrosis Center at Penn State University, after IRB approval. All
      subjects must be over the age of 15 years (the age the investigators consider to be necessary
      to understand the consent and questionnaires required for the study), be of either gender and
      of any ethnicity. Subjects will be able to continue all presently used nasal and respiratory
      medications as long as the present therapeutic regimen has been used for one month prior to
      enrollment and these therapies have been used at a stable dose, method of distribution and
      without adverse events
    
  