
    
      Ageing is a potent, independent risk factor for cardiovascular (CV) disease and the
      calcification of the vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) layer of the vessel media, typical of
      Monckenberg syndrome, is a hallmark of vascular ageing. Young patients with chronic kidney
      disease (CKD) exhibit an extremely high CV mortality, equivalent to that seen in
      octogenarians in the general population. Even children on dialysis develop accelerated medial
      vascular calcification (VC) and arterial stiffening, leading to the suggestion that patients
      with CKD exhibit a 'premature ageing' phenotype. It is now well documented that uraemic
      toxins, particularly those associated with dysregulated mineral metabolism, can drive VSMC
      damage and phenotypic changes that promote VC, and epidemiological data suggest that some of
      these same risk factors associate with CV mortality in the aged general population.

      VC is common in CKD and associated with increased morbidity and mortality. Its mechanism is
      multifactorial and incompletely understood. CKD patients are at risk for VC because of
      multiple risk factors that induce VSMCs to change into a osteoblast-like cell such as high
      total body burden of calcium (Ca) and phosphorus (P) due to abnormal bone metabolism, low
      levels of circulating and locally produced inhibitors, impaired renal excretion, and current
      therapies. Together these factors increase risk and complicate the management of VC. Cells
      with unexpected osteoblastic potential may abnormally lay down some forms of VC, especially
      in the arterial wall of blood vessels. The pathogenesis of VC is likely a hybrid process of
      tightly regulated normal bone modeling and the purely physicochemical deposition of mineral.

      The interest in VC in CKD patients has several reasons. First, it is now clear that in the
      general population the calcification of both intimal atherosclerotic lesions and the medial
      vessel layer are associated with CV morbidity and mortality. Similar, some data also exists
      for stage 5 CKD. Second, there is now better evidence that VSMCs can become osteoblast-like
      and lay down and mineralize collagen and noncollagenous proteins in arteries. Third, over 20
      null mutations in mice have VC confirming that key proteins regulate or prevent VC. Fourth,
      there is increasing recognition of a link between CKD and bone and VC in the general
      population. Lastly, we now know some of our well-intended interventions to treat renal
      osteodystrophy accelerate arterial calcification.

      CKD patients have an increased CV risk factor due to the impaired renal function induced by
      the pathology. More than 90% of CKD patients die for CV events with a main role of VC. One of
      the VC inducer is HD per se. Since the choice of dialyzer may play a role on prevalence of CV
      complication in CKD, the aim of this project will be to elucidate the effect of Theranova
      dialyzer on delay VC progression.

      The project will be structured in 3 main parts:

        1. Effect of sera of ESRD patients on HD using Theranova dialyzer on high-Pi induced
           vascular calcification in an in vitro model of rat VSMCs.

        2. Effect of sera of ESRD patients on HD using Theranova dialyzer on oxidative stress
           pathways in an in vitro model of rat VSMCs vascular calcification.

        3. Study of RNA sequencing, transcriptome analysis gene expression of time course high-P
           challenged VSMCs studying the effect of sera of ESRD patients on HD using Theranova
           dialyzer Primary Endpoint: Effect of sera of ESRD patients on HD using Theranova
           dialyzer on high-Pi induced vascular calcification in an in vitro model of rat VSMCs.

      Secondary Endpoints: Effect of sera of ESRD patients on HD using Theranova dialyzer on
      oxidative stress pathways in an in vitro model of rat VSMCs vascular calcification.

      Study of RNA sequencing, transcriptome analysis gene expression of time course high-P
      challenged VSMCs studying the effect of sera of ESRD patients on HD using Theranova dialyzer
    
  