
    
      The primary objective of the EVOLVE Short DAPT Study is to assess the safety of 3-month dual
      antiplatelet therapy (DAPT) in subjects at high risk for bleeding undergoing percutaneous
      coronary intervention (PCI) with the SYNERGY Stent System.

      The study will be conducted up to 120 sites worldwide in the United States, Europe, Japan,
      and Brazil with planned enrollment of up to 2,250 subjects. Clinical follow-up will be
      required at the following time points: 3 months, 6 months, 12 months and 15 months post index
      procedure.

      Subjects must be treated with one of the following P2Y12 inhibitors (clopidogrel, prasugrel,
      or ticagrelor) for 3 months following the index procedure. Subjects must be treated with
      aspirin for the duration of the trial. The minimum daily maintenance dose of aspirin should
      be 75-100 mg.

      Subjects are eligible for discontinuation of P2Y12 inhibitor at 3 months if they meet both of
      the following criteria: subject was treated with 3 months of study required antiplatelet
      therapy post index procedure; and subject was free from events (stroke, MI, PCI, coronary
      artery bypass graft [CABG], and stent thrombosis) between the index procedure and the 3 month
      visit.

      Subjects are not eligible for discontinuation of P2Y12 inhibitor at 3 months if any of the
      following criteria are met: subject who experiences a stroke, MI, PCI, CABG and/or stent
      thrombosis, during the 0-3 month period (between the date of the index procedure and the date
      of the 3-month follow-up visit); or subject who is non-compliant with study required
      antiplatelet therapy during the 0-3 month period (between the date of the index procedure and
      the date of the 3-month follow-up visit); or subject judged inappropriate for discontinuation
      from P2Y12 inhibitor use at 3 months due to another condition requiring chronic P2Y12
      inhibitor use.

      All enrolled subjects who receive a SYNERGY stent must be followed at all milestones through
      15-months, regardless of eligibility to discontinue P2Y12 inhibitor. Following the 3-month
      milestone, subjects who experience MI or stent thrombosis events should be treated per the
      investigator's discretion and should be followed through the 15-month visit.
    
  