
    
      There exists a vast collection of bacteria that live on, and within, each human body. All
      surfaces exposed to the external environment, such as the nares, mouth, airway, skin, and
      intestines, are colonized, and it is estimated that over 100 trillion microbes live within
      the gastrointestinal tract alone. The interactions between these colonizers and their host
      have been demonstrated to affect myriad aspects of human health from autism and inflammatory
      bowel disease to cancer therapy response. Investigations into the role of the intestinal
      microbiome in sepsis have been ongoing for decades. Data has shown that critically ill
      patients can not only experience increased intestinal permeability - a factor that allows for
      the translocation of bacteria and non-microbial tissue injurious factors into the, primarily
      lymphatic, circulation, but also a disruption of the symbiotic relationship to one of
      dysbiosis, resulting in what is known as a "pathobiome."

      That the microbiome is affected by thermal injury should be no surprise; burn injury has been
      shown to drive significant intestinal ischemia and inflammation with subsequently increased
      intestinal permeability. , Burn-induced lung injury has been linked to these changes, and
      alterations in the microbiome between critically-burned patients (when compared with healthy
      controls) have been demonstrated, with resultant overgrowth of gram-negative anaerobes. Thus,
      the microbiome has a clear role in affecting the clinical course of thermally-injured
      patients.

      This is a descriptive case series study examining microbiome changes in two adult patients
      admitted with severe burn injuries. This will be done by obtaining regular stool samples and
      analyzing the microbial content, as well as obtaining clinical data on patients including
      those factors likely to influence the microbial content.
    
  