
    
      The incidence of Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC) is currently increasing in Europe and in
      France. It almost always occurs on liver disease and in 80 to 90% of cases, at least in
      France, on liver with cirrhosis. If curative treatment may be proposed for some "small" HCC
      (transplantation, resection, percutaneous destruction), about 2 / 3 of patients, which
      represents nearly 4,000 new cases per year in France, are not eligible for such treatment.
      The palliative management of patients with advanced and symptomatic disease is complex and
      requires treatment combining anti-tumor activity and safety in patients with impaired liver
      functions. Indeed, in most cases the palliative treatment of HCC is applied to patients with
      altered liver function (stage B of the Child-Pugh classification).

      To date, the proposed treatment in France for such patients is based on best supportive care.

      The objective of this study is to assess the interest in this situation of 2 molecules -
      taken alone or in combination:

        -  Sorafenib, the reference in the palliative treatment of advanced hepatocellular
           carcinoma (Stage C of the BCLC classification). Yet the safety and efficacy of sorafenib
           in patients with altered liver function (CHILD B) are not clearly defined and its use
           remains discouraged by French recommendations in these patients.

        -  Pravastatin whose interest in the palliative treatment of HCC was suggested by several
           phase II studies with a good safety profile in cirrhotic patients.

      In this French multicenter open randomized study, 160 patients will be included in 4 arms
      (40/arms): sorafenib, pravastatin, pravastatin + sorafenib, and supportive care.

      The aim of this phase II multicenter study is to select the two best arms for further Phase
      III study in order to identify a reference treatment in this palliative situation.
    
  