
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare 2 neoadjuvant chemotherapy regimens (docetaxel, doxorubicin hydrochloride, and
           cyclophosphamide [TAC] vs doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide followed by paclitaxel and
           carboplatin [ACAC]), in terms of toxicities and effectiveness as defined by the
           pathological complete remission rate, in patients with non HER2/neu overexpressing stage
           II or III breast cancer.

        -  Evaluate the probability of achieving a pathological complete remission when adding
           trastuzumab (Herceptin®) to ACAC in the subset of patients with HER2/neu overexpressing
           stage II or III breast cancer.

      Secondary

        -  Identify prognostic and predictive markers of outcome, recurrence, and targets of
           therapy.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients with non HER2/neu overexpressing tumors are
      randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms. Patients with HER2/neu overexpressing tumors are
      assigned to arm III.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive doxorubicin hydrochloride IV, cyclophosphamide IV, and docetaxel
           IV on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 6 courses.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive doxorubicin hydrochloride IV and cyclophosphamide IV on day 1;
           treatment repeats every 2 weeks for 4 courses. Patients then receive carboplatin IV on
           day 1 and paclitaxel IV on days 1, 8, and 15; treatment with carboplatin and paclitaxel
           repeats every 4 weeks for 3 courses.

        -  Arm III: Patients receive chemotherapy as in arm II. They also receive trastuzumab
           (Herceptin®) IV weekly, beginning with the first doses of paclitaxel and carboplatin.

      Within 4 weeks after completion of chemotherapy with or without trastuzumab (Herceptin®), all
      patients undergo surgery.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 105 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  