
    
      This protocol is intended to allow disease-specific investigations in subjects with
      presentations of diseases with salivary gland involvement and will enable the collection of
      data, biological fluids and tissue samples from those subjects, their family members and
      normal controls, in order to assist our studies of understanding salivary gland disease
      pathophysiology. The exocrine salivary glands, by secreting saliva, play a critical role in
      the homeostasis of the oral cavity, which is the initial part of the gastrointestinal track.
      Several diseases including Parkinson s and systemic amyloidosis can be diagnosed through
      biopsies of easily accessible salivary glands. Moreover, several drugs and systemic diseases
      cause salivary gland hypofunction through unknown mechanisms.

      We may evaluate participants with complaints of dry mouth to determine the cause and severity
      of their salivary gland dysfunction and their possible eligibility for other NIDCR protocols.
      Salivary secretions have antibacterial, lubricating, remineralizing, digestive, buffering and
      cleansing properties. Impaired function of these glands can cause an increase in tooth decay;
      a variety of oral hard and soft tissue changes, with painful, burning or ulcerated or oral
      mucosa; problems chewing, swallowing and speaking; and diminished taste and smell.

      This protocol will provide us with the opportunity to learn from a variety of pathologies
      that involve directly or indirectly the salivary glands, expand our knowledge about these
      disorders and provide access to patients of interest for research, teaching, and clinical
      experience. Information obtained through this protocol may lead to potential innovative
      therapeutic studies. In addition to its role in investigating individuals who are of interest
      to the Sj(SqrRoot)(Delta)gren s syndrome (SS) and Salivary Gland Dysfunction Unit of the MPTB
      of NIDCR, this protocol can provide a possible avenue for enrolling subjects from other NIH
      programs or other NIH protocols that exhibit signs or symptoms associated with the salivary
      glands dysfunction.
    
  