
    
      A concurrent mixed method study of a life support decision aid (eLSDA) intends to prepare
      hospitalized, seriously ill older adult patients and their families to participate in shared
      decision-making. The study includes 1) randomized controlled trial and 2) a qualitative
      (naturalistic observation) study. The experimental study compares a convenience cohort of
      participants who receive usual care (n=60 patients or patient/surrogate pairs) to a cohort of
      participants who receive the intervention (n=60 patients or patient/surrogate pairs). The
      investigators intend to measure a) knowledge of life-sustaining technologies, b) clarity of
      values, c) congruence between documented physician's orders and patient choice, d) decisional
      conflict, and e) quality of communication. For the intervention group only, investigators
      will measure comprehensibility and acceptability of the eLSDA. The observational qualitative
      study derived from naturalistic observation will involve participant observation to examine
      dialogue about life support between hospitalized, seriously ill older adult patients,
      families and their healthcare professionals. Quantitative and qualitative data will be
      collected to better understand the comprehensibility, acceptability, usability, feasibility
      and impact of the eLSDA used in routine clinical practice.

      Questionnaires, patient/family/physician discussions and web based tool viewing will be
      completed in a hospital setting. The investigator will administer pre-intervention
      questionnaires to the participants, which will take approximately 15 minutes. Participants
      will then be randomized to groups, and be invited to use the web based eLSDA or usual care
      materials on a laptop computer or tablet (30 minutes). This will be followed by
      post-intervention questionnaires in a second interview (15 minutes). Physicians and
      nurses/social workers will be asked to complete a survey to examine the barriers to
      discussions about goals of care (15 minutes). The investigator will also fill out the chart
      abstraction tool after the participants give consent.
    
  