
    
      This culturally-tailored intervention program will take place over a 12-month period in the
      following four regions on the island:

        -  St. David's Parish

        -  St. Andrew's Parish

        -  St. George's Parish

        -  St. John's/St. Mark's Parish (combined ) •The program will involve approximately 400
           randomized participants (100 from each region). Participants, aged 18-70, from each
           parish will be divided into one of two groups: Intervention Group arm (peer support) or
           Control Group arm (individual study).

      The investigators will identify study participants previously enrolled in the Grenada Heart
      Project, with at least one vascular risk factor, as defined by the Adult Treatment Panel III
      guidelines which include: elevated BP, increased blood glucose level, increased waist
      circumference, minimal reported physical activity, minimally reported fruit and vegetable
      intake, or current smoking habits. Given a 10% refusal rate and 10% failure rate in the
      run-in phase, 120 participants from each site will be invited randomly, from the high risk
      group, to recruit for participation in the study.

      All eligible participants are invited to attend an informational half-day session, during
      which a general overview of the program is presented and participants have an opportunity to
      have any questions answered. During this session, eligible and interested individuals
      complete the written consent forms. Upon consenting, participants are informed of their
      randomization arm (education intervention or group intervention) and entered into a run-in
      phase. All participants receive a notebook, as well as certain health literate materials,
      provided by the American Heart Association. The educational materials will promote management
      of risk factors and the notebook will provide an avenue for recording of lifestyle behaviors,
      such as health goals, BP values, and eating habits.

      •Participants enrolled in the run-in phase will complete the following assessments at three
      time points (baseline, 6-months, and 12-months):

        -  Anthropometric measurements

        -  GHP data collection form

        -  International physical activity questionnaire (iPAQ)

        -  Lifestyle Assessment [modified SF-36 questionnaire tailored to the Grenadian population]

        -  Point-of-care testing using an LDX analyzer (solely for the 12 month assessment).

      The investigators have developed a "GHP Health outcomes Score" which captures a person's
      health profile on a 0-to-3 point scale related to smoking habits, overweight, sedentary
      lifestyle, and hypertension During the run-in phase, participants will attend a series of
      core lifestyle and risk factor education workshops related to motivation for change,
      nutrition (two sessions), smoking cessation, physical education and BP control. Only those
      participants who attend 4 of the 6 sessions will be eligible for randomization.

      Eligible participants will be randomized to the intervention arm or to the control arm,
      stratified by parish. In the group intervention arm a group leader will be selected
      internally within the support groups, who will receive additional training from the research
      team in regards to group motivation and facilitation. Those randomized into the Intervention
      arm will be organized into peer groups of approximately 10 persons.

      The specific aims of this study are:

      Specific Aim 1: Hypothesis: Individuals will show an improvement of health-related behaviors
      through directed peer education groups (intervention group), compared to the individuals not
      receiving such peer support (control group).

      Specific Aim 2: Hypothesis: Individuals will show an improvement in their quality of life
      through directed peer education groups (intervention group), compared to the individuals not
      receiving such peer support (control group).

      Specific Aim 3: Hypothesis: Individuals will show an improvement in cardiovascular risk
      factors through directed peer education groups (intervention group), compared to the
      individuals not receiving such peer support (control group).
    
  