
    
      The majority of information regarding pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics (the action,
      properties and elimination of a drug in the body) of antibiotics is based on measurements of
      the serum and plasma concentrations. Current guidelines for surgical antibiotic prophylaxis
      have clearly demonstrated appropriate therapeutic levels within blood and serum levels,
      resulting in low incidence of postoperative bacteremia (bacteria in the blood) and sepsis
      (infection). Despite this, surgical site infections (SSI) remain the most common
      postoperative complication, affecting up to 20% of patients undergoing intra-abdominal
      surgery. Inadequate antibiotic penetration into the tissues of the surgical site, in spite of
      therapeutic serum levels, results in an environment that is susceptible to pathogens and
      subsequent infections. Antimicrobial tissue levels are influenced by volume of distribution,
      regional blood flow and biological properties of tissue. The ability of any drug to reach the
      tissue of interest is dictated by the relative amount of blood flow to that organ. While
      lungs and kidneys enjoy a robust blood supply, subcutaneous adipose tissue (fat) (the most
      frequent site of surgical site infections) receives a small fraction of the cardiac output.
      Obesity creates an increased volume of distribution, thereby resulting in a greater dilution
      of antibiotics when compared to non-obese subjects. Moreover, this change in volume of
      distribution is achieved primarily by increasing the relative amount of poorly perfused
      adipose tissue. Therefore, it should come as no surprise that obesity is a significant risk
      factor for surgical site infections.

      The rate of obesity in the United States has shown a steady increase and more than doubled in
      the last twenty-five years from 15% in 1980 to 32.9% in 2004. Moreover, nearly one third of
      women of reproductive age are obese and approximately 6% are extremely obese. In addition to
      the usual health related concerns, obesity significantly increases the rate of complications
      associated with pregnancy. In particular, several studies have demonstrated an increased
      incidence of cesarean delivery associated to maternal obesity. Cesarean delivery rates, much
      like obesity rates, have witnessed a tremendous surge in the last few decades and now account
      for approximately 30% of all deliveries or nearly 1.2 million procedures. Surgical site
      infections associated with cesarean delivery include wound infections and endomyometritis
      (infection in the uterus), with rates ranging from 7% to 20% depending on the demographic and
      obstetric variables. Despite these alarming trends there is a paucity of data regarding
      antimicrobial activity of prophylactic antibiotics in tissues and the effects of maternal
      obesity on these concentrations at the time of cesarean delivery.

      While the rates of cesarean deliveries have reached a plateau at around 30% in recent years,
      the rates of obesity continue to climb unabated. As the attributes of the population evolve
      over the course of time so must the guidelines and management adapt to the individuals in our
      care.
    
  