
    
      More than 70 percent of ovarian cancer patients were diagnosed in the advanced stage.
      Currently the 5-year disease free survival (DFS) of stageⅢ-Ⅳovarian cancer patients was about
      10 percent after first line chemotherapy. Dr Cai shumo developed adjuvant chemotherapy of
      "three steps" (ACTS) for advanced ovarian cancer after cytoreductive surgery, based on his
      60+ years experience on gynecologic oncology. After the first step 6-8 cycle paclitaxel plus
      carboplatin chemotherapy, the chemo-sensative cancer cells were killed, but
      resistant/dormancy cell remained. The second step chemotherapy which is 6 cycle CTX+VP-16
      every 4weeks, using different mechanism to kill cancer cells, may decrease the rate of
      recurrence within 6 month after first step chemotherapy, prolong platinum-free duration and
      also with acceptable side effects. After second step chemotherapy, in absence of 6 months
      platinum treatment, the previous G0 dormancy cell may become flexible to platinum treatment.
      Therefore, in the third step chemotherapy, CTX+CBP is used in every 8 week for 6 cycles.
      Comparing to using targeted therapy for maintaining therapy, the ACTS cost less.

      In the previous observation study(CHINA ONCOLOGY 2013 Vol.23 No.12 p980), In study arm A, the
      patients received three-step chemotherapy after primary debulking surgery, step one with
      paclitaxel plus carboplatin (TC regimen), every 3 weeks for 6 to 8 cycles; step two with
      etoposide plus cyclophosphamide, every 4 weeks for 6 cycles; step three with carboplatin plus
      cyclophosphamide every eight weeks for six cycles. In control arm B, investigators
      retrospectively analysed 51 cases withⅢC-Ⅳstage ovarian cancer, who had completely response
      after standard chemotherapy with six to eight cycles of TC after primary surgery during 2007.
      Investigators compared the 5-year DFS between the two arms. Results: The 5-year DFS of 15
      cases in arm A was 80%(12/15), which was signiifcantly higher than that of arm B (5.9%, 3/51,
      P<0.01). Therefore we start this randomized open control clinic trial to evaluated the effect
      of ACTS on overall survival and its safety.

      In2015, we launched ACTS study (NCT02562365), and the primary results showed benefit of ACTS
      on PFS and acceptable AE. Currently, PARP inhibit was shown to be effective in maintainance
      therapy in ovarian cancer especially approve for BRCA1/2 mutated pateints. However there is
      no standard maintainance therapy for BRCA1/2 wide-type ovarian cancer. Here we started ACTS-2
      study to verify the effectivity and safety of ACTS in BRCA1/2 wide-type ovarian cancer
      patients.
    
  