
    
      This is the Execution Phase which will be conducted as a multi-site randomized controlled
      trial. A previous Formative Phase study was conducted under a separate protocol which has
      been completed with preliminary data indicating positive outcomes. Participants in both arms
      will meet the same inclusion/exclusion criteria and will be randomized into the intervention
      and control arms at a ratio of 1:1.

      The intervention arm will receive the KISS (Knocking out Infections through Safer sex and
      Screening) intervention program in addition to standard STI prevention counselling routinely
      provided by military medical treatment facilities. The control arm will receive only standard
      STI prevention counselling. Both arms will receive follow-up educational messages via short
      message service (SMS)/text messaging monthly for 10 months, and have follow-up study visits
      at 6 months and 12 months.

      The KISS intervention is a 2-hour, small group (6-12 individuals) class-based interactive,
      educational session based on Social Cognitive Theory and the Theory of Gender and Power. The
      intervention is an adaptation of the HORIZONS intervention, which has shown efficacy are
      reducing sexual risk behavior and incident STIs among adolescents in the USA. HORIZONS has
      been reviewed by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control (CDC) Prevention Synthesis Research
      team and designated a CDC top-tier (Tier I) evidence-based intervention (EBI).

      To enroll in the study, participants must be categorized as "high risk" as determined by a
      positive test for an STI within the previous 180 days or has had STI screening during this
      time frame (specifically gonorrhea (GC), chlamydia (CT), M. genitalium, syphilis and/or HIV).

      Study subjects will be recruited from Madigan Army Medical Center (Madigan) Preventive
      Medicine Clinic and the Womack Army Medical Center (Womack) Preventive Medicine Clinic in Ft.
      Bragg, North Carolina (NC). In addition, promotional flyers for recruitment will be placed in
      public areas on both bases, and will be promoted through approved social media channels.
      Subjects may also refer up to 5 friends or colleagues for screening.

      Participants enrolled in the intervention arm will complete a total of four visits and those
      in the control arm will complete a total of three visits. Over the course of the study,
      participants in both groups will be asked to provide biological specimens and complete
      knowledge/behavioral surveys three times (at baseline, 6 and at 12 months). Those in the
      intervention group will also attend the KISS EBI (Evidence Based Intervention) program. Both
      arms will receive monthly (months 2-11) follow up text messages, but the content will defer
      between the two arms. Those in the intervention arm, will receive SMS/text messages targeting
      prevention maintenance interventions (PMI) messages reiterating information received during
      the EBI session. Those in the control arm, will receive SMS/text messages that will contain
      general health information.
    
  