
    
      Tuberculosis (TB) is the deadliest infectious disease in the world. The latest estimates
      suggest there were 10.4 million cases in 2015 and 1.8 million TB deaths. Despite the
      availability of highly effective medications for treating TB in the developing world, lack of
      adherence to the treatment regimen remains the driving influence leading to multi-drug
      resistant (MDR) TB, morbidity and mortality. Conventional treatment is a lengthy process
      which depends heavily on patient adherence in seeking and then carrying out the prescribed
      treatment. Recognizing this challenge, the World Health Organization has developed a protocol
      for treating TB called Direct Observation of Treatments, Short-course (DOTS), but it is
      expensive and difficult to institute on a large-scale in resource-constrained regions,
      evidenced by its use in only 30% of all cases. This protocol also further burdens TB patients
      who are already some of the most marginalized individuals in society by requiring them to
      take time off from work in order to travel to the TB clinic for treatment verification. The
      patient may find this embarrassing if there is a stigma surrounding the disease in the
      community, or at the least, an unwelcomed intrusion into one's privacy. There is therefore
      great need for the development of alternative protocols, which reduce the costs of treatment
      and burden of adherence, and more effectively motivate patients to adhere to the program.

      TB is spread through the air when people who are sick with TB excrete the causative bacillus,
      Mycobacterium tuberculosis mainly through coughing. Left untreated, a single patient can
      infect between 12 and 15 persons per year, a stark contrast to an Ebola patient who will only
      infect between 1.5 and 2.5 persons. When a patient adheres to the treatment regime, she makes
      it less likely that others will become sick, contributing to the health of her family and
      community. Adherence is thus a contribution to a public good--a personally costly action that
      benefits others. A substantial and growing literature in the social sciences demonstrates the
      potential of behavioral interventions for generating large increases in contributions to
      public goods, yet this potential has largely been left untapped in the treatment of TB.
      Keheala taps into this underutilized potential by developing a powerful, cost-effective
      platform for better engaging patients' sense of responsibility to their community in order to
      increase adherence.

      Keheala is a feature-phone and Internet-based digital platform that uses text message-like
      interactions to deliver behavioral interventions that have been demonstrated as remarkably
      effective in the social sciences literature on altruism. A patient who participates in the
      program is assigned a support-sponsor who receives alerts about the patient's adherence,
      allowing a dialogue of support or problem solving. For the pilot RCT, these support-sponsors
      will be hired and trained by Keheala. An automated system sends motivational messages and
      regular prompts for patients to self-verify their treatment. Messages include reminders about
      the community benefits of adherence and a measure of the patient's adherence performance
      relative to successful peers. If a patient fails to correctly verify her compliance, the
      system automatically alerts the support-sponsor, who then intervenes with a supportive
      dialogue. Clinicians can view individual or aggregate patient histories to leverage limited
      resources. Combining powerful behavioral interventions with the functionality needed to
      lessen the burden of disease on everyday life, Keheala uniquely and comprehensively overcomes
      the barriers to appropriate treatment adherence.

      Problem Statement TB treatment adherence rates suffer due to the burdensome six-month
      duration of treatment. During this period, patients endure severe side effects from drug
      cocktails, while regular clinical visits often necessitate distant, time-consuming travel and
      absenteeism from work. However, non-adherence not only threatens the individuals' health--70%
      of those who aren't treated will die within 10 years --it is also a public health concern:
      adherence reduces the risk of transmission, usually to nearly zero within less than two
      weeks, whereas treatment cessation can lead to recurrence and high transmission rates,
      threatening the well-being of affected communities. Keheala's goal is to increase adherence
      for the benefit of the infected individual and the community as a whole.

      Justification The Keheala solution is based on extensive primary and secondary research.
      Interviews with relevant and experienced stakeholders ensured that the functionality provided
      is what actually is needed in order to overcome the social drivers of failed treatment
      adherence. Additionally, the functionality is designed with principles from the social
      sciences literature showing the potent impact invoking an individual's sense of
      responsibility to her community can have on affecting behavior. These principles are
      well-supported and understood in other contexts, however, exactly how effective these
      principles can be at invoking treatment adhering behavior in the resource-constrained TB
      context remains to be tested.

      Null Hypotheses Ha1: Patients enrolled in the Keheala program achieve a greater proportion of
      'Cured' outcomes by at least 7.5%.

      Ho1: Patients enrolled in the Keheala program achieve a greater proportion of 'Cured'
      outcomes by no more than 7.5%.

      Ha2: Patients enrolled in the Keheala program achieve an improvement of at least 7.5% on one
      of the following outcomes: 'Treatment Completed,' 'Dying while on Treatment,' Out of Control
      or Loss to Follow Up' and 'Failing'.

      Ho2: Patients enrolled in the Keheala program achieve an improvement of no more than 7.5% on
      one of the following outcomes: 'Treatment Completed,' 'Dying while on Treatment,' Out of
      Control or Loss to Follow Up' and 'Failing'.

      General Objectives The goal of the research is to establish the potential of Keheala's
      behavioral intervention for positively impacting the process of care and treatment outcomes
      for a TB patient and healthcare providers.

      Additional Qualitative Objectives

        -  Measure and compare the frequency and duration of treatment interruption

        -  Measure and compare perception of 'trust' for the healthcare system, as well as the
           doctor-patient relationship

        -  Measure and compare the perception of community stigma

      Design and Methodology Study site The burden of TB in Kenya is among the highest in the world
      with a prevalence rate of 558 cases per 100,000 people. Mortality from TB in Kenya is also
      above the global average at 21 deaths per 100,000.

      Symptomatic patients are identified either in health clinics or by Community Health
      Volunteers (CHVs), laypersons employed to screen for TB in the community. Individuals who
      show up to the clinic usually do so because they are experiencing a sickness or have been
      referred to the clinic. In rural communities, regularly scheduled meetings organized by local
      chiefs or administrative officials are used as opportunities to educate the community about
      TB and to sometimes distribute questionnaires probing symptoms of TB. Questionnaire
      respondents who demonstrate signs of symptoms of TB are requested to give a sputum sample,
      which will be tested at a health clinic and feedback given to the CHV in order to communicate
      the results back to the individual and link them to a specific clinic if treatment is needed.
      There are times, however, when finding the individual is not always possible. Additionally,
      these CHVs will sometimes attend market days or go home to home in order to identify sick
      individuals in the general population.

      Symptoms of TB include coughing for three weeks or longer, chest pain, coughing up blood or
      sputum (phlegm from deep inside the lungs), weakness or fatigue, weight loss, appetite
      suppression, fever and chills. Diagnosis is accomplished with sputum smears and sometimes
      x-rays. Any individuals started on TB medication are entered into a paper log at each health
      facility. Sub-county TB coordinators compile all of the paper logs every one to four weeks,
      transferring them to a cloud-based digital form.

      Treatment duration is either six months (first-time patients) or eight months (repeat
      patients). During the first two to three months when daily treatment is required, medications
      are given for a week at a time or with special permission for longer than a week. For the
      latter four or five months of treatment patients are required to return to the clinic every
      two weeks for medication refills. Patients are supposed to visit clinics for medication
      refills with their treatment supporter - a friend or relative who watches the patient take
      their medication. However, clinicians do not go to the full-extent necessary to ensure the
      sponsor has been observing a patient's adherence. Follow-up smears are given after two, five
      and six months for patients who were initially smear positive. Upon completion of the
      prescribed treatment regimen and a negative sputum smear, patients are released from
      treatment and told only to come back if symptoms reappear.

      Procedures

      The investigators will approach clinics in Nairobi in order of size. Clinics will be included
      if there is substantial support for the program by the staff and the investigators believe
      the intervention can be implemented with local support. The investigators will be randomizing
      subjects into a treatment and control group within each clinic. The following clinics will be
      approached:

        1. Kasarani Health Centre

        2. St. Mary's Mission Hospital

        3. Riruta Health Centre

        4. Kangemi Health Centre

        5. Kibera South (MSF Belgium) Dispensary

        6. Kayole II Sub-District Hospital

        7. Dandora II Health Centre

        8. Baraka Medical Centre (St. Stephen)

        9. Mukuru MMM Clinic

       10. Rhodes Chest Clinic

       11. Embakasi Health Centre

       12. Ngara Health Centre (City Council of Nairobi)

       13. Umoja Health Centre

       14. Kibera DO

       15. Mathare North Health Centre

       16. Kahawa West Health Centre

       17. Kamiti Prison Public Hospital (not for inmates)

      At each clinic, 50% of all TB patients will be randomly selected to join the treatment group:

        -  Existing patients will be ordered by date and time admitted, and selected so that every
           other patient is included in the treatment group (block design).

        -  New patients will be similarly selected so that every other new patient is included in
           the treatment group (block design).

      The control and treatment groups will thus each be made up of half the patients in the
      clinics. Overall, the investigators expect the control and treatment group to be comprised of
      600 subjects, each. Patients will not be offered a stipend for participation so as not to
      introduce any unnecessary bias into the study.

      Data Management A. Data collection and reduction Clinics will provide paper or digital copies
      of patient medical records for Keheala staff to consolidate and digitize. Anonymous platform
      usage data and analytics will be obtained from a dashboard.

      Qualitative data will be obtained from a digitally administered survey across the mobile
      platform and/or through focus group discussions and interviews.

      B. Statistical Analysis The simplest possible statistical approach is illustrated in the
      power calculations. In this approach, the investigators simply compare outcome rates at the
      end of treatment for subjects in the treatment and control groups. This comparison can be
      done using a t-test or using an ordinary least squares regression, which can include controls
      for time trends, patient demographics, and clinic characteristics.

      The investigators will also employ a more sophisticated (and slightly more statistically
      powerful) analysis of hazard rates. The hazard rate is estimated daily as the probability
      that a patient who is currently adhering continues to adhere. It is estimated using a
      logistical regression of whether the patient adhered on a given week on whether the patient
      adhered in all previous weeks and whether the patient is in the treatment group. The
      regression can also include controls for time period, patient demographics, and clinic
      characteristics. Note that the investigators have based the power calculations on the simpler
      regressions of final outcomes on treatment.

      C. Data Storage During the study patient names and clinics are kept in an encrypted and
      password protected 'Master Document'. At the end of the pilot, all personal identifying
      information will be redacted and patients will be uniquely identified by a randomly generated
      identification number. No documents or data containing patient identifying information (name
      and/or address) will be available to outside parties.

      Ethical Considerations

      The investigators recognize that dealing with human subjects necessitates the highest level
      of respect for persons. Accordingly, in order to ensure the autonomy of the individual, each
      patient will receive a full disclosure of the nature of the study, the risks, benefits and
      alternatives, with an extended opportunity to ask questions. Patients with diminished
      autonomy (children) will not be coerced to participate. Instead, they will be duly protected
      through co-consent of the parent and child. No patient will be permitted to participate in
      the study without having signed an Informed Consent waiver.

      The investigators have given forethought to the maximization of benefits and reduction of
      risks that might occur from the research. The equitable selection and fairness in
      distribution of participants is only limited by funding; no benefit to which a person is
      entitled is denied without good reason or when some burden is imposed unduly.

      Study limitations As with any study of this nature, focusing on a particular subset of
      clinics, and excluding some patients limits the generalizability of the results to the
      population at large (external validity). However, our within-clinic randomization procedure
      ensures robust internal validity and maximizes statistical power, so that we can maximize the
      value of this assessment.

      Further, the study is limited to a single treatment group, making it impossible to tease
      apart the impact of Keheala's various elements, evaluate different messages, or different
      frequency of contact. This decision was made to streamline logistics--these questions are
      left for a follow-up assessment.

      Study Implications A successful pilot would demonstrate the potential of Keheala's low-cost
      mobile platform to increase compliance and save lives. The investigator's goal is to
      demonstrate this potential, and also to learn from the implementation in order to maximize
      the impact of future iterations of the platform.

      TB is a particularly ripe use-case for Keheala's platform due to onerous and extended
      treatment, the limits of existing programs (e.g., the WHO's DOTS program), TB's highly
      infectious nature, the risk of disease-resistant strains, and its severity. However, Keheala
      could eventually be applied to address other public health concerns, such as HIV, which
      shares many of these features. A successful pilot would pave the way for such applications.
    
  