
    
      Rationale

      Today's aging population brings an increase in the incidence of dementia. In Canada, there
      are approximately 564,000 persons diagnosed with dementia, with an expected two-fold increase
      in this number by the year 2031. In this context, the early detection and prediction of
      cognitive decline are both imperative for achieving the prevention and/or slowing of
      dementia.

      Standard pencil-and-paper neuropsychological tests are pivotal for the detection and
      follow-up of cognitive impairment; however they are labor-intensive and require the presence
      of a trained neuropsychologist on-site. In this regard, computerized testing may be better
      suited for cognitive screening in large epidemiologic studies and for longitudinal monitoring
      by primary care providers, due to their higher efficiency for serial assessments and their
      suitability for off-site or long-distance use. At the same time, computerized testing allows
      for higher precision in the recording of accuracy and speed of response, with a level of
      sensitivity not possible in standard administrations.

      A number of computerized cognitive batteries have been recently developed, though intended as
      research tools. There is a current demand for the validation of computerized cognitive
      batteries in the clinical setting. One such computerized battery is the Cognigram™ (CG),
      which measures processing speed, attention, working memory and learning. Previous
      cross-sectional studies have demonstrated the validity of CG for detecting MCI and various
      types of dementia. However, there is no current literature on the longitudinal validity of
      CG, and minimal longitudinal validation of other computerized cognitive batteries currently
      in existence.

      On the other hand, research and medicine is moving away from behavioral responses to assess
      brain health (e.g. verbal responses, reaction time, etc.) and are moving toward more
      neuroimaging focused measures. Biological tests could enable to detect pre-dementia and
      determine the prognosis of MCI subjects.A promising biological test is EEG/ERP. The
      investigators have previously shown group differences in ERPs for patients with MCI and CN.
      Other studies have reported promising ERP markers of pre-dementia and progression of MCI to
      dementia. However, ERP can be complex to process and labor-intensive, limiting its value in
      the clinical setting. For example, the usual time for an ERP series measuring multiple
      cognitive domains typically lasts 1 hour, another 25 minutes for applying the EEG cap and
      ensuring all electrodes are connected, and some 30 minutes per paradigm (x2-3 paradigms).

      The NeuroCatch™ Platform (NCP) offers key competitive advantages compared to other EEG
      platforms, having a rapid test time with automated processing, analysis and results display -
      benefitting patients and clinicians being significantly easier to use than current EEG
      systems, and it alleviates training and ramp up costs amongst EEG users. In this study, the
      investigators will use the NPC to explore for ERPs that could predict progression to dementia
      in patients with MCI. The present study will make an initial assessment of the capacity of
      the NCP to detect cognitive decline and predict conversion to dementia in patients with MCI.

      Hypotheses:

      In Cognigram, the investigators hypothesize that the following will occur:

      i. Significant differences in the CG scores at baseline will be found between MCI and CN
      groups ii. MCI subjects will show greater longitudinal changes than the CN subjects iii.
      Intra-individual Significant longitudinal changes in the CG performances at 3 and/or 6 months
      and/or 9 months and/or 12 months, will relate to the prospective clinical outcome at
      12-months, and/or 24-months, and/or 36-months.

      iv. The CG will show a higher sensitivity in detecting cognitive changes, and a higher
      predictive power of longitudinal clinical outcome than the pencil-and-paper MoCA test.

      In NeuroCatch, the investigators hypothesize that the following will occur:

      I. Significant differences in the ERP parameters (amplitude and latency of ERPs such as N100,
      N400, P300) at baseline will be found between MCI and CN groups II. MCI subjects will show
      greater longitudinal changes in ERP parameters than the CN subjects III. Intra-individual
      significant longitudinal changes in ERP parameters at 6 months and/or 12 months and/or 24
      months, will relate to the prospective clinical outcome at 12-months, and/or 24-months,
      and/or 36-months.

      IV. The NCP will show a higher sensitivity in detecting cognitive changes, and a higher
      predictive power of longitudinal clinical outcome than the pencil-and-paper MoCA test.

      The objectives of the project are as follows:

      i. To discriminate CG longitudinal changes related to neural damage from normal variations in
      cognitively normal (CN) older adults ii. To determine if CG baseline score is related to the
      clinical outcome at 12-months, 24-months, and 36-months iii. To determine if intra-individual
      CG changes at 3, 6, 9, and 12 months, are related to the clinical outcome at 12-months,
      24-months, and 36-months.

      iv. To compare the powers of CG and MoCA for predicting longitudinal clinical outcomes.

      v. To discriminate ERP longitudinal changes (e.g., changes in N100, N400, P300 amplitudes and
      latencies) related to neural damage from normal variations in cognitively normal (CN) older
      adults.

      vi. To determine if ERP baseline parameters (e.g. amplitude of N100, N400, P300) is related
      to the clinical outcome at 12-months, 24-months, and 36-months vii. To determine if
      intra-individual changes in ERP parameters at 6, 12, and 24 months, are related to the
      clinical outcome at 12-months, 24-months, and 36-months.

      viii. To compare the powers of NCP and MoCA for predicting longitudinal clinical outcomes.

      For the purpose of these project, a total sample of 30 MCI and their study partners, and 30
      cognitively normal subjects (CN), will be recruited. Study partners of MCI subjects will
      answer the functional questionnaire and the cognitive questionnaire required for defining the
      clinical status of participants. It is mandatory for MCI participants to have a study partner
      available in order to participate in this study.

      For the CN project, the participants will undergo CG and Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA)
      testing sessions at baseline, 3-months, 6-months, 9-months, and 12-months. The capacities for
      predicting clinical longitudinal outcomes (i.e., reversion to normal cognition, significant
      decline within MCI spectrum, or progression to dementia) of CG and MoCA will be compared. The
      clinical outcome will be assessed using a Neuropsychological battery, a functional assessment
      and a brief cognitive questionnaire at baseline, 12-months, 24-months and 36-months. It is
      expected that changes in CG scores will be sensitive to cognitive decline, allowing an early
      prediction of progression of the cognitive impairment.

      For the NCP project, the participants will undergo NCP (Appendix 14: NCP) and MoCA testing
      sessions at baseline, 6-months, 12-months, 24-months, and 36-months. The capacities for
      predicting clinical outcomes (i.e., reversion to normal cognition, significant decline within
      MCI spectrum, or progression to dementia) of the NCP and MoCA tests will be compared. The
      clinical outcome will be assessed using a Neuropsychological battery, a functional assessment
      and a brief cognitive questionnaire at baseline, 12-months, 24-months, and 36-months. It is
      expected that changes in ERP will be sensitive to cognitive decline, allowing an early
      prediction of progression of the cognitive impairment.

      Prospective longitudinal validation, if demonstrated, would greatly increase confidence in
      using CG and NCP in a clinical setting for the assessment of MCI patients and would allow
      early prediction of future clinical outcomes. This could help to develop preventive
      therapeutic strategies, while providing additional time for patients and their families to
      prepare for the future (e.g., financial arrangements, treatment options, and community
      services). CG and NCP would be of greatest use in primary care, where multiple constraints
      make cognitive assessments problematic (e.g., lack of time to perform cognitive testing, and
      lack of access to expensive neuropsychological testing not covered by OHIP) and EEG/ERP
      assessments prohibitive (e.g., lack of time to perform EEG, lack of access to trained experts
      for analyzing and interpreting the results of the EEG/ERP).
    
  