
    
      Rationale: Ovarian carcinoma is one of the most lethal cancers in the world due to the fact
      that tumors are detected at late stage of disease, without curative therapies at that stage.
      Standard therapy consists of debulking surgery and platinum-paclitaxel containing
      chemotherapy. Despite this aggressive treatment five year survival is approximately 30%.
      Recently, it has been shown that tumor growth is driven by Signal Transduction Activation
      (STA) pathways. Twelve such pathways are known and in most tumours only one of these pathways
      is predominant. A number of "targeted therapy" drugs have become available, or are being
      developed that target individual STA pathways. Furthermore, a newly developed technique is
      able to assess which pathway is predominant in (ovarian) cancer. Therefore, specifically
      targeting the predominant pathway might impair tumor growth and might improve survival.

      Objective: This study aims to evaluate the effectiveness of targeted therapy, as defined by
      STA pathway analysis, in patients with recurrent ovarian carcinoma.

      Study design: Intervention study. Study population: Adult women with
      histologically/cytologically proven ovarian carcinoma who are group A: without symptoms and
      would normally await palliative chemotherapy until symptoms and group B: with symptoms, who
      are eligible for palliative chemotherapy.

      Intervention (if applicable): STA pathway analysis will be performed on histological biopsies
      taken from the tumor. Targeted drugs against the predominant pathway will be used against the
      predominant pathway. Initially we will start with targeted therapy in patients with either HH
      positive or ER positive tumors, since targeted therapy towards these pathways are easily
      available (itraconazole / tamoxifen) with little known side effects. For other targeted
      therapies approval will be asked separately.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: Response of tumour growth/regression.
    
  