
    
      The study will be completed as a two part, prospective, single-centre, randomised controlled
      trial.

      Five volunteers (dentists) will be recruited in the first part of the study in order to
      evaluate and examine the microneedle device and its use. Based on those qualitative findings
      (individual interviews and focus group) modifications to the microneedle device will be
      implemented before part two of the study commences.

      Twenty healthy male volunteers will be invited to participate in the second part of the
      study. Participants will be randomly assigned to receive a dental anaesthetic solution
      injection with a microneedle device (Group I) or with a standard thirty-gauge short
      hypodermic needles (Group II) in the first week of the second part of the study.

      Group I: The microneedle device will be applied randomly to the left or right buccal mucosa
      of the ﬁrst premolar tooth in the maxilla in order to inject slowly a standard local dental
      anaesthetic solution.

      Group II: A standard thirty-gauge short hypodermic needles will be used for insertion and
      injection of the same standard local dental anaesthetic solution randomly to the left or
      right buccal mucosa of the ﬁrst premolar tooth in the maxilla.

      Quantitative and qualitative measurements of the pain experienced and the depth of
      anaesthesia achieved will be recorded for both groups and compared.

      In order to eliminate any carryover effects, a washout period of one week between receiving a
      second, opposite injection will be applied (i.e. Group I will receive an injection with a
      standard thirty-gauge short hypodermic needles and Group II an injection with the microneedle
      device). The buccal mucosa of the ﬁrst premolar tooth in the untreated, opposite maxilla side
      will receive an injection with the remaining injection method following the same procedure as
      described for the first week.
    
  