
    
      Obesity is an epidemic disease with a rapid increase in children and adolescents. According
      to the National Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys, the prevalence of overweight
      children doubled between 1976-1980 and 1999-2002 and affected 15 percent of children and
      adolescents in the United States. Further investigations have shown that obese children and
      adolescents have a high risk for the persistence of overweight into adulthood, and that
      morbidity and mortality are higher in those obese adults who became overweight during
      childhood, compared to those whose weight-gain evolved later in life. A tremendous increase
      in obesity-related morbidity and furthermore an immense rise in the medical costs associated
      with it, is to be expected. Growing evidence suggests that obesity in childhood is not only
      associated with a markedly increased prevalence of prediabetes or diabetes mellitus,
      dyslipidemia and other cardiovascular risk factors, but also predicts the development of
      coronary artery disease and other atherosclerotic complications in adulthood. A 55-year
      follow-up study showed that overweight in adolescence lead to an increased risk of morbidity
      and mortality from cardiovascular events. This effect is even independent of adult weight.
      There is evidence, that markers of early yet reversible states of atherosclerosis, such as
      decreased flow-mediated dilation of the brachial artery (FMD) and increased intima media
      thickness (IMT), correlate with measures of body weight and are predictive of cardiovascular
      disease.

      While several studies have demonstrated that weight loss can improve metabolic risk factors
      in obese children, data regarding the effect on early vascular disease is missing. Therefore
      we designed this study including a cohort of obese children before and after a structured
      weight reduction program in order to answer the question, whether such an intervention can
      improve endothelial cell function and reverse an increased intima media thickness. Since each
      intervention program leading to body weight reduction is a severe interference with personal
      lifestyle, we feel that these questions need to be answered before intervention programs are
      initiated on a public health basis.
    
  