
    
      In approximately 20% of patients who are considered for accelerated partial breast
      irradiation (APBI), the balloon-to-skin distance ranges from 3-6 mm. The Contura applicator
      has 5 source lumens. In contrast, the MammoSite catheter has a single source lumen. The
      ability to choose from multiple source lumens with the Contura catheter allows one to avoid a
      radiation "hot spot" in the skin in cases where the balloon-to-skin spacing is only 3-6 mm.

      Another limitation of the MammoSite catheter is that one cannot improve on the suboptimal
      conformance of the balloon with the surrounding breast tissue. An air/fluid pocket next to
      the balloon can push breast tissue at greatest risk of harboring residual disease away from
      the radioactive source. With APBI, the planning target volume for plan evaluation (PTV_EVAL)
      is defined as the breast tissue volume bounded by uniform expansion of the balloon radius in
      all dimensions by 10 mm less the balloon volume. PTV_EVAL is limited to 5 mm from the skin
      surface and by the posterior breast tissue extent (chest wall and pectoralis muscles are
      excluded). The volume of an air/fluid pocket is usually 4.8% ± 1.1% (mean ± standard error)
      of PTV_EVAL. The Contura applicator has a vacuum lumen with 2 openings adjacent to the
      balloon that allow for air/fluid removal. By using the vacuum lumen on a Contura applicator,
      one can typically decrease the size of an air/fluid pocket by about one third. In
      approximately 90% of Contura patients, the volume of an air/fluid pocket around the balloon
      can be reduced to less than or equal to 3.0% of PTV_EVAL. In contrast, the volume of an
      air/fluid pocket around the balloon is less than or equal to 3.0% of PTV_EVAL in only about
      half of MammoSite patients. Since this study addresses intermediate-risk patients, it is
      particularly important that the size of an air/fluid pocket be minimized with a Contura
      applicator.

      SenoRx, Inc. (Aliso Viejo, CA) is currently conducting a registry study of the Contura MLB
      applicator in the "low-risk" patient population. This "intermediate-risk" study is
      complimentary to the low-risk registry study. There is no overlap in patient eligibility.
      Intermediate-risk patients meet any of the following criteria:

        1. Age 18-49 years, or

        2. Estrogen receptor-negative and progesterone receptor-negative breast cancer, or

        3. 1-3 involved axillary lymph nodes
    
  