
    
      Cesarean delivery is amongst the most widely recognized operations performed on women and its
      rate continue expanding. The rates of cesarean section (CS) in the United States in 1996 and
      2009 were 20.7% and 32.3% respectively, witnessing an expansion of more than half. In China,
      50% of deliveries in 2010 were through CS. In the Netherlands, the cesarean delivery rate
      jumped from 7.4 to 15.8% between 1990 and 2008, whereas in the United Kingdom, the CS rate
      increased from 12 to 29% throughout the same time period. In Brazil, the CS rate jumped from
      15% in 1970 to even 80% in 2004.

      The expanding rate of cesarean deliveries can be credited to many variables including an
      increase in repeated cesarean sections. There is no discourse that CS is a lifesaving method
      for a few women, for instance for women with placenta previa or obstructed labor, or for
      fetuses with either antenatal or intrapartum distress, breech pregnancy or a twin pregnancy.
      The World Health Organization suggests that the ideal CS rate should be 15%.

      Also, this expanding CS rate has fortified an enthusiasm for the potential long-term
      morbidity of CS scars. By and large, the cesarean incision heals uneventfully. However, some
      authors depicted a cesarean scar defect on transvaginal sonography (TVS) or saline infusion
      sonography (SIS) as a wedge shape anechoic structure at the site of the scar or a gap in
      anterior myometrium of the anterior lower myometrium at the site of previous cesarean section
      site. This was first described using hysterosalpingography in 1961. The terminology used to
      describe these scar abnormalities include scar defects, or 'niches' in the uterine scar,
      cesarean scar defect, uterine diverticulum, uterine isthmocele, pouch or sacculation and
      differs various publications. The term 'niche', which was introduced in 2001. A niche appears
      to be frequently present after a CS. Using SIS, niches were identified in the scar in more
      than half of the women who had had a caesarean delivery. Niches were defined as indentations
      of the myometrium of at least 2 mm. Large niches occur less frequently, with an incidence
      varying from 11 to 45% dependent on the definition used (a depth of at least 50 or 80% of the
      anterior myometrium, or the remaining myometrial thickness ≤2.2 mm when evaluated by TVS and
      ≤2.5 mm when evaluated by sonohysterography).

      It is usually asymptomatic. Be that as it may, some authors have described some symptoms
      identified with this condition and there are several studies relating abnormal uterine
      bleeding and niche, especially postmenstrual spotting which appears to be the most common
      symptom in women with niches due to the collection of menstrual blood in a uterine scar
      defect causing postmenstrual spotting.

      Later prospective cohort studies reported spotting in ∼30% of women with a niche at 6- 12
      months after their CS compared with 15% of women without a niche after CS. It is undoubtedly
      a generally new pathology that needs assessment.
    
  