
    
      The WHO classification of primary brain tumours has recently been updated and now also takes
      molecular parameters into account to provide clinicians with more accurate information on the
      expected disease course and to guide treatment decisions.1 Patients with oligodendrogliomas
      of WHO grades II or grade III (OII and OIII) defined by IDH mutation and 1p/19q co-deletion
      represent rare tumour groups (~10% of adult gliomas) with relatively favourable prognosis
      (median survival 11.9 years for OII and 8.5 years for OIII).2 However, this disease remains
      life-threatening as over time, all tumours are likely to progress with a more malignant
      phenotype.

      Recent changes in the management of these patients followed after the publication of
      long-term follow-up data from two landmark studies on OIII carried out by EORTC and RTOG in
      the 1990s,3, 4 and a RTOG study on low-grade glioma including OII.5 These data suggest that
      standard treatment should comprise surgical resection of the tumour as feasible followed by
      radiotherapy and chemotherapy. These studies used radiotherapy doses of 54-60 Gy and PCV
      (procarbazine, CCNU, vincristine) polychemotherapy. Among high-risk WHO grade II glioma
      patients, including OII, postoperative temozolomide chemotherapy was not superior in terms of
      progression-free survival or health-related quality of life (HRQOL) compared to postoperative
      radiotherapy.6,7 The discussion on whether temozolomide or PCV would be the better
      chemotherapy in these two patient groups is still ongoing. With patients surviving longer
      whilst receiving more treatments that may have long-term toxic side-effects, additional
      questions are raised regarding the effects on HRQOL and cognitive functioning of patients.
      Indeed, investigating the long-term effects of treatment is listed as a top priority in
      neuro-oncology research. 8

      Preliminary research

      The investigational team has almost three decades of research experience in the area of HRQOL
      and cognitive deficits after glioma treatment. Previous research has found that patients with
      both low- and high-grade gliomas can experience compromised HRQOL and cognitive functioning,
      which was generally more pronounced in the high-grade glioma group. However in those with
      stable, low-grade glioma, HRQOL and cognitive deficits were highly correlated, supporting the
      notion that even subtle cognitive deficits can affect autonomy in long-term glioma survivors.

      While short-term negative effects of chemotherapy on HRQOL are well-documented, longer-term
      effects of antineoplastic drugs (e.g., bevacizumab) are unknown. Moreover, even low fraction
      doses of radiotherapy have been shown to have negative consequences for patients' cognitive
      functioning. WHO grade I and II glioma survivors were assessed on average 12 years after
      diagnosis and while cognitive functioning had remained stable in patients who had not been
      treated with radiotherapy, even those who received presumed safe doses (</= 2 Gy) showed a
      progressive decline in cognitive functioning.9 Moreover, a considerable number of patients
      showed detectable decline on one or more aspects of HRQOL despite long-term stable disease.6
      More recently there have also been investigation into long-term functioning of patients with
      anaplastic oligo- and oligoastrocytoma. In progression-free patients, HRQOL remained
      relatively stable whereas cognitive functioning was highly variable across patients,
      regardless of PCV treatment.7

      Despite the recent changes in diagnostics and treatment outlined above, there are no
      prospective datasets derived from OII/OIII patients treated with the current standards of
      care. As patients with OII and OIII often receive a range of different treatments for often
      many years on end, investigating their cognitive functioning and HRQOL becomes ever more
      important. The long-term consequences of treatment- and disease-related factors on HRQOL and
      cognitive functioning of patients with OII/OIII 1p/19q codeleted tumours is at present,
      unknown.

      Given the rare occurrence and favourable prognosis of OII/OIII IDH-mutant, 1p/19q codeleted
      tumours, a cross-European approach is warranted. A collaboration between the EORTC QLG and
      EORTC BTG provides a unique opportunity to collect pertinent data on how these patients fare
      after primary treatment. This project aligns with the increased recognition of the issues
      that cancer survivors face in the long term, both in terms of long-term care needs and in
      integration in society.

      The overall aim of this study is to investigate HRQOL and cognitive functioning of long-term
      survivors of OII and OIII (with IDH mutation and 1p/19q codeletion). This knowledge can
      support health care professionals prepare patients for any long-term consequences of
      treatment, and may even aid in determining to what extent patients might benefit from
      supportive interventions.

      This is a cross-sectional multicentre study, taking place across several European countries.
      The research co-ordinator and principle investigator are based in Leeds, UK. The co-principle
      investigator is based in Amsterdam, the Netherlands. Prior to the start of local patient
      recruitment, each centre will have obtained all relevant ethical and governance approvals.

      Patients with OII and OIII with IDH mutation and 1p/19q codeletion diagnosed at least 5 years
      ago will be recruited, and data on diagnosis and treatment (from medical records), quality of
      life, mood, fatigue and self-reported cognitive functioning (patient-reported outcomes) and
      objectively measured cognitive functioning (neuropsychological tests) will be collected.
    
  