
    
      Back pain is a common musculoskeletal disorder affecting 80% of people at some point in their
      lives. It is the second most common neurological ailment in the United States, second only to
      headache, and it is the most common cause of job-related disability and a leading contributor
      to missed work. Around $50 billion is spent in the U.S. each year to treat low back pain. Men
      and women are equally affected, with the most common age affected being between 30 and 50
      years.

      Most low back pain stems from benign musculoskeletal problems, referred to as non-specific
      low back pain, which is the etiology being evaluated in this study. It is caused by lumbar
      sprain or strain a stretch injury to the ligaments, tendons, and/or muscles of the low back.

      Current mainstream treatment approaches for low back pain due to lumbar sprain strain focus
      on reducing pain and inflammation, including rest; oral and topical over-the-counter and
      prescription medications; local heat applications; massage and exercise. Alternative
      treatment options include acupuncture; chiropractic manipulation; biofeedback; traction;
      transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS); and ultrasound. Surgical procedures are
      also a treatment option for low back pain, and although the outcomes are often poor and do
      not last, back surgery remains the 3rd most common form of surgery in the United States, with
      about 300,000 back surgeries performed annually.

      Low Level Laser Therapy (LLLT) communicates information to the receptors on the membrane of
      the cell and mitochondrion (the enzymatic engine of the cell). This energetic information
      reaches the cell's DNA, which directly controls cell function. When the cells receive better
      information, they work better, as do the tissues they comprise, like bones, cartilage,
      tendons, ligaments, etc. In this way, LLLT promotes the healing and regeneration of damaged
      tissues, having both local effects on tissue function and also systemic effects carried
      throughout the body by the blood and acupuncture meridians. The key basic physiological
      effects of low level laser light include increased cell membrane polarization and
      permeability; Adenosine-5-triphosphate (ATP) production and respiratory chain activity;
      enzyme activity; collagen and epithelial production; capillary formation; macrophage (immune)
      activity; analgesic effects due to elevated endorphin production, electrolytic nerve
      blockage, and improved blood and lymph flow; anti-inflammatory effect due to improved
      circulation and accelerated tissue regeneration; and increased production of antioxidants. Of
      additional benefit is that light energy from low level lasers will only be absorbed by cells
      and tissues that are not functioning normally and has no effect on healthy cells.

      Therefore, low level laser therapy has the potential benefit of providing an effective means
      of reducing low back pain that is simple, quick, non-invasive and side-effect free.
    
  