
    
      Patients who are staying at M.D. Anderson for inpatient chemotherapy treatment will take part
      in this study.

      Participants in this study will be asked to take part in either mild physical exercise by
      themselves for 20 minutes a day, or group exercise sessions of moderate intensity once a day.
      Each participant will be evaluated by a physical therapist before participation.

      Exercise programs will be designed for each individual. Participants will be encouraged to
      attend group sessions and continue the exercise program during the time they are outpatients.
      Participants will also have the opportunity to work with a personal trainer.

      The group exercise program takes from 45 minutes to one hour, and will be performed under the
      guidance of certified physical therapists and a personal trainer in the Pedi-Dome located on
      the ninth floor of the Alkek Tower of M.D. Anderson. Participants who are not feeling well
      enough to come to the Pedi-Dome on a given day will have the opportunity to exercise in their
      hospital rooms with a physical therapist or trainer for 20 minutes.

      The exercises are designed to promote flexibility, endurance, and strength. They include
      activities such as stretching, pilates-yoga, aerobics, step aerobic training, use of
      stationery bikes, and the use of therapeutic exercise balls, cuff weights, and dumbbells. The
      activities will be tailored to each individual's abilities and special needs.

      The total length of participation in this study is three months. Participants will be asked
      to exercise each day that they are an inpatient and well enough to participate. Participants
      will be encouraged to continue exercise and participation in the exercise program when they
      are outpatients, but it will not be required. Participants will fill out short questionnaires
      and be evaluated for quality of life, fatigue, physical strength, and medical and nutritional
      status four times: at the time of enrollment in the study, and at one, two, and three months
      after enrollment. The questionnaires will take about 15 minutes to complete.

      This is an investigational study. A total of 40 patients will take part in this study. All
      will be enrolled at M.D. Anderson.
    
  