
    
      Both Aortic and Mitral valves utilizing bio-prosthetic and/or mechanical valves have been
      placed in adults since the 1960s.The replacement of these valves in children and adolescents
      began some 10 years after the first adult valve replacement. The majority of valves replaced
      in the pediatric cohort are due to either stenosis (narrowing) or incompetancy of the native
      valve. Valvular stenosis in the pediatric patient is normally of congenital etiology,
      however, a small percentage can be acquired from an infectious process. Stenosis of a valve
      impedes blood flow through the native valve orifice. Ventricular enlargement, hemodynamic
      instability and /or other major organ congestion can ensue if left untreated. Dependant upon
      the severity of the stenosis and the onset of the dysfunction, intervention may be required
      at any age (newborn to adult). In order for patients to have adequate blood flow to the
      systemic circulation (the body), the diseased valve must be replaced. Children with native
      valve stenosis experience failure to thrive, frequent pneumonia, difficulty breathing and
      generally poor physical development.

      If the stenosis is of a critical nature greatly affecting hemodynamics, infants require
      intervention in the first few days of life. In these patients, initially many of the stenotic
      valves can be opened in the heart catheterization lab with a procedure called a
      valvuloplasty. While this procedure does open the valve leaflet apparatus, close
      approximation of the leaflets is not achieved and a residual insufficiency or regurgitation
      is present. Most infant hearts can handle minimal resurgent volumes from the resulting
      cardiac chamber enlargement. It will be necessary to surgically replace the incompetent valve
      with a prosthetic valve as the child grows. If valvuloplasty is unsuccessful, surgical
      intervention is required to relive the valvular Stenosis and improve hemodynamics.

      Heart valve insufficiency creates a resurgence of blood back into either the left atrium or
      ventricle causing increased cardiac workload and dilation of the respective chamber of the
      heart. Incompetence of the Aortic valve will eventually cause congestive heart failure and/or
      sudden death from arrhythmias.

      The initial surgery is dependant on the size of the ventricle and any other concomitant
      defects the child may have. A ventricle that is too small to support circulation will not be
      changed by placement of a valve. These patients require staged surgeries for single ventricle
      palliative repairs. Two examples of congenital cardiac defects include aortic stenosis and
      cleft mitral valve. If the aortic valve is stenosed and both ventricles are of adequate size,
      a Ross procedure can be done, The Ross procedure uses the patient's resected native pulmonary
      valve and main pulmonary artery in place of the aortic valve and outflow tract. A
      cryo-preserved homograft is then placed in the native pulmonary artery position. This
      homograft can be implanted with or without a valve dependant upon the patient's size and/or
      native valve orifice. Mitral valve anomalies occur frequently in patients with
      Atrioventricular septal defects. With this congenital defect the mitral valve may be
      dysplastic, or has a cleft in the anterior valve leaflet. This affects the competency of the
      valve, allowing regurgitation of blood flow into the left atrium. This increased blood volume
      in the left atrium will eventually lead to pulmonary hypertension. Because of this risk ,
      repair of Atrioventricular septal defect is normally done between the ages of six and twelve
      months. Repair of the mitral valve is done at that time, with the knowledge that mitral valve
      replacement will be likely in the child's future. Repair of a heart valve in a patient of any
      age is always preferable to replacement; in children this is especially true.

      Availability of replacement valves in infant sizes are limited to bio-prosthetic or
      homograft. Cryo-preserved homografts are made from either porcine and cadaver valves. These
      are generally used for pediatric patients under the age of two years. Historically homografts
      develop a significant amount of stenosis/calcification at the suture site. In addition, as
      the child grows the homograft size remains fixed. Both problems require further replacement.

      Implantation of mechanical valves in the older children and young adults is considered as a
      treatment alternative. However, mechanical valves have inherent complications secondary to
      the requirement of long-term anticoagulant therapy (blood thinners) and the risk of
      thromboembolic events. Structural malfunctions of the valve and growth of the patient result
      in the need for replacement of mechanical valves. Additionally, patient compliance and dosing
      management can be difficult to control.
    
  