
    
      This is a Phase 1, multi-center, open-label study designed to evaluate the safety and
      pharmacokinetics of EXPAREL when administered via local wound infiltration to subjects
      undergoing open cervical or thoracic spinal fusion or reconstructive surgery.

      Fifteen subjects are planned for enrollment. Eligible subjects, whose surgical incision must
      be at least 8 cm in length, will receive a single dose of EXPAREL (266 mg/20 mL) expanded in
      volume with 20-60 mL normal saline, depending on the size of the incision. Incision will be
      performed using a posterior surgical approach.

      Administration Technique:

      Study drug should be injected in the prescribed locations based on the areas of highest nerve
      density. Study drug will be administered using syringes with 22-gauge needles prior to wound
      closure. The Investigator must document the size of the incision. Each infiltration site
      should be spaced 1.0-1.5 cm apart and should deliver approximately 1-1.5 mL into both deep
      and superficial areas (para-spinous fascia, muscle, and subcutaneous layers). As each
      incision will have three layers of infiltration, the total volume to be infiltrated can range
      from 40-80 mL (please refer to below specifics on how to determine total volume of
      expansion). Following infiltration, the tissue should visibly expand with minimal leakage.

      Total Volume of Expansion:

      The Investigator must document the total volume used for each surgery.

        -  EXPAREL (20 mL) + normal saline (20-60 mL based on the incision size) = total volume.

        -  For example: If the infiltration sites are 1.5 cm apart, then a 10 cm incision would be
           10 × 2 sides × 3 layers = 60 cm. If there is 1 mL infiltrated every 1.5 cm, the total
           volume would be 40 mL.

      Screening:

      Subjects will be screened within 30 days prior to study drug administration. During the
      screening visit, which must take place at least 1 day prior to surgery, subjects will be
      assessed for past or present neurologic, cardiac, and general medical conditions that in the
      opinion of the Investigator would preclude them from study participation. After the informed
      consent form (ICF) is signed, a medical/surgical history, physical examination, vital signs,
      12-lead electrocardiogram (ECG), neurological assessment, alcohol breath test, urine drug
      screen, and urine pregnancy test for women of childbearing potential will be conducted.

      Trained and qualified Investigators will use their usual standard of care surgical technique
      to perform the surgery. The use of fentanyl or analogues will be permitted (during surgery
      only). Intraoperative administration of other opioids or any other analgesic, local
      anesthetics, or anti-inflammatory agents will be prohibited unless needed to treat an adverse
      event (AE).

      Subjects must remain in the hospital for at least 72 hours after surgery in order to undergo
      postsurgical assessments. In addition, subjects must return for the 84 hour and 96 hour study
      assessments.

      Day 7 Follow-Up Visit:

      All subjects will return on Day 7 for a follow-up visit, which will include vital sign
      measurements, 12-lead ECG, neurological assessment, blood sample collection for PK analysis,
      and an AE assessment.

      Postsurgical Safety Assessments:

      This will include a cardiac assessment (i.e., 12-lead ECG), neurological assessment, and
      vital signs. Adverse events will be recorded from the time the ICF is signed through Day 30.
      If a cardiac or neurological AE of special interest or SAE occurs during the study, an
      unscheduled PK blood sample must be collected. In addition, a 12-lead ECG, vital signs, and
      any appropriate clinical laboratory tests must be conducted. Cardiac AEs of special interest
      include chest pain (angina, myocardial infarction), abnormal/irregular heart rate
      (bradycardia, tachycardia, extrasystoles), and shortness of breath requiring intervention.
      Neurologic AEs of special interest include altered mental status/altered sensorium, rigidity,
      dysarthria, seizure, tremors, metallic taste, tinnitus, perioral numbness, visual
      disturbance, and severe or worsening dizziness. Additionally, the following events are of
      special interest if they persist or occur beyond 72-hours postdose: dizziness, hyperesthesia,
      muscular twitching, and tingling/paresthesia.

      Postsurgical Efficacy Assessments

      Will include pain intensity scores using a 10 cm visual analog scale (VAS) and use of
      supplemental opioid rescue medication.

      Pharmacokinetic Assessment:

      Blood samples for PK analysis will be obtained predose (on Day 1 prior to study drug
      administration); 15 minutes, 30 minutes, 1, 2, 4, 8, 12, 24, 36, 48, 60, 72, 84, and 96 hours
      after the beginning of study drug administration; and on Day 7.

      Number of Planned Patients for enrollment is 15 adult subjects.
    
  