
    
      In patients who develop acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) or a high-risk myelodysplastic
      syndrome (MDS), the current standard treatment involves multidrug induction chemotherapy
      utilizing an anthracycline or anthraquinone with cytarabine. While chemotherapy has proven
      effective at inducing remission in up to 90% of patients, elderly patients fair far worse. In
      patients over the age of sixty, the disease is not only less responsive to therapy, but an
      increased number of comorbid conditions makes induction therapy a more dangerous endeavor.
      Because of this, many patients are not offered standard induction chemotherapy and there is a
      dearth of viable alternatives for treatment of these otherwise fatal diseases.

      Low dose melphalan has previously been shown to be an effective palliative treatment for
      patients diagnosed with AML and high-risk MDS. It was found to have an overall response rate
      of 40% in AML patients (30% complete remission and 10% partial remission) and a 57% overall
      response in high-risk MDS patients (33% complete remission, 5% partial remission, and 19%
      minor responses). This therapy, while not curative, is one of the few options for patients
      unable to tolerate more intensive treatment regimens, but desiring a potentially effective
      palliative regimen.

      Bortezomib (VELCADE®) is an intravenously administered reversible, selective inhibitor of the
      26S proteosome. Although all of the mechanisms by which this novel drug acts as an
      antineoplastic agent are not fully understood, in vivo and in vitro studies indicate they
      ultimately result in the inhibition of the gene expression necessary for cell growth and
      survival pathways, apoptotic pathways, and cellular adhesion, migration, and angiogenesis
      mechanisms.

      Preclinical and clinical evaluation of the combination of melphalan and bortezomib has
      demonstrated impressive synergy in refractory multiple myeloma cell lines and patients with
      myeloma. This study aims to determine if these findings hold true in AML and MDS patients.
    
  