
    
      The whole prospective study sample consisted of 63 adolescents aged 13 to 18 years (40 girls
      and 23 boys)referred for psychiatric treatment to the adolescent psychiatric inpatient unit
      of Kuopio University Hospital, Finland. This study is part of the "Kliininen Laatuprojekti"-
      Depression Project in Kuopio University Hospital. Researcher UH, Doctor of Philosophy, has
      been the head of the study project. She has done this study by carrying, analysing, doing
      articles and writing abstracts and keeping lectures and congress sessions in Finland and
      aboard. In the same time she has done clinical work by caring adolescents in the hospital
      ward and in the therapy settings. UH has been the first writer in the articles, one article
      in national and three in international articles. This Doctoral dissertation has been
      presented 17th November 2007, supervisor was professor, MD. Mauri Marttunen.

      The prospective study set out to investigate gender differences, psychosocial and cognitive
      functioning, self-image, and changes in these structured parameters, and the role of working
      alliance. More girls than boys were admitted to inpatient care. Mood and conduct disorders
      were the most common diagnoses. Girls more commonly had poor family relationships but more
      peers than boys. Violent and destructive behaviour were more common among boys, and they
      performed worse in tests assessing nonverbal cognitive performance and total immediate recall
      memory than girls. Both girls and boys had an impaired IQ at entry. Major impairment in
      functioning in several areas such as school, family relations, judgement and thinking was
      found among both genders.

      The psychosocial functioning and cognitive performance of inpatients improved during
      treatment.

      There were also improvements in intrapsychic constructs: in the psychological self-image,
      especially body-image, and in relationships with family members, particularly among
      emotionally-disturbed adolescents. Cognitive performance was significantly enhanced among
      subjects both with a good and with a poor working alliance. According to multivariate
      analyses, a better quality of working alliance and a greater number of therapy sessions were
      associated with positive changes in cognitive performance and self-image.

      When subjects with major depression and conduct disorder were compared, nonverbal cognitive
      and general cognitive performance, body and self-image, and overall psychosocial functioning
      improved in both groups of subjects during treatment. More positive changes in self-image and
      family functioning were found among subjects with MDD.

      Suicidal adolescents' treatment compliance and outcome were as good as those of non-suicidal
      patients. Their psychosocial functioning, cognitive performance, and both the psychological
      self and body-image improved during treatment. Positive changes in body-image associated
      significantly with a higher probability of improvement in psychosocial functioning, while a
      higher GAS score at entry was associated with a lower probability of functional improvement.
      In clinical practice, attention needs to be paid to structured assessment of adolescent
      psychiatric inpatients. This study suggests a need to combine at least regular individual
      therapy, pharmacotherapy, family interventions, and a school program. Since a good working
      alliance between the therapist and the adolescent patient seems to modify the treatment
      outcome, particular attention to creating a good alliance with the patient and intensive
      involvement of the parents in treatment are recommended. Prospective studies with a
      sufficient follow-up after discharge and well-designed intervention studies among adolescent
      inpatients are needed.

      Now it is interested in how they are in recovery with the role of working alliance and
      improvement in the psychosocial functioning after discharge?
    
  