
    
      Trabectome is a type of Minimally Invasive Glaucoma Surgery (MIGS) where the Trabectome
      handpiece tip uses electrical current to cauterized and remove a strip of trabecular meshwork
      and the roof of Schlemm's canal to ease the outflow of aqueous. Kahook Dual Blade (KDB)
      procedure is another type of MIGS where the dual blade is used to remove the trabecular
      meshwork and Schlemm's canal roof to increase the aqueous outflow but without any
      cauterization.

      Preclinical studies have evaluated the clinical outcome of Trabectome over KDB. Though
      Trabectome helps to lower IOP, it may remove only a portion of trabecular meshwork and
      possibly cause damage to surrounding tissue with leaflets of residual remaining tissue that
      may cause blockage of aqueous drainage. Unlike Trabectome, the KDB removes blocks of
      trabecular meshwork with no residual tissue leaflets, low rate of fibrosis, no damage to the
      surrounding tissue and lower cost. However, research studies have shown that although the
      Trabectome and KDB have different surgical techniques and both have surgical related risks as
      in any glaucoma surgery, the post-surgical clinical outcome and safety profile of Trabectome
      could be favorable to the KDB technique.

      Few studies have evaluated the clinical outcome of Trabectome over Trabeculectomy, while few
      other studies evaluated Trabectome over phaco-trabectome. Some studies evaluated the clinical
      outcome of Trabectome alone while other studies assessed the outcome of KDB alone. Some other
      studies compared KDB with iStent while another study compared Trabectome versus KDB in
      porcine eye perfusion model. Studies have also shown that Trabectome, when combined with
      phaco has a higher success rate than Trabectome alone. However, due to the infancy of KDB
      procedure, there are no robust prospective comparison studies comparing the clinical outcome
      of KDB over Trabectome when combined with phacoemulsification. The aim of the study is to
      systematically compare the clinical outcomes of KDB over Trabectome in treating glaucoma
    
  