
    
      The investigators propose a feasibility study of intranasal ketamine to provide analgesia and
      anxiolysis before minor procedures. This will be a single-blinded randomized study of inhaled
      ketamine in a convenience sample of children ages 4-12 years of age undergoing minor
      procedures. For the purpose of this study, the investigators will limit minor procedures to
      venipuncture and IV placement, and will further limit the patient population to children who
      are deemed by the investigators to show resistance to IV placement or venipuncture without
      premedication. The investigators have chosen the ages 4-12 years because these children are
      verbal and able to rate their pain on the VAS scales, because they are likely to require
      restraint and to require a staff member to assist parents with restraint, and because the
      Green study found this age range to have the fewest adverse events with ketamine.

      The investigators propose a uniform dosing of 50 mg/ml intranasal ketamine at 1 mg/kg.
      Ketamine will be diluted to achieve volumes between 0.5-1 ml distributed between nares. The
      plasma concentration of intranasal ketamine is just over a fifth of IV ketamine, and the peak
      serum concentration is reached an average of fifteen minutes later than IV ketamine. Thus,
      intranasal administration found to have achieved mild sedation at 1 mg/kg would be expected
      to achieve a lower level of sedation than a 0.2 mg/kg slow IV administration, which is
      compatible with subdissociative dosing used for analgesia. A 1 mg/kg intranasal dose is also
      consistent with the lower end of the dosing spectrum used in the anesthesia literature for
      preoperative sedation.

      The investigators propose a pilot study of 20 children ages 4-12 years undergoing
      venipuncture or IV insertion. After obtaining informed consent from a single parent (the
      investigators request exclusion from requiring consent from both parents), the children will
      be assigned to receive 1 mg/kg intranasal ketamine via atomizer. Consent will occur after the
      treating physician has decided that the child requires bloodwork or IV placement, and will
      not impact this decision.

      All children will receive EMLA. EMLA cream is the standard of care in our area and we feel
      that it would not be ethical to withhold EMLA for the purpose of the study. Ketamine will add
      to the incomplete analgesia of EMLA, and may be a better option than EMLA in children who are
      known to have difficult venous access. EMLA is not universally effective -- having been found
      to decrease VAS pain scores by only 61%-- and causes vasoconstriction, which can increase the
      procedural fail rate.

      Ketamine will be administered 30 minutes after EMLA is applied. At or about the 45 minute
      mark, the procedure will be attempted.

      All children will receive continuous monitoring of pulse oximetry, blood pressure and pulse
      rate from the time medication is administered until the child is discharged from the
      emergency department. All children will be under the direct and continuous observation of ED
      staff. The procedure will be completed within twenty minutes of the completion of the nasal
      administration.

      After the procedure is completed, children will be asked to rate the level of procedural pain
      on the Faces scale. A parent and the nurse at the procedure will rate the estimated
      procedural pain on the VAS scale. Child, parent as nurse will be blinded to each other's
      score.

      The investigators intend to show that nasal ketamine requires a minimal disruption in ED
      resources and treatment time, effectively treats pain and increases the child's compliance
      with venipuncture and IV placement, increases parent satisfaction, and is without serious
      adverse events.
    
  