
    
      Overview This is a Quality Enhancement Research Initiative (QERI) whereby physicians are
      provided guidelines and easy to follow steps for their achievement..

      Approximately 2,500 high-risk patients with an elevated LDL-C level (> 2.5 mmol/L) will be
      enrolled. Patients meeting all inclusion criteria and having none of the exclusion criteria
      at Visit 1 (Screening) will be included. Eligible patients that agree to participate and sign
      an informed consent will be treated with appropriate treatment optimization including the use
      of ezetimibe on achieving Study Schematics (Table 1).

      After enrollment there are a total of three scheduled clinic visits. Physicians may assess
      the patient between visit 2 and 3 if maximization of statin therapy is required.

      At Visit 2 (6 weeks) patients with LDL > 2.5mmol/L will be treated with either statin therapy
      (increased or started or switched) or combination of statin and ezetimibe 10 mg
      (added/started) as per Study Schematic (Table 1) in order to achieve the recommended target
      of LDL<2.5 mmol/L and providing that this treatment is in the best interest of the patient.

      At Visit 3 (12-18 weeks) patients with LDL > 2.5 mmol/L will be treated with combination of
      statin and ezetimibe 10 mg (added/started) as per Study Schematic (Table 1) in order to
      achieve the recommended target of LDL<2.5 mmol/L and providing that this treatment is in the
      best interest of the patient.

      At final Visit 4 (24-26 weeks) safety and efficacy of treatment will be reviewed. Following
      Visit 4 physicians will continue to treat these patients according to their clinical
      judgment.

      1.5.1 Treatment

      During this observational study patients will be treated under standard care with either
      statin therapy and/or co-administered with ezetimibe 10 mg /day. This is an open label
      observational study, therefore patients and physicians will be aware of treatment allocation
      and the treatment chosen will be that in the best interests of the patient and according to
      the physician's preference. Treatment will begin at Visit 1- Screening/Baseline (Day 0) and
      will extend through Visit 4 (Week 24-26).

      Based on patient's LDL-C level, at visit 1 (Screening/Baseline) patient will receive
      prescription of initial or increased dose of statin 10-80 mg/day and/or ezetimibe 10 mg/day
      for the following 6 weeks. At visit 2 (6 weeks F/U) patients will receive prescription of
      statin (dose increased) and/or ezetimibe 10 mg per day for the following 6 weeks based on
      their target level of LDL-C. At visit 3 (week 12 -18 F/U) for patients who did not reach
      their LDL-C target, ezetimibe 10 mg per day will be considered if appropriate for the patient
      for the following 14 weeks to complete the observational study.
    
  