
    
      The Group Lifestyle Balance program is a 12-session lifestyle intervention with the same
      goals for weight loss and physical activity as the successful Diabetes Prevention Program
      (DPP) lifestyle intervention and has been evaluated in several settings. The DPSC
      collaborated with the US Air Force Center of Excellence for Medical Multimedia to create a
      DVD of the GLB. The GLB-DVD is a series of taped sessions of a staged group following a
      script that was developed to closely follow the program.

      Effectiveness was assessed for the intervention delivered via DVD (GLB-DVD) as well as
      traditionally in a group setting (GLB-GROUP). For each delivery mode, pre- and 3 month
      post-intervention measures of weight and the achievement of the program goals were assessed.
      Secondary outcomes measured included assessment of components of the metabolic syndrome (NCEP
      ATP III) and HbA1c.

      The prevention professionals in the practice and the Diabetes Prevention Support Center
      (DPSC) who provided support for the GLB-DVD and GLB-GROUP participants were health care
      professionals trained in delivery of the GLB by the DPSC faculty. Group delivery of the GLB
      was conducted via weekly in person, meetings delivered over 12-15 weeks. For GLB-DVD
      delivery, an overview of the GLB-DVD and materials was provided at commencement of the
      intervention. Participants were instructed to view one session/week. At the end of each month
      the participant was asked to return their DVD via postage-paid mail to the DPSC and the next
      sequential DVD was mailed to the participant. During GLB-DVD delivery, the DPSC prevention
      professional contacted the participant weekly via telephone to review weight, physical
      activity minutes, and questions/concerns regarding the program. Thus, participants in both
      GLB-GROUP and GLB-DVD were offered a total of 12 health care professional contacts.
      Participants in both intervention delivery modes received a GLB workbook, fat and calorie
      counter, pedometer, and self-monitoring books for tracking food intake and physical activity.
    
  