
    
      Prostate cancer (PCa) is the second most common cancer among men in the United States, with
      over 180,000 new cases diagnosed in 2016. This commonality implies that set standards need to
      be set and devise effective tools to screen and diagnose prostate cancer. Today, prostate
      specific antigen (PSA) test is the most widely adopted screening method for PCa. Since its
      introduction in 1979, it has helped in earlier diagnosis of PCa and has had a marked shift on
      the stage at which PCa is identified. PSA, although popular as a screening tool, has several
      shortcomings. It is organ-specific rather than cancer-specific, which means that its values
      can be elevated even for non-malignant conditions . Indeed, PSA based screening has reported
      positive predictive value as low as 30% (PSA cutoff >4.0 ng/dL) for detecting prostate cancer
      and an over diagnosis rate of 50%, which leads to unnecessary biopsies and aggressive
      treatments of men with clinically indolent (insignificant) disease.

      Current diagnostic pathway of prostate cancer requires men with elevated PSA and abnormal
      Digital Rectal exam to undergo a Trans Rectal Ultra Sound (TRUS) guided biopsy. TRUS is a
      blind-systematic biopsy, which randomly samples prostate tissue. This can lead to missing or
      under-diagnosing clinically significant cancer and over-diagnosing clinically insignificant
      disease. TRUS biopsy is itself associated with morbidity, mainly in the form of hematuria,
      hematospermia, pain, urinary retention and sometimes can cause life-threatening sepsis.

      Many of the PSA screened detected prostate cancers detected on TRUS are clinically
      insignificant and even if left untreated have little to no clinical impact on an individual's
      remaining life. Overtreatment resulting from over diagnosis often leads to side effects like
      erectile dysfunction (approx. 60%) from radical therapy and urinary incontinence.
    
  