
    
      This study consists of a randomized, cross-over, open-label controlled clinical trial.
      Randomized patients will be allocated alternately into two groups to receive the following
      therapies: GROUP 1 - insulin analog glargine once a day associated to insulin lispro at
      mealtime and GROUP 2 - NPH human insulin, three applications per day ( breakfast, lunch and
      bedtime) and insulin lispro at mealtime. Patients receiving insulin NPH plus insulin lispro
      will be oriented to mix both of them in the same syringe at breakfast and lunchtime. The
      laboratory tests will be performed at baseline and 12, 24, 36 and 48 weeks after the study
      start. During routine medical appointments the patient should bring the self- monitoring of
      capillary blood glucose (SMBG), eight points per day once a week, and hypoglycemia score.

      After 24 weeks of insulin therapy, a continuous glucose monitoring system (CGMS) will be
      implemented for three days, and after that, the basal insulin changed i.e. patients using NPH
      insulin will receive insulin glargine and patients on insulin glargine will be changed to NPH
      insulin, both groups will keep insulin lispro before meals. A new CGMS will be carried out 24
      weeks after therapy has been changed. Methodology: The metabolic profile will be evaluated
      throughout SMBG; biochemical, hormonal and hematological measurements; hypoglycemia score and
      CGMS (Medtronic/Northridge, CA). All randomized patients who use at least one dose of any
      study treatment will be considered in the Intent-to-treat (ITT) population. The initial plan
      is to randomize 40 patients, assuming a drop-out rate of 15%, to obtain a sample size of at
      least 34 randomized patients. .Statistical analysis will be performed using comparative
      descriptive analyzes, such as chi-square distribution, t-test and non-parametric tests.
      Analyze of data CGMS will include the area under the curve and the related statistic.
      Finally, logistic regression models will be adopted to evaluate the effect of the treatment
      on the several variables in question.
    
  