
    
      Substantial resources are spent in providing emergency medical services to victims of
      out-of-hospital cardiac arrest. The science of pre-hospital medicine has advanced
      considerably over the past decade. Specifically, EMS services and medical directors have
      developed carefully designed protocols, intensive training, and very substantial resources,
      in attempting to improve the immediate outcomes in patients with out-of-hospital cardiac
      arrest. It is anticipated that approximately 200-400 patients per year in the Greater Toronto
      Area are successfully resuscitated by Emergency Medical Services personnel and be admitted to
      hospital with intact circulatory function.

      Unfortunately, many of these patients will then die following hospital admission, from one of
      a variety of complications of the initial cardiac arrest. The "in-hospital attrition rate" is
      approximately 50%, and is the result of short and longer-term organ damage suffered during
      the circulatory arrest, as well as in-hospital complications including pulmonary,
      neurological, septic, and multi-organ dysfunction related complications.

      Although guidelines for specific aspects of intensive care therapy of critically ill patients
      have been developed (for example, ventilation guidelines, sepsis prevention and therapy
      guidelines, treatment of metabolic disorders, etc), practical guidelines, which are
      specifically aimed at the investigation and treatment of patients resuscitated from
      out-of-hospital cardiac arrest, do not currently exist.

      Preliminary studies (in press) suggest that a program of comprehensive and consistent
      adherence to a specific set of standard procedures in intensive care units can lead to a
      substantial improvement in the survival of patients resuscitated from cardiac arrest. One
      recent example is a study from Oslo Norway, which showed substantial improvements in survival
      to discharge following out-of-hospital cardiac arrest after a set of informal guidelines were
      adopted by participating intensive care units.

      There are multiple reasons for the lack of clearly articulated guidelines and protocols for
      the investigation and treatment of patients resuscitated following cardiac arrest however the
      two most obvious are lack of understanding of the current recommended best practices and
      practical impediments to their efficient implementation in all units.

      The Resuscitation Outcomes Consortium (ROC), an NIH funded multi-centre effort, seeks to
      randomize over 10,000 patients in selected North American sites to study specific
      interventions designed to improve long term survival in patients with out-of-hospital cardiac
      arrest. As part of this consortium, intensive care units in the ROC hospitals are being
      invited to join a new best practice initiative entitled "Strategies for Post Arrest Care in
      the ICU" (SPARC).

      Working with more than 50 hospitals across Ontario, the objectives of the SPARC Project are
      planned as follows:

        1. To establish a network of intensive care units, with medical and nursing leaders who
           will participate in a collaborative program designed to standardize, monitor, and
           improve the care of patients resuscitated from out-of-hospital cardiac arrest.

        2. To develop a series of standardized protocols and processes for the care of patients
           following out-of-hospital cardiac arrest, with particular emphasis on the delivery of
           post cardiac arrest mild hypothermia. These protocols will be based on best evidence to
           date and will focus on the simplifying the processes required implement the recommended
           interventions.

        3. To conduct pragmatic clinical trials of the integrated post cardiac arrest protocol
           versus historical controls, and study related patient outcomes such as survival to
           hospital discharge. We will also look to provide a comprehensive assessment of
           in-hospital complications, the incidence of presumed myocardial ischemic events causing
           cardiac arrest, and to assess the causes of in-hospital and post discharge morbidity and
           mortality for the one year following discharge, as a function of the presumed underlying
           cause of cardiac arrest and the in-hospital course.
    
  