
    
      Cisplatin-based chemoradiation (CCRT) has been considered as the standard care for patients
      with locally advanced cervical cancer (LACC). Nevertheless, increasingly more radio-resistant
      tumors still recur. IMRT including Rapid-Arc have obvious advantage in the dose distribution
      and organ protection, and positron emission tomography (PET) with F-18 fluorodeoxyglucose
      (FDG) and Comet analysis have good sensitivity for detecting sites and radiosensitivity of
      disease. These may be helpful to individualized CCRT of LACC. IMRT including RapidArc could
      be considered as a treatment selection for LACC patients, and it aims to improve the degree
      of target coverage, to protect organ at risk (OARs) and healthy tissue sparing compared to
      other RT solutions and to reduce significantly the treatment time as to RapidArc. Several
      studies have indicated that FDG-PET/CT increases the accordance between biopsies and
      delineated tumor volume and has the potential to positively impact the course of treatment.
      The Comet assay is attractive as a potential clinical test of tumour radiosensitivity. During
      radiotherapy, accurately defining disease areas is critical to avoid unnecessary irradiation
      of normal tissue. Based on FDG-PET/CT and Comet assay, higher doses can be safely delivered
      individually to accurate tumor volume, while the doses to bladder and rectum are relative
      low.

      Three hundred LACC patients are enrolled in the study, who were with FIGO stages IB2-IVA and
      had no para-aortic lymphadenopathy (>10 mm) assessed by PET-CT or MRI. All the patients
      received definitive radiotherapy consisting of external beam whole pelvic RT and HDR-ICBT.
      The cumulative linear quadratic equivalent dose (EQD2) was 70-75Gy prescribed at point A.
      Cisplatin 30 mg/m2 weekly was administered concurrently for 5 courses. 2-4 cycles TP (Taxol
      135 mg/m2, D1 and DDP 25 mg/m2, D1-3) regimen sequential chemotherapy were performed if
      complete response (CR) not achieved according to magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or PET-CT
      after CCRT. Hypothesis of the study is that CCRT and sequential chemotherapy is safe. Comet
      and FDG-PET/CT-guided IMRT including RapidArc may improve survival in terms of time to
      progression (TTP), progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) and less
      treatment-related toxicity. The data will be observed and analyzed.
    
  