
    
      The effect of person-centered physical therapy on fatigue related variables in peoples with
      Rheumatoid Arthritis- Randomized controlled trial Aim: To study if a person-centered physical
      therapy intervention program contributes to diminished fatigue in people with RA.

      Hypothesis: That the person-centered treatment program diminishes fatigue and its
      consequences on daily life.

      Design: A controlled randomized interventional trial, assessing effectiveness of
      intervention.

      Methods:

      Selection: Seventy persons with diagnosis of RA and fatigue over 50 (0-100) will be recruited
      from the rheumatology clinic at Sahlgrenska University Hospital. Participants are randomized
      to an intervention group or a waiting list control group.

      Intervention: The 12-week intervention period begins with an individual person-centered
      meeting to develop an individualized feasible self-care plan for the participant with extra
      focus on health-enhancing physical activity, stress management (relaxation exercise training
      and modified mindfulness techniques) and balance in daily life. A written consent, aiming to
      increase coherence, is signed. The participants will be asked to keep a journal about their
      strategies and reflections. Follow up meetings and contacts will be planned according to
      personal preferences.

      Procedure: The participants are invited to a clinical examination before and after the
      12-week intervention and at 6-month follow-up, assessing demographic data, disease activity,
      inflammation parameters, physical capacity and questionnaires of health status in RA. Primary
      outcome are questionnaires of single item- and multidimensional fatigue.

      Analysis: Effects of the interventions will be analyzed using non-parametric statistics for
      between-group changes over time. Within-group changes over time will be analyzed for each
      group.

      Expected results. New knowledge of fatigue is of importance for improvement of overall health
      of people with RA, as fatigue influences all aspects of their life, both private life and
      employment, thus decreasing the quality of life.
    
  