
    
      Frail older adults are at increased risk of vulnerability and serious health problems. This
      leads to increased suffering and higher healthcare utilization. There are major gaps in the
      knowledge needed to create the most favourable care model for preventing frailty and
      increasing health-related of life. The purpose of this randomised controlled trial is to
      study if a Comprehensive Geriatric Assessment and follow up in community-dwelling elderly
      people can prevent frailty, hospitalisation and adverse effects of frailty, improve health
      and health-related quality of life, and reduce costs, compared with usual care. In a
      randomized, controlled trial with 24 months of follow-up, a total of 430 older adults with
      multimorbidity will be randomized into two groups. The intervention group will receive
      Comprehensive Geriatric Assessment and follow up and the same standard health care services
      as the control group. The Comprehensive Geriatric Assessment and follow up will be provides
      through an outpatient facility that tailors care from a holistic perspective and, based on
      each patient's individual needs in line with the policy program that Sweden's pensioners'
      organizations have presented in 2010 together with the Swedish Association of Geriatric
      Medicine. The team includes, among other things. a. geriatricians, nurses, physiotherapists,
      assistance officer, dietician, pharmacist and co-operation with the dental hygienist.

      The primary outcome is development of frailty and hospitalization. Secondary outcomes are
      adverse effects of frailty, health and health-related quality of life and costs. There is a
      knowledge gap of how health care can identify persons with frailty and risks for frailty and
      how to meet their specific care needs. The study aims to fill a clinically important
      knowledge gap that can guide further development of future care for older people with
      multi-morbidity and frailty. CGA is readily transferable to clinical practice.
    
  