
    
      The purpose of this study is to explore the effects of early intensive antiretroviral therapy
      (ART) on achieving HIV remission (HIV RNA below the limit of detection of the assay) among
      HIV-infected infants.

      The study will enroll two cohorts. Cohort 1 will include infants at high risk for in utero
      HIV infection. Cohort 2 will include in utero HIV-infected, ART-started infants.

      Three early intensive therapy regimens will be assessed. Regimen 1L will include 2 nucleoside
      reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) plus nevirapine (NVP) plus lopinavir/ritonavir
      (LPV/r). Regimen 2R will include 2 NRTIs plus NVP plus raltegravir (RAL). Regimen 2RV will
      include 2 NRTIs plus NVP plus RAL plus VRC01 monoclonal antibody.

      The study will be conducted in four steps. In Step 1, Cohort 1 infants will be enrolled for
      evaluation of HIV infection and initiation of early intensive therapy within 48 hours of
      birth. Infants in whom in utero HIV infection is excluded will switch from the study regimen
      to standard perinatal prophylaxis per local guidelines within two weeks; these infants will
      continue in Step 1 safety monitoring for two additional weeks, undergo final HIV testing at
      approximately 12 weeks of age, and then exit the study. Infants in whom in utero HIV
      infection is confirmed will enter Step 2 at least two weeks after enrollment in Step 1.

      In Step 2, Cohort 1 infants identified with in utero HIV infection and Cohort 2 infants will
      receive the study regimen for up to 288 weeks. Beginning at Step 2 Week 84, children who
      achieved HIV RNA suppression by Week 24, and maintained suppression thereafter, with no HIV
      RNA detected at or after Week 48, will be evaluated for possible treatment cessation.

      In Step 3, children in Step 2 who meet criteria for treatment cessation will stop ART, and be
      closely monitored for viral rebound for up to five years.

      In Step 4, children who experience viral rebound in Step 3 or meet other Step 4 inclusion
      criteria will re-initiate ART, and be closely monitored for viral re-suppression on ART until
      five years of age or six months after re-suppression, whichever is later.

      HIV-uninfected infants will be followed for 12 weeks. HIV-infected infants will be followed
      for up to 288 weeks in Step 2 (on ART); those entering Step 3 will be followed for primary
      endpoint ascertainment at 48 weeks and for up to a total of five years (off ART) in this
      step.
    
  