
    
      The WHO recommendation of lifelong antiretroviral therapy (ART) for all HIV-infected pregnant
      or breastfeeding women represents a major advance for universal access to HIV care but this
      strategy alone may not be sufficient to eliminate pediatric HIV in the communities.

      Presently, the impact of prevention of mother-to-child HIV transmission (PMTCT) programs in
      the communities is unclear. There is also no available rescue intervention able to identify
      postpartum women at high risk of transmission in order to offer them adequate HIV care and
      prevent HIV acquisition by their breastfed infants.

      We hypothesize that the second visit for routine vaccination (Expanded Program of
      Immunization visit 2, EPI-2) represents a unique opportunity to link EPI and PMTCT programs
      and introduce rescue preventive and therapeutic interventions.

      The study will assess the efficacy of the PMTCT cascade up to 2 months post-partum for all
      mothers attending the EPI-2 (Component 1). For Component 1, the target population will be all
      32,100 women participating in EPI-2 and verbally consenting to participate to evaluate the
      PMTCT program up to 2 months postpartum.

      The consent form for component 2 will be proposed to all HIV positive mothers of component 1
      who meet the inclusion and non-inclusion criteria. HIV-1 viral load measurement of the
      mothers and the detection of HIV-1 DNA in their children will be assessed. Children infected
      with HIV-1 will be referred for immediate ART initiation.

      For Component 2 - phase IIb trial (N = 300 mother-infant pairs) - the target population will
      be HIV positive breastfeeding mothers aged 15 years or older with a child whose tests so far
      do not reveal the existence of infection (at EPI-2 visit) to assess the effectiveness of a
      rescue intervention for Prevention of Mother-to-Child Transmission of HIV up to 12 months of
      age.

      The target population to receive PrEP (lamivudine) until 12 months of age (or until confirmed
      end of breastfeeding) will be women with unsuppressed HIV-1 infection (≥1000 copies of HIV-1
      RNA/ml) with a child whose tests to date (EPI-2 visit) do not reveal the existence of
      infection.

      HIV-1 infected women with suppressed (<1000 copies of HIV-1 RNA/ml) viral load at the time of
      the EPI-2 visit will be followed at 6 and 12 months. If at 6 months the mother become virally
      unsuppressed, her child will receive ARV medication up to 12 months of age (or the confirmed
      end of breastfeeding) to prevent infection.

      The control group does not apply to this study. The overall mother-to-child transmission rate
      is the WHO target for the elimination of paediatric HIV-1: 5% at one year of life (consistent
      with a 3% postnatal transmission rate between 2 and 12 months of age of the child).
    
  