
    
      PD-L1 expression in tissue of a variety of tumor types has both prognostic and predictive
      significance for patients treated with immune checkpoint inhibitors. A number of efforts are
      underway to better identify patients who will benefit from immune checkpoint inhibition.
      Among these efforts are the use of radiolabeled antibodies against PD-L1. While under
      investigation in a number of tumor types, to our knowledge this is the first such effort in
      renal carcinoma, despite the clear evidence of clinical efficacy of immune checkpoint
      inhibitors in kidney cancer. Our primary aim with this study is to explore
      89Zr-DFO-Atezolizumab as a positron emission tomography (PET) tracer in patients with RCC.

      The study involves 40 patients distributed across two different groups. The first group is
      made up of patients with high risk localized disease that will be having surgery.
      89Zr-DFO-Atezolizumab PET/CT prior to surgery will be correlated with PD-L1. The second group
      is made up of patients with unresectable or metastatic RCC that will receive an
      anti-programmed death 1 (PD1)/programmed death-ligand 1 antibody (alone or in combination).
      89Zr-DFO-Atezolizumab PET uptake at site of diseases will be evaluated within and across
      patients and correlated with treatment responsiveness in exploratory analyses. Each cohort
      will be comprised of 15-25 patients. Patients will be followed for signs of recurrence or
      progression of their cancer and repeat 89Zr-DFO-Atezolizumab PET scans will be offered at
      that time. Biopsy after subsequent PET/CT will be strongly encouraged.

      Subjects will have data collected during the course of routine clinical care including
      response to immune checkpoint inhibitor therapy, and toxicities developed during immune
      checkpoint inhibitor therapy.

      Co-primary endpoints will be an exploratory analysis correlating 89Zr-DFO-Atezolizumab uptake
      with PD-L1 immunohistochemical (IHC) analyses in locally advanced kidney cancer (cohort 1)
      and an investigation of whether 89Zr-DFO-Atezolizumab uptake across metastatic sites of
      kidney cancer correlates with known radiographically evident metastatic sites of disease,
      PD-L1 expression, and response to anti-PD1/PD-L1 immunotherapy treatment.
    
  