
    
      This is a multi-centre adaptive multi-arm phase II study. Participants are treated with an
      induction period of at least 8 weeks of LHRH agonist/antagonist (LHRHa) plus apalutamide
      (APA) while genome sequence characterization is being done.

      Genomic sequencing analysis will be performed centrally by Tempus, a CLIA (Clinical
      Laboratory Improvement Amendments)-certified laboratory. For the DNA gene profiling,
      formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) prostate cancer and surrounding healthy tissue from
      diagnostic biopsies will be used for genetic analysis. Copy number profiling will be
      performed using array Comparative Genomic Hybridisation (aCGH). Targeted sequencing using
      MiSeq (Illumina) and Ion Proton (Life Technologies) platforms will be performed to identify
      mutations in a panel of 648 genes.

      Based on previous studies, we conservatively expect up to 25% of unevaluable needle biopsy
      specimens with inadequate/insufficient tumor tissue for genome sequencing. The patients with
      unevaluable tissue will continue on the master protocol (LHRHa + APA) for an additional 16
      weeks followed by radical prostatectomy.

      The genomically evaluable patients will be assigned to a specific sub-protocol according to
      the results of the genomic profile and randomized to a treatment arm within the sub-protocol
      for 16 weeks, with additional inclusion and exclusion criteria specified in dedicated
      sub-protocols. Radical prostatectomy will follow sub-protocol treatment.

      Sub-protocol 1 - AR axis: No targetable actionable aberration; presence of TMPRSS2-ERG
      fusion, CHD1 loss or SPOP mutations: (~50% expected prevalence in study population)
      randomized to:

        1. LHRHa + APA for 16 weeks or

        2. LHRHa + APA + AAP (Abiraterone Acetate + Prednisone) for 16 weeks

      Sub-protocol 2 - Loss of tumour suppressor genes - PTEN, TP53 or TB loss (~40%, bad
      prognosis) randomized to:

        1. LHRHa + AAP for 16 weeks or

        2. LHRHa + AAP + docetaxel for 6 cycles

      Sub-protocol 3 - DNA damage response alterations (e.g. BRCA1/2, ATM, FANCONI, CDK12) in 6-8%
      assigned to:

        -  LHRHa + AAP + PARP (Poly [ADP-ribose] polymerase) inhibitors (niraparib) for 16 weeks
    
  