
    
      Musculoskeletal disorders are the most common reasons for sick leave in western countries.
      Identifying risk factors and predictors for a stable return to work (RTW ) is essential. An
      evidence-based safe care includes systems for detecting medical conditions with urgent need
      for care (red flags) and psycho-social risk factors (yellow flags). To maintain work ability,
      also requires different capacities related to work demands, (physical, mental and social) as
      well as work environment aspects covered by a "blue flag system".

      Since motivation is assumed to drive and sustain human behaviour, patients with back pain
      seek health care when motivation reaches a threshold level. Patients want to be examined, get
      treatment and self-care advice to resume normal daily activities. This might lead to improved
      long-standing results in terms of health, function and work ability.

      The investigators hypothesize that WorkUp, a timely tailor-made and evidence-based
      intervention leads to a faster recovery of health, function and RTW as compared to standard
      care. This includes the identification of both the patient's risk factors (red, yellow and
      blue flags) and motivational factors. Based on this screening, a structured tailored
      intervention will be offered. The WorkUp model comprise of evidence-based treatment and
      interaction between patient, health care and work place interventions.

      The main purpose is to test WorkUp in a comparison study with treatment as usual (TAU) in
      primary health care (PHC).

      Design: A prospective paire wise cluster randomized trial in PHC including a one year
      clinical follow-up and a three year register follow-up.

      Intervention: Through a flow chart the investigators in detail specify the medical and work
      place interventions (all according to evidence-based guidelines). Red, yellow and blue flags,
      and motivational factors are identified in a screening investigation. The aim of the
      screening is to individually tailor the rehabilitation interventions. Physiotherapy
      interventions are based on a bio-psychosocial and cognitive behavioural therapy perspective.
      Behavioural medicine treatment principles will include careful examination and treatments
      such as advice to stay active, instructions, OMI, OMT, MDT. The investigators apply
      interventions based on ergonomics, motivational factors and work place changes according to
      Convergence Dialogue Meetings(CDM). CDM is a three step structured dialogue and meeting model
      supporting the patient, health care professionals and employer to summarize concrete
      suggestions to support a RTW .

      TAU patients follow the PHC's standard schedule and procedures including the so called
      rehabilitation guarantee.

      For each patient all treatment measures are recorded in a protocol.

      A power analysis indicated that the investigators needed to recruit a minimum of 20 PHCs and
      500 patients.

      This type of structured routine primary care can facilitate an adequate treatment for
      patients with musculoskeletal pain and how to allocate sparse resources. If beneficial
      results emerge a structured implementation program will follow.
    
  