
    
      Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) represents a significant, adverse life event. Among the
      estimated 634,000 pediatric TBI cases occurring annually in the United States (Langlois,
      Rutlan-Brown, & Thomas, 2006), some reports suggest that approximately 50% of these children
      and adolescents will develop emotional and behavioral problems. For example, pediatric TBI is
      associated with negative psychosocial health outcomes including symptoms of internalizing
      such as depression, (Bloom et al., 2001; Fann, Hart, & Schomer, 2009), withdrawal, and
      anxiety, and symptoms of externalizing such as impulsivity and aggression (Iversion, 2005;
      Cole et al., 2008). These maladaptive symptoms are typically correlated with problems in
      interpersonal relationships and overall social adjustment, contributing to further detriment
      to social and emotional development (Ganesalingam et al., 2011).

      Despite these statistics, our understanding of how to best treat problematic psychosocial
      sequelae that follow pediatric TBI is largely uncertain and remains an understudied area in
      the literature. Indeed, relatively few empirically rigorous studies have been conducted
      examining effective treatment methods targeting internalizing and externalizing symptoms
      among youth with a TBI; yet, this is an essential area of study that needs to be a priority
      in research efforts (Semrud-Clikeman, 2010).

      Given the beneficial outcomes found with other pediatric populations, it is expected that the
      MBCT intervention would have a similar, positive impact on adjustment among children and
      adolescents post TBI. Problems in impulsivity, emotional lability, and anxiety are
      experienced by many children and adolescents with a TBI, suggesting that a MBCT intervention,
      which focuses on improving attention, regulatory processes, and reducing stress, would be
      particularly advantageous for this population.

      Youth that meet the inclusion / exclusion criteria will be randomly assigned to either the
      control group (arts and crafts activities group) or the MBCT experimental condition. The
      treatments will be 75 minute, weekly sessions for 8 weeks.
    
  