
    
      Background: Smoking is the most common route of cannabis administration, yet the
      pharmacokinetic properties of cannabinoids in oral fluid following cannabis smoking have not
      been adequately characterized. Characterization of cannabinoid pharmacokinetics in oral
      fluid, correlations between concentrations in different matrices and relationships between
      biomarker concentrations and concurrent pharmacodynamic effects are critical for the
      appropriate interpretation of cannabinoid tests. Furthermore, the short- and long-term
      stability of cannabinoid biomarkers, including glucuronide conjugates, in authentic whole
      blood, plasma, and oral fluid specimens following cannabis smoking is poorly defined. The
      only stability data available are from fortified samples, rather than authentic specimens.

      Objectives: Part A: (1) Characterize cannabinoid ( -9-tetrahydrocannabinol, [THC];
      11-hydroxy-THC, [11-OH-THC]; 11-nor-9-carboxy-THC, [THCCOOH]; and their Phase II conjugates)
      pharmacokinetics in whole blood, plasma, oral fluid and urine following a single smoked dose
      of cannabis. (2) Determine inter-matrix cannabinoid ratios in authentic specimens following
      controlled smoked cannabis (3) Correlate cannabinoid concentrations in whole blood, plasma
      and oral fluid with impairment and risk-taking behavior as determined through subjective
      assessments, risk-behavior trait assessments and neurocognitive tasks. (4) Determine
      stability over time of free and conjugated cannabinoids in authentic whole blood, plasma, and
      oral fluid from cannabis users following a single smoked dose of cannabis under various
      storage conditions. (5) Characterize the sensitivity, specificity, efficiency and duration of
      detection of cannabinoids with the Draeger DrugTest 5000 after a single smoked dose of
      cannabis.

      Part B: Characterize cannabinoid pharmacokinetics in whole blood, plasma, oral fluid, breath,
      and urine following a single smoked dose of cannabis. (2) Characterize the sensitivity,
      specificity, accuracy and length of detection of cannabinoids with the Draeger DrugTest 5000
      after a single smoked dosed of cannabis. (3) Determine inter-matrix cannabinoid ratios in
      authentic specimens following controlled smoked cannabis. (4) Correlate cannabinoid
      concentrations in whole blood, plasma, breath, and oral fluid with impairment as determined
      through subjective assessments and neurocognitive tasks. (5) Determine stability over time of
      free and conjugated cannabinoids in urine from cannabis users following a single smoked dose
      of cannabis under various storage conditions.

      Subject Population: Up to 50 healthy cannabis users aged 18-45 will be recruited for the
      study. In Part A, 10 completers with an average frequency of use of at least twice per month
      in the three months prior to study are required. In Part B, 10 occasional cannabis smokers
      with an average frequency of less than twice per week in the past three months and 10 chronic
      frequent cannabis smokers with an average frequency at least four times per week in the past
      three months are required.

      Experimental Design and Methods: In parts A and B, participants smoke one standardized NIDA
      THC cigarette during a single visit. Serial blood and oral fluid collections (part A and B)
      and breath collections (part B only), and assessment of neurocognitive, physiological and
      subjective effects are performed once prior to and multiple times after smoking.

      Outcome Measures: Primary outcome measures for part A include cannabinoid concentrations in
      whole blood, plasma, and oral fluid, stability of these concentrations over time, performance
      on neurocognitive tasks, and subjective assessments. Primary outcome measures for part B
      include cannabinoid concentrations in whole blood, plasma, breath, and oral fluid, evaluation
      of the DrugTest 5000 and correlation of cannabinoid breath concentration with performance on
      neurocognitive tasks and subjective assessments. An outcome measure for subsequent occasional
      smoker participants after the 9th completer is stability over time of cannabinoid
      concentrations in whole blood and plasma collected in gray-top Vacutainer tubes containing
      sodium fluoride and potassium oxalate.

      Benefits: There is no direct benefit to participants, but the study is likely to yield
      generalizable knowledge regarding cannabinoid pharmacokinetics, and pharmacodynamics for both
      Part A and Part B.

      Risks: Participation in this study represents more than minimal risk for both Part A and Part
      B because of the administration of smoked cannabis.
    
  